*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

HARVARD
CLASS OF 1936

 

PRIN
NTED FOR THE CLASS, CAMBRIDGE, 1961

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1936
Records of the Class

FREDERICK CHARLES ABER, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE appress: P.O. Box 84, Lake Pleasant, N.Y.

BORN: June 13, 1914, Amsterdam, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936,

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Free-lance advertising and writing.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant editor, Revue Magazine and Street & Smith, 1936-38,
Amsterdam Evening Recorder, 1938-41; captain, U.S. Army, 1941-453 as-
sistant advertising manager, Mohawk Carpet Mills, 1946-33; president,
Community Service Broadcasting Corporation, Amsterdam, N.Y. 1952-
53, Servicemaster East, Inc., 1953-54; advertising manager, Bird & Son,

Inc., 1955-59.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sons of the American Revolution;

32d degree Mason; Methodist Church.

TWENTY-FIVE years of service. A sobering thought. How ex-
tensive the service? How large the rewards? How many the suc-
cesses? How great the goals?

There were the years of struggle to make the start — the proper
use of skills developed through education — the finding of oneself
in the business world. T here was the i Interruption that was war —
the digression to the battleficld, the individual will to win and the
rewards of medals and advancing rank,

[1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

The readjustment and return that followed led to more firm per-
sonal strides, to greater service, to larger rewards. There was trial
and error. There were aims achieved. Always there was a certain
amount of fight and struggle. Now came the levelling out, the
smoother sailing, confident in knowledge gained, secure in the use
of one’s abilities and skills.

Suddenly a quarter of a century has been left irretrievably behind
and the course continues. New goals are sought; new achievements
in the making. And one realizes that the time will never come when
one can truthfully say that his work is really done.

In many ways, the changes are less than might have been ex-
pected. Religious and political convictions remain similar. The
early interest in history has become a hobby in the fields of geneal-
ogy and local history. Long interest in the out-of-doors has resulted
in establishing home base in the Adirondack Mountains. All was
predictable now that it has come to pass.

It has been an interesting life, though perhaps less eventful than
one might have anticipated some twenty-five years ago. The satis-
faction one feels can never quite become self-satisfaction. The chal-
lenge remains. Opportunities lie ahead. Let’s continue to move for-
ward. Let’s continue to serve.

ADAM ABRUZZI

 

HOME ADDRESS: 924 Castle Point Terr., Hoboken, N.J.

OFFIC appress: Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, N_J.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1915, Grottaminardo, Italy.

PurpaRED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DFGREES: 8.B., 1936; 8.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1948;
pup. (ibid.), 1950; 8.M. (Hon.) (Stevens Inst. of Technology), 1959.

[2]

*

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Catherine Weber, Oct. 30, 1952; Giovanna Ghetti, Jan. 31, 1959, New
York, N.Y. cuitp: Adam, Jr., Dec. 30, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Professor.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Sigma Xi; America-Italy Society;
American Statistical Association, Institute of Industrial Engineering, Insti-
tute of Mathematical Statistics.

puBLications: Work Measurement, Columbia University Press, 1952, Work,
Workers, and Work Measurement, Columbia University Press, 1956;
numerous journals articles in various journals and reviews, e.g.: Manage-
ment Sctence, Automaton, Journal of Philosophy, Journal of Industrial
Engineering.

I AM not altogether sure that it is a compliment to one’s teachers to

become a teacher, though this might well be so. But if there is no

compliment in this, to teach is certainly the way to discover what
one has been taught. I have been teaching for some time now, and

I like it better, I think, than anything else I can think of doing.

Because one has ample time to write a biography, for instance, even

while he has a sufficient excuse for not doing this on time.

Which brings me back to my Harvard days. We graduated at a
time when the ultimate answer seemed close at hand. I suppose this
is always true in youth’s time, but in our time there also was this:
what seemed like impregnable truths were crumbling away. This
being so, I felt that with Harvard at our back, we w vould find the
ultimate answer by constructing a new batch of really impregnable
truths. For what were the wisdoms of Descartes if we could prove
that cogito is logically equivalent to stm?

Anthony Trollope wisely says that: “Till we become divine, we
must be content to be human, lest in our hurry for a change we sink
to something lower.” This about sums up how I feel now, with
this addition: we can do this only if impregnable truths are made to
seem like higher truths and are revealed, therefore, only on fitting
occasions, such as our [wenty-fifth Reunion. For then those who
are the we of twenty-five years ago can, as they have the right, sce
us as perhaps too old and too sentimental. But then we who are the
we of now can, as we have the privilege, show ourselves that, while
this is so, there is somewhat more to it than this.

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

S. LAURENCE ACH

Resets

    

HOME apprEss: 1 Hedgerow Lane, Cincinnati, Ohio.

OFFICE apprEss: F. E. Winstel Co., 3460 Spring Grove Ave., Cincinnati 25,
Ohio.

BorN: Aug. 17, 1914, Cincinnati, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MmarriED: Anne Rice, June 23, 1943, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHiLpREN: David Lau-
rence, July 18, 1947; Carol W., Jan. 13, 1951, Therese Ellen, Nov. 2, 1952.

OccuUPATION: President and owner, wholesale heating and air conditioning
equipment company.

MEMBER OF: Clifton Meadows Club; North American Heating and Air Con-
ditioning Wholesalers, Harvard Club of Cincinnati.

ENGLISH A was over — well almost over — like this. The dead-
line is now here, and though the theme is not being written the
night before, it is late.

I’m presently still fully occupied as president and owner of F. E.
Winstel Company, distributors and wholesalers of heating and air
conditioning supplies; as “Dad” to David L., age thirteen, Carol,
age ten, and Terry Ellen, age eight; and as “Dear” to my wife Anne
(we've been married almost eighteen years). I’ve acquired a home
and mortgage, but no added weight.

All of the above has left little or no time for many extracurricular
activities, I still maintain a great interest in government, but can
report no political activity. Weekend tennis goes on almost all
year, even on New Year's Day sometimes. As a result, ’'ve been
able to keep in pretty good shape, though admitting to bifocals and
a thin spot or two on top.

Immediately after graduation, I entered the life insurance business
as a salesman. Though I spent six years at it, I cannot claim much
SUCCESS.

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The war years —I served forty-seven months — were spent pri-
marily in the “paragraph” troops in various infantry training centers
in this country. I attained the rank of master sergeant, my “last post
being as chief clerk in the Adjutant General’s Office in the “Little
Red Schoolhouse” at Reims, France.

The end of the war found me without a job and with a wife, and
it was at this time that I bought the heating business in association
with my father. Had anyone suggested at graduation that twenty-
five years later, I would be selling furnaces, discussing combustion
problems and electronic control devices, I would have told them
they were crazy. But I am doing it and have even been considered
an expert by some. The business continues to grow, so the hard
work may be worth it.

Twenty-five years is a long time and they have certainly been
full ones in every respect. As I look back, I’ve been fortunate and
have enjoyed them. And I’m thankful that I took History I in
1933 and don’t have to take it in 1961.

I sincerely hope that my son will be able to receive the benefits
of an education at Harvard, and that by the time he will be ready

for it, the Harvard faculty will have returned from W ashington.

* WILLIAM IRA ADELMAN

 

BORN: Nov. 19, 1914, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Abraham Adelman, Lilian Adel-
man,

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarrigD; Meryl Jane Ruben, Feb, 18, 1940, Pittsburgh, Pa. cmtpwes
daughters.

pieD: Dec, 10, 1944, in the Southwest Pacific area,

: Two

AFTER graduation Adelman became associated with his father in

[5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

the lumber business. In October, 1943, he entered naval service and
trained at Fort Schuyler and at Newport, Rhode Island. He went
overseas as ensign and executive officer of a PT boat and was killed
in action when the PT boat was attacked by enemy planes. He was
survived by his wife and two daughters.

EDWARD KALMAN ADELSHEIM

 

HOME abpRESs: 2755 S.W. Summit Drive, Portland 1, Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 1020, Corbett Bldg., 430 S.W. Morrison St., Portland 4,
Oregon.

BoRN: March 27, 1915, Minneapolis, Minn.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1936; LL.B. (Univ. of
Minnesota), 1939.

MarRieD: Martha Ann Henderson, June 20, 1942, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:
David Brook, May 23, 1943; Peter Dolph, March 26, 1945; Michael Wood,
Aug. 11, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Adelsheim, Jr., ’33.

occupation: Hearing examiner, Social Security Administration, U.S. Depart-
ment of Health, Education and Welfare.

OFFICES HELD; Attorney, Office of General Counsel, Federal Security Agency,
1940-53; lecturer, Graduate School of Social Work, Univ. of Minnesota,
1947-48, hearing examiner, Social Security Administration, since 1953;
delegate, President's Conference on Administrative Procedure, 1953, troop
committeeman and scout master, Boy Scouts, 1955-59.

MEMBER OF: Minnesota Bar Association, United States Supreme Court Bar.

SINCE 1940, my work has been legal-administrative, in the Federal
Security Agency until 1953, when it became the Department of
Health, Education and Welfare. For five years I worked on the
enforcement of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, leaving in 1953,
because a change of administration produced a marked shift of policy

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

direction of an agency which till then had been strongly oriented in
the consumer’s interest. Since then I have been a hearing examiner
in the Social Security Administration; mine is a quasi-judicial func-
tion, hearing and deciding claims for benefits, which previously have
been denied. In recent years most of the cases coming before me
have been in the field of disability. Up to my ears in all aspects of
physical and mental medicine, I’m currently like a workmen’s com-
pensation commissioner. Relatively few appreciate the great sweep
of the disability part of social security and the impact it has and will
have on medical insurance in the future. Most of my work is in
Oregon, though I’m also responsible for Alaska, which I asked for
when it achieved statehood. It would be difficult to find a position
in government service with greater freedom and independence than
mine. To sum up my career, I regard myself as unusually fortunate
to be caught up in the satisfying and stimulating work of the depart-
ment of government whose primary concern is the interests of little
people.

In 1954, we realized our wish to live on the West Coast. Now
we're confirmed westerners, to the point of resisting tempting job
offers elsewhere. Living in Portland, Oregon, has a simplicity we
appreciate. We live on a hill overlooking the city, with a panoramic
view of the Cascades (from Mt. Rainier to Adams, St. Helens and
Hood). Commuting is no problem, for downtown is only a thirty-
minute walk. Nearby home are wooded ravines where boys tramp
and build secret hideouts. Portland provides the things we want of
a city, including easily-accessible recreation (mountains, ocean,
streams and forest) and an excellent public school system. Our sons
have had the advantage of enriched courses (butterfat content as
yet undetermined), which were commenced experimentally in 1954,
under a foundation grant, and are now a permanent part of the
curriculum. I don’t say we'll stay in Portland the rest of our lives,
but it suits us well, at this stage of our collective development.

Through my energetic wife, I engage vicariously in political
activity forbidden to federal employees by the Hatch Act. We w ere,
incidentally, bitterly disappointed w ith the outcome of the 1960
general election — daylight-saving time was again defeated in Ore-
gon. With the eldest of our sons, we have been captured by the
college-go-’round. At this time next year he'll be in college some-
where, and possibly his status as a National Merit Scholar will have
induced the Harvard Admission Committee to look favorably on
his application.

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

And what of the future? Over the next twenty-five years or so,
[ hope to remain active and effective in my chosen field. There’s
promise — after the boys are through school —of travel beyond
the limits of North America. Perhaps by the time of the Fiftieth
Anniversary Report Pll have some memberships in organizations
which, up to now, I’ve shunned in order to concentrate spare time
on my family.

HERANT JOHN ADZIGIAN

   

HOME AppRESS: 413 Bedford St., Lexington 73, Mass.
OFFICE ADpREss: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.
BORN: March 2, 1913, Stoneham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Stoneham High School, Stoneham, Mass., Lawrence Academy,
Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S$.B., 1936; ED.M. (Tufts Coll.), 1951.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Maud Gallup, June 26, 1939, Housatonic, Mass. CHILDREN:
David John, May 29, 1940; Donald Paul, Aug. 13, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Harry Adzigian, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Education; instructor, Department of Mathematics, Lexington High
School.

OFFICES HELD: Miscellaneous offices and directorships in local professional, re-
ligious, alumni and service groups.
MEMBER OF: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics; N.E.A.

GRADUATION was followed by five most pleasant years of teach-
ing and coaching at the Berkshire School. From these years came a
most happy union, the first of a pair of stalwarts, association with a
superlative headmaster (Seaver Buck, Harvard circa 1905) and many
pleasant memories of some wonderful boys.

We then came to Lexington with zest for a new venture and the
happy anticipation of renewing old ties. All plans were postponed
for four years while BuPers, U.S. Navy, called the shots. These

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

were interesting years in many respects but wholly unspectacular as
far as my contribution to the war effort was concerned. It was
during this period that stalwart number two joined us.

The succeeding years have found us back in Lexington wrapped
up in school, not seeing nearly enough of classmates and friends,
rising to joyful heights or falling to dark moments with the changing
fortunes.of Dave and Don, and trying to perform as a “useful mem-
ber of society.”

Some are destined, through ability and/or inner compulsions, to
do great things. I salute them! It falls to others to travel the quiet
road. It is a road not without compensations and opportunities.
I’m sure that those of us who follow it hope that we too have con-
tributed to society in some small measure.

Summary and evaluation of present status — military: lieutenant
commander, USNR (very inactive); religious: reasonably active in
church participation and affairs, political: must confess to leanings
a bit to right of center; education: disturbed by many current trends
— especially the demands made on the kids without sufficient prepa-
ration and orientation; physical: so far, so good — thinning fast on
top but not unreasonably girthy around the middle as yet; head of
household: mediocre provider but inordinately proud of the charac-
ter and the accomplishments of the young fry; the future: still like to
dream about more time with Elizabeth and the boys, more contact
with old friends, more energy, more travel, more golf, more peace,
less shenanigans in government, less taxes based on waste, and less
household repairs.

I have no profound philosophy or pronouncement to contribute
to this history of the Class. Rather I retreat to the haven of the non-
Olympians in expressing the hope that my family and my associates

will feel that I have made somewhat of a life rather than just a living.

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

LEWIS JACOB AFFELDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15725 Shaker Blvd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Wolf Envelope Co., Box 6296, Cleveland 1, Ohio.

BorN: May 6, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, Lyndhurst, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

MARRIED: Ruth Steppacher, Nov. 4, 1957, Philadelphia, Pa. city: Margaret,
Sept. 14, 1958.

occupPaTION: Manufacturing; executive vice-president and general manager,
Wolf Envelope Company; chairman, Wolf Detroit Envelope Company,
Detroit, Mich.

OFFICES HELD: Member, National Advisory Board, American Council for Ju-
daism, since 1950; chapter director, Society for Advancement of Manage-
Ment, 1958-61; trustee, Suburban Temple, since 1959; president, Envelope
Manufacturers’ Association of America, since 1960.

ALL of my business life since graduation has been with one firm.
If at times confining, it has always been interesting, occasionally
difficult, never dull.

I was drafted into the Army in 1942 and served until 1946, first in
the Infantry, finally in the Signal Corps, as a staff sergeant. Most of
the duty was in Washington and still is classified, but it was not as
glamorous as it sounds.

A bachelor who married barely three years ago, I am only now
experiencing parenthood at a time when some of you are already
a full generation ahead of me. Our second child, expected early in
1961, will arrive too late for inclusion in the vital statistics recorded
here. While still a bachelor I built and lived in a house isolated on
some underdeveloped land twenty miles east of Cleveland. There
I did some reforesting as a hobby. Since marriage we have lived in
a more civilized location. But we have kept the country property.
We are able to spend weekends there, to swim and fish in the pond,

[10]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and we are planting more trees each year. Other hobbies include
photography, silversmithing and travel. The last will be sacrificed
for a while in favor of raising small children.

A further interest has been for many years to oppose the forces
of political Zionism. Almost since its inception, I have been an
active member of the American Council for Judaism, an anti-Zionist
educational organization. Although we failed in opposing the es-
tablishment of a Zionist state and although we failed to make our
position a popular one, we nevertheless have demonstrated that
Zionism is not the belief of many Jews. We continue to try to
awaken others to the dangers we think are inherent in Jewish na-
tionalism. Politically, while clinging to the belief that I am an inde-
pendent, I generally vote Democratic by the time I get inside the
booth.

SIDNEY STUART ALEXANDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 290 School St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: §2-453B School of Industrial Management, Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: May 3, 1916, Forest City, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Forest City High School, Forest City, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1936; A.M. 1938; PH.D,
1946.

MarRIED: Edna Ann Simon, April 10, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHttpren: Damel,
June 16, 1949; Miriam, Oct. 22, 1950.

OccUPATION: Education: teaching and research; professor of industrial manage-
ment.

MEMBER: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; economic professional se-
cieties,

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in economic journals,

MY professional life since graduation can be told as a tale of three

[rr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

cities: Cambridge, New York and Washington, each with a multiple
exposure. Three tours of duty in Cambridge as teacher and research
worker, two in New York, once in empirical research and once in
business, and two in Washington, once in wartime intelligence-
oriented economic research, and once as an international civil servant
for the International Monetary Fund.

In spite of the many oscillations and apparent variety, there has
been a high degree of unity in my activities. That unity derives
from my interest in economic analysis, both theory and practice,
and the many job shifts have simply been alterations between theory
and practice. Now I juggle both theory and practice at the same
time. I teach economic theory to practically oriented students of
management at the School of Industrial Management at M.I.T., and
I keep my hand in practical problems as economic adviser to CBS.

On the substantive side, I try to balance my interest in applied

economics with the study, as yet embryonic, of the foundations of
welfare judgments. By that I mean an inquiry into the sort of con-
siderations by which a social arrangement, such as the competitive
system, or for that matter, democratic government, can be evaluated
in comparison with possible alternatives. There is a substantial body
of economic doctrine, in the theory of economic welfare, which
deals with the problem of how given wants of individuals can be
best (most economically) satisfied. But the doctrine starts from the
assumption of given wants, and it leaves open the question of how
important it is to satisfy those wants. Once the problem is viewed
more broadly, it becomes obvious that the merit of want satisfaction
depends on the desirability of the wants. The wants themselves are
generated largely by the social framework, not least by the econ-
omy itself as it operates to satisfy the wants.

Inquiry into this range of problems runs counter to the last
fashion but one in the social sciences— that of positivism, which
scorned the questions that could not be expressed in operational
terms. It is my thesis that the most important social issues cannot
be handled in operational terms like problems in physics, nor yet in
analytical terms, like problems in mathematics, but only by a sort
of discussion which is more like literary criticism. That discussion
cannot be based on the authority of experimental evidence or logical
truth, though it may draw upon both. Its foundations, however,
must be in the non-operational field in which terms like important,

better, or worse have meaning.
More of this in our Fiftieth Anniversary Report,

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD ELWIN ALGER

   
  

tenn

Sa

d

a i
* f
e
i %
~ i
A ey

 

HOME AppRESS: 70 Webster Rd., Braintree 84, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Employers’ Group of Insurance Companies, 110 Milk St., Boston
7, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1914, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Memorial High School, Middleboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., Cum laude, 1936.

MaRRIED: Hilma Williams, Dec. 31, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: George
Walter, Dec. 5, 1937 (7. Rita Weisbrodt, June 6, 1958); Hilma Joan, July
4, 1939; Douglas Richard, April 10, 1942; Thomas Nelson, Dec. 24, 19453
Susan Ellen, Sept. 25, 1947; Donald Wesley, Jan. 13, 1951; Nancy Elizabeth,
July 1, 1956. GRANDCHILDREN: George Walter Alger, Jr., March 6, 1959;
Valerie Lynn Alger, Aug. 7, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Elwin Alger, Jr., ED.M., 56.

occuPATION: Insurance; vice-president, Employers’ Group of Insurance Com-
panies.

OFFICES HELD: Institutional representative of Boy Scouts, 1954-60; councilor for
Youth Fellowship, 1954-56, 1959; deacon, Congregational Church, 1956-58;
member, Church Finance Committee, 1959-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy; Harvard Engineering Society, Algonquin
Club.

THE story of my life since graduation revolves around two main
interests, my family and my work. My wife Hilma and I have been
blessed with seven healthy and normal children who have kept us
busy with their many activities, their problems and their joys. Al-
though exhausting at times, the responsibilities of a large family also
have been rewarding and we have developed a strong faith in the
youth of today and their ability to meet the challenge of the space
age. The arrival of our first two grandchildren has added to the fun
(and the Thanksgiving table) and served to improve our perspec-
tive.

On the Monday following graduation in 1936, I started my career

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

with the Employers’ Group of Insurance Companies with the con-
sequence the twenty-fifth anniversary of my employment coincides
with our Twenty- fifth Reunion. Starting out in the Methods and
Planning Department, I eventually moved into the broader area of
expense control and later became the personal assistant to the chief
executive of the Companies. In 1957 1 was made a vice-president in
charge of reinsurance, which is the insurance business one insurance
company does with another and with professional reinsurance com-

anies. This area of the business is most fascinating and challenging
and includes participation in industry-wide matters handled by asso-
ciations and pools. The fire and casualty insurance industry is passing
through a troublesome period of change. While the changes are
basically natural and progressive, they are complicated by two other
conditions which ordinarily do not exist together, namely, extreme
competition and a scarcity of underwriting profits. I am certain,
however, the industry will emerge successfully and prove itself
capable of fulfilling the increased demands made upon it.

Hunting, fishing, carpentry and gardening still hold my interest.
I like to believe that increased knowledge and experience have com-
pensated for my waning energy and allow me to maintain the same
level of accomplishment and enjoyment. There is something to this
theory, I am sure. Hilma and I are able to take an occasional brief
trip together, and in 1949, we enjoyed a few weeks in Europe.
Traveling with a large family, however, leaves much to be desired —
before the first hour has passed the younger ones vehemently wonder
why we are not “there” yet.

My political views have become more conservative, until I now
firmly believe the best government is that which governs the least.
My religious convictions have been considerably strengthened and,
while I am still searching, I believe in the existence of a Supreme
Being and I am convinced such a belief is essential in the long run to
the welfare of mankind.

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL HOWARD ALLAN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 3 Greenway Ct., Brookline, Mass.

FREDERICK ALLEN

 

HOME ApprEss: 1 Hilltop Rd., Lynnfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Inst. of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
BoRN: Aug. 17, 1913, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936.
marrigp: Charlotte Chase, Oct. 11, 1941, Lynn, Mass. crore: Susan, April

26, 1943; Frederick, 3d, May 5, 1945.
occupaTion: Assistant purchasing agent, MLI.T. Instrumentation Laboratory.
THE September request to prepare my questionnaire and comments
for the Class Report was received with the thought, “Ul prepare it
Sunday evening.” A quarter of a year has passed since, marked by
almost countless requests to comply. Ac last there arrived a lerrer to
“Dear Reluctant One,” setting forth for the firse time a deadline,

[15]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

namely January 16th. Finally I had what I typically need, a dead-
line against which to operate. Therefore I proceed.

My life since graduation has been marked more by moderate
progress and moderate change than by remarkable events. A teen-
age romance with Charlotte culminated in a 1941 marriage, which
brought forth a daughter and son, both now well into their own
teens. Life in these times has so changed, however, it often seems
that reflection on our own teen-age years is of little assistance in
guiding our youngsters now. An almost entirely new set of con-
ditions presents a challenge. We guide, I guess, more by present
wisdom than by past experience.

After first flopping and flailing about, due largely to adverse
economic conditions in ’36, I can now look back upon twenty years
of activity in the field of purchasing, nearly all in the electronics
industry, the last ten at M.LT. I have seen the industry advance
from its early days of the crude radio to its present state which
permits control and counting of incredible fineness and speed. The
prefix micro- is all around us.

So far as hobbies are concerned, I ran out of tennis partners five
years ago, still play bridge when someone else suggests the game,
grow flowers and mow the lawn in the summer, have my snow
shovelled by Rick in the. winter, maintain, repair and try to im-
prove the property year round. I enjoy hi-fi music, want stereo,
hope for the return of the big bands, hate Fords, think Susan is a
mighty pretty gal, and hope Charlotte’s patience with and loyalty
toward me continue.

Time is getting short, before both bed-time and deadline. A
phone call from the Class Report Office this morning brought my
assurance that my words and picture would be in by Monday
morning. In order to comply, I must conclude. Is mine the last

questionnaire to be received?

[ 16 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL JAMES ALLEN

  

HOME ApDpRESS: Route z, Verona, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Botany, Univ. of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1914, Stockbridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; sM. (Univ. of
Rochester), 1938; pu.p. (Univ. of California), 1941.

MARRIED: Mary North, April 3, 1943, Walton, N.Y. cHitpren: David Ormes,
May 12, 1945; Thomas Davenport, Oct. 31, 1947; Kathryn Hubbard, Jan.
71 TO5T-

occuPATION: Professor of botany.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Wisconsin Cooperative Housing
Association, 1951-53; chairman, 1957, secretary, 1961, Microbiological Sec-
tion, Botanical Society of America.

MEMBER OF: Botanical Society of America; American Society of Plant Physi-
ologists; American Phytopathological Society; Biochemical Society (Eng-
land); Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: About two dozen papers in various biological journals; most
publications concerned with the physiology of plant parasites and plant
disease.

I HAVE been associated with the academic profession almost con-
tinuously since 1932. Harvard’s “Cap” Weston and my youth on
a farm in New Hampshire conspired to nourish my interest in dis-
covery and my interest in plants, and these together shaped the
course of my professional activities. These have centered around
teaching botany and exploring the behavior of parasitic fungi which
will not grow anywhere except in the living tissues of their chosen
host plant.

In 1958, we left the suburbs and moved to a 7o-acre farm, fifteen
miles from Madison, to give the children more opportunity to grow
up to be themselves and to give their parents a home in the country.

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Actually the move has resulted not only in a home but also in
opportunity for growing up for both children and parents.

We have spent two years from home base in Wisconsin. Dut
19$3-54, on a fellowship in Sheffield, England, we became v
fond of the English but not of their food, and during the pres
year we are back in California on a teaching job, in Berkeley, «
joying the beauties’ of the Bay Area but realizing that we have I
come quite firmly rooted in Wisconsin.

My earlier history after completing graduate work at the Us
versity of California included one and one-half years as instruct
at the University of Pennsylvania, and three years with the Eme
gency Rubber Project of the U.S.D.A. during the war, in Salina
California, followed in 1946 by a position at the University of Wi:

consin where we have been since. Our elder boy, David, is Califor
nia-born, Tom and Katy are Badgers.

REX WHITAKER ALLEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 258 Hillside Ave, Mill Valley, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 693 Mission St., San Francisco 5, Calif.

porn: Dec. 21, 1914, San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED at: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936(37); B.ARCH., 1939.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Johnson, Nov. 11, 1941, Englewood, N.J. (divorced 1949);
Ruth Batchelor, April 1, 1949, Reno, Nev. cumpren: Alexandra, Dec. 25,

3942, Frances Lambert, Dec. 13, 1946; Mark Batchelor, July 8, 1950; Susan
Moore, Oct. 13, 1951

occupaTION: Architect.

orFices HELD: Secretary, 1955, 1956, chairman, Hospital Committee, 1955, North-
ern California Chapter, ATA; chairman, Hospitality Committee, 1956, 1957,
1960, director, 1960, California Council, AIA; chairman, 1957, secretary-
treasurer, 1958, Arch. Section, Association of Western Hospitals; chairman,

[18]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1957, treasurer, 1958, Mill Valley Advisory Education Council, treasurer,
Marin Friends Meeting, 1957; consultant, Hospital Advisory Board, State
of California, 1959; vice-president, San Francisco Chapter, Construction
Specification Institute, 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Construction Specification Insti-
tute; American Association for Hospital Planning; Association of Western
Hospitals; Sierra Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and San Francisco;
San Francisco Chamber of Commerce; World Trade Association.

puBLicaTIONS: “The Need for Comprehensive Planning,” Trumpeteer, 1952;
“An Architect's Approach to Better Nursing,” 1955, “Architectural
Therapy,” 1956, Hospital Management, “Hospitals are for Humans,” A1.A.
Bulletin, 1956.

John Harvard

Harvard College

Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear John:

Sitting here at the balmy end of October looking out from our tree-
top deck over hills and water toward a city white in the afternoon
sun, I am reminded by a nagging conscience (and a postcard) that
you had asked for a personal history. Well, John, your English A
course is still the limit of my literary skill, so perhaps you must come
to San Francisco yourself to see the results of your training. Cer-
tainly, looking down 300-odd years, you have seen a myriad of
brighter stars than mine, but I dare say none has been more fortu-
nate. I have made no million (neither have I lost one) and I am not
a renowned architect (nor am I without reputation), but I have
four wonderful children (plus other assorted animals) and, for the
past twelve years, I have been joyously married.

_ Architecture is my life — an all encompassing occupation. I have
just returned from a week at an architects’ convention in the
Yosemite Valley (I tried climbing out one day; I’m sure the Valley’s
gotten deeper in the past twelve years!) and I am faced now with
the architect’s dilemma — loving the world as it is (Hooray for the
Sierra Club!), we are constantly trying to change it, presumably
for the better. For instance, my children are making jack-o’-lanterns.
Does the face improve the pumpkin? Or is it just an expedient to
terrify ephemeral witches? It is at least more temporary than archi-
tectural defacements and the pumpkin may still become a pie —a
better end than most buildings. A passing fancy. How does one
judge the more permanent effect of artificial environment on the
spirit? Is this not particularly important in hospital design where
everything may influence the mind and body of the patient? Well,

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I like to think so and therefore I would add, not only is architecture
my life, but hospital architecture is my life.

That’s about it, John. Having grown up “back East” and cut my
professional teeth there, J returned to my native San Francisco when
I remarried twelve years ago. It’s beautiful here, but I miss the East.
I miss seasons — the snow, the slushy budding spring, the intolerable
summers and the splendor of a clear fall day. My oldest daughter,
a freshman at Pacific University, reports that Oregon is somewhat
similar. There are, however, compensations — today, for instance.
What could be more beautiful than this city by the Golden Gate?
Wouldn’t you like to found another university here?

Very truly,
Rex Whitaker Allen, 736.

ROBERT FRANCIS ALLEN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: N, Santo Tomas, Edo. de Mexico, Mexico,

[ 20 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS GARDNER ALLEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6811 Joallen Drive, Falls Church, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Information Agency, 1776 Pennsylvania Ave. Washing-
ton, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Needham Senior High School, Needham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; A.M., 1938.

MARRIED: Virginia May Deal, June, 1941, Brighton, Mass. (divorced 1947);
Carmen Elina Taboada, April 20, 1949, Asuncién, Paraguay. CHILDREN:
Thomas Anthony, Dec. 26, 1950, Ernest Gregory, March 18, 1952; Frank
Copeland, May 18, 1953; Catherine Elizabeth, March 14, 1955.

occuPATION: Foreign Service career officer, U.S. Information Agency.

THE Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences absorbed my
interests during the five years following graduation as I prepared
myself for the teaching profession in the field of Romance Lan-
guages and Literatures. Although I thoroughly enjoyed my course
work in the field of Romance Philology, I must admit that I was
a lost soul for several months while trying to figure out what it was
all about. After obtaining an A.M. in 1938, I continued working
toward a doctoral degree while earning part of my expenses work-
ing in the French Library of Widener. In 1940 I was appointed a
teaching fellow in Spanish. At this juncture I was not making real
progress on my doctoral dissertation and even though my teaching
contract was renewed for the academic year 1941-42, in addition to
my position in Widener Library, an opportunity to go to work in
the Division of Cultural Relations of the Department of State en-
ticed me away from Harvard Yard. I record with mixed feelings
the fact that my doctoral aspirations still remain suspended in limbo,

Three weeks after arriving in Washington I married a young lady
whom I had known for five years and settled down in Arlington,

[20]

i kk + ail NM AA A al ta

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Virginia. Late in 1943 I was drafted into the Army and eventually
served in the Fifth Infantry Division as a rifle grenadier in the
Metz campaign. Although I adjusted rather well to a routine not of
my own choosing, I cannot say that I really enjoyed my two years
with the military. A few minutes under fire is enough to last a
lifetime. I wouldn’t take a million for that experience, but I would
certainly not look forward to a repeat performance.

Following a medical discharge from the Army in June, 1945, I
spent the next two years with the Department of State as a regional
specialist in Latin American affairs. At the same time I taught eve-
ning classes in Spanish at the George Washington University.

In September, 1947, my pattern of living completely changed as
I undertook the first of several continuous assignments overseas, en-
grossed in the most challenging task imaginable — that of present-
ing “a full and fair picture of the United States” to peoples of other
countries. On August 1, 1953, President Eisenhower created the
U.S. Information Agency as an independent agency charged with
the responsibility of “submitting evidence to peoples of other na-
tions that the objectives and policies of the United States are in
harmony with and will advance their legitimate aspirations for
freedom, progress and peace. ” Along with many others I was in-
tegrated into this new organization.

My first assignment as public affairs officer in Asuncion, Para-
guay (1947-49), was terminated shortly after I was given per-
mission to marry a Paraguayan national, Carmen Elina Taboada“(my
first marriage ended in divorce—no children). Paradoxically
enough, my wife had previously been the recipient of a U.S. Gov-
ernment grant to study social -work at Boston College. In 1949 -I
reorganized our office in Ciudad Trujillo where I spent approxi-
mately two and a half years. Although I became enamored of Para-
guay before I met my wife, I found the Dominican Republic less
pleasant and unstimulating. My transfer to Montevideo as cultural
attaché (subsequently appointed public affairs officer) was.a-wel«
come change.

From October, 1954, to September,: 1959, I served as cultural
affairs officer in New Delhi. Our area of operations covered 304,078
square miles, embracing the states of Uttar Pradesh, the Punjab and
Rajasthan. With a total American staff. of seven, ably backstopped
by capable Indian colleagues, we endeavored to. reach opinion-
making groups in a population of approximately 110 million people
with meaningful programs calculated to advance U.S. objectives.

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In September, 1959, the family regretfully left India to return to the
States for a minimum period of two years to undergo reorientation.

If I could relive the past twenty-five years, ] would make no
change with respect to my present career. Communicating with
peoples of other countries for the purpose of projecting a true
image of the United States has been a fascinating, stimulating and
challenging assignment. We are engaged in a fateful struggle to
win the minds of men for the democratic way of life. Although we
have a corps of dedicated and capable individuals on the firing line,
the struggle is an unequal one in which we are outmanned and out-
gunned. Ig we are to persevere and reach the ultimate goal of the
American people and those who embrace our basic ideology, then
we desperately need much more in terms of manpower and money
to carry on our work. ;

Although my wife has been quite occupied raising our four chil-
dren (all born abroad), she has contributed in no small measure to
the success of our over-all efforts. The children have become good
troupers but they are particularly happy to be able to spend more
time in their own country. We are all fortunate to be back in the
States now and are looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Class Re-
union.

Reading, dabbling in the stock market, philately, gardening and
being a companion to my children take up my leisure time. I fav-
ored Nixon but am not at all unhappy with Kennedy. My wife
is a confirmed Democrat.

MORRIS ALEXANDER ALPERT

 

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: 62 Alexander Rd., Newton 61, Mass,
BORN: Dec. 3, 1913, Dorchester, Mass,

[ 23]

Rub

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., Cun laude, 1936.

MaRRIED: Melita Critchell Googens, June 20, 1942, Roxbury, Mass. cHILpren:
Philip Abraham, July 9, 1943; Martha Anna, Aug. 17, 1945; Susan Risa,
July 28, 1952.

occupation: Manufacturers’ representative, cosmetic business.

MEMBER OF: New England Toilet Goods Association.

REESE FELL ALSOP

 

HOME AppreEss: Lloyd Neck, Huntington, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 325 Park Ave., Huntington, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED At: Groton School, Groton, Mass.; Gunnery School, Washington,
Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1944.

MARRIED: Elise Coates, Nov. 8, 1947, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N.Y. cHILDREN:
Brooke, Feb. 1, 1949; Fell, March 29, 1950; Jane and Anne (twins), Oct.
29, 1954; Penn, Jan. 8, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Chapin Alsop, ’45.

OCCUPATION: Physician; co-chief, Medical Service, North Shore Medical Group.

OFFICES HELD: Attending physician, Bellevue Hospital, Columbia Division; in-
structor in medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia Uni-
versity.

MEMBER OF: Century Association.

pusLications: George and His Horse Bill; George and His Horse Go West;
Joseph and the Goat (children’s books, fiction).

REUNION
What will you settle for after the first quarter?
Is it the colonnaded white elephant, with the kind of security in
the bank which rises and falls with the tide?

Or is it the little boy dream of the boat and the bottle of whiskey,
drifting endlessly and lazily with the trades?

[ 24 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Or does the exclusiveness of clubs and coteries shield you from the
storm?
No, to be weary, with sweat in my eyes, and love in my heart,

to be laughing,
I will settle only for these.

MANUEL ALTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Westwood Ave., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: A. Freedman & Sons, Inc., New Bedford, Mass.

BoRN: April 7, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., C1771 lattde, 1936; A.M. 1937-

marrigp: Alberta Freedman, Dec. 19, 1937, Brockton, Mass. cHiLpreN: Alan
Richard, July 24, 1939; Mark Lawrence, Aug. 29, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Alan Richard Alter, ’60.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of sales, A. Freedman & Sons, Inc., shoe

manufacturers.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Community Center.
MEMBER OF: Old Colony Harvard Club.

TAKING a backward “glance” at twenty-five years is giving me
quite a jolt, for I’m not sure what I did with these many years,
or better still, what they did to me. So I figure I had better leave
these “big” questions to superior judgments and put down that
which I am grateful for in this period of my life.

First, there’s my family —my wife Alberta, and my sons, Alan
and Mark. And with them is our home and the many good things
that a happy one can bring.

Secondly, there’s my business and community activity — the
usual blend of satisfactions and disappointments, But, all in all,

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

challenging and satisfying. My work has been a source of pleasure
and, yes, pride in a small measure.

Finally, there’s my getting twenty-five years older and possibly
“wiser” in the way I try to look around me and evaluate. I’m most
grateful to be able to have this opportunity to grow, and sort out
that which is of real value in people and things. What I mean, I
suppose, is that I’m happy to be on the scene.

NATHANIEL ALTMAN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 68-37 Yellowstone Blvd., Forest Hills 75, N.Y.

WALTER RALEIGH AMESBURY, JR.

 

HOME AppreEss: 2370 Madison Rd., Cincinnati 8, Ohio,

orrice appress: Flight Propulsion Division, General Electric Co., Cincinnati
15, Ohio. °

BORN: Dec, 23, 1914, Hyde Park, Mass,

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass,

[ 26 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.B.A., 1938.

Marriep: Cecile Marguerite Dudley, Feb. 5, 1943, New York, N.Y.

occupation: Manufacturing executive; manager, business planning, commerci
jet engines.

orFices HELD: Director, Dale Carnegie Program, 1951-52; Class Agent, 195
Chief Class Agent, since 1956, Harvard Business School Class of 193
secretary, Student Aid Committee, Harvard Business School Club «
New York, 1957-58; president, Missile Investment Club, 1957-58; assista:
executive officer, Naval Reserve Research Unit 4-11, since 1960; con
mander, U.S.N.R.

MEMBER OF: American Management Association; Harvard Club of Cincinnat
Harvard Business School Club of Cincinnati; Naval Reserve Associatio:
Reserve Officers Association; Society for the Advancement of Manag:
ment; The Institute of Management Science; U.S, Naval Institute.

pusLications: Articles on business administration in professional journals.

1 WRITE this brief biography in the comfort of a nice apartmen
on a busy street in the city of Cincinnati. Outside my window, bar
trees and dull brown earth with grey snow patches under a leadea
sky contrast sharply with the warm glow inside created by my
talented wife. A fine setting for reminiscing.

I am here because of my employment by the General Electric
Flight Propulsion Division, where I am currently a member of the
planning staff for a new corporate venture into large commercia.
jet engines, the kind that power the transports of the scheduled
air lines. These are the civil version of the General Electric military
jet engines which hold more flight performance records than any
other. The aircraft they power include the new Convair 880, the
soon-to-be-delivered Convair 990 and the new version of the
French-built Caravelle which you may enjoy a year from now.

My path into Cincinnati, blazed a short two years ago, led di-
rectly out of New York City which was my adopted home from
the time I left Harvard. In New York I had the experience —
granted to too few men, I think — of participating actively in the
almost explosive economic growth and diversification of a solidly
based business which makes up its corporate mind to go places and,
in its quest of a solution to the riddle of how to grow, finds nor
one, nor just two or three, but four distinct keys whose almost
simultaneous turning produces hellzapoppin fireworks all over. In
the years immediately following World War II, this was my ¢x-
perience at the American Machine & Foundry Company.

Bowling enthusiasts will recognize that one of the keys IT men-

tion was the automatic pinspotter. This now ubiquitous device,
fabulous mechanically but even more fabulous financially, was de-

[27]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

veloped in the engineering division of which I was a member. This
division was responsible also for a second of the four keys whose
turning unlocked AMF’s explosive growth.

In unplanned but not inappropriate preparation for these growth
explosions and fireworks, I devoted the six years bracketing World
War II to service in the Navy where as an R.O.T.C. graduate I
started early and as an enthusiast for completing a job I stayed on
late. I] have always been fascinated by ships and the sea. I joined
the Navy in keeping with that allurement. When my big chance
came the Navy gave me a brief taste of the salty life of escort duty
and then, with exquisite cunning and a true-blue assist from an un-
romantic and perverse fate, put me solidly ashore. In mine and
bomb recovery I found a new service born of a sudden need for
counter-measures against the burgeoning technology of offensive
warfare. Without tradition, routine and the trappings which ac-
cumulate with time, it offered almost unrestricted opportunity for
innovation and accomplishment. So I ceased to lament my non-sea-
going status and at war's end prepared with satisfaction the Navy
manual on technical intelligence and taught the first course at the
Navy Intelligence School. .

And now the backward trending path leads to that first job —
the perpetually bright and shining lower rungs of the now not-so-
bright and shining ladder to success—- where bright-eyedness and
bushy-tailedness will ever be the sine qua non of recognition, and
where the clear goals and somewhat confusing present of the appren-
tice contrast vividly now with the clear present and somewhat con-
fusing goals of the journeyman. My apprenticeship was served with
the National Association of Manufacturers where in the recession
days of 1938 a good word from a B-School professor and a deter-
mined stake-out in the reception room outside the boss’s office com-
bined to open to me the first door to economic opportunity.

But life has not been all work. Along the way there has been
much off-the-job enjoyment: working with people eager for self-
improvement through the Dale Carnegie program, participation on
both sides of the lectern in professional management societies; with
the inspiration of my wife, collecting eighteenth-century procelain,
faience and furniture, money-grubbing a la Stan Deland for my
B-School class; casual cabinet making; serious amateur photography.

I particularly like a terse aphorism attributed to that master
aphorist, Robert Frost. Upon the occasion of a recent birthday,
when asked what eighty-plus years of living had taught him about

[ 28]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

life, he replied, “It goes on.” Were I similarly pressed — and
among friends — with due deference to the master aphorist I might
be tempted to pontificate apocalyptically, “It grows. It is good.”

ROBERT AMORY, JR.

  

   

HOME ADDRESS: 4833 Dexter Terr., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE appREss: Central Intelligence Agency, 2430 E St. N.W., Washington 25,
D.C.

BORN: March 2, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: AB., #agna cum laude, 1936; LL.B. cum
laude, 1938.

Marriep: Mary Armstrong, June 17, 1938, New York, N.Y. cui~pren: Robert,
3d, April 4, 1942; Daniel, Dec. 3, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Robert Amory, 3d, ’64.

HARVARD BROTHER: Cleveland Amory, ’39.

occupation: Deputy director for Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of law, Harvard University, 1947-52; member, Cam-
bridge School Committee, 1949-50; director, Harvard Alumni Association,

since 1959.
MEMBER OF: American Law Institute; Cruising Club of America, Century Asso-

ciation; Cosmos Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Surf and Sand, 1947; Materials on Accounting, 1949.

MY quarter-century subdivides neatly into quarters: lawyer, soldier,
teacher, bureaucrat.

My legal apprenticeship in a Wall Street law factory was typical
in every sense but one — instead of developing a consuming ambition
to be a partner, I developed an intense distaste for life in the big city.
Casting about for a respectable line of retreat, I settled on military
service and after rejection by the Navy for being married enlisted
in the Army at $21 a month. This turned out to be quite a savvy
move because by the time of Pearl Harbor I had a commission and

[29 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

command of a battery. During the summer of ’42, I switched ove
to the newly-created engineer amphibian command where my com
bination of small-boat knowledge and some military experience wa
unique enough to gain me a battalion and by the end of the war ;
regiment. In four campaigns in the Southwest Pacific, my unit made
more than twenty assault landings, but as a result of General Mac-

Arthur’s genius for hitting where the Japs weren't this was more
grueling than dangerous.

My initial return to civilian life was as house counsel and assistant
treasurer in a New Hampshire textile mill. This was soon gobbled
up by a predatory character whom I could not stand, but I stmul-
taneously heard that the Harvard Law School was seriously short
of instructors and willing to give virtually any hack a year’s try
on the faculty. I jumped at it, enjoyed the work, and a year later
was made a professor of law. For three years, I was thoroughly
satisfied teaching such good bread-and-butter subjects as property,
accounting and corporate finance; dabbling in local politics; and

running a National Guard battalion.

Then came Korea and recall to active service, though only in
the U.S.A. Upon return to the Law School, I found myself quite
restless and convinced that the cold-war struggle was the major
agenda item for our generation and that training young men to be
ready to do something about it twenty years later wasn’t for me.
Again my luck held and I found the Central Intelligence Agency in
such desperate need of a chief of their economic intelligence unit
that they were willing to take a lawyer who had done some anti-
trust work and so signed up, A year later I hired a decent economist

and moved on to the position I now hold in charge of the Agency’s

overt collection and its intelligence research and production work.

It’s sort of an amalgamation of a wire service, a university and a

publishing house. The job also calls for service on the National

Security Council Planning Board and the Council on Foreign Policy.

The pressure is constant and frequently intense, but if anyone in

the Class has a job of equal fascination, I sure want to meet him.

The day I graduated from law school, I married a girl whose
ambition had been to wed a diplomat, a surgeon or a lawyer. She
has stuck to the bargain though the lawyer abandoned his briefs and
a CIA official is not yet entitled to be classed as a diplomat. We
play a good deal of tennis, she the stronger game; ski whenever

we can; and cruise in the Chesapeake and Gulf of Maine on a 26-foot
sloop we built in our spare ume,

[ 30 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

++ WILLIAM THOMAS ANDERSON, JR.

 

BORN: Oct. 19, 1914, Hardin, Ill. parents: William Thomas Anderson, Anna
Ringhausen.

PREPARED AT: Jerseyville High School, Jerseyville, Wl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Roberta Flaherty, 1941, Springfield, Mass. (divorced 1947); Lillian
M. La Freniere, Oct. 1, 1949, Rutland, Mass. cuitp: Katherine W., Dec.
31, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert William Anderson, ’29.

pie: Dec. 22, 1959, Jaffrey, N.H.

wipow: Mrs. W. T. Anderson, Jr., Jaffrey, N.H.

AFTER leaving college Anderson worked in Chicago for a short
time and then moved to Fitchburg where he and his brother formed
the Anderson Insulating Company in 1938. In 1947 he moved to
Jaffrey, New Hampshire, and in 1949 founded the Atlas Display
Fireworks Company of which he was president. He successfully
conducted the business until the time of his death. He was well-
known in the eastern states for his original and colorful displays.
He also had real estate interests in Florida and Arizona. His par-
ticular interest was the Jaffrey Tennis Club in which he success-
fully participated in many tournaments.
He was survived by his wife and daughter.

[31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

KARL ALBAN ANDREN

 

HOME ADDRESS: §5 Biludeau Cr., Burlington, Vt.

oFFicE ApprEss: Alumni House, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vt.

BORN: Nov, 22, 1913, Weston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

Marrieb: Barbara Allen, Feb. 12, 1949, Brooklyn, N.Y.

occupation: Alumni editor, University of Vermont.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant research manager, Federal Advertising Agency, 1938-40;
assistant research director, Warwick & Legler, Inc., 1946-51, research
manager, Maxon Advertising, Inc., 1951-52 (all of New York City).

MEMBER OF: American Alumni Council.

ONE of the most difficult of life’s undertakings is the composing
of an autobiography, I don’t wish to imply that the writing of it
is onerous. I only mean that it is hard to keep it modest, dignified,
humble, unpretentious. I won’t try.

The “Sample Lives” from last year’s 25th Anniversary Report,
which accompanied our questionnaire form, made quite a point of
outlining the various essentials that members of the Class of ’35
had either lost or gained since college. I’d like to mention instead
a few of the things I have been able to keep for twenty-five years:
my teeth, my hair, a completely adolescent approach to life, an
absurd sense of humor and a fondness for dry martinis. I even
’ appear about the same as I did in college, except that I am infinitely
better-looking today.

After I had received my sheepskin in 1936 (Harold Wolfe prac-
tically presented it to me), I found that the business world was
totally indifferent to my potentialities. “Become a tutor,” I told
myself. “You've had ample training.” So I spent a year as a tutor
at a plush dude ranch in Arizona, saving enough for a splurge in

[32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Europe before “settling down.” I settled down in the roundabout
way a dog does, eventually unloading myself on Madison Avenue
to become an advertising magnate. My first job was in an ad agency
where I had charge of two million dollars’ worth of art work —
salary $15 a week.

In 1940 it seemed judicious to take my “year” in the Army (I
became a civilian again at Christmas, 1945). For years I joyously
maneuvered with the Field Artillery — always north in winter and
south in summer. When I finally arrived in England, I was imme-
diately assigned to General Eisenhower's staff at Supreme Head-
quarters. There I had all sorts of fascinating jobs: assistant secretary
to the Chief of Staff, secretary of the Planning Staff for the Nor-
mandy invasion, briefer of the War Room and liaison officer be-
tween Ike in Paris and Montgomery in Brussels. I can’t honestly say
that I was particularly helpful to the Allied cause, but at least my
presence did not go unnoticed; somehow I managed to burn the
War Room (the nerve center of the war effort) to the ground, and
once I was almost captured — with a briefcase of future combat
plans clutched in my moist little fist. In due course of time the
people tired of me and I was flown home to recover from a nerv-
ous breakdown, leaving the people to recover from one of their
own.

Then it was back to New York and the huckster trade. You can
have lots of fun in an ad agency, particularly in escorting the out-
of-town clients to spots like the Stork Club and the “21.” But you
know, New York is really just for the very young and the very
wealthy — preferably in equal proportions—and since I was
neither, my wife and I decided on retreat in 1953. We took the
stagecoach to Burlington, Vermont, where I trotted purposefully
around town, signing little slips of paper, and soon found I was part-
owner of a house, a car and a beagle. Thinking it would be fun to
eat occasionally, I got a job selling cars for a couple of years. —

Burlington is a delightful city of 37,000, nestled on the shore
of Lake Champlain, with the Green Mountains on one side and the
Adirondacks on the other —also, the biggest business here is the
University of Vermont. A small voice within me whispered, “Join,”
so six years ago I joined and now sit in an ivy tower, writing alumni
magazines and other forms of academic propaganda. The take-
home pay at a university doesn’t weigh you down, but oh, those
fringe benefits! Free tennis, free golf, free skiing, free concerts
dances, plays, opera, movies, big-name lectures. It’s a fine life.

[33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

The “Sample Lives” indicated that we should do some. soul-
searching on what Harvard has given us and what Harvard means
to us. | “shall leave the oratory to more qualified members and offer
instead the quiet thought that Harvard provided us with more than
just an education; she means to us a way of life and has given
us something that no one can ever take from us: the knowledge
that we are Harvard men. We shall always be Harvard men, no
matter where we go or what we do — and no one else will ever let
us forget it.

FREDERICK WINCHESTER ANDREWS

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 141 Hazel Rd., Dover, Del.

WAYNE ANDREWS

  

ME appress: 161 Henry St, Brooklyn 1, N.Y.
FICE ADDRESS: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 597 Fifth Ave., New York +7, N.Y.

EN: Sept. 5, 1913, Kenilworth, I.
[ 34]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.d, 1955.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Anderson Hodges, Radcliffe ’39, June 12, 1948, Stateburg,
S.C. cyto: Elizabeth Waties, Feb. 5, 1960.

OccuPATION: Editor, Trade Department, Charles Scribner's Sons.

OFFICES HELD: President, New York Chapter, Society of Architectural Hfis-
torlans, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Society of Architectural Historians, Sociéte Chateaubriand.

PUBLICATIONS: The Vanderbilt Legend, Harcourt, 1941; Battle for Chicago,
Harcourt, 1946; Architecture, Ambition and Americans, Harper's, voss.
Architecture in America, Atheneum, 1960; editor, The Best Short
Stories of Edith Wharton, Scribner’s, 1958; under pseudonym Montagu
O'Reilly, Who Has Been Tampering With These Pianos? New Direc-
tions, 1948.

FROM 1948 to 1956, I was curator of manuscripts at The New York
Historical Society; since then I have been an editor at Charles Scrib-
ner’s Sons. Our classmate, Simon Michael Bessie of Atheneum Pub-
lishers, is the editor of my newest book, Architecture in America,
a photographic history of American architecture. When he was at
Harper’s, Simon Bessie was also the editor of Architecture, Ambi-
tion and Americans, my history of American architecture. My first
publisher (aside from Transition) was our classmate, James Laugh-
lin, for whose New Directions I wrote stories in the surrealist vein
signed Montagu O'Reilly. James Laughlin published a volume of
them in 1948 under the title of Who Has Been Tampering With
These Pianos?

I am now completing for Atheneum Publishers a biography of
Madame de Staél, and look forward also to writing the hfe of Faith
Wharton. A fragment of the Wharton biography served as the
introduction to The Best Short Stories of Edith Wharton, brought
out by Scribner’s in 1958.

My wife and I are looking forward to traveling in Germany
during the summer of 1961. ‘Although French remains my favor-
ite language, I have been intensively ‘studyi ing German for the last
five years, and perhaps the day may come when I lose what has
been called my Alsatian accent w hen speaking the language of
Nietzsche. Later on I hope to return to my Italian and Sp. anish, for
foreign languages are one of my obsessions.

My wife and I have traveled in Mexico, Spain, Ttaly, Belgium,
Austria and France, photographing architecture. And we have alse
taken photographs of architecture in forty-tive of the States and
in the District of Columbia.

[35 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN LAWRENCE ANGEL

 

HOME ApbREss: 165 W. Durham St., Philadelphia 19, Pa.

OFFICE ApprEss: Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia 7, Pa.

BORN: March 21, 1915, London, England.

PREPARED AT: [The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1936; PHD., 1942.

MarRIED: Margaret Seymour Richardson, July 1, 1937, Wallingford, Conn.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth Richardson, July 30, 1942; Stephen Bearne, Aug. 21,
1944; Jonathan Seymour, May 20, 1951.

occupation: Associate professor of anatomy and physical anthropology: teach-
ing and research, Jefferson Medical College.

OFFICES HELD: President, Philadelphia Anthropological Society, 1946-48, Phila-
delphia Society of Archaeological Institute of America, 1950-52; research
fellow, University Museum, since 1948; secretary-treasurer, 1951-56, vice-
president, 1958-60, American Association of Physical Anthropologists,
trustee, Council for Old World Archaeology, since 1953; civilian con-
sultant (surgical anatomy) to U.S. Naval Hospital, since 1955; member,
NSF. Advisory Panel for Anthropology & History & Philosophy of Sci-
ence, 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Physical Anthropologists; American
Anthropological Association, A.A.A.S., American Association of Anato-
mists; Archaeological Institute of America, American Society of Human
Genetics; New York Academy of Sciences; Greek Anthropological So-
ciety (honorary); Unitarian Fellowship for Social Justice, ®BK.

pustications: “Social biology of Greek culture growth,” American Anthro-
pologist 48: 493-533, 1946; “Constitution in female obesity,” American
Journal of Physical Anthropology, N.S. 7: 433-471, 1949; “Factors in
temporomandibular joint form,” American Journal of Anatomy 83: 223-
246, 1948; “Troy. The human remains,” Princeton University Press, 1951
(in series by C. W. Blegen on excavations conducted by the University of
Cincinnati: 1932-38); “Physical and psychological factors in culture
growth,” Fifth International Congress of Anthropological & Ethnological
Sciences, Philadelphia, 1956: 665-670, 1960, “Age change in obesity,”
Human Biology, December, 1960.

[ 36 ]

pomemnminliitihs, 1h, lasaieibaeaiine ietiepdamna naanan delat ania tN Rei ii seine ESS it IONE ORES mm

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THROUGH anthropology and classics at Harvard came the am-
bition to uncover the human keys to the rise (and fall) of civiliza-
tion, as opposed to socio-economic or cultural ones. Through be-
_ing born the son of a successful sculptor came the ambition with
my wife to raise our family with as much mental excitement and
economic equilibrium as had stimulated me. It is net surprising
that both ambitions are ahead of me. This is the normal position of
ambitions. But after twenty-five years the distance seems less.

Anthropologists are beset even more by the number of special
sciences which study men than by the numbers of our muluplying
species and the impossibility of devising controlled experiments.
Anthropologists seldom admit this first frustration, perhaps that is
why they talk almost as endlessly as politicians. It seemed to me
challenging, therefore, to try to tie across the gaps between social,
historical, psychological and biological studies of man by working
in medical anthropology. On the one hand, this has landed me in a
medical school where I teach anatomy and a little human genetics
and anthropology to youths whose aim is skill in healing, many
hope that later they may have leisure for research (I have had only
two graduate students in anthropology — from Israel and from In-
dia). On the other hand, four trips to Greece and neighboring
areas (supported by various Foundations and NIE{ grants) have
given me partial keys to biological history in its soci ial context and
a thirst for problems whose solution would fill many lifetimes. At
present, I am as much involved with the mechanisms which cause
our partial breakdowns in chronic diseases (obesity, hypertension,
arthritis, etc.) as in their opposite: the source of the drive to meet
challenges with enthusiasm and hence to live a richer lite.

The Angel family has met part of its challenges (economically )
by going on camping vacations each summer. For our daughter's
place in Radcliffe we are thankful to the American system of pub she
schools and the National Merit Scholarship corporation. My waite is
teaching in a private nursery school, But we put what energy we
can spare into efforts to improve facilities in our pubhe schools
And we enjoy the opportunities for music, religion and social life
on the edge of a fast-changing city. We are in a suburb from which
we can commute by four different means of transportation, vet
where we find a mantis, a snake, or a rabbic under the mimoss tree
in our garden; or our nine-year-old son does; our sivtcen- vearold

son is too busy with cross-country and listening to baseball and pre-
paring for the next alycbra test.

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Our children’s comments on the state of the world tend to be
cynical; our own change from conservatism to conscientious lib-
eralism likewise reflects the stress between Ideal and Real in which
Americans and others are tangled: nations work toward world
peace from economies which they believe (falsely) to depend on
military spending for the cold war. This tangle seems to be a mis-
understanding of three things vital to human advance: health, leisure
for learning and freedom. Individual Americans enjoy all three of
these and have discovered that they are things which no man can
take irresponsibly: he can have health, time to work creatively, or
freedom to live as he chooses only in so far as others give him these
things. Hence these are things which grow for all mankind through
mutual giving. Implications are obvious. Nations, universities, cities,
scientists, business men, or housewives who have the guts to use
the widest practical range of human ideas and attitudes to give
each other real freedom (not license) will provide the resource of
human love which our children and their children will need to
make a nuclear-powered world as safe a place as it is now exciting.

+ ALAN ARENSBERG

 

BoRN: Aug. 2, 1913, Pittsburgh, Pa. Parents: Francis Louis Arensberg, ‘og,

Florence Dangerfield.
PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-103}.
Mmarriep: Jan Throckmorton.

piep: March 23, 1956, Pittsburgh, Pa.

ALAN ARENSBERG was in college one year with our Class. The
Secretary has no information concerning his activitics since he Icft
college. He was survived by his wife (now Mrs. William A. Meyer).

[ 38 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BERT DAVID ARENSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4105 Bayard Rd., Cleveland 21, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cleveland Orchestra, Severance Hall, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 26, 1914, Akron, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Akron, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Sylvia Pastor, Sept. 17, 1950, Cincinnati, Ohiw.

occupation: Violinist with Cleveland Orchestra, free-lance writer and pho-
tographer.

THE present seems much more interesting to me than the past and
so I shall pass over the synopsis of recent vears with the mention
of just a few details necessary to bring the story up to date.

At the time of the Twentieth Anniversary Report I was discover-
ing the great possibilities of the picture story, after selling a few in-
dividual pictures to newspapers and magazines. My most successful
photojournalistic project so far has been a picture story on Junior
Achievement, which I sold to the United States Information Agenev.
This story was distributed world-wide under the title, “Junior
Capitalists.” As far as I know, it is still being published abroad and
I understand it may eventually reach two hundred milhon readers.

Photojournalism, communication by means of pictures with a
minimum of supporting text, has led almost inev itably to free-lance
writing. Words and pictures together, I find, balanced in Imper.
tance according to subject matter and desired treatment, provide
greater scope than pictures alone, both in choice of subject and in
variety of publishing markets.

About a year ago, “1? became “we” in this ANpect of my hte,
as it has become in most others, when Sylvia decided to join me ay
reporter, co-writer and business manager. We have both been de-
lighted to discover that she has special qilents in all these direenens

[39]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

These are some of the subjects we have dealt with in words and
pictures: Machine searching of literature and machine translation
of languages; a suburban sewer project; cancer research at a pri-
vately supported laboratory (this we have not been able to sell);
creative arts at an inter-racial settlement house; the violin maker
as an anachronistic survival of the age of the craftsman, the stock
market opens a new world for a polio paralytic. Most of these
efforts are now trying to find their places in the market.

Sylvia and I feel that we do our best and most productive work
on subjects in which we have a passionate interest. Therefore,
although we don’t intend to confine ourselves to one field, we plan
to investigate our potential in handling story material relating to
civil rights, in which we may possibly specialize,

Whatever subjects we may become involved in, we are enthusiastic
about the unlimited stimulation of free-lance writing and photog-
raphy as an adjunct to the more routine profession of symphony
musician, satisfying in its own way but no longer challenging after
the first few years. So much for professional activities.

One of our main extracurricular interests is an almost involun-
tary preoccupation with the questions, “What kind of world do
we live in, how is it changing, and how shall we live in it?” These
are disturbing questions, indeed. It is no secret that we live in an
age of shoddy workmanship and the fast buck, glittering tailfin and
meager satisfaction, advertising above product, practicality before
principle, the righteousness of power, the sanctimony of success.
Perhaps this age is not so different from former times in these re-
spects except that lack of principle used to be more often deplored,
whereas now it is so frequently accepted as being “realistic.”

We expect that the pendulum will swing back sooner or later
toward more honorable and humane values, but meanwhile, how
should we live, we ask ourselves, in a society where enlightened
self-interest is the national ikon and right for its own sake is con-
sidered naive? This is not a theoretical question. Suppose you
must belong to a labor union run by tyrannical men. It’s easy enough
to keep quiet. Do you accept their dictates or do you fight them?
Fighting City Hall is a notoriously unrewarding occupation. It
takes time, energy and spirit that could be used in more creative en-

terprises. The fight can be hazardous. It is difficult to win. But
if you fail to meet the challenge, you lose your self-respect, and

more.
A certain amount of our substance has gone into this kind of

[ 40 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

struggle, which does have its satisfactions, but we try not to let
these episodes crowd out the things we want to do. We are often
amused at our own rebelliousness. In our youth we were both more
inclined to accept the world as we found it. We seem to be in re-
verse. As we grow older, we grow younger.

ROBERT ARNOLD

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 24 Conant Sq., Brandon, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Vermont, Burlington, V't.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1915, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; A.M, 1958.

MarRRIED: Muriel Picher, Dec. 29, 1937, Winnetka, Ill. ctttprex: Robert P.
May 5, 1939; Sarah I., June 19, 1941; Emily S. Sept. 18, 1943; Chnstopher
K., Aug. 18, 1947; Ellen S., April 7, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hendrick Kip Arnold, "39.

OccuUPATION: Instructor in English, University of Vermont.

I WAS a newspaper reporter in Syracuse, New York, for seven
years, and for the last two years of World War II a navy radar
technician in the Pacific. Since then I’ve been a Vermont school-
teacher.

[40]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ALLAN JAMES ARONSON

 

HOME AbpREss: 301 E. Tenth St., New York 9, N.Y.
OFFICE apprEss: National Guardian, 197 E. Fourth St., New York 9, N.Y.
BORN: March 26, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1936; s.M. (Columbia

Univ.) 1937.

MaRRiED: Blanche-Mary Grambs, 1952, Irvington, N.J. cumpren: Mary Lil-
lian, May 18, 1941; Anita Margaret, Nov. 21, 1949 (by previous mar-
riages).

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Aronson, 744.

occuPATION: Editor, National Guardian, newsweekly.

PuBLicaTions: Contributed articles to many periodicals in United States and

abroad.

I GOT to thinking, the November pre-election day when this was
written, that my own career and that of Henry Cabot Lodge paral-
leled each other for a short distance. After graduation (he twelve
years earlier), we each went to work for the Boston Evening Tran-
seript and then for the New York Herald Tribune. It may have
been the influence of subversive elements on the Tribune staff (it
was brimming with Yale chaps) that caused me to veer to the left
while Cabot Lodge stuck to the right of way, but that would be a
frivolous thought.

There were, however, some most interesting people on the Tribune
who were all involved with the Newspaper Guild, which was try-
ing to persuade the late Ogden Reid (Yale) to sign a union contract.
Somehow I got to join them and found it both refreshing and ex-
citing after the cynical university years and that time on the Tran-
script, when each day’s highlight was the Bromfield Tavern (our
bar), presided over by a distinguished graduate of the Harvard Law
School who found a tap more challenging than a tort.

[ 42 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As I think back on the college years, and the freshman smoker,
when Dr. Lowell told us that we were the first “gentlemen” to sit
on the floor of the Union, and we stamped our feet in appreciation,
the thoughts are mellower than the reality — as when are they not?
But they were pleasant times, even if you had to hock a book to
get up money to take a girl to a dance; times when Thomas Love
Peacock (“You made the name up,” my daughter said) was a thesis
in my life to reckon with; times when the NRA and Blue Eagle
and CCC were odd figments in an economics course you didn’t
take.

How little most of us knew within the gates of the Yard, gates
whose magnificent inscriptions we ought to have read. Because if
most of us had, we might have spent a little more time outside the
Yard and in the world and come back to the Yard a licele wiser.

“You get out of college exactly what you put into it,” said Dr.
Lowell, that night, as we smiled indulgently at what sounded like a
well-preserved bromide. But was it? It’s worth thinking about,
and then perhaps substituting the word “life” for “college” and
thinking a bit more. Which is what we’ve been asked to do in this
space, after all.

Over the years, on a quiet evening I have sometimes got down
those green paperbacks which mark the milestones since we left
college, and thumbed through them to see what happened to people
— classmates I knew and loved, and those who were total strangers,
as classmates could be in an entering class of 1200. Some of the
strangers I wish I had known better; others were blurs. But none-
theless there is an affinity — from the fellow who helps to run the
Chase National Bank to the one who runs a dissenting newsweekly,
Harvard is a binder — and if this is so, then it is good.

I started out wanting to be a newspaperman and that is exactly
what I have been and am. From the Columbia School of Journal-
ism, through my first jobs listed above, then to the New Fork Post
and the New York Times and the National Guardian — that has
been my career. I think I have held just about every job one can on
a newspaper — reporter, copy editor, feature writer, drama editor
(that was more fun than work, until you had to review four turkeys
four nights running), and lots more. There were many exciting
times, and many dull ones, good people and pompous ones, fathe ads
and fine ones,

Many extra hours and days and weeks were devoted to helping to
build the New: spaper Guild — and if the Guild dissipated the so-

[ 43 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

called glamour of the Ben Hecht-Charles MacArthur version of the

newspaper life as depicted in “The Front Page” —a version which

had about as much real glamour as a hangover — it helped an awful
lot of good newspaper people realize decent salaries to raise families
and have enough leisure time to write some good books and plays

that might have gone down a barroom drain. ,

There were two intervals of note: one was a leave from the Post
to go to Germany for a year (1945-46), where 1 worked under In-
formation Control Command helping to set up the new German
press after the defeat of Hitler; the other was a leave from the Times
to become editor for a year of the New York Newspaper Guild
publication called (of all things) Frontpage.

In the spring of 1948, I resigned from the Times to help found
the Guardian, as an independent progressive newsweekly. First
thing we did was to support the candidacy of Henry Wallace for
president on the Progressive Party ticket. We outlived the Pro-
gressive Party (and, as this is written on the eve of the 1960 election,
I say more’s the pity). We went on to be gadfly enough to have
earned for me four trips before Congressional committees which
fee] they have a right to pry into the beliefs and associations of
people who do not agree with them. Twice before the McCarthy
Committee (private and public) in 1953 and twice before the East-
land Committee in 1956. I was not cooperative. My beliefs and my
associations are my own business, unless I volunteer to share them
with others, which T do all the time — except before Congressional

committees. |

How does it feel to publish a dissenting newspaper in a time of
conformity? It is (1) exciting; (2) difficult to be a boss; (3) not
financially rewarding; (4) too much work; (5) very satisfying to
the soul. And above all, it keeps you in touch with people whom
I think are the salt of the earth (Harvard men among them) who
practice life vigorously in the best American tradition of getting
up and hollering about things they don’t like. Nothing status quo
about them.

On the domestic front I can note with love a wife who is an
artist of the highest quality, who draws for many magazines and
illustrates books about nature and living; two daughters, one of
whom is at Antioch College; two Siamese cats; a floor-through in
an old brownstone on the upper tier of the Lower East Side in Man-
hattan (with a back yard, if you please, which, thanks to my wife’s
solicitude, has become a way station for migrating birds); and a

[ 44]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jittle house in Menemsha on Martha’s Vineyard, which is, of course,
the best place in the world to be at any time; a fairly good library
which I will enclose myself in and read one day; many, many friends,
and too little time to enjoy them.

In all, a good and full life — with all the strains and tensions that
come from New York living, and from a confused and confusing
world.

I cherish my craft, even if I do not admire so many practitioners
of it, and especially not the publishers of the big dailies. Some day
a history of journalism in our time will be written, an honest his-
tory which will assess the responsibility of the press in so many
of the disasters that have engulfed us, both domestically (I mean
especially the infringement on civil liberties) and internationally (1
mean the awfulness of a continuing cold war with no end yet in
sight). Perhaps I shall have a hand in the writing of that history;
that, at least, is my goal for now.

And getting back to Henry Cabot Lodge: Too bad he didn’t
stick to journalism. He might then have been spared the ordeal of
running with Dick Nixon. He could have covered him instead.

DAVID HAROLD ARONSON

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 32 Wessex Rd., Newton 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 20, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum latde, 1936; LEB. 1019

MarRiED: Frances E. Jacobs, July 6, 1947, Boston, Mass. cttipaen: Rosalya
Jane, April 15, 1948; Marjory Sue, April 19, 1951; Joseph Howard, Nov.
27, 1954.

occupaTION: Attorney-at-law,

C45]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I HAVE an aversion to accounting, stock-taking and obituaries,

particularly my own. The necessity of a biographical sketch evokes

considerations relevant to all of the foregoing. I originally intended

to indulge my aversion and to allow the above statistical summary
to suffice. It then occurred to me how unfair it would be to all
concerned to permit the bare statistics to suffice. They do not re-
flect the happiness I have found in my marriage and in my family,
nor the pleasures and rewards I have found in the practice of my
profession. The happiness has been wrought by a compatible wife
who understands me, and by three children who do not. The
pleasure is derived from the independence of self-employment, and
from the gratification of aiding people in the solution of their
problems. Finally the reward has been the opportunity to do many
of the things which I truly enjoy doing.

ANNIS GEORGE ASAFF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Hancock St., Auburndale 66, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Diamond Tool Engineering Co., 108 Massachusetts Ave., Boston
15, Mass.

BoRN: March 21, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B. 1936; s.M. (Mass. Inst. of Technol-
ogy), 1937; 8.D. (ibid.), 1942.

MarRiED: Patricia Ferry, July 31, 1943, Washington, D.C, cuitpren: Allen
George, July 19, 1944; Wade John, Jan. 22, 1946; Patricia Louise, Aug. 15,
1947; Clifford Ernest, Oct. 6, 1949; Ernest Montague, Oct. 8, 1951.

occuPaTION: Engineer; president, Diamond Tool Engineering Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee on Electrical Insulation, National Research
Council, 1942-46; past president, Williams & Warren Junior High School
P.T.A. Newton Babe Ruth League; president, Newton West Little

League.
[ 46 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Newton Licensing Board, Harvard
Club of Boston.

puBLICATIONS: Articles in the field of organic chemistry in professional jour-
nals.

AFTER graduation, I went to M.LT., presumably for one year, but
wound up staying there for ten years —nine of which were as a
research associate.

A desire for independence led me to free-lance as a consultant in
the field of organic chemistry. This endeavor resulted in some fun
but not very much compensation. A rapidly-multiplying family
pushed me into a business partnership which became known as
Diamond Too! Engineering Company.

My main preoccupation today is keeping up with the offspring.
We keep track of the time of the year in our house, not by the
climate outside, but by the kind of athletic equipment which is
unceremoniously dumped in the hallway each evening. By acci-
dent, or more probably by design, no more rabid rooters for Har-
vard can be found anywhere. Consequently, with four boys, our
admission problems are fourfold.

After twenty-five years I still can’t get used to a Harvard foot-
ball team having a bad season. In most other respects, however,
I find myself growing older. Thirty pounds heavier, definitely
balder, somewhat more philosophical, I find myself cruising through
life currently at a plateau, hoping that mankind is really making

progress in the simple but exasperating problem of living in one
world.

BENJAMIN SAMUEL ASIA

 

HOME AbprEss: 7318 51st Ave. N.E., Seattle 15, Wash.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1603 Tower Bldg., Seattle 1, Wash.

[ 47 ]

Oe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

mal was more important than the worst man. Never completely lost
hope in mankind; think nuclear weapons will prevent major war.
Didn’t get to see the world (except America). Never lost my corni-
ness. Still like a good pun. Still enjoy a good (if tired) movie plot.
Still turn to look at shapely young women. Some mental weakness,
no doubt.
SUCCESSES
Am doing exactly what I always dreamed of doing: applying ad-
vanced physical principles to gadgeteering. (Call it “research and
development,” it still satisfies the creative urge.) I'd do it for
nothing; I get paid for it. Lived a relatively quiet family life; sull
love my first wife after twenty-two years. Finally acquired a Mas-
ter’s degree in physics in 1955. Developed a great respect for the
need of better education at all levels in America. I feel this is the key
to what’s wrong with the world. Glad Harvard is helping a little.
With God's help brought up my two daughters to near-perfection
(give or take a few faults). Well-mannered, smart, attractive, de-
pendable, interesting. My greatest successes. (I know! My wife
helped.) One is in college. One is in high school. Escaped from a
dull professional practice (1955) after sixteen years. Escaped from
Massachusetts and miserable New England weather after too many
years (1958). Granted awards for patent disclosures in physical
optics: Raytheon (1958), Martin (1959). Enjoying Florida
weather, Y’all come! Learned to love good music, both jazz and
classical (yes, jazz can be equated with good music!). Fancy I see
something in modern art (and me, a Democrat) and please, you

Madison Avenoors, do something about television.

[ 50 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY FRANCIS ATHERTON, JR.

ore ee a
2

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Warrenton, Va.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1939 (40).

MARRIED: Elizabeth C. Rochester, Nov. 29, 1941, Glen Cove, N.Y. (divorced
1953); Eileen M. Chalmers, Nov. 7, 1953, Hampden, Mass. cHitpren:
Madeline Lansing, Nov. 20, 1942; Henry Francis, 3d, March 24, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Humphrey Atherton, °38 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

I SUPPOSE most of us faced with reviewing our lives for the last
twenty-five years are confronted with two questions: Where did
those years go so fast? What do I have to show for them? For me,
the answer to the first question involves three years of Harvard
Law School; four years with a moderately large New York City law
firm; three years in the Navy as assistant to Admiral Lewis L.
Strauss, who was later to become chairman of the Atomic Energy
Commission and nominee for Secretary of Commerce; six years
with a relatively small manufacturing corporation in various Capaci-
ties including director and treasurer; five years of running my own
(and the bank’s) farm; and four years of trying to combine this
operation (in Virginia) with managing my mother’s farm (in
Massachusetts).

This seems to add up to twenty-five years numerically, but what
does it add up to otherwise? First, I] am blessed with a dear and
long-suffering wife. Second, my two children seem to be growing
up in a rather satisfactory manner; Lanny graduated from Vis
Porter’s School last year and, at present writing, is continuing her
education in Switzerland, and Harry, a fourth-former at St. Paul's

[51]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

has leanings towards Harvard and grades that might get him there,
Third, I seem to have stumbled into a way of life that I find very
rewarding. Farming, at present, is hardly a way to get rich but it
has other compensations, not the least of which is a certain degree
of freedom, and with two farms 430 miles apart to operate we cer-
tainly have more than enough traveling!

Our nearest thing to a hobby involves an island in Maine which
my brave wife, not daunted by already having two residences to
take care of, urged me to acquire recently. The work involved in
getting this camp in shape (it had been unoccupied for six years)
makes it rather a dubious hobby but we are having fun anyhow.

JOHN PAGE AUSTIN

  

HOME Appress: 215 Hillcrest Rd., Berkeley 5, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: Morrison, Foerster, Holloway, Shuman & Clark, Crocker
Bldg., San Francisco 4, Calif.

BORN: May 26, 1914, Montclair, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1939.

marriep: Josephine S. Winmill, Nov. 14, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHm-
pREN: Judith Page, April 17, 1944; Kathryn Winmill, Nov. 27, 1945;
Chellis Richard, Aug. 16, 1949; Jeffrey Deming, May 10, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Member, New York and California bars; member, board of
directors, 1957-59, chairman, Committee on Corporations, 1959-61, San
Francisco Bar Association; member, board of directors, since 1955,
chairman, Administrative Budget Committee, 1958-60, United Community
Fund of San Francisco; member, board of directors, since 1959, president,
1960-61, Mission Neighborhood Centers, Inc.; vice-chairman, Committee
on Banking, American Bar Association, 1960-61; visiting lecturer in law,
University of California Law School, since 1959; currently, second vice-
president, Yale Law School Association of Northern California,

[ 52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club; Berkeley Tennis Club; Claremont Country
Club; Pacific Union Club; Harvard Club of New York.

AS the twig is bent, so grows the tree. Candor impels me to admit
the truth of the old bromide in my case. After college came Jaw
school, clerking in a Wall Street law firm, marriage, military serv-
ice, two children, immigration to San Francisco, two more children,
law practice interspersed with various professional and civic activi-
ties. But even a predictable pattern can produce interests and con-
cerns. And so it has been for me.

The good Lord did not bless me with the stuff of greatness but
He did give me a capacity to enjoy doing a number of different kinds
of things. The truth of the foregoing was demonstrated immedi-
ately after graduation from college when, instead of going to Europe
as planned, I went to work mail clerking in a Fourth Avenue cotton
factoring house. Despite the heat that summer (air conditioning
was a dream of the future then —at least on Fourth Avenue) and
a few other annoyances, I thoroughly enjoyed the experience but
was not so overwhelmed by the charms of business that I wasn’t
glad to be off to law school in the fall.

Initially, I found law school very bewildering and for the first
three months the message simply wasn’t taking. It didn’t help mat-
ters when an infection caused me to miss a good part of the spring
term. But after that, things picked up a bit —I graduated and went
on to New York. The law school was quite a place in those days
and towering over it all was Harry Shulman, whose untimely death
after the war was a tremendous loss to the country, as well as Yale.

Upon arrival at my new firm, I had expected to be confronted
with some intricate problems which would put my fancy education
to the test instanter. Instead, the newcomers that year, including
yours truly, sat around for about a week with nothing to do and
ended up making and flying paper darts. Of course, once the firm
at large discovered we were there, all that changed very quickly
and our employers soon made up for lost time.

Came the war and I joined the Navy. My war experiences on
and off destroyers were, I know, like those of many others. Again
I was lucky, my associates, on land and at sea, were, on the whole,
a very good bunch.

I must once again pay my respects to Lady Luck who thus far has
served me well. If Classmate Tilton, for whom I stood as best man,
hadn’t married a certain girl who had as a bridesmaid a very certain
girl, things would have turned out quite differently for me. As

[53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Oliver Cromwell said, “How shall we behave ourselves after
mercies.” In view of past favors, 1 try to keep my requests .
to a modest level these days and would never ask the man up
to help me on a fifty-foot putt, although ] might on a fifteen-fo
As mentioned in earlier Reports, | have an immigrant’s enthus
for his adopted land (in my case, California). The working
iving conditions suit me to a tee, My firm is a comfortable one \
offices in a pre-1906-fire building which still has hydraulic eleva
— open bird-cage style. On cold mornings it’s quicker to walk
We specialize to some extent, as do all firms like ours, but nev
theless are able to retain time to do a number of things just .
cause we feel like it,
Luckily for me, the members of my family have many intere
im common and, as a result, we have had a number of wonderf
winter and summer outings together. | am frankly and unashamed.
a family man —it has been a great experience watching the childre
come along.

Despite all these “mercies,” I am dissatisfied with a lot of thing
and know we've got to hitch up our britches and our values if ou.
product is to work at home and outsell Mr. K’s abroad. What direc
contribution 1 could and should be making, I haven’t completely

worked out as of this writing.

This narrative has about run its course but would not be complete
without some comment on Harvard. I was definitely not a part of
the main stream of college life. In fact, as I look back on it and

consider what has happened to me since, | am amazed at how little

a part of it 1 was. But, what was perhaps for me personally more

important, I developed some lasting interests which have nothing

whatsoever to do with “activities” and developed some friendships

which have stood the test of time very well. For these things, I
am grateful to Harvard.

Ls4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MYRON EVERETT AVERILL

 

HOME ADDRESS: Meadow View Road, R.D. 1, Glens Falls, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Imperial Color Chemical & Paper Dept., Hercules Powder Co.
Glens Falls, N.Y.

BORN: May 21, 1913, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., #agna cum laude, 1936.

MARRIED: Dorothy May Bell, May 29, 1937, Swampscott, Mass.

occupaTiION: Manufacture of pigment colors and chemicals; analytical and re-
search supervisor.

MEMBER OF; American Chemical Society.

+

ROBERT STANSBURY AYERS

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 420 E. 55th St., New York 22, N.Y.

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JULIAN SEBASTIAN BACH, JR.

 

HOME AppREsS: 241 E. 48th St. New York 17, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 527 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 31, 1914, Deal, N.J.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1936. DEGREES: A.B., #ag7a cum laude, 1936.

MargieD: Kathryn Rains, June 23, 1938, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1943);
Halle Schlessinger, Sept. 5, 1947, Ridgefield, Conn. cHmpren: Arthur
Cowen, 3d, March 19, 1935; Jill Cowen, March 22, 1938 (stepchildren);
Prudence, April 17, 1948.

occupaTion: Editor.

OFFICES HELD: Associate editor, Life magazine, 1938-47; supervising editor, True,
the Man’s magazine, 1949-51; director, National Music League, 1949-53;
member, Junior Council, Museum of Modern Art, New York City, 1950-
54; editor, Today’s Woman, 1951-54; editor and co-publisher, The W est-
chester News, White Plains, N.Y., 1954-57; member, executive committee,
American Liberal Association, since 1954, Committee to Aid the Ravens-
bruck “Lapins” (victims of Nazi medical atrocities), 1959-60; editorial
director, Hillman Periodicals and Pageant magazine, 1958-59, member,
Alumni Fund Council, The Choate School, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: The Players Club, New York City; Harvard Club of New York;
Overseas Press Club; Garrick Club and Savage Club, London; Country
Club of Darien, Conn.

PUBLICATIONS: America’s Germany, 1946; The Human Guinea Pigs, 1946;
Deadline Delayed, 1947; contributor to most national magazines,

[56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK ADDISON BACHER

 

HOME aAppreEss: Bean & Whitehall Roads, R.D. 3, Norristown, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: Merck, Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories, West Point, Pa.

BORN: July 18, 1915, Northampton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Northampton High School, Northampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1936, s.M. (Rutgers
Univ.) 1945.

MarrigepD: Margaret Tufts Hamlin, Aug. 19, 1944, Elizabeth, N.J. (died March
4, 1951); Angela Bornn, Jan. 2, 1954, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. cuit-
DREN: Beatrice Edith, Sept. 15, 1945; Edward Victor, Feb. 15, 1955; Judith
Ann, June 17, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Chemist, Merck & Company, Inc.; manager, New Product Con-
trol, Pharmaceutical Research Department, Merck, Sharp & Dohme Re-
search Laboratories.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society, American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; New York Academy of Sciences; Sigma Xi; Phi
Lambda Upsilon.

THE summer after graduation I was engaged for two weeks as
consultant on a chewing gum problem — how to disguise the taste
of a whopping dose of sodium bicarbonate in a stick of chewing
gum. The gum was guaranteed to produce a burp within two min-
uates. The project failed but as a result of this experience I am
now eminently qualified to be a critic of television commercials for
antacids.

For almost two years I worked as water and acid control chemist
for the duPont Plastics Department in Leominster, Massachusetts.
In February, 1939, I started work in the research laboratories of
Merck & Company, Inc., and have been with them ever since. Most
of the time I worked in the Rahway labs, assisting in the development
of such products as vitamin C, cortisone and vitamin Bia. My major
interests are in purity criteria and development of analytical meth-

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ods. For the last three years I have been analyzing the dosage forms
of such medicines in the pharmaceutical labs at West Point, Penn-
sylvania.
For the last year or two I have been active in the School Liaison
Program of the Philadelphia Section of the American Chemical
Society. We provide demonstrations and lectures for science classes
in high schools, hoping to instruct, awaken curiosity and perhaps
inspire at least an occasional student.

HENRY RAVI BAILEY

    

HOME aApprEss: North Street, Medfield, Mass.

BORN: March ro, 1913, Weston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

Marriep: Nancy Sackett Snow, Dec. 20, 1945, Providence, R.I. CHILDREN:
Sarah Ravi, Nov. 16, 1947; George Morgan, Oct. 7, 1949; Martha Snow,
Jan. 11, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Wesley Bailey, ’34,; Horace Converse Bailey, '37;
Vincent Ravi Bailey, ’40.

OccUPATION: New business research and development.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in machinery manufacturing, local charitable and
civic committees.

MEMBER OF: Owl Club, Cambridge, Mass., Dedham Country and Polo Club.

MY career: twenty-five years with the Whitin Machine Works,
Whitinsville, Massachusetts, 130-year-old machinery manufacturer,
sooo employees. Left in 1959 to look for a small, promising ven-
ture. The search has been absorbing and, on several occasions, al-
most successful but, after eighteen months, I am ready for employ-
ment again in a going concern.

My family: Married in 1945, Nancy 8S. Snow of Providence,

[58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Rhode Island, ten years my junior. We have two girls, ten and
thirteen, and a boy, eleven, in three successive grades at Charles
River School in Dover and at Milton Academy. We winter in a
200-year-old house and barn in Medfield, seven miles southwest of
Dedham, and summer in Cotuit, on Cape Cod.

War record: Ensign to lieutenant, U.S.N.R., 1943-46. Two years
C.L.C. officer, USS Santee, CVE-29. Presidental Unit Citation.
Five stars Asiatic-Pacific. Two stars Philippine Liberation.

DONALD VINTON BAKER, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 17 Lee Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass. °

OFFICE ADDRESS: Baker Clinic, 40 Broad St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: July 16, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936(37); M.D. 1942.

MARRIED: Louisa T. Bazeley, Nov. 25, 1938, Uxbridge, Mass. cumpren: Don-
ald Vinton, 3d, Sept. 13, 1939; Alliston L., June 11, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Henry Baker, ’43.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon; owner, Baker Clinic.

OFFICES HELD: Intern, Massachusetts General Hospital, 1943; surgical resident,
1946-50, assistant chief of surgery, 1950-52, West Roxbury Veterans Hos-
pital; assistant chief of surgery, Boston Veterans Hospital, 1952-60; as-
sistant clinical professor of surgery, Tufts Medical School, since 1950;
lecturer in surgery, Boston University Medical School, since 1953; con-
sultant in surgery, Free Hospital for Women; associate in surgery, Massa-
chusetts General Hospital, since 1956; member, courtesy staff, Faulkner
Hospital, Newton-Wellesley Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Traveler’s Club; Boston Surgical Society; American Col-
lege of Surgeons; American Society of Clinical Investigation, American
Medical Association (fellow); American Board of Surgery (diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: Four or five papers in medical journals.

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FLIGHT surgeon XX, Air Force; then captain, Medical Corps,

gsth Infantry Division, European Theatre, 1943-46.
My son is in his third year at Northeastern Engineering School,

My daughter is a sophomore at Connecticut College. I play golf,
tennis, bridge, and curl; avoid gardening and snow shoveling. Most
of the time I am doing something involving the medical profession,
however. Summers we have spent on Cape Cod, west coast, and

once to Europe.

ELIOT SPENCE BAKER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1557 Briarhill Rd., Gladwyne, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Industrial Transmitters & Antennas, Inc., Philadelphia, Pa.

‘BORN: Aug. 18, 1914, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.
MarRiED: Sydney S. Millar, Nov. 11, 1938, Philadelphia, Pa. campren: Judith

Spence, Nov. 6, 1943; Deborah Millar, Dec. 22, 1946 (died May, 1951);

Eliot Spence, Jr., May 14, 1954.
occupation: Electronics — communications; marketing manager, Government

and Industrial Division. .
MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Country Club.

[ 60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HASTINGS WYMAN BAKER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 220 W, Norwalk Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Beaunit Mills, Inc., 261 Fifth Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: June 12, 1914, Stovall, N.C.

PREPARED AT: Oakwood High School, Dayton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: LL.B. (Fordham Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Beverly Higgins, July 7, 1938, Los Angeles, Calif. cumpren: Hastings
Wyman, 3d, Dec. 30, 1939; Barry, Sept. 15, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; secretary and treasurer, Beaunit Mills, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Beaunit Mills, Inc., Tyrex, Inc.

FIRST, I would like to thank the editors of this Report for their
invitation to me to be included, as I left the Class in June, 1933,
and have had almost no contact since. It is not then false modesty,
but a simple statement of fact, when I say it is hard to imagine a
single member of the Class intentionally looking up my report. To
you, therefore, the casual page-turner whose idle eye now wanders
here by chance, ] must say that nothing of real interest follows.
The Class Reports, from time to time, have held great interest
for me. The Triennial Report arrived a warm June night before an
important law school examination. For hours, when I should have
been studying, I was held in fascination reading about just one more
person, This lack of discipline and moral fiber perhaps explains
my being invited out of the Class of 1936 at the end of our first year.
It may also partly account for the failures and frustrations which
have become old familiar companions. Surely, no other member of
the Class has attempted and failed in more enterprises than I.
When the Class was graduating in June, 1936, on the occasion
of the 300th Anniversary, my affairs were at almost dead low tide.
During the following winter I was, literally at times, a penniless
wanderer, Through the years success was always and remains just

[6r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

around the corner. In writing such as this for the various interim
Class Reports, it invariably seemed that had the Report happened to
be just a little later, I would have a smashing success to relate. And
so it is with this Report, success is still just a little beyond my reach.

Yes, it has been a pedestrian career so far. To state my present
position in the most pretentious possible way, I can say that I am
secretary and treasurer and member of the board of directors of a
$100-million corporation and a member of the board of directors of
another nationally-known company. We have a very happy family
life in Connecticut, on a half-acre with a swimming pond which
I created by hand-building a stone dam; perhaps my only worth-
while accomplishment. My wife is a wonderfully cheerful com-
panion, who left a budding Hollywood career to share a New York
tenement in marriage with a law student. My son is in Middlebury
College and my daughter in Low-Heywood School. The dog, cats
and ducks have little to recommend them.

One morning in the fall of 1932, at breakfast in the freshman dining
hall, some member of our Class reading his morning paper com-
mented on a trial of several Russians in that country for the crime
of sabotage. He inquired of the table at large where I was sitting, as
to the nature of the crime of sabotage. Most of us did not know the
word and finally one knowledgeable fellow said he thought it was
like wrecking things. Such was the innocence of our times that if
this sample was representative, and I think it was, few in our Class
in the fall of 1932 knew the meaning of this word which is now, of
course, familiar to every child. I have no idea who were the par-
ticipants in this incident, but I remember it clearly.

In September, 1932, the Crimson greeted us with envious con-
gratulations. Its reasoning being that we had the sanctuary of the
College for four years, sheltered from the harsh realities, It was
unthinkable that the depression would not end before the elapse
of those four years. We, therefore, were in the perfect position. As
it turned out, most of us did finish our education or begin to face
the world about 1939, when there was a great shift in world affairs
and the word sabotage was no longer strange and our lives were
very much affected by the transition of the times.

If I have any philosophy, it is to say that the children of today
are smarter in every way than we were, and more polite and more
considerate, and wil] be all-around better citizens; or perhaps I speak
for myself. My past twenty-five years have been failure. My next
twenty-five years will see great accomplishments by me. Wait till

[ 62 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Fifty-year Anniversary Report, then I'll really have something
to say.

WILLIAM JESSAMIN BAKER

   

SRT ARERR TERETE

 

HOME AppRESS: R.F.D. 3, Laconia (Gilford), N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Laconia Clinic, 724 Main St., Laconia, N.H.

BORN: June 11, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; M.D., 1942.

MARRIED: Jean Houghton, Sept. 4, 1943, Cambridge, Mass. cHiLprREN: Chris-
topher Cameron, May 10, 1948; Douglas Arundel, Feb. 16, 1950.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of surgery, Laconia Hospital, since 1956, member, Budget
Committee, Town. of Gilford, N.H., since 1958; commissioner, Belknap
Mountain Recreation Area Authority, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: New England Surgical Society; New Hampshire Medical Society;
American Medical Association, American College of Surgeons (fellow).

WHENEVER I stop to realize that in June, 1961, it will be twenty-
five years since I graduated from Harvard College, I am brought up
short. I can still remember “those old guys” who were then back
for their Twenty-fifth Reunion and they really looked old. Now
I am as they were, and yet I certainly don’t feel old. A few, singu-
larly perceptive people have been kind enough to imply that I don't
look as though I could have graduated from college twenty-five
years ago. But my true friend and personal deflator, my wife, got
the 1936 Class Album out the other day and showed me myself
twenty-five years ago. In all honesty, I feel that old! At the rate
I am going, I hope I don’t feel any older at the Fiftieth Reunion
than the twenty-fivers looked in 1936. So what has happened to
me in the last twenty-five years?

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Physically, I have acquired the inevitable glasses of the far-
sighted; I have lost hair because it is short-cropped, not because
my head is bald. And like Archie Moore, IJ find it harder and harder
to get down to fighting weight. Family-wise, the Bakers consist of
ex-Ohioan and ex-nurse: my wife, known to one and all as Pinkey;
two sons— Chip, twelve years old and Doug, nine years old; and
a wonderful Labrador named Charles, after “Motor Charlie” Wil-
son, subsequent to his famed bird dog speech —all of whom live
in an old Cape Cod farmhouse built around 1790. Our nearest
neighbors are a quarter of a mile in either direction, and yet my
office and hospital are only five miles away. Boston is only two
and a half hours away, by car, over throughways.

Professionally, I am a general and thoracic surgeon. After gradua-
tion from the Medical School in 1942, I interned for one year at
the Massachusetts General Hospital. Three years later I resumed
my surgical training at the West Roxbury Veterans Hospital. The
intervening three years, medically, were wasted since I was an In-
fantry doctor with the Marine Corps in the Pacific. I managed to
pick up a sniper’s bullet wound in the leg, a Silver Star, a thorough
appreciation of the vastness of the Pacific Ocean and an abiding
hatred of camping. In 1950 I joined the Laconia Clinic as a surgeon
and am happily still here and plan to remain. I am sure by consider-
able luck I passed my Boards in Surgery in 1951. In 1956 I became
chief of surgery at the Laconia Hospital. My only kudos, of which
I am very proud, was election to the New England Surgical Society
two years ago. Gordy Scannell, in our Class, is secretary of the
society, incidentally.

My extra-professional career has been a potpourri. In the coun-
try, one finds that he may be expected to take part in civic affairs.
Coming from the city, this is something he rebels against because of
the do-gooding connotation, among other things. But he promptly
also learns that this is not necessarily so. Furthermore, it can be
fun. I am politically, on a national scale, a conservative, and con-
sequently shall continue to fight the socialization of our econ-
omy. I have also fought, unsuccessfully so far I must admit, for a
tax break for the self-employed via the Jenkins-Keough-type legis-
lation. But again, J shall continue to fight. Locally, where the situa-
tion is nonpartisan, I am a member of the Town Budget Committee
where I have had an opportunity to see how a town is really run.
Very educational, and I recommend it for anyone so interested.
More recently, I have been appointed a member of a five-man

[ 64 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Authority to run Belknap Mountain Area. This has been a real
challenge. For those of you who ski, we have now two T-Bars, a
chair lift and, last but not least, a two-year contract with Penny
Pitou of Olympic ski fame to run our ski school. By the time this
is published, her first season will be over, but try us out during
"61-62. And if you camp, we have a superb wooded area for this
with an outlet to Lake Winnepesaukee for swimming and boating.

As I look back over this autobiography, perhaps one reason why
I don’t feel twenty-five years older is that I haven't been in a rut.
Rural medicine is a little of everything: one day it may be a new-
born with a congenital anomaly, the next an elderly person with
blood vessel or intestinal obstruction, and there is the ever-present
accident. Rural living gives you a chance to live: skiing in the
winter with two young sons who wonder what held you up coming
down the slope; boating and swimming in the summer; hunting in
the fall. If any of you ever get up this way, don’t look for us in
what is laughingly called spring in New Hampshire. We are on
vacation somewhere in the Caribbean in all probability. But at any
other time, we would be more than delighted to see you.

WILLIAM PERRY BAKER

   

       

“e Seg . 4 : ss fe
? we cagg . . R eee
SS ee
1 be Rosca .

HOME apprEss: 107 Wellesley Ave., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Mahogany Gift Shop, 61 Central St., Wellesley, Mass.

BORN: July 10, 1914, Dedham, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(38).

MARRIED: Arline Racbeck, June 7, 1944, Biloxi, Miss. cHitpren: William Perry,
Jr., Sept. 20, 1945; Jonathan Wakefield, March 24, 1949; Betsy Smith,
March 3, 1952; Lucinda Stow, Feb. 24, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ross Wakefield Baker, Jr., °33; Robert Hardy Baker, °35.

[ 65 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
occuPaATION: Gift shop owner; orchid growing — general manager.
OFFICES HELD: President, Massachusetts Orchid Society, 1957; director, Wellesley

Board of Trade, 1957-58.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Orchid Society; American Orchid Society; Welles-

ley Country Club.
THE daily life of the Baker family is, I suppose, similar to that of
many other middle class American families. Our days are filled with
car pools, PTA meetings, Scout meetings, United Fund collections,
club and society meetings, etc. In short, our life is an almost con-

tinuous merry-go-round.
We have, however, found time for some of the more enjoyable

things in life. For about ten years we have been able to spend two
weeks each summer with friends at Squam Lake, New Hampshire,
and a week or ten days at Cape Cod. We have also made two winter
trips to Bermuda, two to Florida, one to Charlottesville, Virginia,
and, just this past spring, a month’s trip to Europe.

Our trip to Europe was in connection with the orchid business to
which I recently returned. We had the privilege of touring Europe
with the trustees of the American Orchid Society, a tour that was
climaxed by the Third World Orchid Conference in London. In
Europe, we were particularly impressed by the prosperity which
was apparent everywhere except in East Berlin which is still mostly
in ruins.

In addition to the orchid business, I own and operate two gift
shops, one in Wellesley and one in Cohasset. The gift business is a
fascinating challenge and often full of surprises. |

My hobbies are golf, poker and, just recently, curling. We have
season tickets for Harvard football games, and every other year we
go to New Haven for the Yale game. We are strong admirers of
John Yovicsin and hope that he will be at Harvard for many years
to come.

Upon reflection, the past twenty-five years have been good to
me. I have a lovely wife, four fine children, work that I enjoy, and
I’m sure that I don’t look as old as my dad at the time of his Twenty-
fifth. If the next twenty-five are as good, I’ll have no complaints.

[ 66 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BERNARD ROTHWELL BALDWIN

 

HOME appress: 15 Wykeham Rd., West Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.,; New Preparatory
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MarRIED: Marion R. McCarthy, Sept. 30, 1939, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
George R., Jan. 27, 1943; Jean R., Sept. 5, 1944; Virginia R., Sept. 10,

1950.
OCCUPATION: Insurance agent.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Brae Burn Country Club; Hatherly Coun-
try Club.

I, Bernard Rothwell Baldwin, have had a full life since leaving col-
lege. I started my business career by taking an insurance course
at the Employers Liability Company, Boston. They then gave me
experience by working in various departments for practical pur-
poses. Meanwhile, I started a little brokerage business. War came
and with it the regular routine of living was interrupted. I entered
naval service and saw action aboard a destroyer escort from New-
foundland to South America after having trained four months. I
was later shipped to New Guinea and was in on the invasion of
the Philippines. At this time I was an aide to Captain Gillette of the
Philippine Sea Frontier. Another Harvard fellow and I were the
only non-Annapolis on the staff. All in all I was gone three and a
half years; of that time, a year and a half was spent in the Pacific. I
returned from the war weighing 129 pounds as a result of several
bouts of malaria.

I returned to insurance and on the side started to rebuild my own
accounts. It was slow at first but gradually my own business de-
. manded more time and eventually I went on my own. I have made

[ 67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

bonding a part of my business with my own offices in downtown
Boston. In 1939 I married Marion Randall McCarthy and have a
son seventeen, and two daughters, sixteen and ten respectively. I
enjoy my family and we do many things together. My son is in
his final year at Deerfield Academy and my daughters are in convent
schools, one in Washington, D.C, and the youngest in Newton. _

My interests are varied politically and socially. I am a Democrat
but with an open mind as to issues and candidates. I was fairly active
in the Kennedy campaign in Boston. At the moment, I am presi-
dent of a golf club, vice-president of a large charitable organization,
and a former chairman of sports events for the Chamber of Com-
merce. A few years ago I was on the Port Authority of Boston. |
have run a few affairs and am now in the midst of our big insurance
dinner for the Governor next month. I have also been interested
in raising money for our church where I am chairman of special
contributions. I have participated in Red Cross and United Fund
campaigns.

On weekends I play golf and enjoy friendships and contacts. I
make frequent trips to New York and Chicago on business. My
wife and I have made trips to Florida, Arizona, the West Coast, and
Hawaii. I belong to the Brae Burn Country Club, the Hatherly
Country Club, Gridiron Club, and Harvard Club of Boston. I am
on the board of the Boys Guidance Center, Middlesex County Ju-

venile Board, Union Institution for Savings, and recently became a

Knight of Malta.

ARTHUR ATWOOD BALLANTINE, JR.

 

175 W. Park Ave., Durango, Colo.
ange Hfcrald, 1022 Main Ave., Durango, Colo,

[ 68 |

HOME ADDRESS:
orrice appREss: Dur

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Oct. 12, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1939.

marrieD: Morley Cowles Gale, July 26, 1947, Minneapolis, Minn. CHILDREN:
Richard Gale, Sept. 18, 1945 (adopted), Elizabeth, July 1, 1948, William
Gay, Oct. 22, 1949; Helen, Dec. 29, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Winthrop Ballantine, ’q2.

OccUPATION: Editor and publisher, Durango Herald.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Colorado Advisory Committee to Federal Commis-
sion on Civil Rights; member, Overseers Committee to Visit Harvard Col-
lege; director, First National Bank of Durango, Colorado Visitors Bureau;
trustee, Helen Thatcher White Foundation, president, Community Con-
cert Association, Durango.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Delta Chi; Sons of American Revolution, River Club of

New York City.
PUBLICATIONS: Editorials which have twice won the Ralph Crosman Memorial
trophy at the University of Colorado Newspaper Week.

MY family and I are leading a life in Durango, Colorado, which the
six of us enjoy thoroughly. Durango, a town of 10,000 in the Rocky
Mountains, serves as a trading center for five southwest Colorado
counties and is best known for its narrow gauge passenger train
running to Silverton and for nearby Mesa Verde National Park with
its Indian cliff dwellings.

Our newspaper, the Herald, with 4500 daily readers and 5500
Sunday readers, is small but presents most of the problems of much
bigger papers. We have an excellent staff determined to present
good local and national coverage for this five-county area. Our
Sunday newspaper serves neighboring Cortez as well as Durango.
My wife and I write most of the editorials and our boys have
already worked at odd jobs.

We have made many firm friends, including some very interesting
ones, during our nine years here. Since Colorado still has less than
two million people, there has been opportunity to take part in state
activities. My wife has served on legislative committees and state
commissions dealing with education, reapportionment, and anti-
discrimination. My most challenging job is serving as head of Colo-
rado’s advisory committee to the Federal Civil Rights Commission.

An interesting assignment was giving the commencement talk
last June at the Fountain Valley School in Colorado Springs, so
ably headed by our classmate, Lewis Perry, Jr. We make several
trips each year to the East where I have especially enjoyed a con-
tinuing association with Harvard. The meetings of the Overseers
Committee, headed until this year by David Rockefeller, 36, and of

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

which Arthur M. Sherwood, ’36, is now secretary, are always stimu-
lating. I served a three-vear term on the nominating committee for
Harvard offices. My father, Arthur A. Ballantine, ’o4, died in Octo-
ber, but since our elder son, Richard, is a freshman at Exeter this
year, there is still another reason for coming east.
" We like to travel. Our trips have included several weeks in
Egypt and the Middle East, a summer with the children in an apart-
ment in Rome where our elder daughter spent a year in school, and
last year a stay on the lovely Caribbean island of Antigua followed
by a tour of the north coast of South America and Central America.
“It took us some time to get to Durango. Before the war I was a
lawyer in New York, then with Nelson Rockefeller in Washington,
along with my good friend, George S. Franklin, ’36. During the
war I was a navy heutenant and skippered a sub chaser during the
Mediterranean campaigns. In 1946 I decided on newspapering, pos-
sibly as a result of my years as editor and president of the Crimson.
I joined the Minneapolis papers owned by John Cowles, ’21, now my
father-in-law. The next years included serving as a state house
reporter, as assistant to the publisher, meeting and marrying my
wife, Morley, and starting our family. We had six fine years in
Minneapolis and are grateful to Dr. Tague Chisholm, ’36, for saving
the life of our youngest, Helen, who unexpectedly turned out to
be an Rh baby when she was born one Saturday afternoon in 1951.
However, we finally decided we wanted a newspaper of our own,
toured the West, and found what we wanted in this handsome town
of Durango. We hope more of you will come to visit us as John P.
Austin, ’36, and his family, and Ernst Teves, ’36, and his French
bride did this last summer.

{70 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD MILNE BALLOU

  

HOME ADDRESS: 85 Keene St., Providence 6, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sioux City Air Base, Sioux City, Iowa.
BORN: Sept. 22, 1913, Woonsocket, R.I.

PREPARED. AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Bureau of Supply, U.S. Air Force.

WHEN I received that small picture of myself taken in 1936, the
other day, I realized that younger face had not then looked west
even across the Mississippi. Every morning now | open my front
door and face autumnal blasts off the Missouri River, fresh from
the Dakotas and Canada. Just a few years ago my favorite eye-
opener at dawn was gazing up at the graceful slopes of Mc. Fujiyama
— inspiration enough to last through the week of work, until it
came time for the further exploration of Tokyo, Saturday night.

My wartime travels only built up a momentum for more of the
same; the Air Force seems to have had me most of the time since we
all used to shuttle to Park Street Under in eight minutes. Worst
of all, my daily uniform in blue requires donning a “Yale” necktie
at least twenty times a month. But I have come to think affection-
ately of all the successive parades and military tours behind me —
Oklahoma City; Tidewater, Virginia; Suffolk, England; Woodbury
County, Iowa — and television-style, there is “more to come.” Back
and forth over our country, across Great Salt Lake again, another
walk in Chicago’s Loop, a peek at St. Louis from 20,000 feet up, an
additional passage under the Detroit River — this sort of thing ts
now a settled pleasant procedure,

The typical service job takes place in many countries. T make
a transfer and then sit down to the same duties at a new desk, per-

[71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

haps five thousand miles from the one so recently deserted. Wher-
ever the location my Air Force work in Supply has the same simi-
lar challenges and constant attempts to improve output and effi-
ciency that are the goals of industry in more fixed situations. There
is still a vast sea of military paperwork, but I think the shoreline
has been getting a little shorter in recent years. I am grateful that
my first and last names require signatures no longer than two syl-
lables each.

For all this ime away from home, I’m afraid I’ve missed visiting a
great number of world landmarks, famed centers, and resorts that
reguar patrons of Pan-American and the Cunard Line know inti-
mately. If put to the test, I suppose I can blow my nose fluently
in seven languages, but frankly I had hoped by this time I could
utter many more expressions not associated w ith English. Yet some-
how, I haven’t missed too much in the last fifteen years from Oxford
Circus to the Nishi Ginza. I have fallen off a horse in the Denver
Mountain Parks, and with many complications completed the pur-
chase of a Japanese lawn mower at the Mitsukoshi Department
Store Basement.

Kansas City, Missouri, has just been my home for three years.
I’ve watched it grow a little, but it’s the kind of place that is about
the night size now. Its skyline is lofty, its steak houses are new,
lavish, and altogether satisfying. The Athletics are not collecting
pennants, but one can always attend the Starlight Theatre after-
wards, or prop up one’s elbows on one of several piano bars and
listen to Gershwin.

When all this wandering comes to an end, I hope I'll apply the
brakes gently and come to a real stop with no more desire to be on
and off again. But I shall look down, and there will be part of my
last travel ticket left unpunched.

[72]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID HINCKLEY BANGS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Cary St., Nahant, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hutchins, Mixter & Parkinson, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston,
Mass. |

BORN: Jan. 23, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MARRIED: Elizabeth B. Eaton, Nov. 12, 1936, Fairhaven, Mass. CHILDREN: Anne
Outram, Feb. 4, 1938 (7. James H. Lowell, 2d, Harvard ’59, June 21,
1958); David Hinckley, Jr, June 9, 1940; Josiah Eaton, July 30, 1946.
GRANDCHILD: James H. Lowell, 3d, Feb. 2, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Outram Bangs, ’25.

OCCUPATION: Finance — brokerage — fishing.

OFFICES HELD: Registered representative, New York Stock Exchange, treasurer
and director, Northern Edge Fishing Company, Inc.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago seems not so very far away, although
I remember with awe my parents talking over events that happened
that long ago and thinking to myself, “My, they must be old.”
Somehow I feel no older. Even though my shape may be different
my weight is the same, and I still go to the barber's every three
weeks. My only concession to the advancing years is a pair of
glasses for reading purposes.

Life began twenty-five years ago when I married Miss Betty
Eaton. Then I began my career with Hutchins & Parkinson, as an
errand boy. Now three magnificent children and one magnificent
grandson later, I am back with Hutchins, Mixter & Parkinson, as a
registered representative. Does anyone wish to buy or sell stocks
or bonds? (adv.)

Not being content with merely one job, and not knowing a thing
about the fishing industry except that it has to do with the sea, I

[73]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

find myself treasurer of the Northern Edge Fishing Company, Inc.,
which is a scalloping operation. In order to get some idea what it
was all about, I shipped out as a crew member and to those of you
who believe that you have done hard phy sical labor in your day,
all I need say is, “Have you tried deep-sea scalloping?”

I emerged unscathed from the war years having been fired at
only twice. Once by the U.S. Army in Biak, and once by the U.S.
Navy in Hollandia. They missed.

After the war | gave up flying and put in ten years on the Boston
Stock Exchange as an odd-lot dealer, The stock exchange is a fas-
cinating business, but unlike Las Vegas, the house does not always
win, so | moved to my present position with the firm of Hutchins,
Minter & Parkinson in Boston.

My leisure time is spent raking leaves, mowing grass, taking down
screens and putting up storm windows. If there is any time left

over you can usually find me sailing my small Friendship sloop or
playing tennis.

HAROLD KARL BANKS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 533 VF W Pkwy., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Record-American-Sunday Advertiser, 5 Winthrop Sq.
Boston 6, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1915, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1936, 8.M, (Columbia
Univ.), 1941.

Marriep: Muriel Kirschbaum, May 31, 1942, Boston, Mass. cup: Linda Jane,
June 24, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Staff writer (for straight news, features and scrics).

orrices HELO: Currently, line officer, Germania Lodge, AF. & A.M.

Member or; Germania Lodge, AF. & A.M,”

Wri ; Trestle Club; American Federa-
tion of News Writers.

[74]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Contributor to newspaper supplements and a number of maga-
zines.

THIS is the kind of thing I don’t like to say about myself because

it sounds so smug, but it does look as if ’'m pretty much of a wun-

derkind. I didn’t begin to regard myself that way until I noticed

that every time I’m asked where I went to college, folks blurt: “You

~ went to Harvard?”

The wonder in their voices is a little embarrassing, y’know? An-
other thing I notice —a lot of these blurters send their sons to Yale.
That’s one of the places I’m definitely not going to cover in the
long series I’m writing now for the Boston Sunday Advertiser on
New England colleges and their presidents. In the first place, I
don’t like the winning brand of football Yale plays and, in the
second place, nobody reads the Advertiser in New Haven. We
don’t send them there.

YT could have got to the Record-American-Sunday Advertiser
on the subway for a dime, back in 1936. But I had a little time to
kill (it’s always assassinated little by little), so I dillied for a while
at the Law School and dallied a bit at the Graduate School. Then
I took the scenic route — Hollywood, Framingham (Massachusetts),
New York, Baltimore, England, France.

In Hollywood I was a doctor. Every hour on the hour, I took
the temperature of the film being processed by Technicolor, until
my patience died.

In Framingham I was a textile tycoon — that should be tycoolie.
I paced back and forth spreading lengths of cloth on a table that
was only fifteen: yards long at 8 a.m., but had a way of growing
a mile long by 5 p.m. Six months later I gave it all up. It was
nauseating, anyway.

The next stop was New York and the Columbia Graduate School
of Journalism, where Walter Pitkin assured me I had not begun to
live yet because, as he saw it, “Life Begins at Forty.” That meant I
had almost fifteen years more to gestate.

I spent the first two of them writing training film scenarios, at
what was then the War Department’s automotive section in Camp
Holabird, Baltimore, and in the labyrinths of the Minotaur at the
Pentagon. I took the wrong exit one day and wound up in a New
York induction center. I didn’t get there on a straight line either.
First, I constructed carefully mortared prose for the New York
Times News Review of the Week section and concected saccharine
scenarios for a movie outfit.

t

[75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ALBERT KONSTANT BARCE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 419 Pine St., Middletown, Conn.

OFFICE abpREss: Emhart Manufacturing Co., Portland Division, Portland, Conn,

porN: April 27, 1914, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936.

markiED: Doris Emma Ingham, June 11, 1938, Brockton, Mass. cHILDREN: Susan
Carol, March 28, 1943; Sherry Elizabeth, Feb. 8, 1946.

occuPATION: Manager of production control, Portland (Conn.) Division, Em-
hart Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: House committee chairman, Middletown Yacht Club, 1944-45;
local industrial chairman, Heart Fund, 1946; president, Middletown Lions
Club, 1952-53; trustee, Middletown Yacht Club, 1947-48, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club; Washington Chapter No. 6, R.A.M.; Middletown
Yacht Club; St. John’s Lodge No. 2, AF. & A.M.; Sphinx Temple,
A.A.O.N.M.S. of Hartford, Conn., Cyrene Commandery No. 8, K.T.;

Harvard Club of Connecticut, American Orchid Society; Sphinx Caravan
Shrine Club.

HAVING taken a premed course at Harvard and then not attending
medical school, I had an education that did not prepare me for
business or industry, a path that I was destined to tread. Strange
to say, my A.B. degree from Harvard served me in good stead.
The Cudahy Packing Company, looking for a top-notch college
graduate, I guess, hired me as a truck driver. Since the job paid
more than W.P.A., it was not to be belittled. Because of my Har-
vard background, I was success. Why not? I was the only Cudahy
truck driver in the nation with a Harvard degree. This excellent
company, and I mean this, several months later was putting me
through a home study course given by the American Institute of
Meat Packing. In one ycar I became a salesman and shortly after-

[78]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ward the manager of their whole beef, lamb and veal operation at
the Brockton branch.

My employment with Cudahy terminated in 1941. I resigned my
position with regret to take a job with the Standard-Knapp Cor-
poration, with which organization I seemed to see a much brighter
future. Although small, this company had the field of automatic
packing machinery practically to itself at that time. Besides, the
father of my wife was one of the owners. My wife, nee Doris
Ingham, and I moved to Middletown, Connecticut, in June of 1941,
and I assumed my new duties. Now, I found again that I had no
educational background except physics in machine manufacturing.
Thanks to I.C.S., I was able to take a course in mechanical engi-
neering. By 1947, I had worked my way up to production mana-
ger. Embhart, then Hartford Empire, the foremost glass-making
machinery company in the world, bought out Standard-Knapp.
Having successfully run the gamut of reorganization, I found
myself as manager of production control at the Portland Division
of Emhart Manufacturing Company. This position I hold today.
My specific duties are administrative and executive in my depart-
ment. It involves production planning and scheduling the machine
shop and assembly floor, dispatching, expediting, and inventory
contro]. The work is exciting, challenging and rewarding. The
concept of plastic containers in the food, drug, cosmetic and soap
industries has had a very stimulating effect in our business. Continu-
ous change in product container design is most challenging since
we must develop the machinery for handling the container be it
glass, bag, cans, fiber board package, or plastic. The days go by
fast. To me it is incredible that we were graduated twenty-five
years ago.

The blurps in “offices held” and “member of” pretty well outline
my extracurricular activities. I am a golfing enthusiast and an avid
power boatman. Boating being an expensive proposition, I do not
own a cruiser yet. Later maybe. I derive a great deal of pleasure
from my orchids and tending to the grounds around our house. I
am the proud owner of a Thunderbird 1960. My wife drives a
Lincoln, so you can see where the money goes. My family physi-
cian is a Yale man. Harvard introduced me to the world; Yale
keeps me in it. Now that I have started on this autobiography I
could go on and on like Joachin Miller, but I won't, Pll tell you

the rest about me and my wife and our two lovely daughters when I
see you at Harvard for our 25th.

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT RANKIN BARKER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 293 Oenoke Ridge, New Canaan, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 630 Fifth Ave, New York 20, N.Y.
BoRN: July 12, 1915, Brookline, Mass.
PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Germantown, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1936.
marRIED: Elizabeth Van Dyke Shelly, March 7, 1942, Philadelphia, Pa. cum-
DREN: James Robertson, July 12, 1943; Ann Shelly, Nov. 12, 1945; William
Benjamin, June 2, 1947; Margaret Welch, March 18, 1951.
occupation: General partner, William A. M. Burden & Company, private
investment company.
OFFICES HELD: Special assistant to U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for
Air, 1942-43; Junior officer, U.S. Naval Reserve, 1943-46; associate, 1949-
54, general partner, since 1954, William A. M. Burden & Company; direc-
tor, Kelowna Mines Hedley Limited, 1950-58, Nakina Developments
Ltd., since 1957; vice-president and director, Austral Oil Company, Inc.,
since 1951; councilor, American Geographical Society, since 1952; trustee,
New Canaan Country School, since 1959, Silvermine Guild of Artists,
since 1960; alternate director, Laminadora Nacional, S.A., since 1960.
MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations, American Geographical Society;
New York Society of Security Analysts, Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of
New York; The Country Club of New Canaan; Woodway Gun Club;
University Club, The Lunch Club, and The Brook (all New York City).
PuBLications: “U.S. International Balance of Payments,” Financial Analysts

Journal, May-June, 1960.
PERHAPS I should start with the joint resolution Bill Read and I
made in the spring of 1936 that neither of us would ever settle down
into the suburban commuting rut and that violation of this resolution
by either would be cause for a swift kick from the other. The pen-
alty will no doubt be forthcoming for me next June, for a strong
interest in banking brought me to New York after graduation and
the arrival of four children planted us firmly in southern Connecti-

[ 80 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cut after World War II. These and a growing conviction that
a more stimulating life would be hard to find have combined to
keep us in the rut ever since.

The specifics are relatively simple. From 1936 to 1949, except for
the war years, | worked in the statistical and investment depart-
ments of J. P. Morgan & Company. In 1949 I joined the new pri-
vate investment firm of William A. M. Burden & Company, also in
New York, where I continue as a general partner. Here we invest
funds of the partnership and of a small group of people associated
with us in new ventures, in common stocks already publicly traded,
and in oil and gas exploration across the southern United States.
The business of picking a future winner — and perhaps helping to
make it one — has proved fascinating and, with favorable economic
conditions in recent years, the results appear to have justified the
fun, at least so far.

There has also been an occasional hop out of the rut. During
World War II, it was the Navy, first in the Aviation Training Divi-
sion in Washington and then in the Pacific on an aircraft carrier.
There were glimpses of Hong Kong, Japan, and the Philippines
after the fighting ended. In 1947 came a five-week trip to South
Africa to study the gold-mining industry and report to the presi-
dent of Kennecott Copper Corporation. In the early fifties, there
were extended trips to the oil and gas country of western Canada.
More recently have come several family excursions to Europe and
a return on business to Latin America, where I grew up as a child,
this time to Mexico.

There have also been extracurricular activities. An early interest
in geography resulted in my becoming a councilor of the American
Geographical Society, the center of professional geographical ac-
tivities in this country. Four children led to a trusteeship of the
New Canaan Country School and exposure to such problems as
financing a new building and how to teach mathematics. Thanks
to the accomplished artist who is my wife, I have also had a hand in
the affairs of the Silvermine Guild of Artists, an association of four
hundred local artists which is rapidly becoming the art center and
art school for southwestern Connecticut. A large farmhouse on the
spine of central Vermont, four miles from the nearest telephone,
provides trout fishing in spring, mountain air in summer, grouse-
shooting in the fall and excellent skiing in the winter. Finally, a
tour of duty on the Admissions Committce (currently as chairman)
of the Harvard Club of New York has brought me back into some-

[8r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

what closer touch with that splendid institution on the banks of the
Charles.

This last development was timely because my first-born is cur-
rently negotiating his last year at Andover, and I have some hope
that both he and Fred Glimp in Cambridge will arrive at what
seers to me an obvious decision. Other junior members of the
family include a young lady recently launched at Milton, a strapping
youth whose primary interest is filling the house with ham-radio
equipment, and a super-charged youngster trying to decide whether
to be a ballerina or a horse breeder.

As for Harvard in twenty-five-year retrospect, it ranks higher
than ever as one of my great experiences, for all the usual reasons.
Good as it was, however, the prospect today seems to me even more
exciting, and I have to confess to a twinge of envy as I contemplate

the “goodies” that lie ahead for the fortunate young men of the
next generation.

CECIL BARNES, JR.

 

HOME appREss: $76 Southampton Drive, Palo Alto, Calif,

OFFICE apprEss: Stanford Research Institute, Menlo Park, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1912, Winnetka, IL,

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1932-1937. DEGREE: S.B,, 1936(37).

marriep: Loretta Melanie VanRie, Dec. 27, 1941, Mishawaka, Ind. CHILDREN:
Cecil, qth, July 18, 19473; Melanie VanRie, Dec. 19, 1949, Margaret Ayer,
June 15, 1952.

occupation: Research engineer, Stanford Research Institute, research and de-
velopment.

memaer oF: Research Engineering Society of America, Palo Alto Yacht Club;
Foothills Tennis Club.

[82]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I SPENT most of World War II as a naval officer on the tenth deck
of the Insurance Exchange Building in Chicago, followed by a
couple of months on Guam in the Pacific. After leaving the Navy
I worked for some years for United Air Lines as a radio engineer,
first in Chicago and later in San Francisco. From there I migrated
to Stanford Research Institute where I have been for the last ten
years, having just recently weathered that corporate milestone that
so many must undergo, the awarding of the “ten-year pin.” T am
project leader on projects involving radio and electronics.

My hobbies: racing a small sailboat with one or more of my
children every other Sunday and skiing when I can.

MELVIN LESLIE BARNET

 

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Remsen St. Brooklyn 1, N.Y.; Loveladies Harbor, Harvey
Cedars, N.J.

BORN: Nov. §, 1914, Yonkers, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, Bronx, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. “magna cum laude, 1936.

marrieD: Hilda Gilbert, Oct. 8, 1938, Rockville Center, N.Y. (died Aug. 31,
1960).

occupation: Medical writer; formerly newspaperman.

| 83 |

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PHILIP BARRY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 620 Whispering Lane, Lake Barcroft, Falls Church, Va.

oFFice AppREss: Air Transport Association of America, 1000 Connecticut Ave.,
N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1912, Winthrop, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriep: Mildred Virginia Conley, May 26, 1948, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Philip, Jr., Jan. 27, 1950; Mark Garrigan, June 2, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Reardon Barry, ’27, Mp. °31; Joseph Aloysius Barry,
"32.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to vice-president, Personnel Relations, Air Transport
Association of America.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Military Intelligence Association of New England,
Washington (D.C.), Counter Intelligence Corps Association, past com-
mander, Lieutenant Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. Post 5880, VF W, Boston.

MEMBER OF: U.S. National Defense Executive Reserve (Manpower); National
Aeronautic Association, Aero Club of Washington; Washington Trade
Association Executives Club; Browne and Nichols Alumni Association;
Harvard College Alumni Adviser — Labor Relations, Personnel and Trans-
portation, Harvard Club of Washington; Lieutenant Joseph P, Kennedy,
Jr. Post 5880, VFW, Boston; Military Intelligence Association of New
England, Washington Counter Intelligence Corps Association.

ONCE upon a time there was a little man who graduated from
Harvard in that distant year of 1936. He was crammed with knowl-
edge and was aware of the fact that everything was going to be tip-
top in the economic world when he started to work. Well, the top
was tipped but he was fortunate to be employed by that interna-
tionally famous soap and you-name-it-we-make-it organization,
Lever Brothers Company, then having its headquarters at 50 Me-
morial Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts. The best part about the
location was that he could watch the Harvard crews paddling up and

[ 84 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

down the Charles River. He more than enjoyed his work there,
namely, marketing research. His basic business training at Lever
House was something that he has always appreciated.

Late 1940 bugled a tune that tickled his feet for a tour of five
years in the U.S. Army. He served in the Counter Intelligence
Corps with which he spent enlightening years in Europe. Except
for miserable days in the Ardennes Forest, Germany, and Czecho-
slovakia, his: complaints were quite normal. He was assigned to
XXII Corps Headquarters and to prove to the world that he was the
best corpsman in the ETO, he froze his helmet off in the Ardennes
and surrounding areas. But finally he came back home in late 1945,
in time to enjoy Christmas with his family and friends in Boston.

Returning to Lever Brothers Company, he decided that he wanted
a more challenging career. After a period as advertising manager
of a newspaper, he was fortunate to affiliate with Northeast Air-
lines, Logan International Airport, East Boston, Massachusetts.
There he became director of personnel and had the wild experience
of negotiating labor contracts. He claims that if you have never
sat at a bargaining table opposite representatives of air carrier flight
and ground personnel, then you have not lived (and debated). In
any case, he had his lighter moments because every time new stew-
ardesses were ready to go on the line, it was his duty to pin the
wings on their jackets and he never miscalculated the length of the
pin once. Working in the airline industry afforded him an entirely
different outlook than he obtained in the soap business. Labor rela-
tions made him realize how people are put together.

In 1950, when the beaches along the Atlantic Coast were most
appealing to the weary businessman, he was invited to join the Air-
lines Personnel Relations Conference as assistant executive director
in hot and humid Washington, D.C. This was an airline industry
association which concerned itself with labor relations and person-
nel matters for the air carriers. In 1957 the above organization
affiliated with the Air Transport Association of America in Wash-
ington and he became assistant to the vice-president, personnel re-
lations. He found that work in an industry association is varied and
wide in scope. Since the Air Transport Association is known the
world around, this hombre became familiar with airlines’ problems
throughout the many lands and won many friends here and over the
far-stretched waters.

While business responsibilities have kept him busy throughout the
years, he has been extremely active in organizations of numerous

[85]

me

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

tvpes — alumni, business, church, civic, military and political. He
has a wonderful wife and two glorious sons — all of whom make
life most attractive for him. He spends most of his spare time put-
tering around his property in colorful Lake Barcroft, located in
Falls Church, Virginia, Whatever time is left after all the above is
completed, he devotes to arguing about politics as conducted in the
Commonwealth of Virginia. He has really had a happy life.

Now, who is this ‘he’ about whom this report has been written?
As sure as the years are on your back, he is none other than your
old classmate, Phil Barry. At this point Phil shouts: “Hello to every-
one and it is wonderful being with you at our Twenty-fifth!”

NELSON SLATER BARTLETT, JR.

 

HOME appress: Claybrook Road, Dover, Mass.; P.O. Box 176, Wellesley 81,
Mass. (mailing).

OFFICE appress: State Street Bank & Trust Co., P.O. Box 351, Boston 1, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1914, Beverly Farms, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Bartlett, '43.

occupation; Banking; vice-president, Trust Department.

orrices HELD: President, Hospital and Convalescent Home for Children, Bos-
ton; treasurer, Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruclty to
Children, Massachusetts Committee on Children and Youth, Massachusetts
Fund for Children and Youth, Inc.; member executive committee, Chil-

dren’s Hospital Medical Center, Boston, board member, Infants’ Hospital
Boston.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Tennis and Racquet Club, Dedham Country and
Polo Club; Wardroom Club; American Institute of Banking.

IT is difficult to realize that twenty-five years have passed since

[ 86 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

we returned our rented caps and gowns to the Coop in 1936. For
some reason the war seems to me to be equally long ago. What
have I done during this period that would be of interest to other
members of 1936? The obvious answer is nothing and the most
generous thing I could do would be to stop here, but on I go.

I have been a very consistent character during these years, having
remained unmarried and with the same bank I went to work for
in June, 1936, even though it has changed its name twice since I
went to work there. Early in 1960 I was made a vice-president and
am pleased to say that I really enjoy my work in the trust depart-
ment. |

My extra-curricular activities include membership on various
charitable boards all having to do with children. Our psychiatrist
classmates will say that this is a defense mechanism engaged in be-
cause I have never married. Whether this is true or not is of little
concern to me. I have learned a great deal and hope that once or
twice I have contributed a little myself to these organizations. A
more logical activity that I have engaged in has been serving on
the governing board at one time or another of each of the social
clubs of which I am now a member. I have also done perhaps more
than my share of money-raising for the Republican party, Red
Feather, prep school, Harvard and various miscellaneous enter-
prises. I was chairman of the Advance Gifts Division of the Greater
Boston Red Feather Campaign for 1955.

My war record was uninteresting. The first three years or so
of my navy duty. were spent on shore and for two years I was
stationed in East Boston, living at home. For a considerable period
of time I was executive officer of the Anti-Submarine Warfare
Training Unit in East Boston. Eventually, upon becoming a lieu-
tenant commander, I became a group commander in the Amphibious
Force and took a number of small ships as a Task Unit Commander
from Chesapeake Bay to Japan, after the war was over. Actually,
I wouldn’t have missed this period of military service for anything
and consider it to have been a vital part of my education.

I am reasonably religious and firmly but perhaps unimaginatively
Republican. The world has become increasingly confused and com-
plex in the last twenty-five years and other than wearing a uniform
for over four years and perhaps my efforts for the children’s agen-
cies I have done little to try to make it a better r place. .

My literary efforts add up to nothing other than routine writings
having to do with business and extra-curricular activities, [de

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

take pride in having developed by accident the perfect closing to a
business letter. Upon rereading the carbon of a letter I had mailed
out a few years back I found that J had said, “If you have any further
questions please do not hesitate to answer them.” The U.S. Patent
Office has been uncooperative in my attempts to preclude the use
of this treatment by others,

My vacations are usually spent cruising here and there. I have
covered the waters from Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, to the
Virgin Islands. I can still get around the golf course and two or
three times a year play in handicap tournaments involving thirty-
six holes a day, usually with depressing results. Occasional tennis,
watching football games in the Stadium and on television and mis-
cellaneous activities take up my spare time.

1 enjoyed very much serving as chairman of our Twentieth Re-
union and now as the chairman of the Twenty-fifth am looking for-
ward to lots of fun in June of 1961, and hope that 1936 won't let
me down by staying away. It is said that if the general chairman
enjoys himself, the Reunion is bound to be a success. So far the
job has been a most pleasant one because of the wonderful coopera~

tion of those classmates and their wives who have been asked to
help.

JOHN HONE BARTOL

 

HOME appress: 63 Rockwood Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

orrice appress: American Trucklease, Inc., 65 State St, Ext, Bridgeport 5,
Conn.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1953, New York, N-Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, NH,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: Aw, 1936,

[ 88]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

maRRIED: Mary W. Coe, June 13, 1936, Worcester, Mass. cHitpren: John
Hone, Jr., Nov. 24, 1937; Peter Wakefield, July 1, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry George Bartol, Jr., ’31.

occUPATION: President, American Trucklease, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Trucklease, Inc., since 1954, National Truck
Leasing System, since 1959, Car & Truck Leasing Association, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Greenwich Country Club; Indian Harbor Yacht Club (Green-
wich, Conn.), Racquet and Tennis Club, New York City, University Club

(Bridgeport, Conn.).

DURING the past twenty-five years I have had far more good for-
tune than most, enjoying the following: a happy marriage which
started two days before Commencement in 1936 and which has
produced two non-delinquent sons; twelve delightful but impecuni-
ous years with American Airlines; six interesting years traveling the
United States as sales vice-president of a small manufacturer. In
1954, after taking a number of very deep breaths and grabbing a
couple of bulls by all available horns, I started a new company in
Bridgeport, Connecticut — American Trucklease, Inc. The road
has sometimes been rocky, but always stimulating and at least 99.44%
happy and rewarding. We have grown during the past six years
and have accumulated along the way a branch in Stamford, Con-
necticut, a couple of hundred trucks ranging in size from small
panels to over-the-road tractor-trailer units, plus quite a few gray
hairs.

Extra-curricular activities include the obligation of polishing nu-
merous trophies won by my golf champion wife; the pleasure of
cruising Long Island Sound in an auxiliary sloop; burning the mid-
night oil in committee meetings of Greenwich Representative Town
Meeting, Town Building Committee, etc. As long as I keep able to

stay successfully out of various jails, hospitals, etc., life continues
to be a bowl of cherries.

[ 89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

EDWARD LEWIS BASSETT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1402 E. 57th St., Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE apprEss: University of Chicago, Chicago 37, Ill.

BorN: Sept. 1, 1914, Marblehead, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN QOLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB. sumena cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1938;

PH.D, 1942.

occupation: Associate professor of Latin, University of Chicago.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and reviews, mainly in classical journals.

HOWELL ANDREW BATES

 

ME Apbress: Chickering Farm, Haren Street, Dover, Mass.

ICE ApprEss: Contract Furnishings Corp, 2330 Washington St, Newton
Lower Falls, Mass.

N: Sept. 3, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

RS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREE: A.B. (Amherst Coll.), 1937.

riep: Harriette M. Gross, March 6, 1943, Cambridge, Ohio. citoReN:
Christopher French, Aug. 22, 1944; Frederick Brainard, Oct. 10, 1946.

[99 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Contract furniture.
MEMBER OF: Boston Yacht Club; Menauhant Yacht Club; Wardroom Club.

FOR those who have been waiting with bated breath since our last
Report for the continuation of the fascinating serial, “Life and Hard
Times of Howie Bates,” I take up where we so reluctantly left off.

You will recall that previous installments had carried us through

the harried years of gaining a foothold in the greeting card dodge,
a four-year stint in the Navy, ensign to lieutenant commander, and
thence back to greeting cards, with side trips to matrimony (Ohio)
and fatherhood (Massachusetts). Having defeated the greeting
card industry, or vice versa, I set out two years ago to confuse the
furnishings field and am currently engaged therein. My particular
interest has been in contract work, which means the design and
furnishing of offices, schools, hotels and the like (Advertisement.)
This is and has been an interesting and challenging endeavor but
there are aspects of it which have made me want to get a little
nearer to the source of the material we handle. I am therefore at
present negotiating to effect this, and I suspect that the business
address above will not be valid much longer.
' Civic affairs in my family are largely attended to by the lovely
gal who has answered to the name of “wife” all these years. Through
her activities in the League, she has become intensely interested in
politics in general and the improvement of Massachusetts govern-
ment in particular. The present movement finds her on the local
Republican Committee, and about to step, we hope, into larger
activities in the state organization. I do my stint for society via a
chairmanship of the house committee of the Dover Church, by
acting as treasurer of the Menauhant Yacht Club, and a membership
in the Wardroom Club, an organization of active and retired naval
officers.

My consuming hobby continues to be yachting, and my current
craft is a 33-foot express cruiser, which we bought three years ago
and hope some day to be able to afford. She hails from Falmouth
and is to be seen with my merry crew aboard most any time in
Cape waters from May to November. Her name is Afakai II and
any or all of ’36 who happen to run afoul of us are most cordially
invited aboard.

About life, I have reached few conclusions except, perhaps, this:
it’s not unlike that sine qua non, the modern car, which seems to

epitomize it — expensive, slips along like crazy, and is complicated
as all hell.

[or]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WALTER SPRAGUE BATTY

 

HOME appreEss: 403 Gilpin Rd., Penn Valley, Narberth, Pa
OFFICE ADDRESS: 6600 Essington Ave., Philadelphia 42, Pa,

BorN: Nov. 26, 1914, Hopedale, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Hopedale High School, Hopedale, Mass

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: $.B. (Bowdoin Coll.), 1937

MARRIED: Sally Reid, May 13, 1942, Ardmore, Pa. cHitpreN: Walter Sprague

Jr., Feb. 10, 1945; Sudie Reid, May 26, 1948.
occupation: District sales manager, Diamond T Motor Truck Company, Chi-

cago; president, Diamond T Triangle Truck Sales & Service Company,

Philadelphia.
OFFICES HELD: President, Main Line Aquatic Club, Ardmore, Pa., since 1960

PHILIP ROBERTSON BAUER

 

IME ADDRESS; Center St., Dover, Mass.
Fice appress: H, A, Johnson Co., 155 N. Beacon St. Brighton, Mass.

mn; Aug. 19, 1914, West Roxbury, Mass.
paren aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass
RS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.Bsy 1936(37)

[ 92 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
mareieD: Nita Marjory Clarke, July 5, 1941. campren: Frederick Clarke,

May 20, 1942; Judith Ann, Sept. 19, 1945.
occuPATION: Purchasing agent and manager, equipment department.

HOME and family: Nita and I have always enjoyed the country
atmosphere, so perhaps it is natural to end up with a small place in
a country town. We like horses in particular and animals in gen-
eral, with the result that we have four or five thoroughbred horses,
a couple of dogs, a couple of cats, a few hens and ducks, and one
pigeon who adopted us. The children have joined in the fun, and
it has given us all a good outdoor life. There is never a time when
there is not some project to complete, something to do.

The years have flown by pleasantly but, as usual, changes are
taking place. Judy is of high school age; Fred has gone to the U.S.
Air Force Academy in Colorado; I do not pound nails, dig holes or
shovel snow as vigorously as before. It is disgusting to note that
age is catching up with spirit. However, it has always been fun
and the spirit remains.

Business: After graduation, I started out in the food industry and
have been with it ever since. Worked through manufacturing to
sales and sales promotion, and latterly to purchasing and merchandis-
ing. Have been with the same concern from the beginning except
for a brief divergence as sales manager for a food broker from 1954
to 1957. Then it was back to the original concern as buyer and
manager of the equipment department, and as a member of the
partnership group.

Military: The original intention in 1941 was to complete the year
of military obligation, but that idea was changed for me into a
five-year plan. The initial phase as an infantry private in basic
training was a bit startling for a few days. As with anything else,
when you play the game, it all turns out pretty well. Went into
combat with the 35th Infantry Division in France as an Infantry
captain, going only as far as Saint L6. Awarded the Bronze Star
with Oak Leaf Cluster, the Purple Heart with Oak Leaf Cluster
and the Combat Infantry Badge.

Have stayed continuously in the reserve component, as S-2 (In-
telligence) 3o1st Infantry, to Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, of the
94th Infantry Division, then to a five-year reserve course in Com-
mand and General Staff studies, and at present on the staff of the
MXX Corps Headquarters in Boston as lieutenant colonel. Twenty
years complete in 1961!

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD FITZGERALD BAUM

 

HOME AbDpREsS: 100 Water St. Stonington, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Water St., Stonington, Conn.

BORN: June 17, 1913, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1936(38); A.M. (Univ. of Chicago),
1938.

MARRIED: Mary Wallace, June 10, 1939, Waterbury, Conn. (divorced 1953);
Lucy Geiger, November, 1958, New Haven, Conn. cHILDREN: James
Fitzgerald, Sept. 9, 1940 (died September, 1960); Louise Andrews, March
27, 1942; Mitchell W., August, 1948.

OccUPATION: Capitalist. .

OFFICES HELD: Director, Wedron Silica Company, Chicago, since 1946, Chicago
Brick Company, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Slocum Society Sailing Club; Wilderness Society, National Parks
Association; Stonington Village Improvement Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Stories, articles in various magazines,

AFTER graduation I took a Master's degree in English at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, married, and went to work in a Chicago business
owned by my family. I was the father of a son, sales manager of a
brick company, and a commuter with Mac Millard when Mac
dropped over one Sunday morning to say that what had seemed
likely to us in our talks on the train had actually happened — Pearl
Harbor.

I joined the Army, went to non-com school, then OCS at Fort
Benning, and eventually served in France and Germany as S-2 of
the First Battalion, 232d Infantry. We had a good outfit. The ex-
perience remains the most vivid and nearly the most prized of my
life. Not that I want to repeat it. On my return to civilian life,
my marriage started downhill and finally ended in divorce.

At college, Bernard DeVoto spoke kindly of my possibilities as a

[ 94 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

writer, and since the war I’ve been trying to vindicate his judg-
ment — and my own. My stories have appeared 1 in first-rate maga-
zines, but not often. In addition, I’m active in a family business of
which I am a director. Since that business provides my living, I
list myself as a capitalist, though the word sounds a bit odd to me.

Not long after leaving the Army, I settled in eastern Connecticut
and bought a thirty-five-foot sailboat. In her I cruise as widely as
conscience allows. Five years ago I blew into the Virgin Islands
from Bermuda on Christmas morning and found that Santa Claus
had placed one Lucy Geiger of New Haven on the pierhead. Two
years ago Lucy and I were married. This June she proved her
courage again by sailing down to the Virgin Islands with me. At
the moment, I’m making a book out of various pieces I’ve pub-
lished about gales, calms, and new horizons.

Socially and politically, 1 find most of the company out of step.
Progress seems to be the tune they march to, leftists and industrial-
ists alike, and in my view progress has insulated millions from the
earth from which we sprang, has crushed out much regional variety,
and is narrowing the area in which freedom has much meaning.
Though differing on how to get there, America and Russia both
seem headed toward a hive-like civilization — you’ve seen drawings
of the big layered steel and concrete hives projected for the future
—in which variety and joy will be as rare as anything wild or
natural. It has been predicted that we'll enclose ourselves i in glass
domes to keep out the weather. More likely, perhaps, the domes
will be of lead to keep out radioactivity. To avert such an all too
possible nightmare, I think we'll have to stop the population explo-
sion and work out a better goal than progress. We've at least
become aware of the first job. As for the second, all religions
worthy of the name have since time immemorial set up better goals
than progress, and for two or three generations poets, storytellers,
philosophers — lately even scientists — have been working toward,
not necessarily any traditional creed, but a religious attitude toward
life. This gradual revolution in mental attitude seems to me the
most promising thing in the world today. It should keep human
beings human and the future interesting. I try to put my tiny
strength behind it.

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANK AUGUSTUS BAUTZE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 265 Concord Rd., Sudbury, Mass. .

BoRN: Jan. 19, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. U7 laude, 1936; M.D., 1942.

marriep: Selma Lydia Dirlam, Oct. 20, 1942, Newton Highlands, Mass. cuit-
pren: Francis Jeffrey, Oct. 9, 1944; Suzanne Elizabeth, May 3, 1947;
Martha Louise, Sept. 27, 1948; Richard Eric, Nov. 24, 1949; Fredric
Alexander, Jan. 27, 1960.

occupaTION: Physician; roentgenologist.

OFFICES HELD: Physician, Massachusetts Division of Occupational Medicine,
1944; US. Navy, 1944-46; internship, Baltimore, Md., 1943-44; member,
medical staffs of hospitals in Baldwinville, Gardner and Winchendon,
Mass, 1946-52; instructor, Nurses Training School; Tumor Diagnostic
Clinic, school physician, Templeton Union; physician, National Guard;
member, Sudbury Board of Health; X-ray residencies, Veterans Admin-
istration Hospitals and Lahey Clinic, 1951-54; roentgenologist, Union
Hospital, Fall River, Mass. member, Medical Executive Committee and
Radiation Safety Committee, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Noworco Health Association; Worcester Tuberculosis Associa-
tion; Massachusetts Medical Society, American Medical Association; Ki-
wanis International.

WE doctors may seem destined to live a life apart in spite of nor-
malcy and a fair range of interests, for patients expect gravity and a
concern for their myriad problems, I’m reminded of The Doctor
Has Three Faces and have long suspected that most mature adults,
i.e., semi-conventional and reasonably successful, comprise a num-
ber of different personalities. Perhaps the professional image will
disappear when an all-powerful and supposedly understanding bu-
reaucracy has carefully partitioned medical complexities and prac-
titioners so that we shall no longer be human physicians but dull,
well-regulated personnel.

[ 96 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We may have looked upon college largely as a premedical course
of study and are, therefore, surprised and delighted with news of
our classmates’ accomplishments — often dramatic. Meeting Har-
vard men or reading of their appointments and other successes al-
ways provides the warm personal pleasure of kinship. Finding for-
mer instructors Tishler and Barnes in key industrial spots — one
with an important pharmaceutical concern and the other at MMM
Company — is a recent example pointing up the high caliber of
Harvard teaching and taking me back a moment to the laboratories
in Mallinckrodt. Medicine has its routine, its politics, its competi-
tion, and provides its overpowering conservatism; but it also offers
challenge, variety, and excitement.

The current years happily oblige us to “guide” our teen-agers
and lose ourselves in the next generation. My four, aged eleven to
sixteen, are doing well and maturing at a faster clip than their slug-
gish parents. They are sports enthusiasts, platter-spinners, collec-
tors and status-seekers, and we’re proud to see them bring home
good grades as well. My fifth, dubbed Fredric Alexander, aged ten
months, is of course a fabulous child, we’re trying to arrange an
appointment with the local school guidance department. Selma tells
me that her Swedish maternal grandmother was fruitful in her fifties,
so the prospect of further progeny, though frightening, is not un-
likely. Exactly how the first batch grew up is a little fuzzy and
woven into memories of my rich experiences as a country doctor in
“northern Massachusetts near the Monadnock region.

Property includes two houses, three automobiles, and a small island
in McGregor Bay, Lake Huron, Ontario. Money savings from paint-
ing our Sudbury house red and black this fall should trickle into the
several Harvard Funds, and I’m now pondering how I might better
distribute future earnings than help feed a more voracious govern-
ment. In this vein, I must note that I’m optimistic the country will
survive another four years and am also pretty much convinced that
the long-term trend continues gently but steadily to the left, to an
even more homogeneous society in a smaller world.

Like many others, if bread-and-butter work had not taken so
much of my time, I would have written several superb short stories,
brightened a few publications with a series of clever cartoons or a
fresh comic strip, and become independently wealthy with my
special eclectic system of stock market analysis. However, as things
now stand, I'll be lucky and grateful to continue to make a living for
services rendered — let alone any venture into other phases of this

C97]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

broad field of medicine such as teaching or research. With my three
boys, we might launch a family business instead of staying insurance
poor. Any ideas will be welcome! Maybe Selma’s dream of a ski
lodge isn’t too crazy at that. If I'm not busy, she always is, and
at the moment it’s only League of Women Voters, church, and
nursery school, plus the basic home factotua.

Harvard’s liberal education set me on an endless search for the
well-balanced life equipped with an ideal set of values. The trail
has led to unusual situations, on occasion confusing my associates and
making my behavior incomprehensible, I’m probably still a peren-
nial student and dilettazte. Our local Sudbury address suggests
provincialism but such is not the case. Our family has visited a
great deal of this fair land on several camping trips, and we may

yet bestir ourselves to the Southwest or the Rocky Mountains for
permanent residence.

WILLIAM HUGO BEACH

 

HOME appress: 436 Warner Hill Rd., Southport, Conn.

orFice appress: Bridgeport Metal Goods Manufacturing Co., 365 Cherry St.,
Bridgeport, Conn.

BORN: Aug. II, 1914, Bridgeport, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N.Y.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: AB, 1936.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Manufacturing; vice-president and treasurer, Bridgeport Meral
Goods Manufacturing Company.

Member oF: University Club of Bridgeport, Brooklawn Country Club; Sauga-
tuck Fish and Game Club.
“WHEN you gentlemen graduate, some of you will go into the

{98 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

law. Some of you will become teachers. Some will enter the min-
istry. And some of you— God help us! — will go into business.”

It is not clear how or why Professor Lowes planted that one
among the nineteenth-century poets, but the quote is fairly accu-
rate. Anyway, one perverse student had finished picking his career
before the lecture ended. No harm was done. The first three
callings stand untarnished and I have been most happy pursuing the
fourth.

There was a military diversion in World War II when the Army
sent me to Europe dressed as an ordnance lieutenant. The rest of
the time has been spent in a factory making flashlights, cosmetic
containers, and whatever else the sales force could contrive. Though
many of the products are widely known, the source is not. It is a
small business that depends on agility to survive in a variable, com-
petitive, style-conscious part of the business world.

Management duties in this type operation make up an industrial
smorgasbord. Today brought sessions on product development,
personnel, sales plans, production troubles, plus a real estate deal.
Tomorrow will bring a different assortment equally remote from
my assigned area of responsibility. Maintaining a rounded view of
what goes on is certainly no problem. In between times I attend
to the main job of keeping the place financially sanitary.

The long range phases of this work lead to something closely re-
lated to economics. In fact, it is a study of a single cell at work in
the tissue of the larger subject. Its chemistry is mostly people,
equipment, material and money. Brought to life by a few ideas,
these elements form an animal that changes shape and direction,
grows or shrinks, but never stands still in a perpetual struggle to
use, combat, or adapt to the forces it lives with. Sometimes a
valid behavior pattern can be caught on cross-section paper. Often,
useful limiting ranges can be established or groups of circumstances
averaged. Unless someone is watching too closely, I call this stutf
“scientific management.” But the woods are full of treacherous
unknowns and intangibles. So luck and intuition must take over
when method stumbles.

Twelve minutes by car from this sample of free enterprise is
my home. Since I have no intention of working all the time, some
other distances may be noted: golf — fifteen minutes; trout and
pheasant in season — twenty-five minutes; Long Island Sound —
ten minutes, Skiing takes a ‘little longer.

[ 99 ]

asec

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

LAWRENCE WINSLOW BEAL

  

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Lyman St., Waltham, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: City Hall, Waltham, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 16, 1913, Waltham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarrieD: Marian Lawson Cowden, April 18, 1942, Waltham, Mass. (divorced
1959). CHILD: Jo-Anne Foster, Oct. 15, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Foster Cushman Beal, ’37.

occupaTIoN: Civil engineer, Engineering Department, City of Waltham.

orFices HELD: Member, Board of Survey and Planning, Waltham, Mass., 1953-
56.

I HAVE no profound observations to make on life in the past
twenty-five years, and this may sound like a recital of my employ-
ment record, but here goes, After graduation I went to work in the
Engineering Department of the City of Waltham, Massachusetts. I
worked there a little over two years as a surveyor and draftsman
until in November, 1938, I took a position with the U.S. Engineer
Department in Providence, Rhode Island. I worked there until
January, 1941, doing survey work throughout Rhode Island and
Connecticut.

In October, 1940, I had registered for the draft and was given
number 158, which number was the first to be plucked from the
goldfish bow] by Secretary Stimson. It was only a short time before
I was drafted into the Army —February 17, 1941, to be exact. I
stayed in the Army until January 2, 1946. Most of my time was
spent in this country, but I did have a one-year tour of duty in the
European theater of operations visiting England, France, Belgium,

and Germany.
One of the places I was stationed at during my Army carcer was

[ 100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Chicago, Illinois, so after my discharge my wife and I tried living
there for a while. I went to work for the Bureau of Sewers of the
City of Chicago, first as a surveyor and later in the office as a
hydraulic designer. I enjoyed the work there but did not like living
in Chicago, so in August of 1948 we returned home to Massachu-
setts. I went right to work for Thomas Worcester, Inc., on State
Street in Boston, as a civil engineer. I worked with this firm untl
November of 1956. After my father’s death in 1956, my wife and
I decided to pull up stakes and settle in California. We made the trip
across country by auto in December, 1956, and after staying with
relatives for a while settled down in South Pasadena. I went to work
there as a civil engineer for the Los Angeles County Flood Control
District. This phase of my life came to an abrupt end in June of
1957 when I suffered a nervous breakdown, my family split up,
and I returned east to live with my brother. After a couple of
weeks back east it was evident that I had failed to recover from
my breakdown, so I entered the Veterans Hospital at Togus, Maine,
for treatment. What we thought would be a stay of two or three
months’ duration dragged on and I was “out of circulation” for two
and a half years. Finally, on January 8, 1960, I was fully enough
recovered to return to work, so I moved back to the old home town
of Waltham, Massachusetts, found a nice place to live, and on
January 11th I went back to work for the Engineering Department
of the City of Waltham as a civil engineer. I have suffered no re-
currence of my illness and I hope that future years will be as good
to me as the year 1960 has been.

ARTHUR BEANE

  

HOME AbpRESS: 100 East Ave., New Canaan, Conn.

[ ror ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Canaan Country School, New Canaan, Conn.

porn: Dec. 8, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936.

marriep: Lucy Hopkins, June, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced 1946); Ger-
trude Lee Marquis Ballantyne, Dec, 20, 1947, Greenfield Hill, Conn.
cHiwprEN: Kathryn Lee Ballantyne (stepdaughter), March 31, 1928 (m.
Sol Polansky, 1954); John Marquis Ballantyne (stepson), Nov. 20, 1929
(m. Barbara McInnis, July, 1960); Ronald William Ballantyne (stepson),
Jan. 2, 1931 (mm. Cynthia Booth, June, 1953); Arthur, 3d, June 15, 1044.
GRANDCHILDREN: Carolyn Lee Ballantyne, June 11, 1955; Philip Booth Bal-
lantyne, Sept. 27, 1957; Deborah Ballantyne, Dec. 21, 1959, the children
of Ronald and Cynthia.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richards Beane, ’46.

occupation: Math teacher and director of boys’ athletics.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Harvard Club of New Canaan, New Canaan Com-
munity Chorus.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Canaan; New Canaan Community Chorus.

AFTER college, I went to work for the First Boston Corporation,
Boston, Massachusetts. Stayed with that organization until June,
1938. Entered the Virginia Theological Seminary in the fall of
1938. Graduated from said institution in 1941. In the same year
I was ordained an Episcopal minister. In June, 1942, married Lucy
Hopkins. Became chaplain and English and history teacher at the
Avon School, Avon, Connecticut. In the fall of 1944, I went as
chaplain and English and history teacher to the Cranbrook School
for Boys, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. In 1946, I was divorced and
during that same year resigned from the Episcopal ministry.

Went to work for the Aetna Casualty & Surety Company, Hart-
ford, Connecticut, in that same year. On December 20, 1947, I
married Lee Marquis Ballantyne. Since the fall of 1948, I have been
happily ensconced at the New Canaan Country School, as an
English, history, mathematics, Old Testament religion and history
teacher and teacher of New Testament religion and director of
athletics.

[ 102 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN CHAMBERS BEECHER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: I Forrestdale Rd., Rockville Center, Long Island, N.Y.

GERARDUS BEEKMAN

  

HOME appress: Via Gregariana 54, Rome, Italy.

BORN: Dec. 14, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; s.18. (General
Theological Seminary), 1942.

MARRIED: France Aimee Brouwier, Aug. 1, 1945, Liege, Belgium, ciitpReN:
Stephen Frederic Robert, June 27, 1946; Sabina Catherine, Dec. 17, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Struthers Beekman, °38.

OCCUPATION: Clergyman.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1936, I went to Vienna in order to
continue my study in the fine arts, and there I worked almost
two years in the Kunsthistorisches Institut under the direction of
Hans Sedlmayr. However, the Anschluss in March, 1938, inter-
vened, and refusing to work for a Nazi doctorate, 1 went to Paris

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

to complete my Ph.D. work. To my consternation, the thesis
subject, with which I had made a good beginning, was already
registered as a project of another student at the Sorbonne, and I
was obliged to start from scratch again. History took over again,
and with the outbreak of World War II in September, 1939, I de-
cided to enter the ministry.

There followed three fascinating years at the General Theologi-
cal Seminary in New York, where I graduated with an S.T.B. in
1942. A year as assistant in St. George’s Church, Newburgh, New
York, and then another year and a half as director of religious
education for the Episcopal Diocese of New York, brought me to
the time when I finally had enough experience in the ministry to
be acceptable to the U.S. Government as a chaplain. Once in the
Army, after a too short six weeks’ training period, I arrived in the
ETO in the first months of 1945, where I promptly contracted pneu-
monia and hepatitis. But these were happy maladies for me, for in
the hospital in Liege, I met my wife, who was at the head of the
Belgian Red Cross Committee appointed by the rector of the Uni-
versity of Liege to help the overworked American Red Cross girls.
A public courtship (a hospital tent with twenty-five other persons
is not recommendable for putting the question unless one can
speak a language not understood by the others— which I could,
since I spoke French with my wife from the beginning) ended in
our marriage at the Town Hall of Liege on August 1, 1945. Then
came two years of boredom in the Army of Occupation in Ger-
many, from which I returned to the U.S. in September, 1947, to
take up the parish of St. Augustine’s in Croton-on-Hudson, New
York. From there, in March, 1952, to Paris, France, for three years
at the American Pro-Cathedral, followed by two more years as

director of the church-founded American Students’ and Artists’

Center in Paris. Just as I was to come to Rome, to St. Paul’s Church,

I had a bad coronary thrombosis, which put off my beginning here,

till the middle of 1958.

As I write this, I am again in transition, for the doctors have told
me that the parochial ministry is too heavy a load for me with my
heart and a lung condition which has made me have at least fifteen
pneumonias in the years since I left Harvard. The future thus is
indefinite, for I leave the rectorship of St. Paul’s on December 31,
1960, but I am confident that J shall find a way to exercise my min-
istry ina physically less-demanding manner,

[ 104]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD ARTHUR BELKNAP

MAILING ADDRESS: 93 Chester St., Allston 34, Mass.

PETER BELLAMY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2476 Kenilworth Rd., Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

OFFICE aAppRESS: Cleveland Plain Dealer, 1801 Superior Ave. Cleveland 14,
Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 9, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School for Boys, Lyndhurst, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

MARRIED: Jean Margaret Dessell, March 11, 1939, Milwaukee, Wis. cHILpREN:
Sheila Jean, June 30, 1940 (7. Robert Lebenson, March 1, 1960), Stephen
Paul, May 21, 1947; John Stark, 2d, Oct. 13, 1948; Christopher Aladdin,
Sept. 12, 1949; Nicole Marie, Nov. 14, 1951. GRANDcHILD: Tracy Jean
Lebenson, Nov. 24, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Stark Bellamy, °32, LL.B. ’35 (deceased); Richard King
Bellamy, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Entertainment columnist, Cleveland Plain Dealer.

OFFICES HELD: Former secretary, and since 1950, treasurer and trustee, Neighbor-
hood Settlement Association; member, board of trustees, Nationalities
Services Association, since 1960; vice-president and trustee, Cleveland
Press Club.

MEMBER oF: Cleveland Press Club.

IF one of the seeds for my garden next spring, which have been
primed for mutations by exposure to gamma rays at Oak Ridge, Ten-
nessee, should produce a grant bean stalk and lead me to the goose
that laid the golden egg, I suspect it would be an anticlimax to the
last twenty-five years. During that time I have been a reporter and
commercial editor for the Des Afoines (Indiana) Register and a
general assignment reporter, re-write man, feature writer, assistant

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

city editor, dramatic critic, moving picture critic, gossip columnist
and society editor for the Cleveland News (1938-1960).

The newspaper world which I had loved and cherished for
twenty-two years was crushed into dust last January 23, when the
Cleveland News was sold to the Cleveland Press and went out of
existence as a separate entity. However, I sang no sad songs, for
seldom in two lifetimes is one vouchsafed as many of the glamour
jobs of a newspaper as I. Indeed, in my last days on the News, I
was perhaps the only journalist who ever wrote both a gossip
column and a separate society column at the same time. ‘They were
written on the theory that both could be readable and amusing,
without being scandalous, cheap and miserable.

Along the way I enjoyed a very short hitch in the nickel seats
of the U.S. Navy and have met and interviewed some of the most
beautiful and/or charming and useful people in the world, including
several in the Class of 1936. Day after the Cleveland News was
sold, I was fortunate enough to be hired by the Cleveland Plain
Dealer, as an entertainment columnist and journalistic utility man.

My wife and I have the largish, rambling home we’ve always
wanted, our first grandchild, and a St. Bernard dog who keeps a
civil tongue in the mouths of visitors, as well as the occupants. In
recent years I have taken up gardening, to the stupefaction of all
who know me very well. I find it an ideal relaxation to put the
mind in a state of suspended animation far removed from the mad-
dening crowd, night clubs, and worries about bills and the bomb.
Our thirteen-year-old is pretty good at repairing automatic wash-
ing machines; our twelve-year-old is conversant with Shakespeare,
the Bible and classical music; and our eleven-year-old is beloved by
young girls and old ladies. Life has never been dull — impossible,
yes, but never dull.

| 106 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JUDSON BEMIS

  

HOME ADDRESS: 3841 Schuneman Rd., White Bear Lake, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bemis Bro. Bag Co., 604 S. Fourth St., Minneapolis 15, Minn.

BORN: July 26, 1913, Cohasset, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Long, May 13, 1939, Hartford, Conn. (died April 3, 1941);
Barbara White, May 1, 1943, White Bear Lake, Minn. cumpren: Sandra
Elizabeth, March 17, 1941; Barbara Turney, Sept. 26, 1944, Ellen Farwell,
July 11, 1946; Gardner White, April 24, 1950; Judson, Jr., Jan. 3, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Farwell Gregg Bemis, ’22, M.B.A., 25; Alan Cogswell Bemis,
°28; John Richardson Bemis, ’39.

occupaTIon: President, Bemis Bro. Bag Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Midland National Bank, Northwest Bancorporation,
Soo Line Railroad Company; president, Board of trustees, Summit School,
St. Paul, Minn.; trustee, Fisk University, Nashville; member of board,
Minnesota Symphony Orchestral Association, United Fund; member,
Minnesota Fair Employment Practices Commission; president, Minnesota
board, United Negro College Fund; president, Textile Bag Manufacturers
Association; formerly: president, Associated Industries of Minneapolis,
Minneapolis Club; member of board, Community Chest, Civic and Com.
Association, United Fund of Hennepin County; board secretary, Com-
munity Health Service; secretary, Long Lake Hounds.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Minnesota; Minneapolis Club; Minnesota Club,
St. Paul; White Bear Yacht Club, White Bear Lake, Minn.

TO take pencil in paw after reading the “sample lives” of the Class
of °34 is to stare straight into the grinning, green, feverish eves of
Inferiority Complex itself. In the name of Heaven, Lee, after all
you've done to us this Fall, why did you have to add impossibility
to insult? : ,

Ah well, perhaps I can take refuge in an extension of that theory
that an unheard sound is not a sound at all. Perhaps an unwed

[107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT LOGAN BENTLEY

 

HOME AppRESS: 22 Broughton Rd., The Crescent, Charleston, S.C.
OFFICE apprEss: West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co., Charleston, S.C.
BoRN: Feb. 3, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1936;

1938.
maraieD: Edith Hoffman, May 31, 1940, Philadelphia, Pa. cHiLpREN: Sue Ellen,

Sept. 2, 1942; Bruce Evans, Nov. 3, 1946.
occupation: General manager, Kraft Division, West Virginia Pulp & Paper

MBA. Cum laude,

Company.

WILLIAM BERENBERG

 

OME AbpRESS: 50 Beresford Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
FFICE ADDRESS: 300 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.
RN: Oct, 29, 1915, Haverhill, Mass.

-EPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.
“ARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936, Mo. (Boston

Univ.), 1940.

[ 110 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Blanche Berger, June 17, 1939, Brookline, Mass. cHipren: Jeffrey
Lee, March 27, 1942; Richard Alan, Sept. 8, 1945, Barbara Ann, March
10, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Jeffrey Lee Berenberg, ’63.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of pediatrics, Harvard Medical School; head,

Children’s and Infants’ Medical Divisions, Children’s Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Academy for Pediatrics, Massachusetts,
Chairman, United Cerebral Palsy Medical Advisory Committee, member,
board of directors, Emerson College, Belmont Hill School Fund, Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, New England
Pediatric Society, Massachusetts Occupational Therapy Society, Roxbury
Latin School P.T.A., Governor’s Citizens Committee on Children and
Youth, White House Conference, National United Cerebral Palsy, Medi-
cal Milk Commission, Association for Retarded Children; consultant,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Whidden Memorial Hospital, Brockton
Hospital, Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Public Health.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Faculty Club; American Board
and Academy of Pediatrics; American Academy of Neurology; American
Academy for Cerebral Palsy; American Pediatric Society; Society for
Pediatric Research; American Trudeau Society; New England Pediatric
Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Thirty-odd publications on a variety of scientific medical sub-
jects published in a number of professional scientific journals.

EXCEPT for a four-year interlude, I have been constantly nurtured
by the warmth of the Harvard bosom. It has been the usual slow
ascendancy through the ranks from the role of teaching fellow after
medical school graduation to my present position as assistant pro-
fessor at the Harvard Medical School. Some place along the line
I was attracted to pediatrics, a field which I first taught, then did re-
search in, finally practised, and now find that somehow I am both
willing and able to participate in all three of those areas. Time and
my family have been good to me—their combination and the
catalyst of a sympathetic academic department have enabled me
to enjoy the privilege of having my cake (teaching and research)
and of eating (pediatric practice) it also. This has been accom-
plished through the expenditure of much effort at times on my
part and certainly much sacrifice on the part of my good wife.
The pleasure of pediatrics to me is self obvious in helping a growing
organism to nurture itself and reach productive maturitv. Tts draw-
backs stem from the extraordinary demands of the new mother to
whom I should truly commend George Herbert's sage advice of
“Go not for every grief to the physician, nor for every quarrel to
the lawyer, nor for every thirst to the por.”

[111]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

My research has perhaps been more rewarding to me than to
posterity. During the war years, I was assigned to the Office of
Scientific Research and Development, and was fortunate to be as-
signed to significant enough research so that somehow I managed
to end up with a presidential citation. The succeeding years just
brought me under the wire for receipt of the Jacobi Award for
Medical Research by a “young”(?) medical pediatric investigator.
The greatest thrills still lie in stumbling on almost any morsel of
original contribution to the knowledge of medical science although
it be in some narrow alley and of dubious significance to the eventful
outcome of mankind. The tedious although rewarding hours in this
direction have at least taught me that criticism certainly comes
easier than craftsmanship.

As a teacher, I look back on those who taught us as undergradu-
ates with renewed admiration. I imagine that many of us have
probably never considered ourselves as well informed as we were
in June, 1936, but were perhaps like the man in Alcibiades who “Full
many a thing he knew; but knew them all badly.” Upon graduation
from medical school, ] was at least cynical enough to believe that
medicine was principally an intellectual exercise and heartily ascribed
to Oliver Wendell Holmes’ belief that if all the known drugs were
sunk to the bottom of the sea, it would be all the better for man-
kind and all the worse for the fish. Today, I am far removed from
this and am certain that at least a dozen drugs would be worth
saving for the betterment of fellow man.

As I look at my own children and the students who are unfortu-
nate enough to be assigned to me, I feel that today, as undoubtedly
in 1936, the student tries to master too much and we are equally
guilty of trying to teach him too much — neither perhaps with any
notable success. Education is certainly a lifelong process and all
any educator should hope for is to be fortunate enough to set his
students on the right path, instilled with proper principles and basic
essentials, but perhaps above all else with an appetite for knowledge.

My good wife has been more tolerant of the time I spend in
medicine than I certainly deserve. Her own efforts for the wel-
fare of the community have been emotionally rewarding to our
entire household. My elder son Jeff is a member of the Class of
1963 at Harvard with apparent leanings toward political science and
history. His brother, Richard, is currently achieving an admirable
state of balance between performing as a quarterback in football
and absorbent sponge in the classics at the Roxbury Latin School,

[112]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Their younger sister, Barbara, remains a source of great comfort to a
family previously unblessed with a female offspring.

The remaining hours are spent in trying to participate in com-
munity living, occasional travel, shifting hobbies and, above all else,
a chance to spend an occasional quiet hour with the familial brood.
I look forward with much anticipation to our Twenty-fifth Re-
union, secure that most of our classmates disprove the old quotation
that he that is not handsome at twenty, nor strong at thirty, nor rich

at forty, nor wise at fifty, will never be handsome, strong, rich or
wise.

IRVING S. BERGER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Hobomock Rd., Quincy, Mass.
Born: May 14, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Muriel R. Allen, Aug. 1, 1942, Boston, Mass. ctitpren: Richard
Allen, Aug. 3, 1945; Robert Mark, April 13, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Salesman; credit installment dealer.

SINCE graduation twenty-five years seem to have passed all too
quickly. They have been years of frustration as well as satisfac-
tion; frustrating in that my original intent to follow the study of
mother earth went awry; satisfyi ing in that I have a lovely wife and
two wonderful boys to show for my efforts.

[113]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

++ ALBERT EDGAR BERRY

  

BORN: Jan. 13, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Albert Edgar Berry, Florence
Edith Dyer.

PREPARED AT: Gilman Country School, Roland Park, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: AB. 1936(35); LL.B. (Georgetown
Univ.), 1938.

piep: March 16, 1948, New York, N.Y.

ALBERT EDGAR BERRY received an A.B. in 1935, as of our
Class. In 1938 he completed the night course at Georgetown Uni-
versity Law School where he had been on the Law Review. He was
associated with the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company
until 1947, except for three and a half years’ service in the Army
during World War I]. Since then he had been with the American
Telephone and Telegraph Company, where he was traffic division

engineer at the time of his death. He was survived by his mother and
three sisters.

SIMON MICHAEL BESSIE

    

HOME Appress: 178 Sullivan St, New York 12, N.Y,

L114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFicE ADDRESS: Atheneum Publishers, 162 E. 38th St, New York 16, N.Y.

,

BORN: Jan. 23, 1916, New York, N.Y

PREPARED AT: De Witt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., magna crm laude, 1936.

MARRIED: Constance Ernst, Sept. 12, 1945, New York, N.Y. cHitpreN: Nicholas,
July 12, 1952; Katherine, June 9, 1956.

occupaTIoN: Director, partner, Atheneum Publishers, book publishing.

OFFICES HELD: Warious offices in U.S. Government, 1942-46; instructor, New
School for Social Research, lecturer in English, Columbia University,
1952-60; member, Committee on Reading Development, American Book
Publishers’ Council, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Century Association; Overseas Press
Club; Council on Foreign Relations, P.E.N.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous magazine articles and reviews; Jazz Journalisin — The
History of the Tabloid Newspapers, E. P. Dutton.

THIS act of self-inspection in the presence of one’s classmates is
the kind of solemn duty that one knows should be performed with
anything but solemnity. To take oneself seriously at this point —
or rather to seem to take oneself seriously — is as inappropriate as it
would be not to take others seriously. The passage of twenty-five
years since Commencement requires us to account for ourselves to
each other, but custom demands that the account be kindly, light,
and not disturbing. That custom is surely a good one, but I find
myself wondering how one can follow it without violating our
stern injunction: Veritas. The answer, I suppose, is that moderation
is a social absolute.

Here is how I would moderately account for my course through
these twenty-five years: My first job was on a daily newspaper,
and it lasted just long enough (I was fired after the defeat of Alf
Landon convinced the publisher he had better trim sail for the on-
coming depression) to teach me respect for the work, sympathy for
those who are snared by its illusions, and admiration for these who
can ripen in it without rotting first. After essentially similar ex-
periences in movies and magazines, I went to live in Furope and
learned — or unlearned — enough about Europe, America, and my-
self to keep me supplied with questions, lines of investigation, and
exploration of persons, places, problems, and pleasures for the rest
of my life. During this time, I also learned that, whatever che I
might be, I was not a writer —a painful but ultimately relaxing
discovery which some vears later enabled me to become a publisher
without the fecling that I was doing time,

While I was learning all these valuable lessons, the world was
learning that Hlicler was what he had alw ays sud he was, and the

[ars ]

ne

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

result of this belated discovery was the war which did so much for
all of us World War I babies. My own war was fascinating and
fortunate beyond description. In North Africa, Sicily, Italy, Eng-
land and France, I was privileged to witness much of the doings on
the higher (occasionally the highest) levels of military and political
action. The temptation, after the war, to continue in government
service was weaker than the desire to get into book publishing
which I decided was the corner into which I fitted — almost all
others by then having been tried. Fourteen years later, ’m certain
I was right. For the first twelve of those years, I was editor of
General Books at Harper & Brothers, a healthy and stimulating
place. In 1959, an almost unbelievable combination of circumstances
made it possible for two close friends and me to start a new pub-
lishing house called Atheneum and dedicated to quality and survival.
So far, we have not had to choose. To say more would be to
tempt the gods in whom I do not believe.

Around this occupation, a life has grown along familiar lines. A
house in Greenwich Village and a cottage in Nantucket. Family
sailing in summer and family skating in winter; fairly regular squash
and tennis; a moderate, very moderate, amount of community ac-
tivity; frequent trips to Europe on publishing business, a moderate
amount of consumer activity in the graphic arts and music; a small
but very satisfying bit of teaching; lots of meetings; lots of social
life; lots of undirected concern about the state of things in America
and the world; lots of hope.

Have I learned the Veritas about myself, my generation, my
country, my world? Of course not; but I am enormously enjoying
the process of unlearning the untruths.

[ 116 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ELMER RICHARD BEST

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3158 Pickbury Drive, Cincinnati 11, Ohio.

OFFIcE appRESS: Union Central Life Insurance Co., 309 Vine St., Cincinnati,
Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Western Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., magna cum laude, 1936; LL.B. 1939.

MarRieD: Marti Janet Cohan, Aug. 3, 1940, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHiLpREN: Robert
Charles, Sept. 26, 1941; Philip Cohan, Nov. 25, 1952; Sally Carol, Nov. 25,
1954.

occupation: Treasurer, Union Central Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Law School Association of Cincinnati, 1956—
573 ruling elder, Westwood-Salem Presbyterian Church, director, Harvard
Club of Cincinnati; member, advisory board, Salvation Army.

MEMBER OF: Cheviot 140, F. & A.M.; Cincinnati Bankers Club; Cincinnati Bar
Association; Cincinnati Financial Analysts.

MY business is life insurance — not the rough competition of life
insurance sales but the slower pace of the home office. And yet
like life itself it is varied and intricate and challenging. I entered the
business through the legal profession but have spent most of my
time with investments and money problems. Recently I have added
the problems incident to the payment of claims. One would have
to be insensitive or tough to resist some philosophical contemplation
of life and death under these circumstances.

With me the “life” aspect consists of a beloved wife and children,
friends, new places and sports. Another important facet to “life”
is my abiding faith in Christ and in Christian principles.

I was very fortunate in my war experiences. The Navy took me
to the University of Colorado with its lovely mountains and. in-
vigorating climate. I later practised law for the Nav y in Washing-
ton, where the mountains and invigorating climate are conspicuous
by their absence.

[117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

BROOKS BETTS

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 124 EF. Wayne Ave., Easton, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 S. Third St., Easton, Pa.

BORN: July 13, 1914, Bloomsbury, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Easton High School, Easton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrieD: Helen M. Clause, June 25, 1941, Easton, Pa. curtpren: Brooks, 2d,
March 12, 1952; Mark, Feb. 17, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Rickards Betts, Grad. School, 1940-41; Robert Budd

Betts, "44.
occuPATION: Owner, wholesale and retail sporting goods store.
UPON graduation I became interested in private flying and traveled.
During the few years prior to World War II, I was not concerned
with the making of a living — until I married in 1941.

During World War II (September, 1941, to September, 1945),
I served in the Army Air Force, principally as a pilot. The first
year I served as an instructor, then two years of Air Transport Com-
mand flying, all overseas, and then a year in an executive capacity.
In 1947 I turned to business and have since operated and owned a
retail-wholesale sporting goods concern.

Our two boys, now seven years and eight years of age, take our
full time. They have made these recent years our happiest. I have
frequently visited Harvard over the many years and I now look
forward to a visit next June.

[ 118]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LESLIE COLE BIGELOW

 

HOME AppRESS: 15 Chipman Heights, Middlebury, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Philosophy, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt.

BorN: April 30, 1914, Columbus, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B., Magna ctim laude, 1936; AM. 19473
PH.D., 1952.

MARRIED: Leslie Grant Marsh, June 29, 1941, Lenox, Mass. CHILDREN: Chris-
topher Grant, May 4, 1948; Barbara Cole, Aug. 15, 1951; John Marsh,
July 22, 1953; Damaris Leslie, Dec. 19, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edmund Lawson Bigelow, Bus. Sch. 1933-34; Robert Gib-
bons Bigelow, "43, M.B.A., '47.

occupation: Associate professor of philosophy, Middlebury College.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Board, Middlebury Elementary School.

MEMBER OF: Middlebury Community Players; Middlebury Choral Societv;
American Philosophical Association, American Association of University
Professors.

AFTER graduation I undecidedly wandered about in various grad-
uate schools including Harvard Medical School and Harvard Law
School, until finally settling down in the field of philosophy. This
study was scarcely begun when it was interrupted by four years of
Wartime army service, spent mostly in the ETO, Graduate work
was recommenced after the war and led to my present occupation
of teaching philosophy at Middlebury College.

[119]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

BRUCE HADLEY BILLINGS

 

HOME ApprEsS: Juniper Ridge Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Baird-Atomic, Inc., 33 University Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BorN: July 6, 1915, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., CU7 laude, 1936; A.M., 1938; PHO,
(Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1943.

Marriep: Sarah Winslow, June 23, 1938, Beirut, Lebanon. cHILpREN: Sally
Frances, Aug. 9, 1939; Bruce Randolph, Jan. 3, 1944, Jane Winslow, Oct,
9, 1947; Peter Fayssoux, Feb. 6, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, technical director, spectrochemical and nuclear in-
strumentation and research.

OFFIcEs HELD: U.S. delegate, Marseille Conference on Thin Films, 1949, mem-
ber, U.S. national committee, International Commission of Optics; associate
editor, Journal of the Optical Society of America, since 1950; research
associate, Harvard College Observatory.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences (fellow); American
Physical Society; Acoustical Society of America, Optical Society of
America, since 1950; A.A.A.S.; Sigma Xi, American Institute of Physics
Handbook; St. Botolph Club, Boston; Boston Yacht Club.

PuBLicaTions: “Narrow Band Optical Interference Filters,” Photographic
Engineering 2, 1951; “A Narrow Passband Polarization Interference Filter
for Hydrogen Alpha,” Rev. Sci. Instrs. 22, 1009 (1951), co-author with S.
Sage, W. Draisin; “A Monochromatic Depolarizer,” J. Opt. Soc. Am. 41,
966 (1951); “The Electro-Optic Effect in Uniaxial Crystals of the Dihy-
drogen Phosphate (XH.PO,) Type. IV. Angular Field of the Electro-
Optic Shutter,” J. Opt. Soc. Am. 42, 12 (1952); “Un Depolarizador Mono-
cromatico,” Ciencia e Investigacion, 8, 99 (1952); “The Photochemical
Separation of Isotopes,” J. Chem, Phys, 21, 1762 (1953).

THERE were around two dozen of us in 1936 who graduated in
Physics. I've often wondered how many have stuck to it. Physical
optics seems to be my major interest. I feel fortunate in that it is
one of the few fields in physics where rescarch can be done for less

[ 120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

than a million dollars. It is also sufficiently unpopular that all the
members of the field can know each other. Since these scientists
are distributed fairly uniformly throughout Europe and the United
States, travel becomes quite interesting. A visit to Florence is
always a thrill, but this is heightened when one is a guest at the
home of a Florentine physicist.

Since our last Report, Baird Associates, the company I am with,
has merged with Atomic Instrument Company and changed its name
to Baird-Atomic, Inc. We have brought in Dave Dewey, 2d (Har-
vard 39) as president and expanded twenty times in size. Keeping
up with this phenomenon is almost more difficult than keeping up
with physics.

For nineteen months I abandoned the company and struggled with
the problems of the Pentagon. I thought I had worked hard during
the war, but this was worse. As assistant director of research and
engineering for the Defense Department, under Dr. York, I found
I was trying to compress years of education into much too short a
time. I found the government’s interests covered the globe, and
enjoyed checking up on some of the more remote examples. In
Guinea, I met the Minister of Defense and discovered that in his
spare time he was impresario of the Ballets Africains. He certainly
seemed little affected by Soviet penetration.

Sailing is still our main hobby. The forty-three-foot Alden
schooner which was our last boat required a firm hand to restrain
her from sailing around the world. She had carried the family from
Maine to Virginia, and caused real grief when she was traded last
spring for three months in Europe.

The oldest of our offspring is living in Washington, trving to
demonstrate her independence, Of the three others, only the young-
est shows signs of knowing where he wants to go in the future.

I find myself increasingly concerned with problems of national
survival and national goals. This really didn’t bother me much in
1936. It must be senility setting in!

[121]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN EBEN BIRD, II

   

       

HOME ADDRESS: 1630 Dean Ave. Owensboro, Ky..

orFice appress: Hanley & Bird, Box 184, Owensboro, Ky.

Born: Oct. 6, 1913, Bradford, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.
MarrigD: Elizabeth L. Quinette, Dec. 22, 1943, Fort Knox, Ky. cHtLpren: John

Eben, 3d, Oct. 31, 1945; William Quinette, July 30, 1947.
occupaTiON: Geologist and district manager, Hanley & Bird, oil producers.
MEMBER OF: I.P.A.A.; KOIGA; American Petroleum Institute; I-N.N.G.A.;
K.0.G.A.; Indiana-Kentucky Geological Society, Yale Engineering As-
sociation; Ohio Oil and Gas Association; Engineering Society of West
Pennsylvania; Appalachian Geological Society; Illinois Oil and Gas Asso-

ciation; Owensboro Chamber of Commerce.

FOLLOWING graduation, worked in Maryland, Pennsylvania,
West Virginia, Canada, New York, Colorado, Kansas and Oklahoma,
primarily doing oil and gas work with some short intervals devoted
to mining work.

In the fall of 1940 and until February of 1946, was in service with
hitches at Camp Shelby and O.C.S. No. 4 at Fort Sill, retained at
Sul two years with staff and faculty, thence two years at Replace-
ment Training Center, Fort Knox, Kentucky, thence four months at
University of California studying Chinese. Fortunately, Captain
Bird discharged shortly after V-J Day.

Following discharge, spent six years in Ohio searching for natural
gas. Because of low price paid by pipe-line companies for natural
gas, moved to Owensboro, Kentucky, and am still looking for oil
and gas and have been fortunate in having discovered six oil pools.

Politically, am an ardent Republican, but have voted for some

Democratic candidates who appeared better qualified. Physically,

[ 122 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

still possess my teeth and hair, and am twenty-five pounds lighter
than at graduation.

HORATIO BISBEE, II

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 7 School St., Ware, Mass.

+ JOSEPH HENRY FAY BISSELL

   
    

Me

4S
AN

BORN: Dec. 30, 1913, Melrose, Mass. parents: George D. Bissell, ‘06, Sara
Genevieve Hay.

PREPARED aT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1933. DEGREE: D.M.D., 1944.

MARRIED: Ruth F. O'Connell. caitpren: Joseph Henry Fay, Jr.; Richard; Ruth
Ann; Jay William, Jean Marie.

piep: March 18, 1951, Melrose, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Joseph H. F. Bissell, 294 First Se, Melrose, Mass.

JOSEPH HENRY FAY BISSELL spent one year with our Class.

In 1937 he returned to Harvard, spent two years as an out-of-course

[ 123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

student and then entered the Dental School, receiving a D.M.D.
degree in 1944. Since then he had been practising dentistry with his
father, Dr. George D. Bissell, in Melrose. During World War II,

Bissell served with the Navy in the Pacific. He was survived by his
wife and children.

RICHARD BISSELL

 

HOME appress: 55 Rowayton Ave. Rowayton, Conn.; Roads End, Boothbay
Harbor, Maine (summer).

oFFIce Appress: Bissell Towing & Transport Co., American Trust Bldg,, Du-
buque, Lowa.

BORN; June 27, 1913, Dubuque, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: $.B., 1936.

MarRIED: Marian van Patten Grilk, Feb, 5, 1938, Exeter, N.H. CHILDREN:

Thomas St, George, Oct. 16, 1942; Nathaniel Gaylord, March 12, 1944;

Anastasia Marguerite, Sept, 27, 1948, Samuel Pike, Aug. 30, 1951.
HARVARD SON: Thomas St. George Bissell, 64.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Ezekiel Bissell, ’31.
occupation: Author, playwright and tugboat owner-operator.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Guild Council, Authors League of America, 1954-575

president, Bissell Towing & Transport Company; vice-president, H. B.
Glover Company.

MEMBER OF: The Lambs; Harvard Club of New York; Peosta Boat Club; Au-

thors League, Dramatists League; Dubuque Golf Club; Dubuque Boat
Club; Sons and Daughters of Pioneer Rivermen; Society of Midland
Authors.

pusications: Books: A Stretch on the River; High Water; 7% Cents; The
Monongahela; Say Darling; Good Bye Ava, Plays: “Pajama Game,” with
George Abbott; “Say Darling,” with Abe Burrows and Marian Bissell;

Movie: “Pajama Game”; Articles and stories: Atlantic Monthly; Holiday;
Collier's, etc.

1 SEE in the “Sample Lives” sent out as models on how to write this

[124]

ne 1s hussein canmngea tae aaa aeemcmeniemteieipinapenimtintasite TAEDA LTE NAAR ait

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

autobiography that Sidney Carroll, ’35, has “lost five teeth” a
“my hair.” Meanwhile he has gained “thirty pounds.”

Well say, I have not only got all my teeth, but a dandy new ge
inlay installed only last week by Dr. Shelley Trubowitz. Remind 1
at the Reunion and I'll show it to you. And as for my hair, — w:
every time I go into the Harvard Club to get some free crackers a:
cheese in the bar all the fellows crowd around and say “Gee, ‘Dic:

where did you get all the hair at? What is the secret of your hz
success?”

Weightwise, my story is a bit unusual. Guess how much I weig!
Only 36 pounds. But I feel swell because I keep in shape.

Well boys, this piece of advice may come too late but all I hav
to say is, “Marry a Bright Girl,” preferably a strong one who ca
carry out the ashes. And by bright I don’t mean some tomato fror
Vassar who has studied up on Proust’s adenoids, but one who ca
unmask sham, expose pretense, keep the kids from joining the Littl
League, and open a bottle of pickles without calling in the Fir
Dept. My wife is so bright she can understand all the jokes in
PUNCH and was even able to translate the press conferences o:
Dwight D. Eisenhower into English.

Perhaps the outstanding event in my life since the last report was
having lunch with Marilyn Monroe. It was also the dullest lunch
during that period. You know something? That girl doesn’t ear
enough to keep a bird alive.

My son Tom entered Harvard this fall as a sophomore and since
Leavitt and Pierce’s has closed down the pool tables, he is learning
the game at a billiard academy in Chelsea. Aly son Nat ts up at Ex-

eter complaining about the food, and the other two kids are at home
leaving jelly sandwiches in Papa’s chair.

And in conclusion let me say: You only live once, but if you play
it right, once is enough.

[125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

THOMAS AUSTIN BITTENBENDER

      

HOME AppRESS: 3080 Portsmouth Ave., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFIcE AppREsS: William T. Earls Agency, Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co.,
gin Pike St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrieD: Leslie Blake, Jan. 4, 1941, Dedham, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Steven Bittenbender, ’41.

occuPaTION: Life insurance; life underwriter and brokerage manager.

OFFICES HELD: Commanding officer, Naval Reserve Surface Battalion 4-26,
1949-535 director, 1950-53, treasurer, 1954, secretary, since 1955, Cincinnati
Life Underwriters Association; director, Naval Reserve Officers School
4-4, 1954-59; trustee, Air Pollution Control League, since 1955, Cincinnati
Heart Association, since 1960; director, 1956-58, 2d vice-president, 1960,
Ist vice-president, 1961, chairman, Schools Committee, 1958-61, Harvard
Club of Cincinnati.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Life Underwriters Association; Miami Boat Club; Cin-
cinnati Tennis Club; B & B Badminton Club; Harvard Club of Cincin-
nati.

IDENTIFICATION: 1936 —age 21, weight 170, height 61”, hair
dlond, eyes green; 1961 — age 39, weight +5, height 674”, hair still
here, eyes slightly jaundiced (particularly since November 8).
\dditional enhancements: a slight greying at the temples adding
istinction, a slight deepening of facial lines adding character, a
reatly increased capacity for alcoholic beverages leading to more
vere hangovers, a noticeable delayed reaction in certain athletic
uations leading to fewer athletic situations,

Likes: exercise, martinis, partics, people, Goodman, chocolate
lairs. Dislikes: exercises, manhattans, square dancing, luncheon

etings, Presley, steak tartar.
[ 126 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Occupationally, I guess I have to classify myself as a salesman, be-
cause in spite of my several affiliations, all have followed pretty much
the same pattern. Three years with Ludlow Manufacturing & Sales
Company (jute textiles) in New England and Chicago, followed by
two with the Macmillan Company (publishers), both in sales, car-
ried me to June, 1941, when I volunteered for active duty with the
Navy.

Somewhere in my record they must have found that I had sailed
dinghies and consequently I was assigned to Admiral Byrd's old
barkentine, the “Bear of Oakland,” which had just been stripped of
all canvas. I spent two years of sometimes monotonous, sometimes
most interesting life in Greenland, Labrador, Baffin Island and Hud-
son Bay. After this tour of duty in the Arctic, the Navy considered
me an expert on ice conditions, so in 1943 I was transferred to the
USS Clay, an APA, and away we went to Saipan with a load of Ma-
rines. A year later, as officer- “in-charge of afloat training, I helped
train the crews of fifty APA’s in Seattle, going to sea again in the
last one, USS Rockwall, as exec. I finished my active duty as a
student at the War College in Newport, w here about 2 5% of the
class were ex-Harvardians. I have remained in the active reserve
ever since and received my fourth stripe in July, 1956. Stnking for
admiral? I doubt it.

In February, 1946, I joined the American Express Company and
after a year in Boston was transferred to Cincinnat, as assistant man-
ager. A year later, I found myself in the life insurance business
where I have been ever since. Starting with Connecticut Mutual,
I moved with my general agent to Mutual Benefit as supervisor, a
two and one-half year hitch as manager of Home Life and back to
my present position with Mutual Benefit in 1958. Needless to say,
I like the life insurance business, all phases of it, as long as 1 can be
in the field the major part of the time.

Other than the travel furnished by Uncle Sam, we spent a gav
week on a cruise to Nassau, in 1947, with a group of news corre-
spondents; have made four trips of varying lengths to Havana, and
in April, 1959, flew to Europe. Our Dauphine was delivered to us
in Paris and during the next three weeks we covered three thousand
miles in France and Italy. One of the friendlier faces we enceun-
tered was that of Butch Kernan stepping out of an elevator at the
Roval Daniclli in Venice. We hope to go back in 1962.

What do I do between 5 p.m. and 8 a.m? Reeruit for our Alma
Mater, and as a result, we have several boys doing ouptanding jobs

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

both in the classroom and on the athletic fields of Cambridge. This
work also keeps me young in spirit. I still feel that I’m not old
enough for golf and consequently am sticking to tennis and bad-
minton. Naturally, like all of us, I spend a lot of time soliciting for
the United Appeal, the Heart Association and the United Fine Arts
Fund, and these will be my hobbies when I start collecting Social
Security and my navy pension. I’m only sorry that we live too far
from Cambridge to join in the pre-Reunion festivities, but it will

take a lot to keep us from marching over Larz Anderson bridge
with you in June.

STEPHEN AUGUSTUS BIXBY

   

HOME ApprEss: 182 Maplewood St., Watertown, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Sidney Suttentag & Co., 294 Washington St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: June 10, 1912, Haverhill, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: s.B. (Boston Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Jessie M. Harris, 1939, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1944).

OCCUPATION: Senior accountant and auditor, C.P.A. firm.

OFFICES HELD: Cost accountant, Blanchard Machine Company, 1940-42, General
Electric Company, 1942-43; junior accountant, Raymond Holdsworth,
CP.A., 1944-46, accountant, Able Mills, Inc., 1946-48, public accountant,

Haskins & Sells, 1948, auditor (senior), Sidney Suttentag & Company,
SINCE 1949.

MEMBER OF: Oakley Country Club, Watertown; Massachusetts Society of
C.P.A.’s.

IN 1937, after a few months of “practice” teaching in the subjects
of Latin and history in the high school at Reading, Massachusetts,
I felt competent to offer my services to the field of secondary educa-
tion, which I was convinced was replete with opportunities for one

[128]

_——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with a background in the “classics.” However, I soon became aware
of the fact that a sort of inverse ratio prevailed; that is, the popu-
larity of Greek and Latin studies declined, whereas the longevity of
their teachers increased! Since this was conducive neither to morale
nor physical well-being, I decided to defer temporarily the pursuit
of Homer and Horace and to turn reluctantly to mundane matters
such as debits and credits, financial statements, and taxes and audits.

My education in accounting was acquired at Boston Universi
College of Business Administration, graduate division. After a brief
stint with two insurance companies, my first positions were in the
field of cost accounting which I found interesting, if not very re-
munerative. However, later I found that the variety of work in
public accounting sustained the interest constantly and has con-
tinued for fifteen years.

The much-maligned subject of taxes provokes many challenges
and also rewards one’s efforts when some of its vagaries can be re-
solved advantageously for a client. Of course, also, according to
that trite adage of “death and taxes,” next to an undertaker a tax
adviser is assured of steady employment! I agree with the majority
of people that the only good tax is a low one and many courses of
action are based entirely on “tax” consequences. However, some
of the most zealous advocates of this theory make headlines that are
hardly complimentary as we all know.

While I find that my present position is both rewarding and fas-
cinating to me, I realize that to many people it would appear dull
and “technical.” Certainly, at times in the heat of our “tax” season
I have been tempted to purchase a one-way ticket to Samarkand or
Zululand, but when the fever strikes I usually procure tckets in-
stead for a good play or concert for myself and friends and this
has the desired therapeutic effect. We have many fine plays in
Boston this winter and I attend about twice a month. I have traveled
frequently to Philadelphia on business and have been the chents’
guest at various baseball and hockev events. In the course of my
work I have traveled quite extensively through New England, Penn-
sylvania, New York, Delaware, and New Jersey — all of which in-
terests me, from the industrial strength of the Delaware Valley and
the historical traditions of Philadelphia to the broad plains of
Upper New York State. My summer vacations are usually spent
on Cape Cod, since I am an enthusiastic swimmer and enjov the
excellent beaches there. Occasionally, I play the piano, classics or
semi-classics preferred, Because of my vision I was deferred from

[129]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

military service. However, at the time I was an accountant at
General Electric Electronics Division which was part of the war
effort. I have not remarried and reside with friends since I have no
close relatives. Possibly I have neglected this important phase of
life; but I have not yet resigned myself to a permanent single status!

This is, indeed, a year of which Harvard can well be proud, and
I am personally very happy to see one of her sons become the
President-elect. I am especially pleased that Senator John F. Ken-
nedy was elected since I followed the intense campaign that he
waged with avid interest. Not only do I agree with the principles
that he has enunciated, but I approve his proposals for putting them
into practice. He seems to have all the attributes that should make
a great President, such as courage, judgment, political acumen, and
a great popular appeal. I think that the best action he has taken yet
is in his selection of the Cabinet and the other appointive positions.
Every time I read of another Harvard man being appointed it is a
great source of satisfaction. I hope that many of the able and expert
members of the faculty will be changing their addresses to Wash-
ington, D.C., since I feel that this juncture in history is crucial, the
problems at home and abroad tremendous, and we can only trust

our fate and that of posterity in the hands of the most dedicated and
capable leaders. ,

CHARLES LYON BLAIR

 

HOME ADpRESS: 215 Silverside Ave., Little Silver, NJ.

orice appress: U.S, Army Signal Research & Development Laboratory, Fort
Monmouth, N.J.

RN: June 23, 1915, Washington, D.C.
—— spared AT: Red Bank High School, Red Bank, N.J.

———
[ 130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: S.B., Cum laude, 1936; S.M4 1937; MBA.
(New York Univ.), 1956.

mMarRIED: Sarah Patricia Watkins, June 5, 1948, Alton, Ill. cumpren: Charles
Lyon, Jr., Jan. 2, 1951; Sarah C., Aug. 26, 1952; William M., Feb. 14, 1956,

HARVARD BROTHER: William Richards Blair, Jr. '33, LL-B., ’38.

occuPATION: Electronic engineer; deputy director of engineering, US. Army
Signal Research & Development Laboratory.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Engineering Society; American
Institute of Electrical Engineers; Institute of Radio Engineers (senior
member); Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association.

UPON leaving Harvard in 1937, my first job was with RCA Manu-
facturing Corporation in Camden, New Jersey. This association
terminated early in 1938 due to the “Roosevelt Recession” which
started in the fall of 1937. Jobs being scarce because of the reces-
sion, I went to the University of Chicago with the objective of
getting a Ph.D. in physics. This project stopped April 25, 1941,
when I was ordered to extended active duty with the Fifth Infantry
Division Artillery at Fort Custer, Michigan. Five years later I was
separated from the Army with the rank of major, after having served
with the Fifth Division in Iceland, England, North Ireland, France
and Luxembourg, with the Third Army Signal Section in Germany,
and with XXII Corps in Czechoslovakia.

On leaving the Army I found that the University of Chicago had
made rather sweeping changes in the requirements for the Ph.D.
in physics which would necessitate taking additional courses and
another qualifying examination before continuing with the research
problem I had started before the war. Since the effect of this was to
delay completion of the project for three or four years, I severed my
ties with Chicago and returned to Harvard for a year of graduate
work in applied physics.

In 1947 I started work at the U.S. Navy Under Water Sound
Laboratory in New London, Connecticut. I stayed in New London
ull August of 1948, when I left to accept employment at the U.S.
Army Signal Research & Development Laboratory at Fort Mon-
mouth, New Jersey. I survived the McCarthy inquisition and am at
present deputy director of engineering.

For recreation I play some tennis, make use of the excellent ocean
bathing facilities offered by New Jersey, do a little photography
and, for the last three years, have been rebuilding and rehabilitating
an old (150 years or so) house.

[131]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT ORRIN BLAIR

 

HOME appress: 87 Green St. Marblehead, Mass.
OFFICE AppREsS: Boston Internal Revenue Service, 55 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 28, 1914, Lynn, Mass.

prepareD AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1940.

marnieép: Dorothy Harvey, Oct. 18, 1958, Brighton, Mass. cup: Heather Jean,

Jan. 8, 1960.
occupation: Internal Revenue Service.
RECEIVED law degree in 1940 and immediately plunged into the
Army. From buck private to lieutenant colonel took many years.
The in-between service was most interesting. Served in Southwest
Pacific — no paradise, I can assure you. Shipped back via hospital
evacuation channels in 1945, for a long siege of hospital duty. Re-
gained my physical well-being but never did get my brains un-
scrambled. Served at Command & General Staff College as an in-
structor for two years and then returned to civilian life and reserve
duty. Have continued to serve as a civil servant with the Army, Air
Force and Internal Revenue. At present, I am struggling to attain a
Master’s degree in tax law.

My hobbies have been confined to photography and the Civil
War — pardon me — the War Between the States. My convictions
are pretty much the same as when I entered college. 1 believe in
the tenets of the Bible, especially the Golden Rule; the Constitution
of the United States, especially the Bill of Rights, and last, but not
least, the final portion of the Gettysburg Address, that governments
should be “of the people, by the people, for the people.”

My life has been really enriched of late by the addition of my
blue-eyed, sandy-haired cherub, Heather Jean. She and her mother
now are the pillars around which I build my life,

[ 132 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN STEWART BLAISDELL

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 42 Staples St., Lowell, Mass.

LAMSON BLANEY

   

oa,

HOME AppREss: 122 Abbott Rd., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sylvania Electronics Products, Inc., 100 First Ave., Waltham 54,
Mass.

BORN: March 20, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1936. DEGREES: S.B, etm laude, 1936; MD, (Cornell
Univ.), 1940. °

MarRiED: Louise Eleanor Walker, Nov. 8 1941, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Benjamin Lamson, Dec. 31, 1945; Geoffrey Walker, July 14, 1948; Martha,
Oct. 22, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Professional socicties.

PUBLICATIONS: Professional articles.

SINCE graduation I have acquired a degree in medicine and ad-
vanced to specialty status in preventive medicine. Of equal impor-

[ 133]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
tance Is my family whose activities and interests are ‘ ‘explodin
the present time. Relaxation comes from projects related ie" at
great out-of-doors.

NATHANIEL HOPKINS BLATCHFORD, Iii

 

press: 1705 County Line Rd., Northbrook, Ill.

press; Arthur Dixon Transfer Co., 1319 S. State St., Chicago, Ill.

>. 5, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio.

11; North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

DLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

atherine C. Lawrence, Aug. 23, 1941, Dundee, Ill. cumpren: Kath-

eb, 25, 1944; Neil, Oct. 5, 1945; Sally, Dec. 19, 1946; Holly, Dec.
Evelyn, Dec. 17, 1952 (deceased 1953); Carol, Aug. 11, 1954;

rch 15, 19509.
er: Nicholas Blatchford, ‘41.

ice-president, A.D.T. Rental Company, Division of Arthur
sfer Company, engaged in truck leasing and truck rental.
ember, Board of Education, Northbrook; member, Northbrook
mittee; vestryman, St, Giles Church; president, Northbrook
r Club; commissioner, Northbrook Park District.

rom Bob Rawson for a biography is the first nice
orthcoming Reunion, as it gives me cause to reflect
‘ul years and to remember with fondness college
time friends, and to appreciate our new ones.
graphy: I trust that I am well, I am certainly
vonderful and beautiful wife whose talent and
s home and children is ever a marvel to me, Out
perfect. I don't mean this in a boastful sense,

just that. I hope and pray they will continue

i

[ 134 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our chicf family interest, after school work, has been and con-
tinues in athletics, both participation and spectator sports. Mostly
football, baseball, skating, horses, tennis, track and golf.

During the winter the whole family skates as often as the weather
permits ice. Neil, Sally and Holly speed- -skate with our Northbrook
Skating Club. The club is entering its sixth year and onlv last year
two of our skaters, Eddie Rudolph and Beverley Buhr, skated on
the U.S. Olympic Team. We are quite proud of our own children,
too. Neil, Sally and Holly have each won Illinois State champion-
ships. Neil placed fourth in the Nationals last winter, while Holly
won the North American championship, the National Indoor Cham-
pionship and the National Outdoor championship, as well as setting
a new U.S. record in one event.

Kathie, our oldest child, is away at Kemper Hall in Kenosha,
Wisconsin. Kemper is an old Episcopal girls’ school. She is in her
second year there and loves the school as much as her mother did
when she was there some years ago.

My one complaint is the speed with which the months and years
go by. It is nice to look ahead to our Twenty-fifth and yet it is a
concern how quickly this Reunion has come upon us.

STEPHAN JOHN BLAUT

 

HOME appress: 17 E, 96th St. New York 28 N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Virginia Oak Tannery Inc, 27 Spruce St. New York 78 NY
BoRN: March 27, 1915, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

PREPARED AT: Goethe Gymnasium, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cin laude, 1936; La, Ogu.

MarrieD: Doris Haas, May 11, 1954 Frankfurt am Main, Germany tdivearced
1956); Corncha E. Blach, Dee. 36 1959q, New York, N.Y.

[135]

_ |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

occupation: Vice-president and director, Virginia Oak Tannery Inc., Luray,
Virginia, and affiliated companies.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

A FEW more years at Cambridge at the Law School, admission to
the New York bar, and in 1940 off to the Shenandoah Valley of Vir-
ginia to the family sole-leather-tanning business. Between the time
spent in finding my way through the maze of wartime regulations
as they applied to our company and learning a good deal of the
ancient craft of tanning leather, there was still time left in a Demo-
cratic town, in a Republican county, in the Democratic Old Domin-
ion, to gain a good acquaintance with the people of the upper South.
Of course, business life coming after the Law School seemed a real
puzzle to me and for a long time I felt more than tempted to believe
that “brains we buy.” I have not been able to find any consensus
on what makes for excellence in a business man, no more than
biographers can agree on the worth and impact of any particular
man upon history.

From the moment my tutor counselled the young sophomore,
recently arrived from the German Gymnasium, to sign up for His-
tory 5A, my fascination with the history of the American people
and with the growth of this nation has never left me. Learning
to become an American can be much like learning to be a human
being, a process that never ends. Thus, I felt a strange mixture of
emotions on seeing my native city again, during my first visit to
Germany after the war in 1948.

When I note Harvard building apartments for married students,
I realize all the more that family responsibilicy and its many satis-
factions came to me late, but I don’t want to join in the ungenerous
pride of those who in their middle age think it is much too good to
be wasted on the young. And with it all to find out one is so far

less than perfect, in the face of “VERITAS” — which is a challenge,
but a comfort too.

[ 136 }

eee ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD HOLME BLICKENSDERFER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 3223 Gough St., San Francisco 23, Calif.

ANTHONY ADDISON BLISS

ye ERR PLEIN 2 NRE IR A ER

   
   

=
x

é

 

HOME AppRESS: Oyster Bay Road, Locust Valley, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Milbank, Tweed, Hope & Hadley, 15 Broad St, New York 5,
N.Y.

BORN: April 19, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936, LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia),
1940.

MarRiED: Barbara Field, Dec. 22, 1937, New York, N.Y. (divorced 19y1); Jo
Ann Sayers, June 9, 1942, New York, N.Y. cuipren: Barbara, Sept. 22,
1939 (#2. Ambler H. Moss, Jr, June 18, 1960); Eileen, Aug. 05. 19435
Anthony Addison, Jr. Dec. 1, 1945; John Wheeler, Get. 28 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Cornelius Newton Bliss, Jr, °33.

occupaTion: Attorney, partner, Milbank, Tweed, Hope & Hadley.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since January, 1948, Vice-president, 1933-1940, Boys’
Club of New York; director, since November, tgyg, president, since

[137 ]

| |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

April, 1956, Metropolitan Opera Association, Inc.; trustee, U.S. Trust
Company of New York, since February, 1959.

MEMBER OF: International, American, New York State, Nassau County, and
New York City Bar Associations, Creck Club; Rockefeller Center
Luncheon Club, Inc.; Broad Street Club, Inc.; American Chesapeake Club
(formerly president); Long Island Retriever Field Trial Club (formerly
president); Hemisphere Club, Inc.; River Club.

pusLicaTions: Book on Chesapeake Bay Retriever; miscellaneous articles on
legal subjects, dogs and game birds,

AFTER leaving college, I wallowed in the valley of indecision for
several years before selecting the legal profession as a permanent
career. I first entered law school with the intention of getting a
legal background for business purposes. After graduating from
Virginia Law School in 1940, I decided to try practice for one year.
Long before the year. was up, I realized that I enjoyed the practice
of law and it has been my career ever since. I started with the firm
of which I am now a member, Milbank, Tweed, Hope & Hadley.
After nine months of practice, I left the office to accept a commis-
sion in the Naval Reserve, but while waiting for orders to active
duty I became involved with the Fight for Freedom Committee, and
traveled on a speaking tour with Herbert Agar. After Pearl Har-
bor, I was called to active duty and found myself in the personnel
department of the Naval Torpedo Station at Newport, Rhode Is-
land. After a year of struggling with the draft status and gasoline
rationing program for 13,000 civilian employees, I was transferred
to the ACI program and ultimately ended up in the South Pacific
and the Philippines with a Black Cat squadron. After returning
from the Philippines, I was stationed in Washington for a few
months prior to V-J Day and upon demobilization I returned to the
practice of law.

Having determined at law school that tax law was not for me,
I promptly became a tax specialist for a period of about ten years.
At college, my extracurricular interests were raising, training and
showing Chesapeake Bay Retrievers, and riding and shooting. These
activities have temporarily faded into the background, since my
work with the Metropolitan Opera and Lincoln Center for the Per-
forming Arts takes every moment not pre-empted by my family.

[ 138]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

~ THOMAS DENNIE BOARDMAN

m7 a

   

Ni aaa ae Alana

 

HOME apprEss: 4 E. 64th St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1912, Manchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Vivian Dixon, May 8, 1937, Lattingtown, Long Island, N.Y. (divorcec
1947); Dorothy Potter, Oct. 1, 1947, Parkland, Md. (divorced 1955).
CHILDREN: Vivian Dixon, April 27, 1939 (mm. James Foley, Sept. 8, 1960);
Dennie Dixon, Nov. 7, 1945; Dorothy Potter, Aug. 19, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Reginald Boardman, Jr., 38. |

OCCUPATION: Construction.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club; Racquet and Tennis Club, New York City.

STANLEY JOSEPH BOGUNIECKI

 

HOME ApprREss; 116 E. Main Se., Meriden, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 114 E, Main St, Meriden, Conn.

BORN; June 25, 1914, Westfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Westfield High School, Westfield, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., Cet laude, 19363 M.D. 1940.

[ 139]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

marrieD: Irene Marianski, June 17, 1942, Meriden, Conn.

occuPATION: Physician and surgeon in general practice.

OFFICES HELD: State athletic physician, Conn., 1945-55; school physician, 1953-
61; member, surgical staff, Meriden and Memorial Hospitals; member,
board of directors, Meriden Boys’ Club, Y.M.C.A,

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Connecticut State, New Haven
County and Meriden Medical Societies; Academy of General Practice;
Elks Club; Knights of Columbus; Falcons; Rod and Gun Club.

AFTER receiving an A.B. at Harvard in 1936, spent four years at
Harvard Medical and received an M.D. degree in 1940. Served in-
ternship (1940-41) at Meriden (Conn.) Hospital. Enlisted U.S.
Navy Reserve, 1941, lieutenant (j.g.). Active duty, July, 1941, to
December, 1945. Served as medical officer at U.S. Naval Air Sta-
tion, British Guiana. Received flight surgeon training at Pensacola,
Florida, 1943. Served as flight surgeon with First Marine Detach-
ment in the South Pacific until 1945. Returned to inactive duty,
U.S.N.R., rank of commander. Returned to Meriden to enter gen-
eral practice. Hobbies: golf, tennis, fishing, swimming.

JOHN WILLIAM ANDREAS BOHLEN

 

HOME AppRESS: 29 Aldwyn Lane, Villanova, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Law Dept., Radio Corp. of America, Camden, N.J.

BORN: Nov, 7, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936,

marrieD: Katherine B, Horsley, May 20, 1949, Philadelphia, Pa. cuipren: R.
Kephart, Sept. 23, 1940 (stepson); Elizabeth Hazard, June 22, 1944 (by
former marriage).

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

(THE dates in the above are correct, and everything is on the up-

[ 140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and-up. This second marriage for both of us has been very happy.)
Shortly after dissolution of our law partnership, I joined the law
department of RCA in the summer of 1950. It has been interestin

and often stimulating work. At present, I represent, primarily, the
electronic data processing division and the industrial controls de-
partment. An article of mine, with the sexy title, “New Product
Development from a Lawyer’s Point of View,” was published in the
American Management Association's Management Report, No. 39.
Hobbies: cruising and ocean racing, paying the mortgage, ogling
beautiful and not-so-beautiful women, etc. Kathy is an ardent
skater, likes sailing, and has had great success teaching remedial
reading. Our son is in the Navy, our daughter is at Abbot Academy,
Andover, Massachusetts.

JOHN LAWRENCE VICK BONNEY, JR.

    

HOME AppRESS: 2118 E. Broad St., Columbus 9, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bonney-Floyd Co., 611 Marion Rd, Columbus 7, Ohio.

BoRN: Feb. 21, 1914, Columbus, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 19363 S.M., 1938.

MarriED: Caroline Miller, Sept. 15, 1936, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Sally
Wolcott, Sept. 7, 1941; Anne Elliott, Feb, 20, 1949.

occupation; President, Bonney-Floyd Company, steel foundry,

OFFICES HELD: Director, Steel Founders’ Society of America, 1951-53, Alloy
Casting Institute, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Rocky Fork Hunt and Country Club; Columbus Club.

AFTER working during the summer of °36 for Frank Chesley, in
Saco, Maine (and I haven’t heard from him in a long time!), a fore
tunate sequence of events led to two wonderful years as a married
graduate in Cambridge.

[141]

—_______ Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

In 1938, I went to work for U.S, Steel in Pittsburgh — a valuable
experience, but hardly lucrative on the basis of three days’ work
per week. In the fall of 38, we moved to Wilmington, Delaware,
where I fully intended to demonstrate my latent genius for research
in metallurgy at the duPont Company. Unfortunately (for me, not
duPont), the Navy called early in 41.

First to New London, then Washington, then navy schools of all
kinds, then a PC in the South Atlantic, then, in ’44, orders to return
to Columbus on inactive duty to work in the family enterprise —
the one area I had sworn openly to avoid. I should have kept on
swearing. This is a full-time rat race, never dull, but always diff-
cult. Since we have become producers of nuclear power com-
ponents, even less dull and more difficult.

Since I was lucky enough to marry a beautiful girl, it shouldn’t
surprise me that we have two who look like her (but it’s still a
source of wonder to me). One thing about me hasv’t changed — I
worry. In fact, our younger one says, “All Daddy does is worry,
and all Mummy does is worry about Daddy’s worrying!”

DAVID AUGUSTUS BOODY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 424 E. 52d St., New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Industrial Molasses Corp., 321 Fort Lee Rd., Leonia, NJ.

BORN: April 8, 1914, Englewood, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MaRRIED: Jacqueline Arrowsmith, June 8, 1946, Englewood, N.J, (divorced
1953); Claire Siegbert, June 13, 1959, White Plains, N.Y. ctttpren: David
Liscomb, March 14, 1947; Peter, Oct. 18, 1950.

OccupATION: Eastern sales manager, Industrial Molasses Corporation, distributors
of cane and beet molasses to feed and fermentation industries,

[ 142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Society of Colonial Wars; Ekwanok
Country Club.

IT would be nice to think that the Class wants to know all the items
of my career asked for in the Report form. While I have not found
the last twenty-five years exactly dull, I have the impression that the
eager public waiting to read my narration of them is confined to my
wife. And she’s more interested in what’s coming next than in what
has happened since 1936. Thus, I am relieved of the necessity of
trying to be weighty or light or, least of all, interesting. I abandoned
the notion I could write in the spring of 1935.

Right after graduation I imagined I could make a contribution to
the theatre, and so spent that summer in Stockbridge, Massachusetts,
with about forty other earnest young people, none of whom has
been heard of since. I also spent three months that fall at the Yale
Drama School which qualified me admirably for a job as stock boy
in a ladies’ department store in New York.

Since then I’ve sold soup and tea to grocers, sewing machines and
vacuum cleaners to suspicious housewives, fancy food packages to
salesmen wishing to bribe buyers, and am currently selling black-
strap molasses and dried beet pulp to anyone who'll buy.

During the war I traveled quite a bit about Africa and Europe
while establishing some kind of record for remaining a second
lieutenant longer than anyone else in the Army of the United States.

The whole thing seems to have agreed with me since I’m plump
and fairly cheerful, with an indulgent but clever bride who keeps me
from being entirely sedentary. My two sons, fourteen and ten, seem
reasonably awake, and I am not without hope they will make it to
Harvard. As I believe in the dynamics of Harvard, I do not cur-
rently much admire the mentality of the political party to which I
was born and in which I was nurtured. The results all seem to be
in a class with the Twenty-second Amendment which I trust one
day will have its counterpart of the Twenty-first. I do fervently
believe in representative government, in civ il rights, in men of the
caliber of Sam Morison, in the ultimate wisdom of man and, perhaps
above all, in licben und arbeiten.

[ 143 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

 

HOME appress: “Robin Hill,” Coronation Road, Sandhurst, Johannesburg, South

Africa. °
OFFICE AppRESS: P.O. Box 6300, Johannesburg, South Africa.
BORN: Jan. 27, 1911, Capetown, South Africa.
TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Capetown, Capetown, South Africa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. ;
marriED: Marjorie Craoe Buchanan, 1939, Capetown, South Africa. CHILDREN:

Charles Michael, March 19, 1944; Suzanne Paula, Aug. 22, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Emil Bothner, ’34 (deceased).
OccUPATION: Chairman, Bothner Group of Companies.

FOLLOWING the death of my brother, Maurice E. (Bobby)
Bothner, Class of 1934, I became chairman of the Bothner Group
of Companies in 1955. Overseas connections entail frequent visits to
the United Kingdom, Europe and to the U.S.A., but unfortunately

not often enough to the last.
The Twenty-fifth Reunion will undoubtedly prove to be a most

successful and enjoyable occasion for which I send cordial greet-
ings and regrets for not being able to attend.

[ 144 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ JOHN WARREN BOWDEN

FRET OPS 2 SR En
te re

  

BORN: Oct. 27, 1913, Melrose, Mass. parents: Frederick Prescow Bowden, Mary
Eunice Burnham.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; S.M., 1938.

MarRIED: Mary Sharples, June 18, 1938, Peterborough, N.H. cHitpren: Philip
Price, June 7, 1940; Ruth Morison, Dec. 2, 1941; Barbara Lord, Oct. 10,
1943; Jane Eunice, May 9, 1947; Nancy, Jan. 29, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Burnham Bowden, ’22, M.B.A. 23; Frederick Prescott Bow-
den, ’30, M.B.A., °32.

piepD: March 2, 1959, Franconia, N.H.

wipow: Mrs. John W. Bowden, 10 Hancock PI., Irvington, N.Y.

JOHN WARREN BOWDEN spent four years as an undergradu-
ate with our Class and was a member of the Glee Club throughout
his college years. Immediately upon graduation from the Engineer-
ing and Business Schools, he started to work for the Lord & Burn-
ham Company, manufacturers of greenhouses. He was very much
interested in producing more, better and cheaper houses, and par-
ticularly in designing, building and popularizing the aluminum ones
that now comprise so much of the market. Problems of condensa-
tion, automatic heating and ventilation intrigued him and he con-
stantly worked toward their solution. He held several patents on
greenhouse members. At the time of his death he was experiment-
ing with plastic houses for lengthening summer — both for growing
plants and for swimming pools.

He had been a member of the board for many years, and secre-
tary from 1949 to 1959, of the Irvington Youth Center. Ele had re-
cently been elected to the boards of the Dobbs Ferry Home and
School Association and the YMCA in Tarrytown. He was a mem-
ber of the Hludson Valley Madrigal Society, Appalachian Mountain

[ 145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Club and the Harvard Engineering Society. He was survived by i=—==
wife and children.

LEMUEL BOWDEN

     

‘t |
HOME appress: 177-A E, yoth St New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 177 E. 79th St.. New York a1, N.Y.
BorN: Dec. 16, 1914, Norfolk, Va.

PREPARED AT: Maury High School, Norfolk, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cu71 laude, 1936(35)3 M.D., 1939.

marriep: Charlotte Lewis Griswold, Sept. 8, 1951, Louisville, Ky. CHILDREN:

Howard Griswold, Dec. 6, 1952; Alexander Broughton, April 3, 1955;

Margaret McNeer and Mary Lawrence (twins), June 19, 1956.
OCCUPATION: Surgeon; private practice of medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attending surgeon, Gastric and Mixed Tumor Services,
Memorial Hospital; attending surgeon, Doctors Hospital; instructor in
surgery, Cornell Medical School (all New York City); consultant, Oneida
County Tumor Clinic, Utica, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College of
Surgeons (fellow); James Ewing Society; American Radium Society; New
York Surgical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Pneumothorax & Mediastinal Emphysema Complicating Neck
Surgery,” 1950; “Surgical Considerations in the Treatment of Sarcoma of
the Buttock,” 1952; “Recurrent Gastric Carcinoma,” 1954; “The Fallibility
of Pancreatic Biopsy,” 1954; “A More Thorough In-Continuity Neck and
Axillary Dissection,” 1956, “Principles and Technique of Resection of
Soft-Parts,” 1958; other professional and technical articles.

TO say that I have known since college days exactly what I wanted
to be and to do in life and to state that now I am and do exactly that,
is to risk classification as an insufferable braggart, a paranoiac or
a liar. I could have done more during the past twenty-five years; I
certainly could have done better, but I am happy and reasonably

[ 146]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

content at this point in midstream—the metaphor exposing my
inner hope that the farther shore is still years away.

Impelled by feverish haste to get on with this matter of a bac-
calaureate degree, ] attended the summer school in 1933 and com-
pleted requirements for said degree in June, 1935, entering Harvard
Medical School that fall, thus spending the senior collegiate year
across the Charles as a first-year medical student. Such youthful
haste has become to me increasingly inexplicable with each passing
year and retribution is now evident in progressive laziness and de-
creasing objective accomplishments.

Internship and postgraduate hospital training began at the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital and continued at New York’s Memorial
Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases for the next ten years, in-
terrupted by some three years in the Army Medical Corps (1943-
46). Although physically and socially (i.e. unmarried) qualified for
frontline service, I found myself sitting out the war in a radar out-
post north of Newfoundland where the battle was remotely against
the Axis powers but much more immediately against individual bore-
dom. This arctic sojourn provided me with a captive clientele of
about 5,000 natives in the environs of our outpost for whom I was
the only medical help available and with the leisure to enjoy War
and Peace and other works which I had previously never found time
to read.

At the age of thirty-five I had completed my residencies and fel-
lowships at long last and was considered prepared to practice mv
profession. Having no funds and still having seen little of the world
in spite of army service, I knew that it was now or never; for six
months, as a ship’s surgeon, I traveled to South America and Europe
and stimulated a latent wanderlust that has never yet been satisfied.

In the fall of 1949 1 became a member of the attending surgical
staff of Memorial Hospital in New York City and started priv ate
practice devoted almost exclusively to the treatment of patents
with cancer. This I continue to do to the present, finding the dis-
ease challenging and deceptive but not inevitably hopeless, the pa-
tients consistently courageous and cooperative and the practice
modestly remunerative.

Our class has never exhibited a more confirmed bachelor than |
at the age of thirty-six. Having resisted the biological urge to mate
during my twenties — chiefly for lack of means, T have alw avs said,
but I’m sure for lack of opportunity as well — IT was looking to
middle age with self-centered satisfaction and self-contident. in-

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

dependence. Then the obvious happened to me and the incredible
to a girl thirteen years my junior! I still wonder not only how,
buc why, she tolerates me. Four young children, I am sure, stabilize
this for-better-or-for-worse relationship.

As for the future: the practice of medicine is, I am convinced,
an art and not a science. Like all of the arts it is susceptible of con-
stant refinement and, while strength lasts and unul the intrusion of
a third party (be it government, labor or other) makes its pursuit
impossible, I plan sic to pursue. And such other ambitions as may
still smoulder within I hope to enjoy vicariously in the activities

of my children.

++ LEONARD CARLYLE BOWLES

 

BorN: Dec. 13, 1912, Chattanooga, Tenn. parents: Floyd Bowles, Grace Eavers.
PREPARED AT: Detroit Central High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MARRIED: Virginia Dickson, 1939, Yuma, Ariz.

piep: Jan. 31, 1960, Inglewood, Calif. .

winow: Mrs. Leonard C. Bowles, 10114 Buford Ave., Inglewood 2, Calif.
LEONARD CARLYLE BOWLES spent one year at Harvard with
our Class. For a time he was engaged in landscape architecture in
North Hollywood, California. For our Fifteenth Anniversary Re-
port, he wrote that he was in the aircraft accessorics business in

Inglewood, California, He was survived by his wife.

[ 148 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES LOUIS LEBLANC BOYLE, II

 

HOME aAppreEss: 108 N. Franklin St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

OFFICE appRESS: English Dept., King’s College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1912, Fort Wayne, Ind.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s, London, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.A. (Univ. of London), 1938,
Dr.-és-lettres (Université de Paris), 1953.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of English, King’s College.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; MIA; AAUP.

PUBLICATIONS: Marcel Proust et Les Ecrivains Anglais, Nizet, Paris, 1953; “Au-
trement Dit,” La Parisienne, Avril, 1953.

YE who listen with credulity to the whispers of fancy, and persue
with eagerness the phantom of hope; who expect that age will per-
form the promise of youth, and that the deficiencies of the present
day will be supplied by the morrow; attend to the history of James
LeBlanc Boyle, 2d, associate professor of English at King’s College.

Rightly there should be no history to attend; “happy is the coun-
try that has no history,” but w ho presumes this professor to be
happy? And who is wholly happy? Who is somewhat happv?
Without approaching Thoreau’s state of quiet desperation, one
might still fall short of perfect content.

As I reflect, at the Class Seeretary’s request, upon my last twenty-
five years, what may I report of interest to my classmates? V ery
little. Age, as in the case of Rasselas, did not perform the promise
of youth —or perhaps it all too accurately did do juse that. Was
the promise great?

In the previous Class Reports, my actual occupations were noted,
It can be seen from that that after i interesting, but non-heroic, wat
duty my carcer was not glamorous. Pleasant, ves, to me, but not

[ 149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

glamorous. I felt that teaching here, in a “distressed area,” the
“field was indeed white unto the harvest but the labourers few.” |
have not repented my not at all remarkable idealism. Can it be that
I am lacking in normal American ambition? When I glance through
the previous Class Reports of 1936, I do not really envy the director-
ships, the stage hits, wives, divorces, Harvard sons, obviously enor-
mous incomes, employments of confidence in the government and
public eminence. And this is not inverted snobbishness.

I am enthusiastic about my work; I rejoice greatly when one of
the English majors takes a full scholarship at the Harvard (of course)
Law School and does brilliantly. Better than a year’s pay — and no
taxes! But I have spent the past twenty-five years in a field where
monetary rewards are not great — and never will be unless one were
called to High Places —and that is unlikely since I do not publish
much, merely teach as intensively as I can. My only regret about
not being a member of the affluent society is that I was not able to
do my duty by the Harvard Advocate, the love and pride of my
undergraduate years, when the new house was built, nor fittingly
contribute to the Fund for Harvard. A gratifying feeling it must
be to dash off a cheque for several hundred!

In the summer I teach a course (contemporary British literature,
this coming one) in the Georgetown-University of Fribourg Sum-
mer School, at Fribourg, Switzerland, for six weeks. Before that I
spend some time in London, Oxford and Cornwall — after school is
over, I go to Paris and stay, nostalgically, at 41 rue M. le Prince
again where I lived while studying for my doctorate at the Sor-
bonne. Then I come back to King’s College aboard some German
freighter (fare $150). A fine figure I shall cut in the Class’s sta-
tistics!

Politically I am as liberal as ever — the model my classmates give
me for educated-Babbittry in voting does not impress me. Arthur
Schlesinger, Jr., whom I knew back in Advocate days, still has my
admiration and confidence. Not everybody in the Class of ’36 can
be Vested Interests, and while I don’t complain of this state of
affairs, I really see no point in attending a Twenty-fifth Reunion to
be convinced of just how undistinguished a member of that Ter-
centenary Class I am. Behold, as saith Holy Writ, “my lines are
cast in pleasant places,” and, sufficit,

[150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH GARDNER BRADLEY, JR.

    

HOME appRESS: 1165 Fifth Ave., New York 29, N.Y.
BORN: March 5, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

GERALD AMES BRAMWELL

 

HOME ADpRESS: 77 Bayard Lane, Princeton, N.J.

OFFICE appREsS: Benson & Benson, Inc., 33 Witherspoon St. Princeton, N-J-

BORN: April 20, 1911, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Sourhboro, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS 1N COLLEGE! 1932-1934.

MarRiED: Katharine Hone Fmmet, Sept. 22, 1934, Stony Brook, Long Island,
N.Y. cuioren: Heid Emmet, April 6, 1930 (#7. Robert Gordon Frick,
Feb. 22, 195%); Katharine Hone Emmet, Dec. 6, togr; Gerald Ames,
Jr, June 26, 1944.

occuPaTION: Vice-president, Benson & Benson, Inc, consumer, market and
public opinion research,

[ist]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

memMser OF: Union Club; Racquet and Tennis Club; Harvard Club; Spee Club;

Nassau Club; American Association of Public Opinion Research; American
Marketing Association.

I WORKED for the Chemical Bank & Trust Company, 165 Broad-
way, for four and a half years before coming down to Princeton
in 1939 to work for Benson & Benson, Inc., where I have been ever
since, with the exception of time out for the war. I served as a
private in the Infantry — European Theatre of Operations and re-
ceived the Combat Infantry Badge and a Purple Heart. Was made
vice-president of Benson & Benson in 1947 and have conducted
surveys in virtually every state in the U.S.A. Am still an ardent
sports fan and a conservative Republican.

+ MANSFIELD BRANIGAN

 

BORN: July 23, 1913, Groton, Mass. parents: Edward Bailey Branigan, May-
belle Gardener Mansfield.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Phyllis E. Wright, June 25, 1938, Westford, Mass. CHILDREN: Carter,
Oct. 10, 1939; Edward W., Oct. 18, 1942; Elizabeth, Sept. 5, 1950.
piep: Dec. 20, 1953, Littleton, Mass.

winow: Mrs. Mansfield Branigan, Foster Street, Littleton, Mass.

MANSFIELD BRANIGAN spent four years with our Class. While
an undergraduate he was a resident of Winthrop House and a mem-
ber of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity and the 1936 University golf
team. He taught mathematics at Manlius School in New York until
1946, when he joined the staff of the mathematics department of
Syracuse University as an instructor. At the time of his death, he
was an assistant professor of mathematics and science at the College

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Business Administration at Boston University. He had ser
chairman of the Westford-Littleton-Carlisle Regional District
Planning Board. He was survived by his wife and children.

HARVEY WRIGHT BRANIGAR, JR.

 

HOME appress: 27 Brinker Rd., Barrington, Ill.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Irving Park and Church Roads, Bensenville, Til.
BORN: Sept. 30, 1913, Burlington, lowa.

PREPARED AT; Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass. .
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREES: A.B. (Principia Coll.), 1936; 5.M. (Nor
western Univ.), 1940.

Marriep: Sarah Lee Perot, Aug. 16, 1937, New York, N.Y. CHILD: Kathe.
Lee, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Real estate and manufacturing.

CHARLES NORCROSS BREED, JR.

 

HOME appress: 25 Fast End Ave. New York 28 N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 59 E. 6sth St, New York at, N.Y,

[153]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

BORN: Feb. 27, 1914, Swampscott, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B. C2772 laude, 1936; M.D., 1943.

MarrieD: Annie Lawrie Ryerson, April 27, 1946, Chicago, Ill. cxttp: Nancy
Ryerson, April 9, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MEMBER oF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College of

Surgeons (fellow); Racquet and Tennis Club; The Church Club of New

York, Piping Rock Club, Locust Valley, N.Y.; Tarratine Club, Dark Har-
bor, Maine.

HARRY WHITIN BREWER

 

HOME appREss: 43 Black Horse Lane, Cohasset, Mass.

OFFicE aDpREsS: H. W. Brewer & Co. 53 State St., Boston 9, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 30, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Loomis Institute, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: AB., 1936; a.m. (Univ. of Michigan),
1939.

marrizp: Nancy B. Bowler (divorced 1940); Sarah Kinney Tingley, Jan. 6,
1942, New York, N.Y. cempren: Frederick B., Oct. 14, 1939; Harry

Whitin, Jr, Aug. 6, 1943; Barbara Kinney, Sept. 24, 1946; John T., Feb.
26, 1956; Betsey F., Oct. 18, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Cyrus Brewer, Harvard Business School, 1932-33:
OccuPATION: Sole proprietor, H. W. Brewer & Company, investments.

MEMBER OF: Badminton and Tennis Club, Boston, Cohasset Golf Club; Co-
hasset Yacht Club.

PHASE I — Insurance — 1936-1942. As a sophomore, having failed
advanced algebra at November Hours, | changed my field of con-
centration from math to chemistry. Upon graduation and with a
dandy laboratory background, felt particularly qualified for the
Actuarial Department of John Hancock Life Insurance Company of
Boston. Since the results of the ’37 Actuarial Exam, Part I, were the

| 154 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

same as Harvard math ’33, Jeft Boston and entered the University
of Michigan to take courses in life insurance. I received an A.M. in
actuarial science in 1939, plus four out of six exams required to be
an associate in the Actuarial Society of America. Thence, to the
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in New York, passed an-
other exam, and was % associate when World War II broke our.

Phase J] — War — 1942-1946. Basic training — BIRTC (Branch
Immaterial(?})) Replacement Training Center) at Fort McClellan,
Alabama. Thence to the 8th Motorized Division at Fort Jackson,
South Carolina — motorized meant walking ahead of the half tracks,
just as “Immaterial” meant Infantry. When Private Rear Rank
Brewer received orders to report to Ordnance Officer Candidates
School at Aberdeen, Maryland, the company bulletin board had
clearly marked among other promotions “HWB to corporal only
for the purpose of attending OCS” to assuage the feelings of those
PFC’s who merited promotion. Commissioned a second screw in
Ordnance in ’43, overseas to England in ’44, and spent the duration
at one of the Prince of Wales’ hunting lodges near Bedford. As
Bedford was located near the headquarters of the 8th Bomber Com-
mand, no errant flying bomb approached the area and life was
serene. The greatest risks to life and limb were the weekend trips to
London, financed exclusively by the commanding officer of Bedford,
a lieutenant colonel who was an ardent devotee of poker but didn’t
know a run from a card flush. An application for citanon for
bravery in the face of enemy action, VI’s and VII's, written upon
Dorchester House stationery was ignored.

Phase III — Investments — 1946-1960. Stage A— Stooge. Be-
cause immediate postwar II living conditions were impossible for
the pursuance of actuarial studies, one room on Commonwealth
Avenue in Boston, which contained one wife, one crib son, one gas
burner and one student (self), plus washing facilities down the hall
to be shared by all the renters on the same ‘floor, we abandoned the
life insurance field for the far more glamorous one of investments.
Whereas we had anticipated a desk full of a battery of telephones
all jingling with orders and numerous house accounts to get us
started, we found ourselves with one silent instrument and shortly
out of relatives and friends. "

Stage B deceived by an apparently satis-
factory production, Ww hich consisted mainly of trading for our own
accounts, a New York Stock Fxchange member firm made us an
irresistible offer to become their Mutual Funds sales manager, This

[ss]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

offer was accepted with alacrity, in the belief that enthusiasm couk
be passed down. However, despite a fifty-percent production in.
crease, the partners felt that said increase was inevitable and migha
perhaps have been retarded by the presence of a middle-man, and

that a contract termination was in order.

Stage C—Stooge again. Faced with the alternative of Stage A
again, the undersigned decided to go in for himself, i.¢., to become
a sole proprietor, By simple arithmetic, why split commissions
when you can get it all, less overhead. Results: Year 1 — $10,000

capital to stay solvent; year 2 — $5,000 capital same reason; year 3

—broke even; 1960 net about $5,000. Since Sally and I have four
children in private schools, it’s just a question of a few years until
all our capital is exhausted.

My advice to those sons of ’36 who contemplate entering the
investment business. Don’t do it unless one of the following three
conditions prevails:

1) You have an outside income of $10,000.

z) Your wife has an outside income of $10,000.
3) There is a strong strain of insanity in your family.

CHARLES HAYES BRICKLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 82 Fairway Rd. Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
orice appress: Thomas F. Galvin, Inc. 10 Beacon St, Boston 8, Mass.
porn: Oct. 17, 1912, Brookline, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE. 1932—1933-
Mappinp: Marguerite T. Dawson, Sept. 29, 1951, Chestnut Hill, Mass.
OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Thomas F. Galvin, Inc, retail florist.
ovvices HELD: Corporator, Union Savings Bank of Boston, since ig58; member,
board of directors, Boston Exccutive Association, since Igbo.

1 156 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Boston Executive Association, Executives Club, Boston Chamber
of Commerce; Clover Club of Boston, Gridiron Club of Boston; Chi Psi
Fraternity.

EVER since college, it has been nothing but work, mixed with some
delightful dates which culminated in 1951 with my marrying
“Miss America.” If I thought I was working before 1950, that was
one big rest period compared with what I have had to do since
owning my own business!

Seriously though, for the first fifteen years after college I worked
in three manufacturing businesses, namely: one, Boston Woven
Hose and Rubber Company — inspector and foreman; two, A. C.
Lawrence Leather Company (Swift and Company) — purchasing;
three, Electronics Firm — assistant to president and vice-president.
I finally achieved a vice-presidency in the last one. At that time, if
I hadn’t learned much, I at least knew enough to make an effort to
acquire my own business, which I was lucky enough to accomplish
after a year’s illness and a close examination of seventy of the sickest
businesses this country has ever known! Mv present business is my
own and has been good enough to keep me off the street for the
last eleven years. Actually, we have a first-class name and do an
excellent business with many of the top business houses in this city.

Since Peg and I were married, we have had a varied and interest-
ing existence. We have had our share of trips, seen a number of
interesting places in the country, and generally, it has been a lot
of fun. We have also enjoyed our share of golf, tennis and swim-
ming.

As for my war record, you may rest assured it will never be
compared with Eisenhower's; although to be factual about the
matter, I was in the Army.

I feel strongly about matters of religion and believe I am par-
ticularly conscientious in these duties. With conditions as they are
today, it would seem that such matters must receive their necessary
attention. Such matters are, of course, the basis of our verv ex-
istence. "

In closing, I would like to add that Peg and T have particularly en-
joyed a number of recent Boston 36 gatherings and hope they will
go on annually for many years to come.

[157]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

EDMUND ROGERS BRILL

 

MAILING AppRess: 88 Central Park, W., New York 23, N.Y.

ROBERT CAMPBELL BRINKLEY, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 2151 38th N., Seattle 2, Wash.
BORN: Oct. 11, 1913, Seattle, Wash.
PREPARED AT; Lakeside School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1033.
MARRIED: Janice Wolgemuth, Dec. 27, 1938. cHiLDREN: Robert Philip, May 23,

1945; John Stone, July 21, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Rawn Brinkley, ’31.
MEMBER OF: Seattle Golf Club; Men’s University Club; Seattle Tennis Club;

Washington Athletic Club.
IN March of 1934, I joined the U.S. Steel Corporation in Seattle.
After seven years with them I worked as a steel purchasing agent for
the Seattle-Tacoma Shipyards, who at that time were constructing

destroyers for the Navy.
In 1945 I went into business for myself as a manufacturers’ repre-

[158]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sentative and after six years of this I started a company called 1
supply, Inc., which dealt in the distribution of steel tubular

:
ucts. We sold this company in July of 1959. I worked for the

owners for approximately a year and since June of 1960 have

unemployed. 1 have plans tO start a new steel business shortly
the first of the year.

My principal hobbies are hunting and fishing, which my two I
also enjoy.

LEO JOSEPH BRISSETTE

 

HOME abprEss: 1 Edmunds Pl., Wakefield, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Trask Heating Co., 217 Park St., Medford, Mass.

Born: April 27, 1914, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

MarRIED: Arlene Browne, Aug. 17, 1935, Derry, N.H. cHitpren: Leo Austin,
June 28, 1936; Linda Louise (Mrs. Davis), Aug. 30, royo; David Arthur,
April 12, 1945; Peter John, Aug. 31, 1948; Geoffrey William, Jan. 17, 1952;
Jane Emily, Feb. 19, 1954. GRANDCHILD: Kim Louise Davis, Jan. 12, 1960.

occuPATION: Contractor: heating, ventilating and air conditioning.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; American Society of Heating and Air Conditioning
Engineers.

SINCE graduation I have been emploved by a small company en-
gaged primarily in heating and ventilating, and in air conditioning
since the war. Probably the chief disadvantage in being principal
owner of a small firm is the great amount of time that must be pur
into the business. This leaves coo little time for civic activities, and
at times, I wonder if it is too little time for the family. I have found

time to do a bit of collecting for United Fund and some work civic
in nature on committees of the Rotary Club.

[159]

ld LL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Compensating features include work that is interesting as well as
very varying. Traveling away from the office at least half the time
is relaxing. Geographically, I do work in all New England states and
have gone as far as Kalamazoo, Michigan, on contracting work, and,
this year, to Arizona on engineering.

Interesting projects vary from snow removal for a dog run to
consultation on and installation of a solar heating system under the
auspices of M.I.T. Clients are as different as the projects and prob-
lems. Not only do they include many Harvard alumni, but Harvard
University (through the office of Buildings and Grounds), Groton
School, Fay School, St. Mark’s, Milton Academy and Noble and
Greenough.

In limited spare time I have done some gardening, home carpentry,
bridge playing, fishing and water skiing. I have quite an interest in
sports cars, not limited to spare time, as I use one for my daily trans-
portation. Another interest worthy of note is in high fidelity music

reproduction.

JAMES HUNTER BROCK

 

HOME appress: 1025 Fellsway, Medford, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 State St., Boston, Mass.
BorN: Oct. 27, 1913, Malden, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Suffield School, Suffield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1935.
MarnigD; Catherine Erickson, May 3, 1953, Marshfield, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, general practice,

[ 160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY CANDLER BROOKS

      

© i aa f
oo

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Winding Way, Little Silver, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Chase Manhattan Bank, 18 Pine St. New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 12, 1915, Jacksonville, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MARRIED: Dorothee Buckley, Oct. 16, 1953, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Susan
Hall, 1954; Nancy Meade, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Hall Brooks, 738.

occupaTion: Banking; loan and new business officer.

LOOKING back over the years since graduation, I can think of
few accomplishments, many happy times, some sad and disappoint-
ing moments. Nothing to be very proud of, but nothing to be too
ashamed about either. Not exciting enough for some, but appar-
ently all right for me, for somehow I seem to enjoy life and its
surroundings most of the time.

I like my work. I have been at the Chase since I left Cambridge,
and for a long time have been with a group which specializes in
loans to public utility companies. Ours was the first bank to organ-
ize such a department. This was almost thirty years ago and though
we are still known as the “utility bank” it has taken some doing
to keep the competition from catching up with us. Incidentally, if
you think, as I did long ago, that banking is a gentle business far
above the competitive frec-for-alls of the market place, forget it.

In recent years, I have been assigned primarily to our customers
and prospects in the Southeast and Middle South, the fastest growing
regions in the country. This involves traveling about four or five
weeks a year, which is just about right for me, Originally a south-
erner, [particularly enjoy watching the transformation of the

[ 161]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

South’s economy. But if any one has a quick solution to its social
problems, step up in a hurry.

I could go on for a long time about my family. I was a late
starter and am now experiencing the kinds of family joys most
of you knew ten or more years ago. Married only seven years to
a wife who likes everything I like except racing (Monmouth Park
is only a mile and a half away), I also have terrific times with
Susie, six, who is in the first grade and real smart, and Nancy, three,
who is in everything and real fresh. Most guys want a son, but I
think daughters are better than anything. Besides, the arrival of a
son at my age would be a sobering as well as an uncalculated event.
Anyway, my present hope is that we can bring up our girls to be
as perceptive, discriminating and as much of a genius as their
father is. .

As for politics, I have always considered myself an independent,
but in review I find I have almost without exception voted Demo-
cratic on the national level and Republican locally. Just coincidence
I like to think, because independent is a good word. As this is being
written, after the election and before the inauguration, I feel a
sense of intense anticipation about American government. I think
J.F.K. will be even bigger and better in the job than the last Har-
vard man was, but I am teased by the thought he just might be
worse than the last President elected from the Senate. We'll see,
and it'll be fun watching. At least, I’m sure it will be one or the
other, which is more than you can say for the last eight years.

Other convictions of mine are not religious, but I do have some
feelings about our society and what Harvard has been doing and
can do about it. I'll add my voice to the many of us who must -
deplore sameness, whether in social, moral or political areas. And
Harvard is just the place to overcome this strangling force. I'd
like to see Harvard double its enrollment and so double its influ-
ence, not only here in Wall Street, but all around the world.
Higher education in the U.S., as I see it, has declined in the last
twenty-five years, and who but Harvard can best bring it back?
Amen.

[ 162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SHEPHERD BROOKS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Berkeley St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: May 6, 1941, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B.. 1940; A.M., 1049.

MARRIED: Esmee deMenocal, June 15, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHm~preN: Charles
Chardon, March 18, 1952; Angelica, June 14, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Chardon Brooks, ’4o.

occuPATION: Education; consultant, American Foundation for Conunuing Edu-
cation, Chicago, and Educational Services, Inc., Watertown, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Newspaper reporter, 1936-37; attorney, 1940; soldier, 1941-46;

_ producer, Educational Radio Programs, 1948-49; director, Salzburg Semi-

nar in American Studies, Salzburg, Austria, 1950-53; dean of university
development and dean of students, Brandeis University, 1954-56; con-
sulcant, American Foundation, Chicago, since 1957.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Selected Readings for the Executive Seminar, Chicago,

1959, 1960.

AM I the person with the same name who graduated from Harvard
College twenty-five years ago? . . . No, is the immediate replv, for
that college boy was innocent and I can hardly be that. Am I certain
that I am no longer innocent? . . . No, I cannot be certain. Flow-
ever, I do know that I’m far too old for innocence. Furthermore,
I find encouragement in observing that a great many Americans are
less innocent than their parents. This is one of the reasons for a re-
cent decision to accelerate my own education by changing from
liberal arts seminars for business executives to programs for im-
proving the science education of elementary school children.

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GEORGE STAFFORD BROUGHTON

 

HOME AppRESS: P.O, Box 33, Riverton, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hitchcock Chair Co., Riverton, Conn.

BoRN: Oct. 25, 1914, Stonington, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Stratford High School, Stratford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.
MarrieD: Caroline G. Ginand, Sept. 11, 1936, Bridgeport, Conn. cHivpren:

Clarke Chadwick, Jan. 22, 1941; Porter Dean, March 13, 1945
OccUPATION: Executive vice-president, general manager, Hitchcock Chair Com-

pany, furniture and chair manufacturers.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Connecticut House, Inc. 4 vestryman, St, James

Episcopal Church, Winsted, Conn.
MEMBER OF: Hiram Lodge No. 18, A.F. & A.M., Sandy Hook, Conn.; North-

western Connecticut Sportsmen’s Association, Winsted, Conn

CHARLES FREEMAN BROWN, II

    

inte
HOME appress: 16 Hay Rd., Belmont, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Scientific Engineering Institute, Inc, 140 Fourth Ave., Wal-

tham, Mass,
[ 164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sporN: March 7, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1941-

MaRRIED: Caroline Tighe Wilkinson, Nov. 12, 1949, East Haddam, Conn.
(died Jan. 29, 1951); Pamela Wedd, Nov. 29, 1952, London, England.
CHILDREN: Penelope Susan, Jan. 25, 1954; Nicholas Wedd, June 10, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kenneth Wright Brown, °35, LL.B, 738.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, Scientific Engineering Institute, Inc,

a non-profit institute devoted to applied research primarily in the elec-
tronics field.

REVIEWING (soberly at the moment) my somewhat chequered
career, I found that I have held seventeen distinguishably different
jobs not counting added functions or changes in specific duties due
to promotions. Examination of the circumstances of these changes
in jobs disclosed the fact that most of them were the result of fol-
lowing my own inclinations or of the intervention of fate or both.
However, my career has not been as scatter-brained as it may seem.
Ten of my jobs were in the service of the U.S. Government or on
loan from it and all of them fit into a pattern involving three main
interwoven themes. These themes, in order of appearance, are
foreign affairs, the law and science.

Interest in foreign affairs appeared while I was an undergraduate,
largely through the elimination of other possible fields of concen-
tration. It was not very strong at the time and did not produce
any positive action on my part once my diploma was safely in hand.
Instead, I floundered around for two years in several more or less
uncongenial jobs. Then finding myself unemployed in the recession
of 1938 and unable to find a job of any sort, 1 went to the Law
School.

The study of law turned out to my surprise to be fascinating
and in 1941, classified 4F and an LL.B., I moved happily across the
river into practice with a Boston law firm. For a while all wene
well. Even after Pearl Harbor, I was able to keep my conscience
under control by doing a number of small home- front-ty pe chores.
As time went on, however, this began to seem inadequate with the
world on fire. All attempts to enter military service having failed.
I went to Washington to make a more direet contribution to the
war effort as a civilian (later bureaucrat).

After a false start in the Treasury Department for a few months
I moved to the Office of Scientitic Research and Development as a
member of the office of the General Counsel. Here the third theme
entered my life and I spent the Years 1944 to 1947 in a state of job-

[ 165 ]

_——— L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

enthusiasm for hydrofoils and allowed the contract with the Hy dro-
foil Corporation to expire on June 30, 1954. While I do not con-
sider this a diabolical plot aimed at me personally by my former
friend fate, I was jobless again at forty when life is supposed to
begin. I had lost some of my meager admiration for the Navy.
McCarthyism was rampant, unchecked by “that man in the White
House,” and things looked black indeed. I began to think that my
luck had finally run out, and as a matter of fact quite a lot of it
had. I succeeded in becoming a bureaucrat but found little to enjoy
and I shifted jobs uneasily three times in as many years. Finally I
sought to return to the foreign affairs business, theme number one,
and searched for a job somewhere in Europe. I wasn’t fussy as to
where. My search was partially successful, for in July 1957, I found
myself (now on the payroll of the Army), my wife and two babies
ona ship, but it was headed for Japan.

For two years we lived the life of proper bureaucrats with all the
creature comforts you can imagine. In addition, I was able to make
a rather extensive trip through much of Southeast Asia. We found
some friends with boats and did some cruising (great fun), and we
also did some skiing (excellent). On the whole it was an interesting
and enjoyable period and I do not regret it even though the job
involved was no great shakes. As a matter of fact, for the third
time in my career, I recommended the abolition of my own job. (I
have not yet decided whether or not to feel complimented when
this type of recommendation is accepted.)

On my return to Washington in a state to which I had become
accustomed, namely, jobless, I felt more acutely the effect of age
on employability, at least in a case like mine. I had lots of experience
in various parts of the world, but it didn’t seem to match the require-
ments of the few jobs available in 1959. Moreover, I kept encounter-
ing policies of promoting from within —a principle with which I
cannot disagree except when applied against me. I also kept meet-
ing friends who had stuck to their knitting and were now in posi-
tions of responsibility. While I found a desk to sit at and I feel
that the salary paid to me was earned, I did not enjoy my part of
the arrangement. .

_ After four or five months of this, my old friend fate appeared,
somewhat wearily and not without coaxing, but she came. At the
age of forty-six I have embarked on a brand-new career as chief
administrative officer of a small but very high-powered research
and development institute near Boston, Although the duties and

[ 168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

responsibilities are new to me, in a larger sense the job is not, for
my third theme is dominant and my second theme is weaving in
and out. Since patents do arise out of imaginative research and de-
velopment, my unadmitted theme is present, and of course, my
fourth theme and two variations combine with the others to make
life again flawless.

The moral of my story is that by making friends with fate it is
possible, without suffering disaster, to eat one’s cake and have it, to
throw caution to the winds, to travel down the garden path, and
otherwise stray from the Alger (Horatio, that is) pattern, provided
that you don’t go overboard about it. While I have not risen from
newsboy to president despite a proper start (I had a newspaper route
briefly as a boy), I have done some rising as well as some falling.
The specific subject matter and particular duties of my several jobs
have varied widely, ranging from significant and exciting to incon-
sequential and irritating. But I have, for the most part, had admi-
rable bosses, including two really great men, Vannevar Bush and
James Forrestal, and this enhances the enjoyment of the best jobs
and makes the dull ones more tolerable. My family lives too have
had their ups and downs, in which I am not unique. Looking back
over nearly twenty-five years and balancing pleasure against pain,
the pleasure far outweighs the pain and I am content.

DAVID WINTON BROWN

 

HOME ApprEss: East Gate Road, Lloyd Harbor, Huntington, Long Mand, N.Y.
OFFICE AppRESS: B, W. Hall Construetion Co. Inc, Cold Spring Harbor, Long

Island, N.Y.
BORN: June 29, 1914, Hempstead, Long Island, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.
marrieD: Helen Catherine Whitney, Oct. 25, 1941, Garden City, Long Island,

N.Y, cuitpren: Arthur Wood, Dec. 22, 1945, Constance Whitney, June
30, 1952.

occupaTion: President and general factotum, small construction firm.

oFFices HELD: Police Commissioner, Village of Lloyd Harbor.

MemBper OF: Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club.

AFTER graduation, I entered the construction business doing resi-
dential and small commercial building. When the war curtailed
this operation, [ was employed by the Grumman Aircraft Engineer-
ing Corporation for about a year and a half as liaison man between
the corporation, the Navy Bureau of Yards and Docks, and the vari-
ous architects, engineers, and contractors engaged in plant construc-
tion. In 1943, I went on active duty with the Navy and after in-
doctrination at Quonset Point and Fighter Director School at St.
Simon’s Island spent most of my naval career in Florida and Geor-
gia. Toward the end of the war, I was aboard the USS Intrepid
(CV—11), with the close of hostilities finding us in Eniwetok. After
this interlude, I returned to the construction business doing residen-
tial building and am still at it. So much for the career side of the past
twenty-five years.

On the personal side, my long-suffering wife has continued to
bear with me, and our two children give every evidence of becoming
respectable citizens. Woody is in his second year at Millbrook
School, while Connie is in third grade at East Woods Schoo]. We
moved to Lloyd Harbor about five years ago and find it a most
pleasant place to live. It is a short walk through the woods to my
office, so I do not share the commuting trials of most of my neigh-
bors. My extracurricular activities have been negligible although
1 am currently acting as commissioner of our local police force of

seven men —a job which gives me great sympathy for Commis-
sioner Kennedy.

Most of my spare time seems to be occupied with the mundane
tasks of suburban living, cutting the grass, putting up the screens,
etc. Recreation is provided by working on and occasionally sail-
ing our small cruising sloop Ecum-Secum, plus a bit of fishing now
and then.

From the vantage point of twenty-five years, I can easily see that
I have devoted too much time and effort to a not very spectacular
business, and not enough to the more important side of living. In
common with “the mass of men who lead lives of quiet despera-

[ 170 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion,” I have never quite gotten completely organized. Perhaps the
next twenty-five will see an improvement.

+ HARRY BABCOCK BROWN

 

BORN: Nov. 3, 1912, Concord, Mass. parents: Harry Lamprey Brown, ‘96,
Helena Stoney.

PREPARED AT: Drew School, San Francisco, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

piED: Nov. 26, 1943, Burlington, Vt.

AFTER one year with our Class, Brown worked for the Bank of
California and with Conrad Bruce & Company in San Francisco.
In 1938 he began training as a pilot at Boeing Aeronautical School
in California and then entered commercial aviation as a co-pilot
with Eastern Airlines. He later transferred to Northeast Airlines
and at the beginning of the war he started pioneering the North
Atlantic air routes. His services were lent to the Army and he was
commissioned a captain. During the war he ferried American-built
bombers across the Atlantic for the Roval Air Force and the Army
Air ‘Transport Command. He also did research fiving and routine
flying in cargo planes over the Hudson Bay, Greenland and Iceland
areas. He was killed in the crash of a research plane while testing
de-icing equipment for the Air Transport Command. He was sur-
vived by his mother.

Li7e]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT THOMPSON BROWN, JR.

    

w1E ApvREss: 4501 Underwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.

cE appress: U.S. Veterans Administration, Washington 25, D.C.

"; Sept. 7, 1915, Jamaica, N.Y.

RED AT: St. Paul's School, Garden City, N.Y.

IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

p: Margarct Af. Ries, Nov. 4, 1939, Baltimore, Md. cutpren: Jean
rdner, Jan. 17, 1943; Elizabeth Partridge, Aug. 10, 1947.

ron: Manager, Veterans Benefits Office — Veterans Affairs.

ELD: Vice-president, Maryland Chapter, American Society for Public
nistration, 1948, Kernewood Association, 1959, president, Guilford
. 1958, Board of Deacons, Second Presbyterian Church, 1959.

: Urban League; Citizens Planning and Housing Association; Home-

nnis Club; Roland Park Swimming Club; United Nations Associa-

NG graduation I worked for a department store in Bos-
938 went to work for Remington-Rand, in New York,
alesman. June, 1943, to April, 1946, saw me in the U.S.
ig service as a first eutenant in the Quartermaster
service, I joined the Veterans Administration staff, in

a management analyst. In December, 1946,-1 trans-
A, Baltimore Regional Office where I was Chief of
! Planning for about a year, and head of the Voca-
on and Education Program of the V.A., in Mary-

rs

od about 135,000 Maryland World War Il and
tended schools and colleges and took part iN

ng programs. My experiences helping to ad-
rograms — programs to assist veterans to read-
id in many cases, to overcome the vocational

[ 172 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

handicaps of war disabilities — gave me a kind of job satisfactio
which still holds me in government service.

1 was made assistant manager of the V.A. Baltimore Regionz
Office in March, 1956, and manager in May, 1958. A year later
was transferred to Washington, as manager of the Veterans Benefit
Office—a unique V.A. office which serves veterans around th
world, as well as throughout this country. At the moment, I am act
ing as deputy chief insurance director for the V.A.

Through the years since 1939, I have had a lovely, inspiring ane
ever-interesting wife — met at Smith College. Now, two teen-ag
daughters — joys to behold and be with, and distinct assets to thi
home, although they protest some aspects of being assets. Margaret
my wife, is an enthusiastic teacher of history at Bais Yaakov Schoo.

for Girls (Orthodox Jewish), while Jean and “‘Partri” challenge the
talents of the School Sisters of Notre Dame of Maryland (Roman
Catholic). We join forces in attending the Presbyterian church.

THORNTON BROWN

    

HOME AppRESS: 341 Highland St., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts General Hospital, Fruit Street, Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 24, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D., 1940.

MarRRieD:; Sarah Tyler Meigs, Feb. 28, 1944, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:
Marian Wigglesworth, Dec. 20, 1944; Edward Meigs, July 22, 1946;
Cornelia Wister, April 13, 1949; Sarah Dixwell, Nov. 7, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lloyd Brown, ’34, M.D. 738.

occupation: Orthopaedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, since October, 1958:
assistant clinical professor of orthopaedic surgery, Harvard Medical

School, since 1958; associate orthopaedic surgeon, Massachuserts General
Hospital, since 1959.

[173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society.
American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons; Alpha Omega Alpha So.
ciety; Boston Orthopaedic Club; Forum Club; Harvard Club of Boston.
Milton-Hoosic Club; Woods Hole Yacht Club; Woods Hole Golf Club,

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on orthopaedic subjects.

THIRTY-THREE years ago as I dutifully marched across the ball
field as one of the male progeny of the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class

of 1903, and again at our graduation twenty-five years ago, the.

Twenty-fifth Reunion seemed remote, to say the least. How can a
quarter of a century have slipped by so fast and I have so little to
show for my efforts?

Assuredly I did not make a fast start after graduation. Four
years at the Harvard Medical School were followed by a surgical
training, rudely interrupted by nearly four years in the Navy, and
then by further hospital training, now in orthopaedic surgery. Thir-
teen years after graduation | attained the pinnacle of private prac-
tice in Boston, but in the ensuing twelve years I have strayed from
my original course. Dreams of glory soon evaporated. I did not
win the Nobel Prize for the cure of arthritis, nor did my practice
assume mammoth proportions. In fact, the demands of teaching
and efforts directed toward the development of an orthopaedic re-
search program at the Massachusetts General Hospital gradually
drew me away from practice and, as if this were not enough, I be-
came assistant to the editor of the Journal of Bone and Joint Sur-
gery —a foolhardy venture for one who barely passed English A.
Inevitably, I became more and more involved in publishing and in
1958, on the retirement of the editor, 1 moved myself with great
misgivings on to his “hot seat.”

Life as editor of a surgical publication is challenging, stimulating,
heart-warming, aggravating at times and always relentlessly time-
consuming. The task of disseminating worth-while information
accurately in my rapidly growing specialty, of maintaining and
striving to elevate the standards of medical writing, and of keeping
authors and readers at least reasonably happy is endless. Inevitably
all this has strangled my practice, stifled my small research efforts
and driven my long-suffering family to near desperation. Twenty-
five years ago as I approached a medical career, | would have pre-
dicted with certainty that medical journalism was not “my cup of
tea.”

Like most doctors I have not made the time to shoulder my proper
share of civic duties. Even worse, like so many of my colleagues,

[174]

 

~<

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have given too little time to the social and economic problems of
medicine today. With the population exploding, medical education
becoming more complex and more costly, the number of applicants
* to medical schools waning and the demands for medical care in-
creasing, not to mention the pressing question of how medical care
for all ages is to be financed, there are real problems to be solved.
Inevitably, I suppose, Uncle Sam will assume more of the financial
burdens at all levels of the medical structure. I hope that this can
be accomplished without too great cost to the taxpayer and without
sacrifice of too much of what is best in our time-honored system.

With passing years my hobbies and recreational activities have
resolved themselves into a frantic and often-interrupted do-it-your-
self program aimed at keeping the house and grounds from falling
apart or from returning completely to nature. Vacations in W oods
Hole, on the Cape, or in a family camp in Maine see me in and on
the water despite my lessening tolerance to cold. During school
vacations in the winter, I still try to get down a ski slope in my
now very shaky pre-wedeln style.

Eight years ago the Brown family moved to the house in Milton,
Massachusetts, where I grew up—a relic of a passing age, fast
being surrounded by burgeoning housing developments. Our four
children attend the same school that I did, with one due to graduate
thirty years after my graduation and sixty-three years after my
father’s graduation from the same school. Since my father also
practised orthopaedic surgery in Boston, I suppose this all adds up
to a rather static situation — “proper Bostonianism” perhaps. Ac-
tually, remaining in one place, if anything, has emphasized the
rapidity of change. The landscape changes day by day with mush-
rooming houses; the children’s education is SO very different; jets
now roar overhead where only piston engines lazed along vesterday.
Indeed our progress is headlong. Soon we shall hurl men into space.
Will our spirits soar to meet the problem of coexistence with Com-
munism, of an emerging Africa and of the awesome fury of the
atom? I see little evidence in myself or in those about me of the
determination, courage and self-sacrifice which the crisis of our
times demands.

Despite my doubts and fears, shared by all, of course, life will
undoubtedly fumble along, and this June T shall collece on mv bee
from Jim Gardner — a bet made in June, 1936, that my W aistline
would have increased less than his by June, i961,

[175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN WINSLOW BRYANT

 

HOME AppREsS: 76 West St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Fiduciary Trust Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

Born: May 8, 1914, Milton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B., 1939. .

marriep: Anne C. Phillips, June 15, 1942, North Beverly, Mass. CHILDREN:
Cynthia Phillips, July 5, 1943; Rose Standish, Oct. 5, 1944; Anne Lincoln,
Nov. 26, 1949; Alida Livingston, Jan. 8, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lincoln Bryant, Jr., 33, M.B.A., 35 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and trust officer, Fiduciary Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Club of the North Shore, since 1946; trustee
and assistant treasurer, Perkins School for the Blind, since 1950, Shore
Country Day School, since 1957; director and treasurer, Boston Children’s
Service Association, since 1956; trustee, New England Conservatory of
Music, since 1957, Chatham Hall School, since 1959; member, executive
committee, Manchester Yacht Club, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Somerset Club; Manchester Yacht Club,
Harvard Club of the North Shore; M. J. Cadigan, Jr. Post 46, American
Legion; Beverly Ward 6 Republican Committee.

BECAUSE my twenty-five years since graduation have been very
similar to many, many others’ I find it hard to describe them, but
nevertheless they have been rewarding and fun and hopefully of
interest to somebody.

After graduation from the Law School I had a chance to prac-
tise my legal career for just over a year when I joined the 26th
(Yankee) Division as a private and went to camp with them in
1941. After three years’ training in this country and promotions to
captain, I transferred to the military government branch of the
Army. This entitled me to a very pleasant return of three months
to Cambridge to the Military Government School at Harvard and
then a year and a half overseas in the Furopean Theatre, serving

[176 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mostly with division military government teams in the Vosges
Mountains and in southern Germany. I was awarded the Bronze
Star and the Croix de Guerre (French) with gold star, mainly by
having wonderful friends who wanted to write nice recommenda-
tions which they fabricated.

After practising law for a year following the war, I joined the
Fiduciary Trust Company in Boston—a bank doing purely trust
and investment management work — where I have been ever since.

My wife and my two girls born during the war found rental
living, even though free, had its limitations, so we bought our
present house in the country, one hundred yards from the railroad
station and one hundred yards from the salt water. This is so con-
venient that | have no excuse for not having painted the great
picture, written the great symphony, or even made the great mil-
lion, except the one excuse I can think of, which is there are
“other things to do.” Such as: In 1951, while the three children
were still young enough to be denied an effective vote (i.e. below
eight), my wife and I took a delightful four-week trip to France
and Italy, as a delayed honeymoon, where I could show her how
I won the war in the former, and see for the first time the wonders
of Venice, Florence and Rome in the latter.

In 1952.I assisted in getting two Eisenhower delegates chosen for
the Republican Convention from a formerly Taft district. In 1954
we took a delightful automobile trip, by way of the old Boston to
Yarmouth steamship, Evangeline, to Nova Scotia, including Cape
Breton and the Cabot Trail. In 1956, my children having reached
thirteen, twelve and seven, I took up skiing for fear that if I did
not I would never see them again in school vacations. For the same
reason, also in 1956, we bought a small sailboat. As a result, when
not trying to earn monev during the weck, I am trying to spend
it on weekends. Skiing has given us a good excuse to take family
trips to New Hampshire and two fine weeks at Mont Tremblant in
Quebec, where in March we got just as well-tanned as those dificult
people who go south in the winter.

In 1958 our fourth daughter was born and in tgsg, for the first
time in a long time, our household was depleted from four to two,
when the two oldest went to boarding school, thus changing it from
a madhouse to a morgue overnight. This was cured very well in
i960, however, when we took the whole family (except Alida) to
Europe, including England, Scocand, France and Switzerland.

You have never seen Furope until you see it with the children

[t77)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

and try to keep up to their knowledge of history. Among many
highlights of the trip, two stand out: one, the aerial tramway up
12,600 feet to the Aiguille du Midi on Mont Blanc and then three
and one-half miles on a cable car across the glacier to Italy; the
other: when the Fife and Drum Corps marched away, from Buck-
ingham Palace, after a brilliant full dress changing of the Guard,
they played, “Hard Luck for Poor Old Eli.” -

At our Tenth Reunion, we thought we'd be old at the Fifteenth,
at the Fifteenth we'd be old at the Twentieth, and the Twentieth
we'd be old at the Twenty-fifth. It still isn’t so and I doubt if it

will be so at the Thirtieth.

HENRY STURGES BULLARD

 

HOME appress: 449 Mill Plain Rd., Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Norma-Hoffmann Bearings Co., Stamford, Conn.
BORN: Oct. 3, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-10936. DEGREE: 8.B., 1936.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTion: Industrial engineering.
MEMBER OF: Southport Congregational Church; Fairfield Beach Club.

SHORTLY after graduation, I was employed by the Commercial
Investment Trust Corporation. Eventually I worked into the legal
department which was probably a misnomer as I had no legal train-
ing myself.

Before, during and after the war, I was with Chance Vought
Aircraft in Stratford, Connecticut. It was fascinating to watch the
development and participate in attaining volume production of the

[ 178 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

navy Corsair fighter. These six years stimulated a keen interest
in the various phases of manuf acturing.

Ten years ago I took time out to study in the field of industrial
management. Since then I have been pleasantly occupied in the
general field of industrial engineering with such companies as Dicta-
phone, Underwood, Burndy and Fairchild Aircraft. Just recently
I joined the industrial engineering department of the Norma-Hoff-
mann Bearings Company.

On the more personal side, although I am still a bachelor, I hope
to remedy this status soon. I look forward to being married to a
very attractive young lady. We have many mutual interests, in-
cluding bridge, gardening, good friends, etc.

About ten years ago I joined the Southport Congregational
Church after many years of floundering. I enjoy my religion and

feel strongly that I have acquired a deeper sense of purpose in life
than I had earlier.

EDWARD JOSEPH BURKE

 

HOME ApDRESS: 133 Washington Ave., Winthrop 52, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First District Court of Eastern Middlesex, Malden, Mass.

BorRN: March 22, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarrieD: Catherine Soucy, Oct. 19, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHtuprex: Edward J.
Dec. 11, 1941; Mary M., March 23, 1943; Catherine H., Jan. 12, 1943;
John B., Oct. 5, 1947; Joseph L., Oct. 30, 1951; Philip Fy Jan. 28 19935
Christine A., Dec. 19, 1955.

occupation: Public service; probation officer.

MEMBER OF: National Probation and Parole Association; Massachusetts Pro-
bation Officers’ Association; Knights of Columbus; M.C.O.F.

[179 ]

_ pase n lanai aise hanes . "

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

A MIRROR is a peculiar instrument. Twenty-five or thirty years
ago when I gazed into it learning to make a bow tie, I saw reflected
a white-faced, black-haired, skinny fellow worrying about studies
and exams. Today, I look in the same mirror and what do I see?
A ruddy-complexioned, mixed gray-haired, stocky man concerned
with other things. What a story that mirror could tell! Nothing
world shattering, in so far as it reflects only what has happened to
me, What happened? Plenty! Aside from the physical appearance,
other things surely have changed.

As the result of being married to a very charming lady whom I
have known since the first grade, we have been blessed with seven
children (the three youngest of whom are “do-it-yourselfers” and
they’ll do anything).

Times have changed, residence has changed, and occupation has
changed. After graduation, of necessity I entered the family busi-
ness where | remained for several years, but the war and changing
circumstances enabled me to enter the field for which I prepared in
college. (If that darn telephone will stop ringing for my teen-age
daughter, maybe I can get this done before the deadline. No one
calls for me any more, except the Class Agent.)

Since the Court House is reasonably close to Cambridge, and
since the judge is a Harvard man, I have been able to attend most
of the Alumni luncheons on Commencement Day. The 25th Re-
union Classes, over the years, seem to be looking younger; not the
way they did in 1936, when the members of the 25th Class looked
like old and venerable men.

According to suggestions in the Class Report, it is desirable to
list “member of . . . offices held . . . and publications.” The list
is so long there would be no room to record them; but just for ex-
ample, editor, 1941-57, “How to prevent your thumb from being
pricked by diaper pins.” I take a back seat when I know the list
of other profound publications our classmates have written.

One final note. After twenty-five years Santa Claus brought me
a new hat — one of those snappy jobs with a feather, high crown
and narrow brim. My wife says it makes me look five years younger.
If President-elect Kennedy finds this out, the Class of 1936 will
probably have an ambassador to Lower Slobbovia.

[ 180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALAN BURNHAM

: We
f j
{ 2 J
Q. - Mies. ae ‘
’ 4 wey .
” i
Oe
| ee
*, wm
4.
yO
3 ~

 

HOME ADDRESS: 65 Fairfield Rd., Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Burns & Roe, 160 W. Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1913, Englewood, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.; Fountain Valley School, Colorado
Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936, B.ARCH. (Columbia Univ.),
1940.

MARRIED: Frances Hotchkiss Berking, March 22, 1947, Greenwich, Conn.
CHILDREN: Roderick Hotchkiss, Dec. 15, 1948; Cora Lewis, Aug. 13, 1951.

occupation: Architect, Burns & Roe, engineers and constructors.

OFFICES HELD: Architect, Industrial Division, Ebasco Services, Inc. 1952-60;
president, New York Chapter, Society of Architectural Historians, chair-

man, Committee on Historic Architecture, Committee on “Landmarks,”
Municipal Art Society of New York.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Century Association, National Trust.
Maryland and Long Island Historical Societies.

pusLications: Articles on architecture: Journal of the Society of Architec-
tural Historians, Journal of the American Institute of Architects, ctrebi-
tectural Forum; currently a series for Architectural Record, entitled “For-
gotten Engineering,” of which two have appeared to date: “The Rise
and Fall of the Phoenix Column,” April, 1959, and “Post and Lintel Post-
dated,” May, 1960; book reviews, etc.

HAVING always wanted to be an architect, it came as no surprise
to my family that I went to architectural school upon graduation.
After completing my four years at the Columbia University School
of Architecture, I designed a house near Stamford, Connecticut, in
association with Albert Lee Hawes, which was featured in Tomer-
row’s House, a book on current residential design. Soon thereafter,
my practice was interrupted by World War I. In W ‘ashington,
D.C., I worked for a year and a half as a civilian in the Navy’ s

camouflage workshop in Anacostia, trying to make buildings look

{ 181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

like trees, rocks or anything else except buildings. Drafted by the
Navy in 1943, I had the good fortune to be sent to Trinidad, B.W11.,
an island paradise to those who could see beyond the back streets of
Port of Spain and the tedium of the naval operating base. I was
assigned to the Seabees and designed many buildings for the base,
most of which were never built due to the termination of hostilj-
ties. On weekends I visited every corner of the island and made a
miniature historic buildings survey, including illustrated maps of
various parts of the city. Sir Edward Cunard, then private secre-
tary to the governor, espoused my cause and the exhibits were per-

manently displayed in the public library in Port of Spain.
Returning through Central America, via Venezuela, Colombia,

Guatemala and Mexico (Yucatan), I resumed my profession in
New York and was married in 1947 to Frances H. Berking of
Greenwich, whom I had met in Washington during the war. Her

many activities have included being president of the alumnae asso-
ciation of the Presbyterian Medical Center, and today president of
her class (41) at Smith. Our children, Rod and Cora, have kept

us busy with P.T.A. and trying to keep ahead of their “advanced
studies.” We all enjoy vacations at our camp on Branch Pond,

near Ellsworth, Maine, which I built during summers while at Har-
vard, with the aid of Arthur Colfelt, Wendell Gray, Colin Far-

quhar and Bill Burrage.
The untimely loss of my college roommate, Charles F. Samson,

three years ago to cancer, was a severe blow to us both. My wife,
who had known him only a few years, had come under the spell of

his rare charm, as did so many of those who knew him.
Through various stages we have remodelled an 1848 gardener’s

cottage on the Schwarz estate in Greenwich and, like so man
architects’ houses, it is never finished. The principal addition, at
the rear, is contemporary in feeling. Joining “new” to the “old”
was something I had always sworn | should never do, but as it is my °

own house, I have seen fit to perpetrate this folly.

My collection of books and files on American (U.S.) architecture
is known as The American Architectural Archive and students
working on theses are always welcome. Architectural history is
my hobby and I spend my (free?) time in writing articles on this
subject and serving on committees to help preserve at least a tiny
part of our great architectural heritage, For many years I have
been working on Landmarks, the Municipal Art Socicty of New
York’s qualitative list of notable architecture in greater New York,

[ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As a practising architect, I have just completed seven years with
the industrial division of Ebasco Services, Inc. at 2 Rector Street,
in New York and have recently joined the staff of Burns & Roe,
engineers and constructors, as project architect. Practising as an
architect makes my view of architectural history quite different
from that of the average architectural historian, who is usually
allied to the academic world.

We have recently become members of the White Plains Com-
munity Church (Unitarian), and find the broad principles of reli-
gious tolerance and goodwill to be much in accord with our own
beliefs. Politically speaking, my wife and I were among the few
in Greenwich who were pleased with the outcome of the recent
election.

Last summer, while the children were at camp, we went to Italy
for the first time and also to the chateau country in France. The
various spectacles of “light and sound” which we witnessed in both
countries lend a new dimension to our comprehension of other

times and make European travel even more interesting than ever
before.

DANIEL HUDSON BURNHAM, JR.

 

HOME Abpress: 1956 Linwood St. San Diego 1, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 524 B St., San Diego 1, Calif.

BORN: July 2, 1914, Evanston, Hl.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936,

MarRiED: Anne Weidman, Aug. 16 1941, Chicage, Hl capes: Madelyn
MeKinley, July 25, tog7; Daniel Hudson, gth, July 6 rey.

OccuPATION: Investment counselor, self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and member, board of trustees, Fine Arts Society of
San Diego; treasurer and member, board of directors, San Diego Opera

{ 183]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Guild; member, board of directors, Family Service Association of San
Diego; member, 1960 San Diego County Grand Jury.

MEMBER OF: Cotillion Club and Kona Kai Club, San Diego; Lake Zurich Golf
Club, Lake Zurich, Illinois.

AFTER the passage of twenty-five years, I seem to have found
myself located about as far, geographically, from Harvard as one
can be and still keep a foot in the continental United States (Alaska
excepted). We have a pleasant Harvard Club group in San Diego,
so it isn’t as remote spiritually as geographically. The younger
Harvard men here are largely concerned with the Atomic Labora-
tory and manufacture of Atlas intercontinental missiles, and they
seem to speak a new technical language difficult of interpretation
for one of the 1936 vintage.

Following graduation in 1936, I returned to my home in Chicago

. and took the first (and only) job offered me, with the Federal Re-

serve Bank. When the war clouds darkened in 1940, I considered
myself prime fodder for the draft and applied for navy officer train-
ing. They snapped me up with startling alacrity (despite lack of
Navy ROTC training at Harvard). This ultimately led to an assign-
ment, of all places, at Harvard, instructing officer candidates. Dur-
ing this period I acquired a new lifetime commanding officer, for-
merly Anne Weidman. Anne had attended Connecticut College
for Women, where it appears that the bulk of the escorts for the
young ladies are furnished from Yale. This led to some embarrass-
ment during the 1941 Harvard-Yale game, when I found, to my
horror, that my bride was instinctively rooting for Yale. This
sacrilege was hastily corrected, and these were happy years indeed.
However, like so many contemporaries, I felt that I had to get at
those Japs with my own two bare hands. The Navy obliged, and
I spent many a subsequent hour at sea wondering whatever pos-
sessed me to request transfer away from the Harvard duty. In one
well-remembered episode, I encountered a classmate in the middle
of an Aleutian snowstorm. He had some most welcome “anti-freeze”
in his quarters to assuage the wintry chill. Other episodes of that
era involved names such as Saipan, Guam, Leyte Gulf and Okinawa.

After four post-war years in the banking business in Chicago, we
decided to move to California. I spent a most interesting and profit-
able ten years with a bank in San Diego, and but recently resigned
to try my hand on my own as an investment counsclor.

San Diego seems an ideal spot to live and bring up our two chil-
dren. Madelyn is now in her teens and, true to type, spends most

[ 184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of her non-school waking hours on the telephone. If any classmate
should try to call me in San Diego, please be patient or else call me
at my office. Danny is eleven and an ardent Little Leaguer. He is
developing into a power hitter and wears number “nine” on his
uniform (also worn, coincidentally enough, by a fellow named Ted
Williams). For recreation I play golf in the nineties (Ben Hogan's
book didn’t do much for my game) and have a power saw (all
fingers still intact at this writing). There is still hair on my head

and none as yet is gray. All in all, the past twenty-five years have
treated me well.

DONALD GARDNER BURNS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Simmons Rd., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Badger Manufacturing Co., Cambridge, Mass.
BORN: July 5, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MARRIED: Thelma Pyke, June 15, 1943, Lunenburg, N.S., Canada.
OCCUPATION: Engineering.

IN Holland all of 1958 and most of 1959 on business assignment.

JOHN SCOTT BURNS

MAILING Appress: 62 Upland Rd., Cambridge go, Mass.

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROY EMERSON BURNS

 

HOME appress: 85 Hillside Ave., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wirthmore Feeds, Inc. 343 Winter St., Waltham, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 15, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Walpole High School, Walpole, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.B.A., 1938.

marriep: Marion I. Salta, Aug. 19, 1939, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN: Kenneth
Edward, April 3, 1943; Ellen Martha, Aug. 11, 1946; Jeffrey R., June, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Assistant and treasurer, Wirthmore Feeds, Inc., manufacturers
and distributors of livestock feeds.

OFFICES HELD: Various Scout committees including: Institutional Representa-
tive for Cub and Boy Scouts, chairman, Peak Committee, Troop Com-
mittee; chairman, Congregational Church Finance Committee; clerk of
the church; member, Republican Committee.

MEMBER OF: Fraternity Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Aleppo Shrine.

PuBLIcATIONS: Collaborated on chapter in Credit Management Handbook.

WHILE majoring in biology at Harvard and reading all Paul
deKruif’s books, I became imbued with the spirit of Lister, Curie,
Ehrlich and other fascinating characters of medicine. After being
admitted to Harvard Medical, I studied hard, worked waiting on
table, washing dishes, giving blood transfusions, and soon decided
that I was not the physician type. My brief career in medicine
gave me the first two things I acquired after college —a healthy
respect for the medical profession and the knowledge that I was
equipped to do very little to earn a living. Thus I transferred from
the Medical to the Business School, from which I received an M.B.A.
in 1938.

Armed with two Harvard degrees, I entered the business world
working for International Harvester Company at the magnificent
salary of $90 per month. In succession I worked for International,
Kendall Mills and the War Department, caving the last to enlist

[ 186 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the U.S. Coast Guard. I served for three years including duty
as gunnery and communications officer on a cutter in the North
Atlantic.

After leaving Uncle Sam’s employ, I went to work for Wirthmore
Feeds in charge of their retail store accounting. They have treated
me exceedingly well— promoting me to positions such as assistant
general sales manager, general credit manager, assistant vice-presi-
dent, assistant treasurer and controller.

So much for the business and service life! Now for the social
and family life, a much more interesting and pleasant topic for me.
While at Harvard I met Marion (Nan) Salta who was a sophomore
at Wellesley at the time. After we both had been graduated in 1938,
I convinced her that she should share my debts and uncertain future.
Since then we have had three lovely children — Kenneth aged seven-
teen, Ellen aged fourteen and Jeff aged four. The two teen-agers
have never heard of Hal Kemp, Orville Knapp or Isham Jones and
try to make us feel our age. Jeff keeps us young and agile.

Looking back over the past twenty-five years, our lives have not
been extremely exciting, but we feel they have been interesting and
rewarding. One carry-over from Harvard and Adams House — we

still play bridge with Bob Reed and his wife Cloe! Bob and [ will
beat them yet!!

WILLIAM SEWARD BURROUGHS

       
 

So rt alias in tae

. 8
“hs i 1

 

HOME AppRESS: 9 Rue Gite Le Coeur, Paris, France.
BoRN: Feb. 5, 1914, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Los Alamos School, Los Alamos, N.Mex.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936.

Marriep: Joan Vollmer (died 1951). crimp: William Seward, zd, July an rage:
OCCUPATION; Author. ’

[ 187 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILTON SNOWDEN BURTON

a

    

HOME ApprEss: 11 Plateau Circle, Bronxville, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 20 Broad St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1913, Bronxville, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marriED: Dorothy Hoffman Neely, June 4, 1937, Bronxville, N.Y. cHiLpreN:
Marcia Snowden, Nov. 23, 1938 (7. Richard W. Wilson, June 14, 1958);
Wilton Snowden, Jr., April 11, 1942; Jonathan, April 11, 1944. GRANDCHILD:
Linda Anne Wilson, Feb. 12, 1960. .

occuPATION: Security salesman, White, Weld & Company, investment bankers,
stock brokers.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Christ Church, Bronxville, N.Y., 1951-60; chairman,
Special Gifts, Community Fund, 1957.

MEMBER OF: St. Andrew’s Golf Club, American Yacht Club, Rye, N.Y.; Har-
vard Club of New York; Touchdown Club of New York.

TAKING pen in hand for the first draft of ‘this story of my life
since graduation, I was eagerly expecting a tale of vigorous adven-
ture, noble deeds and earth-shaking events to come pouring forth
onto the paper. No such thing. Only comes a story fairly normal
for these two and a half decades of history. Marriage. War.
Career.

I hate to dismiss a marriage of twenty-four years with a few lines
of statistics but who would print all that needs to be said about
the inspiration and help a man receives from his family and that I
have received from mine?

Can a line or two describe much about war service? Here the
Harvard College degree paid its first big dividend by permitting
me to get a navy commission. I started as an ensign, received in-
doctrination at Fort Schuyler and trained for sub-chasers at Miami.

{ 188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The duty wound up in Air-Sea Rescue Crash Boats operating
of New Smyrna, Florida.

In 1946 I began a new career by taking a job with an investm
counsel company. This Jed to White, Weld & Company, wh
1 am now in the sales department.

Add to the above a suburban family man’s unavoidable activit
and you have the rest of the story. Model airplanes, Cub Scot
church, Community Chest and for hobbies, sailing and golf.

CHARLES ADDISON BUTLER

Fee:
f \
i \
\ ’ Phe )

a

HOME aAppress; 27 W. 44th St., New York 36, N.Y.
BORN: Feb. 3, 1913, Chestnut Hill, Mass.
PREPARED at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A-B., 1936.
OCCUPATION: Writer,

  

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to president, Bossert Company, Utica, N.Y. chairman,
Butler Waunderette; vice-chairman, National Horse Show Chairman's
Committee; assistant editor, National Board of Review.

MEMBeR oF: South Boston Shakespeare and Athletic Club.

pusLications: National Board of Review of Motion Pictures.

TO tell the truth, I suggest that I have left a job undone. When I
go to a Columbia game in the fall of my zsth year with a twentv-
six-year-old girl and find a tired Fllie Jackson behind me, an ex-
hausted Nate Pusey directly in front of me, and a “will our dauvh-
ters make it” set of parents across the aisle, Tam left with the thoughe
that I should take over the responsibilities of our Vhirtv-tifth Re-
union.
I, Charles A. Butler, had an affliction called overdose of hte.

Having been brought up a Catholic and converted to deism, I have

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

only one message to leave to my classmates: look out the window

once in aw hile and pay back the guy that made you a loan.

WILLIAM EDWARD BUTLER, II

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Main & Forest Streets, Marion, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1913, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; A.M. 1937; M.M. (Eastman
School of Music), 1941. ,

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Courtland Higbie Butler, ’21 (deceased).

OccuUPATION: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Fessenden School, 1940-41; production clerk, General
Electric Company, Lynn, Mass., 1943-44; teacher, New England Con-
servatory of Music, 1944-49, president, ota Chapter, Pi Kappa Lambda,

1949.
MEMBER OF: Iota Chapter, Pi Kappa Lambda (music society); Harvard Club

of New York, 1942-49; Harvard Musical Society, 1946-49.

SINCE my bout with polio in 1949, I have lived here in the town of
Marion, Massachusetts, on Buzzards Bay, for the last ten years. I
must say that I enjoy the quiet and fresh air of a small community.
Have taken up photography and astronomy as new hobbies that
fit the surroundings as well as my physical limitations. Also sing in
church choir and have composed some short choral responses.
Aside from the above — nothing new since the Fifteenth Report.

[ 190 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY REUTER BYERS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Hill Farm, R-F.D. 2, Box 108, Powhatan,
Va.

BORN: June 10, 1914, Jeannette, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Jeannette High School, Jeannette, Pa.; Columbia Military Acad-
emy, Columbia, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936, M.B.A., 1938.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Owner of cattle farm.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Peoples First National Bank.

AFTER my graduation from Harvard College, I spent two years
in the Harvard Business School, specializing in Investment manage-
ment and receiving an M.B.A. degree in 1938. I immediately started
to work in the trust investment department of Peoples First National
and eventually became head of that department, resigning in 1957.
A banker’s life is not filled with drama and excitement and the even
tenor of my days was uninterrupted by any mountain climbing,
bookwriting, or any flights into outer space. Consequently I can't
tell you how surprised I am to find myself the owner of a 1 3oo-acre
cattle farm about twenty-five miles west of Richmond, Virginia.
I had a little success with my investments and happened to mention
to a real estate friend of mine in Richmond, whose summer place
on the Potomac I was visiting at the time, that I would like a little
weekend cottage on a little farm some place near there. Almost
before I knew it (I have always been so easily swayed), I had goo
acres of beautiful rolling land ( 500 acres in timber — the rest
cleared), a large pond in the woods, stocked with fish, four houses
and farm machinery the purpose of which I could merely guess.
Since then I have added another goo acres of equally be autiful land
about two miles from the original farm (Federal Hill Farm — ic

[191]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

was named when I bought it) and I have named the new place
Liberty Hill. I have an excellent farm manager, thank God, and
six other employees who really keep the place running. I sur-
prised myself with the ease with which I adopted the rural life
as I had never lived on a farm before. I never hope for anything
better in this world.

OLIVER HAZARD PERRY CABOT

  

HOME apprEss: 227 E. 66th St., New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Recordak Corp., 415 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
BoRN; June 6, 1916, West New Brighton, Staten Island, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Morristown Preparatory School, Morristown, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935, 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).
4ARRIED; Elizabeth Manahan, Boston, Mass.
OCUPATION: Advertising.
EMBER OF; Harvard Club of New York; Advertising Club of New York.

NTIL World War II, was in advertising department of Liberty
utual in Boston. Volunteered two months after Japs declared
r; took officers’ training and joined MTB (P.T.— or motor tor-
lo boats) Squadrons. Was at Guadalcanal during the “Slot”
ration, then Russell Islands, Rendova, Vella Lavella, Treasury
1d, Bougainville, etc. Two Silver Stars. After three years, back
le States for a break, then to battleship South Dakota. At the
of war with Japs, was chosen to represent all P.T. operations at
rmal surrender. |

k to advertising at Liberty Mutual, then to Dickie-Raymond
y in New York, to Remington-Rand and now at Recordak.
¢ this is a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak, I’m with a wonderful

ny. Life has been very good tome . . . because I work at it.

[ 192 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NORMAN LEE CAHNERS

 

HOME ApprEsS: 39 Worthington Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Cahners Publishing Co., Inc., 221 Columbus Ave., Boston 16,
Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1914, Bangor, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Helene Rabb, May 15, 1941, Boston, Mass. cuitpreN: Robert Merrill,
June 8, 1942; Andrew Philip, March 7, 1945; Nancy Lynn, Dec. 23, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Fulton Irving Cahners, 39, Walter James Cahners, °47.

occuPATION: President, founder and chairman of the board, Cahners Publishing
Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director and member, executive committee, Young Presidents’
Organization, New York, 1957-58, member, Andover Alumni Council,
1958-59; lecturer, Lana Lobell Foundation Lecture Series, Phillips Acad-
emy;, member of corporation, Beaver Country Day School, Brookline,
Mass.; lieutenant, U.S.N.R., World War I; director, Stop & Shop, Inc.,
Boston, College Inn Food Products Corporation, Chicago, National Busi-
ness Publications Inc., Washington, D.C., Greater Boston Brandeis Club,
American Society for Technion, Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith,
Arts Center, Boston University; original trustee and treasurer, Young
Presidents’ Foundation; trustee, Museum of Science, Boston, Beth Israel
Hospital; overseer, Boys’ Clubs of Boston; member, board of managers,
Boston Dispensary; member, executive committee, Massachusetts Com-
mittee, Catholics, Protestants & Jews; member of council, Friends of the
Boston Symphony Orchestra.

MEMBER OF: Crosscup-Pishon Post 281, American Legion; Harvard Varsity
Club; Harvard Club of Boston; University Club, Belmont Country Club,
Bar Harbor Yacht Club; Coonamessett Golf Club.

THE twenty-five years since graduation have been exciting ones and
I cannot help but fecl a deep sense of gratitude in reviewing — for
the purpose of preparing this Report — all that has happened during

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

this period. Topping the list are good health, a fine wife and three
wonderful children.

The Harvard tradition has deep roots in Helene’s family and in
mine, and we were surprised recently to discover that there has
been at least one member of our combined families in attendance
at Harvard or Radcliffe every single year, consecutively, for the past
five decades.

Consequently, it was quite a jolt to be informed by our son, Rob-
ert, during his senior year at Andover that he had selected Dart-
mouth as the college for him. This broke the chain, but we are in
hopes that Andrew, who is presently a sophomore at Andover, will
re-establish the line when he matriculates. We have another string
to our bow in this regard, since it is also our hope that Nancy, who
is now at Beaver Country Day School, will follow along at Rad-
cliffe. Incidentally, Bob is enjoying Dartmouth. In addition to
having broken the all-time freshman record for the Weight-Throw,
he has been elected by his classmates to the Freshman Student Coun-
cil.

Helene and I have found that, with our business and community
interests and activities, it is becoming increasingly difficult for us
to spend as much time together as a family unit as we would like.
So far, however, we have managed to enjoy several weeks each
summer cruising the Maine Coast in the wonderfully close quarters
of our New Bedford 35 cutter. This past summer marked the nine-
teenth consecutive year that we have sailed northeast from Cape Cod
to Bar Harbor, Maine.

Our business over the period has been challenging — and it has
been good. After five years in the Navy — handling ammunition and
supplies here and overseas —I started, in 1946, a magazine called
Modern Materials Handling. Although the operation itself was in
part a continuation of the work I had been doing for the Navy, the
venture was financed through royalties I received for inventions re-
lating to various types of materials handling equipment, on which
patents had been issued both here and abroad.

In the years that followed we started several additional maga-
zines and, from time to time, have acquired others, All have na-
tional distribution and you may recognize some of the titles. Here
they are: Modern Materials Handling, Materials Handling Manual,
Practical Builder, Metalworking, Metal Forming & Fabricating,
Building Supply News, Building Supply News Dealers’ & Jobbers’
Directory, Ceramic Industry, Ceramic Data Book, Brick & Clay

[ 194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Record, Building Construction, Modern Assembly Practice, Modern
Plant Operation & Maintenance, Supermarket Equipment, Protec-
tive Packaging, Commercial Kitchen Equipment and Supplies, Com-
fort Engineering, Design News, Electrical Design News and Electri-
cal/Electronic Procurement.

Although there is a good deal involved in covering the two hun-
dred carloads of paper we use annually with the kind of information
necessary to hold the attention of our readers, I have tried to devote
as much time as possible to community activities. I have found this
most rewarding from many points of view. Helene also has been
very active in the community, and at the present time is the presi-
dent of the Beth Israel Hospital Women’s Auxiliary, which has a
membership of over 8,700 women.

This period before our Twenty-fifth Reunion is a time for look-
ing back and reviewing what has happened since graduation. When
the Reunion is over, it will again become a time for looking ahead,
and Helene and I hope that, as we approach my Fiftieth, the years

we shall then have to review will prove to have been as much fun
as the last twenty-five.

MERTON DAVID CALDWELL

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 303 Butternut Drive, De Witt, N.Y,

[ 195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RODERICK PETER CAMPBELL CALDWEL,],

 

HOME ApprEss: 602 W. Oregon St. Urbana, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 326 Altgeld Hall, Mathematics Dept., University of Illinois,

Urbana, Ill.
BorN: March 18, 1915, Wellsburg, W.Va.
prepareD AT: Linsly Military Institute, Wheeling, W.Va.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1949-1953. DEGREES: A.B. 1936(53); A.M. (Univ.

of Illinois), 1955.
marrigp: Winifred Amy Rooney, June 24, 1950, Cambridge, Mass.

occupaTION: Teaching assistant in mathematics.
MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of

America.
I WAS granted a leave of absence from Harvard at Christmas, 1932,
and returned to my native West Virginia. The death of my parents
had made me the sole support of two sisters. After a year in the
C.C.C, I worked in a paper mill and then on a newspaper before,
in 1938, I went to work for the Weirton Steel Company, first as a
laborer and later as a repairman of automatic control systems.

During my army service, 1943-1946, I was a cadreman instructor
at two infantry replacement training centers, Fort McClellan, Ala-
bama, and Camp Maxey, Texas. In October, 1945, I was sent to
Kobe, Japan, where I was attached to a special service company.

In February, 1950, I left Weirton Steel and returned to Harvard
as a freshman. I was married in June of that year. By going to sum-
mer school each summer, I was able to get an A.B. in June of 1953.
In 1954 my wife and I went to England for the summer. For her,
a native of Liverpool, it was a return home; for me it was a first
meeting with her people and the fulfillment of a long-cherished
dream. Since leaving Harvard I have been teaching at the University
of Illinois and am presently acquiring a Ph.D. in mathematics.

[ 196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Amateur theatre is a hobby that both my wife and I enjoy. }
ress of work I have not been able to indulge in it for some ti

now, but we do give programs of reading prose and poetry on te
vision and radio.

1 am a teacher by profession, but by aspiration a learner, wh:
comes to the same thing. I know now that the quest for understar
ing has no end and that the good must continually be redefined, t
to grow in understanding and to conceive the good anew and
try to impart it is enough.

How happy we who first began our education at Harvard! Hz
vard, whose speaking precincts echoed that good company
pathbreakers gone before us. Harvard, whose shaping spirit quic
ened all our parts. Harvard, whose meaning informed our wil
Harvard, where first we saw the horizon and the light beckoning

SAMUEL RODGER CALLAWAY

  

i Sade din

HOME appress: Whire Hill Road, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 140 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BoRN: April 25, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT; St, Paul’s School, Concord, N.H. °

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarriED: Dorothy Harding, April 24, 1937, Boston, Mass. ciitoren: Joan,
June 1, 1939; Samuel Rodger, Jr, Aug. 15, 1941; Dorothy, July 13, 1042.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Trowbridge Callaway, Jr. °36; John Macintosh Callaway,

 

?
37+
occupation: Banking; vice-president, investment department.
OFFICES HELD: Trustee, 1946-56, president, tgsi-s3, East Woods School; ves

tryman, St. John’s Church, 1950-57; treasurer, United Hospital Fund,
since 1955; director, Huntington Hospital, since 1955, trustee, since rest
president, since 1960, St. Timothy's School; crustee, St. Paul's School since
1960.

.

[197 ]

a lL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

TWENTY-FIVE years is a long time to have passed by so quickly.
Certainly it has been a pleasant one due largely I suspect to my great
good fortune in marriage.

Shortly after leaving college, I went to work for J. P. Morgan
& Company, in New York City, and after several years as a student
trainee settled down in the Investment Division. Morgan’s has re-
cently merged with the Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
and I am now a member of the much larger investment department
of the combined banks. I have enjoyed investment work from the
beginning and still do find it both educational and stimulating. My
outdoor activities have been confined more and more to golf in the
summer and skating in the winter, in each case with more and more
effort as time goes on, and poorer and poorer results.

For most of the past twenty-five years, like many of my class-
mates, ] have been continually exposed to the educational world.
My interest in it has grown and has focused particularly on the in-
dependent school. I have been lucky enough to have been on the
board of trustees at three schools, and have served as president of
two of them. Out of this has come a strong belief as to the im-
portance of the independent schools in the educational system of
this country, and an equally strong feeling that the years ahead
will prove most difficult and challenging ones for them.

Although twenty-five years is a long time, it does not seem to
have been long enough to come up with any new or exciting con-
clusions as to how the world can be saved from itself. Rather,
these have been years when my convictions have been constantly
changing and my only hope is that by the end of the next twenty-
five years I may have gained some knowledge that would be worth
sharing with the Class of ’36.

paper”

[ 198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TROWBRIDGE CALLAWAY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 120 FE. 81st St.. New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 347 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1912, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: The Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MARRIED: Ruth Tooker, June, 1935, Princeton, N.J. (divorced 1957); Diana
Stokes, September, 1957, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N.Y. cun-
DREN: Trowbridge, Jr., April 1, 1938; Norman Tooker, Sept. 23, 19393
Tyler Stokes, July 23, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Rodger Callaway, "36, John MacIntosh Callaway,
37°

OCCUPATION: Director, treasurer and secretary, Cuban-American Sugar Com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, The Gunnery School, 1940-43.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Quogue Field Club, Quogue, Long
Island, N.Y.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on investment and industry in professional journals,

JOHN PILGRIM CAMPANA

 

HOME ApprEss: 428 Maple St., West Hempstead, Long Island, N.Y,

[ 199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

orFice ADDRESS: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn 26, N.Y.

porn: June 6, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B. cv7” laude, 1936; ED.M. (Boston
Teachers Coll.), 1937.

marriep: Ruth Ellen Emerson, May 29, 1943, Concord, N.C. ceipren: Ellen,
April 15, 1945; Michael Emerson, May 13, 1948; Ann Marie, Dec. 28, 1951.

occupaTION: Education; social studies teacher, director of student activities,
Erasmus Hall High School.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of Long Island.

I AM about to conclude my twenty-third year as a teacher. I am
happy to report that the profession today is as fascinating as it was
when I started. The rewards have been rich in everything except
salary. Several years ago I started writing short essays entitled
“When Momma Goes to Work,” purely for family dinner table
chit-chat. Well, “Momma” up and went to work and now I discover
that I get to the battered typewriter only to dust it off occasionally.
By way of revenge, my good wife has impressed us all into her
service grading the papers of her active fifth-graders!

The year’s end will mark two decades of ceaseless activity in
guiding youngsters to Harvard. On my own initiative in the be-
ginning, but since 1946 by active association with the Harvard Club
of Long Island, several dozen excellent graduates of Erasmus Hall
High School have gone on to Harvard. All were scholars and a
few excelled in baseball and track and, what’s more, have become
Harvard men of distinction.

My hobbies have been stamp collecting, coaching sports, letter
writing and Civil War literature. The stamp collection has grown
very slowly but my twelve-year-old son Michael’s interest has be-
come aroused because of his love for geography and history so that
I have become optimistic about the future of our plate blocks and
first-day covers. I have always been sports-minded, perhaps be-
cause I was early impressed with the creed of the ancient Athenians,
“to possess a sound mind in a sound body.” Although most of the
spring has left the pitching arm and my legs, enough still remains
to permit me to play an active part in our community’s Little
League. Last year our Robins A team needed only one more vic-
tory to run a three-year streak to thirty games but flopped dis-
mally in the last game, 18-10. Some of the parents nearly de-
manded a Congressional investigation. Next year, like so many other
fathers, I move up from Little League to the Babe Ruth League for
similar coaching and managerial chores. Who knows, Michael may

{ 200 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in a few years be holding down first base or pitching for the Crim-
son team (or Dartmouth).

I have, for many years, written letters and cards to presidents,
governors, ambassadors, legislators (federal and state) when moved
by some press or radio item. It has been lots of fun but not too
rewarding. Most of the replies have come back full of gobbledy-
gook, printed enclosures “full of sound and fury signifying nothing,”
so that I have often wondered whether it had been worth the time
and the expense taken. Of all the correspondence, the most reward-
ing were a beautiful three-page letter from the late Kenneth Roberts
of Kennebunkport, Maine, a genuine letter of appreciation from
President Karl Ebert of Switzerland in 1946 in response to my thank-
ing him for the quick work of the Swiss Army and Alpine guides
in rescuing all the occupants of a U.S. Air Force plane down in the
Alps, and several sincere letters from Bruce Catton to whom I had
addressed queries about Civil War events. In 1952, a particularly
good history class and I decided to write President Truman about
two items in his book, Mr. President, published that same year.
The reply from his secretary thanked us for “the best w ishes for
continued good health to him and his family”! The class suffered
a bad let-down indeed.

From 1945 to 1956, I directed boys’ camps in the White Moun-
tains. hese camps were affiliated with summer resorts and my boys
spent the entire summer caddying. The boys generally came from
middle- and lower-income-group families, those who would have
found it difficult to attend either private or charitable camps. A
sensible combination of work and play (golf, baseball, tennis, trips,
etc.) made for a summer of pleasure and a start toward a college
savings account. In 1951 Horace Sutton and a group of writers
that had converged on the resort to write a story about some event

‘thought enough of our camp organization to include it in a special
story! Perhaps a nation-wide program of such caddy camps, well-
directed of course, would do a lot to take youngsters off the streets
in the summer, curb incipient juvenile delinquency and promote
instead juvenile decency. While none of my boys has become a
noted golfer, many have gone on to success in the professional and
business world. Then again, the thought strikes me, one of these
boys might one day be president of the United States!

[ 201 ]

- HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

COURTLANDT CANBY

BS eee orem gegre es copeensgeae wes

~
$

   

HOME apprEss: Inningwood Road, Ossining, N.Y.
OFFICE ApbREss: Book Dept., Life, Time-Life Bldg., New York 20, N.Y.

BorN: March 11, 1914, New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 72agna cum laude, 1936.

MARRIED: Natalie Green, June 12, 1948, Sharon, Conn. CHILDREN: Henry, Aug.
29, 1949; Peter Green, Sept. 1, 1950; Ann Tatnall, Nov. 15, 1951; Judith

Ingersoll, Jan. 20, 1955.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Tatnall Canby, °34, M.a., ’36.
occupaTion: Editor, Epic of Man (as of August, 1960), Life Magazine, book

department.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, board of trustees, The Trent School, New York

City, since 1960; president, Music Guild of the Ossining, N.Y., Recreation

Commission, 1960-61.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Society of American Historians.

PuBLicaTIONS: The World of History, New American Library, 1954; Lincoln
and the Civil War, Dell, 1958; Lincoln and the Civil War, Braziller, 1960;
co-editor, Dynamic America: A History of General Dynamics Corpora-
tion, General Dynamics & Doubleday, 1960; articles in: The Atlantic,
William & Mary Quarterly, Virginia Magazine, American Heritage, etc.

LATELY I seem to have become a specialist in the writing and
editing of “big books.” Dynamic America, a 4oo-page picture and
text history of General Dynamics Corporation, is about to come out
—a book so big in bulk that it’s a chore to carry it about, and so
broad in scope that it’s really a selective history of the United States
since the Civil War, with special reference to aviation, submarines,
electricity, electronics, missiles, etc. And now I am at work for
Life’s new book department as editor of an equally huge book, the
Epic of Man, which is being built up out of an earlicr magazine
Series on ancient man and early civilizations. This book is scheduled

to appear in about a year — if I last that long.
[ 202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I seem to have become a big book specialist more or less by acci-
dent — and yet I wonder if it was entirely an accident. Since leav-
ing college, I have bounced around from one thing to another, ap-
parently without plan. And yet somehow, I have always been con-
cerned in one way or another with history, with editing and writing,
and in all my work I have never wandered far from the world of
the academics although never, except as a graduate student, have I
actually been a part of it. (I don’t think I ever really wanted to be a
part of it, yet I never wanted to get too far away from it.) My
Dynamic America (I say mine, because I did the major part of the
work) is good history, and some of it trail-breaking, the Epic, like
all Life books, will call upon the major specialists in every area to
authenticate its presentation.

The pattern — for now I begin to see a pattern — began right
after college. My father sent me off on what he called the wander-
jabr. 1 went to Persia, traveled around with Arthur Upham Pope,
worked on a couple of archaeological excavations, decided [ didn't
want to be an archaeologist, and spent the rest of the year traveling
through the Mediterranean and Europe. But I had learned a lot
about archaeology and middle eastern history. Feeling still quite
uneducated, I went back to graduate school at Harvard, for about
three years of American Civilization (it was the first year of this
inter-field group). Again I learned a lot, under such sterling pro-
fessors as Howard M. Jones, Arthur Schlesinger, Sr. and Ralph
Barton Perry, but I had a yen to get out into the big world and
before finishing the degree accepted a job at the Saturday Review,
as assistant editor, which didn’t last long because along came the
war, and the day after Pearl Harbor, I found myself in Washington
in the embryo O.5.5.

I spent the entire war in the O.S.S. — with the exception of a few
months as a G.I. and officer candidate — first in Washington, then
in London during the V-blitz, then in France shortly after D-Day,
and in Germany at the end of the war. Again I was working with
scholars, first in the Foreign Nationalities Branch, and then in the
Research and Analysis Branch. And after the war, again as assistant
editor of the Saturday Review, I continued to communicate with
my scholarly friends, this time sending them books for review. In
1948, I was asked to join the Society of American Historians’ his-

tory magazine project under Professor Allan Nevins —a venture
which combined sound popularization with scholarly standards.
We came close to publication, but didn’t quite make it. Instead,

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

after five years of work, our project was taken over by a new
group which succeeded in launching American Heritage magazine
— we had contributed the publishing plan, including hard cover,
the list of sponsors, a completely worked-out budget and market
tests, in fact everything but the editorial formula. Our failure, if it
was a failure, was a deep disappointment, but starting a new maga-
zine is a notoriously risky business. .

And so to my next job, the General Dynamics history, which
took me another five years — and the circle is complete. The lesson
is clear: I seem to have drifted from job to job, and yet during the
whole of these twenty-five years, I have been working along the
fringes of the academic world, never a part of it yet always close
to it. This is the way 1 like it.

For the rest, two things stand out, marriage and music. In 1948,
I married Natalie Green. As a representative of Houghton Mifflin,
publishers, she dropped in to see me one day when I was on the
Saturday Review, in order to talk up her firm’s books — and that
was that. We now have four children and a big old real Dutch
Colonial farmhouse not far from the Hudson at Ossining, New
York. As for music: I was always an ardent glee-clubber. In gradu-
ate school, as head of the Lowell House Musical Society, I organ-
ized and conducted the first two big house operas (Purcell’s “Dido
and Aeneas,” and “King Arthur”), setting a trend which I believe
continues to this day. In Washington I helped conduct a splendid
singing group (the St. Matthews Court group) which boasted many
a glee-clubber and Radcliffite, as well as others. In London, I sang
with a semi-professional English madrigal group; in Wiesbaden,
New York and Ossining organized other groups. I am still hard
at it, an ageing devotee, being president of the local chorus here
and with a group of my own which meets occasionally for a bit of
sight-reading. There is nothing more fanatic than your true glee-
clubber, thanks to Doc and Woody and a great tradition.

In conclusion, J must reiterate my great discovery as our Twenty-
fifth Reunion approaches. I, who thought for many years that I had
had no career, have actually had a varied and interesting career with
a curiously consistent inner unity. The variety, for one with my
restless temperament, has been most rewarding — the startling, even
shocking difference of the Middle East in the thirties, the exciting —
years with the O.SS., the unforgettable experience of London under
the V-bomb, the memory of Germany in collapse, the satisfaction
of helping to create a new magazine, even though others reaped

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where we had sown, the visit to Cape Canaveral in the early days
to inspect the Atlas ICBM — the variety has been rewarding, but
there has always been the inner unity of being in touch with knowl-
edge, with learning, and the world of the scholar.

JAMES FREDERICK CARD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Gaylane Drive, Guilderland, Schenectady 3, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Dennison Manufacturing Co., 1623 Central Ave. Albany 5,
N.Y.

BORN: Sept. g, 1913, Stockton, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRRiED: G. Elizabeth Storm, April 19, 1941, Montclair, N.J. campren: James
Frederick, Jr., July 25, 1945; David Warren, Jan. 4, 1949.

occuPATION: Marketing and sales, Dennison Manufacturing Company.

MEMBER OF: National Office Managers Association (associate); Association of
the Army of the United States; Military Government Association.

NOT too long ago, I had a periodical physical exam. The examining
physician was a bright young chap who was just starting to practise.
As he was filling out the usual data as to height, weight, color of
eyes, etc., he unconcernedly, under color of hair, made the entry —
grey. For some time my hair has been receding, becoming sparse,
and I have been stubbornly clinging to the belief that there was
still enough brown in it to warrant its being so described. Now
after twenty-five years I must bow to the ravages of time.

Many things have happened to all of us in these years, The more
usual — finding out what we want to do and will do for a living,
marriage, wartime service, children and assuming our place and

responsibilities in the community, These are the usual things we
all go through.

[ 205 ]

_—_—— Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Fortunately, it is the unusual that prevents the usual from becom-
ing humdrum. Except for wartime service, I have been associated
with the same firm ever since graduation. It has been a reflection
of conservative New England business. In a marketing Capacity
I have been all over the country and still prefer New England.
Wartime service was an experience I would not want to have
missed, but I sincerely hope my sons will never have to go through
it. That is why I have stayed in the Reserves. Raising a family has
its problems and its heartaches, Teen-age sons are an invigorating
and constant source of wonder and amazement, but without them,
life would be very dull. To be a good neighbor demands under-
standing and willingness to do one’s part in the affairs of the com-
munity — although at this point there is a temptation to let such
activities come to you rather than to seek them out.

Looking back in retrospect, it is hard to realize that the years have
passed so rapidly. Some of the shining goals our sights were set on
have proven to be quite different from what we thought they would
be — others have been just the opposite. To sum it up: the years
have flown by, they have been full and busy ones, and Harvard is
still a deep-set anchor and foundation of understanding and knowl-

edge.

RICHARD CHARLES CAREY

 

HOME appress: 915 Elsinore Drive, Palo Alto, Calif,

OFFICE appress: General Electric Co., Box 846, Pleasanton, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1914, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.B.A., 1938,

Maraiep: Darrell Hoyt Hall, April 12, 1945, Fort Myer, Va can DREN:
Michael Kenneth, Sept. 26, 1946; Richard Scott, Oct. 4, 1048; Christopher

[ 206 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Stephen, Jan. 11, 1950; Ann Darrell, Feb. 24, 1952, Charles Patrick, Aug.
11, 1953; Kathleen Frances, Jan. 14, 1957; Jean Marie, April 1, 1960.

OccUPATION: Business management, Vallecitus Atomic Laboratory, Atomic
Products Equipment Department, General Electric Company.

UPON completion of the M.B.A. course at the Business School,
I received a commission in the regular Navy. There followed
twenty-one years of a wide range of assignments which included
travel on the five continents and all the oceans of the world. Re-
tirement as a commander in 1959 provided an opportunity for es-
tablishing a more permanent base for a growing, vigorous family,
and the pursuit of a second career.

This second career, thus far, centers around the business aspects
of research administration. Harvard training plus navy experience
adds up to a significant asset and I am quite happy. Upon my next
retirement in 1980, I am looking forward to a third career, this
time in college business administration which by this time I hope
to be able to afford.

Major hobbies have been and continue to be my delightful family
and activities directly or indirectly involving them — P.T.A., Scouts,
boating, carpentry, skiing, music. We are trying to raise children
who will contribute something of value to the world. I hope that
a Harvard education will help some of them achieve this goal.

JOHN ALEXANDER CARLEY

  

HOME appress: Mackintosh Lane, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Mass. Inst. of Technology, Reom 3-017, Cambridye jo. Mass
BORN: May 26, 1914, Sharon, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE! A.B, 1936.

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MARRIED: Joan Keir Scherer, Oct. 23, 1953, Wayland, Mass. cuHttpren: David
Glenn, Dec. 28, 1954; Thomas Keir, May 20, 1956; Malcolm McDowell,

Oct. 18, 1957; Ann Armstrong, March 15, 1960.
occuPATION: Supervisor of training and information, Personnel Administra-

tion, M.LT.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Public Library, Lincoln, Mass., since 1959.

PUBLICATIONS: “Sports for All Pupils,” Letter to the Editor, Herald, Sharon,
Pa.; “Favors Several ‘United Funds’,” Letter to the Editor, Herald, Boston;
monographs on teaching and fund-raising (private limited editions — ditto

masters destroyed).
IF I could let words alone I'd stop there, but since you insist . . .
My bump of direction is not an eminence but a depression, so here
is a career that leapfrogs like a Parchesi game. Thus —

First throw: From Harvard to New York, biggest puddle of them
all. Advertising promotion copywriter for Time, then Life. Re-
sisted efforts of Bob Terrall, ’36 and John Hersey to lure me into
Newspaper Guild (no extra throw). Despite concerts, opera and
friends, miserable after three and a half years.

Second throw: Return (with relief) to New England. In a
harder hunt than Diogenes’s, I sought an honest advertising agency.
Penalty for failing to find or recognize one: sold dial indicators
(precision measuring gages) for a year — long enough to indicate,
with several thousandths of an inch to spare, that I am no salesman.
Extra penalty (?): Put off thoughts of marrying.

Third throw: Join army and lose four and a half years — well,
not lose entirely. Irreplaceable grand tour of South Pacific, yield-
ing admiration of the simple lives and cultivated sensibilities of
Solomon and Fijian natives, but perhaps overdeveloping my capacity
to endure such things as boredom and inefficiency. Concocted an
aim in life: to be useful happily.

Fourth throw: Go anywhere. | stayed at home in Pennsylvania
for a year trying to invent and, on the side, to write humorous
verse. Few nibbles, no patents, no sales, nothing published. Not
very useful.

Fifth throw: Do something educational. I taught. Apprenticed
at Shady Hill School in Cambridge, then taught sixth grade for
three years in Lincoln, Massachusetts, public school. This was my
highest attainment in feeling useful and being happy at it — yet
teaching took so much out of me that I reluctantly gave it up. How
has anyone the serenity to teach and raise a family, too?

Sixth throw: Go back two steps and start over. I tried to invent
and write again for a year, this time in Boston. Same outcome.

{ 208 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Seventh throw: Produce! | began working for M.I.T.’s Lincoln
Laboratory in its early stages (1952) and was soon in the personnel
office — interviewing, setting rates, sitting in on union negotiations.

Eighth throw: Get married or leave the country. On the verge
of taking off for a vacation in Europe, I discovered that a girl I
had been seeing casually was actually tolerant enough to live with
me and be my love. There went my trip abroad! And why have
I never missed it?

The game goes on. While I’m not yet ready to promise never to
leap again, my present work is satisfying and M.IL-T. is quite broad-
minded about Harvard men. My intended vocation in 1936 was
publishing. Though I haven’t been a publisher, I find I have gravi-
tated to the writing and printing side of every job I’ve been in, in-
cluding teaching. At present, in the M.L.T. office of personnel rela-
tions, whenever I want to see my words in print I can run off a few
hundred copies of a memorandum to supervisors, or a few thousand
leaflets on a fringe benefit for employees.

But there is more to life than being useful happily, I now find.
Being useful is far from enough for a husband, and a father’s aim
must be to make himself useless, dispensable, as soon as practicable.
So it goes with the other profundities I formulate from time to time.
Every social movement, I once thought, contains the seed of its own
destruction, but I can’t see now that this is true of Christianitv. Ah,
well! The other day I tried to compliment a nineteen-year-old by
remarking that something she did showed that she was growing up.
What an affront! I must be almost twice her age, and here am 1,
still trying to grow up and enjoying the effort. Ask me at our
Fiftieth Reunion what my aim in life is, and with the benefit of
added hindsight Ill have a better answer. It may not be voiced in
the past tense, either.

Politically, I have become somewhat more liberal than in the
college years, which pleases my conscience but makes elections
more of a torture. How I envy the certainty of liberals who Anow
their platform and ticket are the nation’s salvation! In pastimes,
too, I’m a planter of trees, a conserver of good things, a sorter and
repairer and putterer, rather than a radical designer. Skiing and
occasional climbing, cutting firewood, and a modest version of
squash provide some of the exercise mv system craves, My firmese
resolve most consistently unheeded is; Write more letrers.

[ 209 ]

nine nas eeeseanuscssemacacesoaanencaasaiasriiccesinaicataincn:seccmmsmeinetiial

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CHARLES BARRETT CARROLL

    

ME ADDRESS: 502 W. Great Falls St. Falls Church, Va.

ICE AppREss: Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Washington, D.C,

v: Sept. 14, 1912, Pasadena, Calif.

RED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

7p: Deborah Dorsey, Jan. 9, 1947, Baltimore, Md. cumpren: Charles Bar-
*, Jr, Dec. 25, 1947; Michael Hugus, Aug. 31, 1949; Robert Dorsey,
ch 15, 1951; David Bonner, Nov. 19, 1954.

ov; Captain, U.S. Navy.

? Harvard Club of Boston.

has really happened in twenty-five years of growing older,

at times, hopefully expectant? Certainly it is not the
call that I once thought just a matter of time, as goals
‘have admittedly changed since that June day in 1936.
1as been the blessings of a fine family life, expanding
with the years, that has most influenced my personal
philosophy. I am both proud and amazed at the resili-
y has acquired, from the peripatetics of our service
are credit to my wife than to me, that we have all
umphant, escaping the rocks and shoals along the
oys are my constant companions, who are already
ke me feel my age, but | promise shall never beat

nation.

following a pattern of naval line officer assign-
rcluded command of a destroyer division, chet
division and command of a flect oiler, all suc-
¢ Pacific Arca which covered the past four
jonment 18 1n the office of the Chic of Naval

m head of the Naval Ulectronte Counter-

[ 210 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

measures Program. Would I do it over again and stay with the
Navy? Indubitably, as the jobs have always been broad and chal-
lenging, hence, deeply rewarding in a very real sense. 1 might add
that working with youth, ships, and science in equal measure can
be a fine blend to brew. However, retirement from active service
in the near future is not exactly an unpleasant alternative either.

My hobbies are pretty much confined to family activities, though
I manage an occasional game of golf on the side. Swimming, horse-
back riding, hunting and shooting are things to be seized upon when
opportunity presents, which my boys never overlook. Incidentally,
the oldest was a qualified Scuba diver at twelve, taking me along
with him in the bargain.

As we look ahead to the age that is waiting, to be wholly sanguine
is to be unrealistic, at least from my point of view. However, today
more than at any time in the past, the dangers are clear-cut and
they point more to the United States people than to the Soviet,
more to the question of response, self-sacrifice and determination
of our people to rise to unsurpassed heights of individual action
and national leadership. I am convinced that those who consider
something less is required to meet the challenge of international
Communism are dreaming. The one bright side to the picture is
simply to know it is up to us as individual Americans to keep the
faith; and this, undoubtedly, will mean an effort far exceeding any-
thing we have yet made; I feel confident Mr, Kennedy will ‘do his
utmost to meet the challenge as a young and forw ard-seeking Presi-
dent.

The nineteen-sixties should prove both an interesting and exciting
decade, if nothing else. I want to renew my wishes for the best of
good fortune, health and happiness to each one of my Classmates
on the occasion of our Twenty-fifth.

J aan]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROY MAYER CARSTAIRS

recs —
. 3
i

co Mi

   

HOME ADDRESS: 237 E. 20th St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 42 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 10, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Alexander Hamilton High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936, LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1939,

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; New York County Lawyers Associa-

uon; American Bar Association.
I WOULD love to move to Southern California, live in a house
with a view with plenty of sunshine all year long and learn to play
the piano. This is a relatively simple ambition but presents formi-
dable obstacles to realization. I’m going to try to make it soon.
Meanwhile I find the Harvard Club of New York an oasis and a
gratifying link with four cherished years.

HUBERT ADAMS CARTER

 

 

) Milton 86, Mass.
appress: 361 Centre St. J ,

OME
[212 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orFice ADDRESS: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

BORN: June 6, 1914, Milton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; A.M. (Middlebury Coll.), 1948.

marrieD: Ann Brooks, June 6, 1940, West Medford, Mass. crttpren: Nathaniel
Appleton, Oct. 4, 1943; Peter Hobart, Sept. 17, 1947; Lawrence Adams,
Sept. 14, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Richard Carter, 2d, ’29.

occupation: Schoolmaster, teacher of French, German and Spanish.

OFFICES HELD: Captain, U.S. Ski Team in Panamerican Championships in Chile,
1938, secretary, Graduates Council, Harvard Mountaineering Club, since
1946; trustee, Children’s Museum, Boston, since 1948; assistant editor,
1951-59, editor, since 1960, American Alpine Journal, councilor, American
Alpine Club, 1954-56; leader, various mountain climbing and scientific
expeditions including: American Alpine Club Ojos del Salado Expedi-
tion, Milton Mount McKinley Range Expeditions, 1957, 1958, 1960.

MEMBER OF: New England Modern Language Association; Association of
American Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese; Association of American
Teachers of German; various mountaineering clubs including: American
Alpine Club, Himalayan Club, Alpine Club, Harvard Mountaineering
Club, Academia de Alta Montana de Chile.

PuBLicarions: Numerous articles in mountaineering and geographical journals,
“Mountain Climbing,” Encyclopedia Americana.

WHILE the rest of the Class stayed in Cambridge to be properly
graduated, I was already halfway across the Pacific to become a
member of the British-American Himalayan Expedition on Nanda
Devi, a 25,645-foot peak in the central Himalayas. We successfully
made its first ascent and held the altitude record for the highest
summit yet reached for fourteen years until 1950 when the French
climbed Annapurna. After returning overland across Asia by lands
then rarely visited by Americans, I joined the U.S. Ski Team in
the Alps, where in the FIS (World’s Championships) we managed
at least to beat the Greeks and the Dutch. A half year as a sales-
man and a year at the Harvard Business School convinced me that
I was not cut out for the business world. Two years after leaving
college, I finally began that very self-rewarding career of school-
master, teaching French and German at Middlesex School. In 1938
I captained the U.S. Ski Team which successfully defended the Pan-
american Championships in Chile,

Luckier than most, I had a consistently interesting time through
the whole of the war. In charge of technical intelligence in the
Office of the Quartermaster General, I spent a little more than half
of the time in Washington, where T had my delightful, new ly-
acquired wife to look out for me, and the rest in various strange or

[213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

at least foreign parts visiting my intelligence teams in the field or
conducting equipment tests.

At the end of the war, Ann and I took our two-year-old son, Nat,
with us on our belated honeymoon to Chile. In that beautiful and
hospitable country, I attended classes at the university all morning
to learn Spanish and taught Chileans that hideously difficult foreign
language — English — in the afternoon before joining Ann to go
out to some charming Chilean’s house for dinner at a fashionable
9:30 P.M.

Since the fall of 1946, I have been teaching French, German and
Spanish at Milton Academy. Some unsuspecting but tone deaf sons
of Harvard classmates have discovered me to be a horrible ogre
because I am convinced that foreign languages are not only cor-
rectly written but are also spoken fluently and easily by natives of
those countries. Should Milton boys do less? One of these thirteen-
year-old descendants of Mrs. Malaprop this fall explained to one of
my colleagues after his first French class which was entirely in
French, “Why, that Mr. Carter, he’s a complete phonetic.” Even
my own young, now all three in the upper school, have to put up
with me in school, too.

During summer vacations since the war, I have introduced school-
boys to the high mountains, either in the Alps, the Wind River
Range of Wyoming, or the Alaska Range. I have also led a few
climbing expeditions of “old” men, college boys or older. In 1956
the mountaineering world was startled to hear of a newly-discovered

peak on the Argentine-Chilean border higher than Aconcagua. Our
American Alpine Club Ojos del Salado Expedition, which included
my wife, continued the survey in the windswept, frigid Puna de
Atacama, the driest and one of the highest deserts in the world,
even after the Chilean mapping service had fled the weather with
tail between its legs. All we could do was to make the Ojos del
Salado the western hemisphere’s second highest mountain. On the
first of three expeditions to the Mount McKinley region of Alaska,
in which my wife and son, Nat, took part, we duplicated photo-
graphs taken fifty years before by Dr. Cook of North Pole fame
and definitely proved the hoax of his claimed first ascent of Mount

McKinley. It was fascinating to find the exact spot where he stood

to take the pictures, which was not necessarily where he said it was.

To take the trickiest of all, his “summit” picture, we had to raise

and climb a fifty-foot aluminum mast on a knife-edged ice ridge.

We had to do this to bring us to the level where he had stood in

[214 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1906; so much snow and ice had melted off the ridge in that time.
Moreover, he took his “summit” picture on a 5360-foot peak twenty
miles from Mount McKinley. The two other expeditions were to
totally unexplored portions of the range and were undertaken to
investigate the glaciology.

EDWARD NATHANIEL CARTNICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 170 Cathedral Ave., Hempstead, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Franklin Ave., Garden City, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1914, Garfield, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Clifton High School, Clifton, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1940.

MaRRIED: Marie Mitten, April, 1943, Winthrop, Mass. cHitpren: Christine,
September, 1943; Lois, June 22, 1948, Cody Edward, June 11, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Physician; specializing in obstetrics and gynecology.

OFFICES HELD: Consulting gynecologist, U.S. Air Force Base, Mitchel Field
Hospital, attending obstetrician and gynecologist, Meadowbrook and
Mercy Hospitals, Long Island; chief of Gynecological Tumor Service.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists (fellow); Brooklyn and Nassau Gyneco-
logical Societies; Association of Physicians of Long Island; Catholic Physi-
cians Guild; Nassau County and New York Strate Medical Societies;
Hempstead Golf Club.

I LEFT Harvard clutching my diploma, and ventured across the
river into Boston, where I spent four more happy years in medical
school, gathering the knowledge which has brought me to my
present exalted status of medical midwifery. During the interven-
ing twenty-five years I beg to report the following:

1. I have acquired a wife, of Radcliffe origin, who has stood bv
me faithfully through thickness and thin, lo these many vears.
Three children have resulted from this happy union, one of whom

[215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 936

may soon be in the Boston area for schooling purposes. 2. I served
my country during the Great War bringing forth a goodly number
of the many offspring of our very prolific armed forces, and re-
pairing the damages thereof. This career led me oddly enough from
a course in tropical medicine in our nation’s capital to, logically
enough, a post in the Canada-Alaska Command. I ended my military
career with a flourish at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, tending the wives
of the equally prolific scientists who were proving in no uncertain
way that working with isotopes was not going to produce race
extermination. After that fantastic explosion at Hiroshima, I was
released with honor and with great glee into the outside civilian
world.

After having proved, at least to myself, that I had some talent in
this direction, I decided to become known formally as an obstetri-
cian-gynecologist in order to be accepted into all the sacred societies
of this sacrosanct specialty. After three years in a large hospital
in New York, acquiring new talents, I ventured into private practice
in this quiet Long Island community.

It hasn’t been a quiet decision. I’ve often thought of rebellion;
moving into the jungles of darkest Africa like Schweitzer to treat
exotic conditions. I’ve even thought of teaching as a career, but up
to now have managed to stifle all these disturbing ideas in favor of
my workday problems of running a cancer clinic and devising vari-
ous and devious projects to stave off the inevitable socialization of
medicine, Pve accepted the raising of my children in the way they
should go as a sop to my rebellious tendencies.

I must say my profession is not a relaxing one. It is not one I
would choose again as a means of livelihood, but I must say that
time is rushing by frighteningly fast. There has been enough of
interest to keep my nose to the grindstone just to see what will
happen next. I repeatedly make resolutions to slow down to savor
life a bit more leisurely — and who knows, maybe someday I shall.

[ 216]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WHITNEY GAYLORD CASE, II

 

HOME ADDRESS: 992 Memorial Drive, Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Liberty Bank Bldg., Buffalo 2, N.Y.

BoRN: Dec. 24, 1914, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, Syracuse, N.Y., 1936-38, vice-president, Buffalo, N.Y,
1938-41, 1944-50, W. A. Case & Son Manufacturing Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club; Signet Society
and Iroquois Club, Cambridge, Mass.; Saturn Club, Buffalo; etc.

AFTER service in the Army, I returned to a family-established
manufacturing company in Buffalo. The company was sold and
I moved my residence to Cambridge in 1951. Since then, in the
position of trustee, I] have commuted on a more or less regular
basis between Buffalo and Cambridge, and have been lucky enough
to have had several pleasant trips abroad during the past few years.

[217]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CHARLES WHELAN CASSIDY

 

- HOME AppRESs: 57 Chatsworth Ave., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Compton Advertising Agency, 625 Madison Ave., New York,
N.Y.

BorN: May 31, 1913, East Orange, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Newman School, Lakewood, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRiED: Katherine B. Donovan, Nov. 26, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHIprEN:
Kathleen Whelan, Sept. 23, 1942; Sarah Anne, June 20, 1945; Charles
Whelan, Jr., April 20, 1948; Christopher Joseph, Nov. 4, 1953.

occupation: Group head, advertising.

OFFICES HELD: Writer, Young & Rubicam, 1938-51; supervisor, Lennon &
Newell, 1952-56; group head, McCann-Marshall, 1956-59, Compton, 1959-
61; consultant and member, board of directors, United Profit Sharing
Corporation, 1956-58.

IT would take a good long while to write “a brief impression of

the past twenty-five years.” St. Jerome says, “A letter may be writ-

ten in the course of a night.” If any one of us were to give a brief
yet a true impression of the past quarter century, it would surely
take many long nights and days and total more pages than are con-
tained in this book.

My business has been advertising. It has involved everything from

a campaign for a remarkable governor to production of television

shows. While advertising is a business, it is in many ways a new

art; an art which uses many old ones and which I have found chal-
lenging, exciting, and enlivening. I have written dialogue and lyrics,
speeches and skits, and made thousands of sketches, ads, and com-
mercials. I’ve written in French and Spanish, yes, and in Latin. Con-
trary to what is depicted in many novels, I have found advertising

a serious business and a lively new art with principles that can’t be

violated with impunity.

, [ 218 ]

ee enn eC

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My partner in most of these tw enty-five years has been my ve
charming and pretty wife. We have four children who are perh,
educating us as much as we are them. I classify myself as an in
pendent voter, which means I suppose that I've voted for Democr
more often than Republicans. My purpose in life has been to lea
to know, and to grow. In pursuit of this it has seemed to me td
to the dictum “Know thyself” one must add the further dict
“Know God.” I am, by practice and conviction, Catholic.

THOMAS JAMES CAVANAGH

 

HOME AbpREsS: 121 St. Stephen St., Boston 15, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Northeastern University, Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: March 25, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936(37); EDM. (Northeasterr
Univ.), 1955.

UNMARRIED.

OccuPaTION: Assistant dean of education, Northeastern University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Commercial Classroom Teachers Club, c. 1947; secre-
tary, Waltham Civic Music Association, c. 1gg8-50; Vice-president, Wal-
tham Teachers Association, c. 19s0.

MEMBER oF: Alassachusetts Teachers Association; National Fducanen Associa.
tion, Eastern Business “Feachers Association, Commercial Classroom
Teachers Club; Catholic Business Education Association, Northeastern
University Faculty Club; honorary member, Alpha Kappa Sigma fra-
ternity; Italian Historical Society.

1 BELIEVE that the expression, “wishful thinking,” had not been

coined in 1936, but that must have been what [was engaging in, in

that year, for Thad hoped to go to Europe to use my romance ln-
guages in, say, the Paris office of an American firm. “Uhis dream
never materialized. 1 did get a job in the office of an Amenecan tirm,

[219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

but it was in Boston. The company was General Machinery Cor-
poration; they are distributors of machine tools, and I was very
happy there as office manager until 1943. During the years at Gen-
eral Machinery, I endeavored to get some teaching experience by
teaching nights at Stratford School (now Chamberlayne Junior
College) in Boston.

During the early years of World War IJ, I had occupational de-
ferments by reason of being a “key” person in a critical industry —
machine tools. In 1943, I decided to get into some kind of military
service, and I had a strong desire to serve on the water, if I were
to be a casualty, I preferred drowning to some of the other popular
demises in those days. The Navy and the Coast Guard did not want
me, so I joined the United States Maritime Service. Instead of going
out on the water, however, I was kept at Sheepshead Bay in Brook-
lyn for two years on teaching assignments — first a math refresher
course and later accounting and ship’s business courses in the Purser
Training School. In 1945, and 1946, I did finally work on a ship —
as a purser for the American South African Lines.

I loved the sea and the work of a purser, but I did miss teaching,
music, and contacts with family and friends. I wanted to try public
school teaching. Although I would have preferred to teach Latin,
French, etc., when an opportunity to teach business subjects pre-
sented itself, I took advantage of it. I was very happy in Waltham,
Massachusetts, from 1946 to 1951, teaching in the high school, play-
ing piano accompaniments for the students, occasionally playing
piano solos at teachers’ meetings and the like. I was very active in
the Waltham Civic Music Association in those years. But in 1951,
Northeastern University invited me to join their faculty. A difficult
decision had to be made: I loved my work and activities in Waltham;
on the other hand, it was extremely unlikely that any other uni-
versity would ever want me. The decision arrived at was to try
Northeastern. I could always go back to public school teaching if
I did not like college teaching.

] am now in my tenth year at Northeastern, so I guess I like it
well enough to stay. In September, 1951, I started the Department
of Secretarial Studies here. In 1953, Northeastern University es-
tablished its College of Education, and I immediately enrolled in the
graduate program. After getting the Master of Education degree,
I had a chance to transfer from the College of Business Administra-
tion to the College of Education. I am now Assistant Dean of Edu-
cation, doing mostly administrative work, but still a little teaching —

[ 220 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one graduate course, “methods of teaching business subjects,” and
one undergraduate course, “elementary schoo! music.”

I did not marry, although I came close to doing so; and so I can-
not report on a family and its progress. As to “social, political, or
religious convictions,” I am a Democrat and a Roman Catholic. In
recent years my religion has become extremely important to me;
I do not hesitate to say that it is the most important thing in my
life (although I have not felt the pull of a religious vocation). Con-
sequently, the position of the Catholic Church on the great social
issues of the times is my position also.

As the years pass, I place increasing value on the years from 1932
to 1936, at Harvard. I find that my own experiences and problems
while a college student provide an excellent background for the
counseling of college students that I am engaged in every day.

++ ROBERT SEARLE CHAFEE

 

BORN: Dec. 2, 1914, Providence, RI. parents: Zechariah Chafee, Jr, rip, 713,
Bess Frank Searle.

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., Cum lrude, 1936.
HARVARD BROTHER: Zechariah Chafee, Jr., 34, M-B.4, '36.
DIED: June 25, 1941, Franklin, N.H.

AFTER a year as a teacher at Shady Hill School, Chafee spent four
years in surveying and other civil engineering work. He volunteered
for the Army Air Corps, was sent to MIT. to study meteorology
and to Mitchel Field to complete training. He died on June 25,
1941, at Franklin, New Hampshire, shortly before he was to be
commissioned a second lieutenant, after months of study in the

Army Air Corps Weather Schools. He was survived by his parents,

a brother and two sisters.

[221]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANKLIN RUSSELL CHESLEY, JR.

 

HOME appress: 18 Rockland Drive, Pittsfield, Mass.
OFFICE apprESS: Ordnance Dept., General Electric Co., Pittsfield, Mass.

BorN: March 14, 1914, Saco, Maine.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1935.
MaRRIED: Doris Lymont Hyman, May 20, 1942, Saco, Maine. CHILDREN: Nathan
Russell, Nov. 27, 1943; Maryanne, Dec. 22, 1945; Stephen Collins, Nov.

19, 1952.
occuPATION: Quality control engineer — classified, defense electronics.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in Republican organizations, Professional Engi-
neers’ Association, Pilot's Association, P.T.A. associations, Boy Scouts of
America, Reserve and Retired Officers’ Associations.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Aircraft Owner’s and Pilot’s Association,
Retired Officer’s Association; Society of Professional Engineers; B.P.O.E.;
various social organizations.

WITH and without regret, 1 took leave of the Square in 1934 for
a few more attempts at learning along the lower banks of the
Charles, the halls of M.1.T. Terminating selected study aimed at the
textile industry, I associated with a group developing usable textile
fibres other than cotton, linen, silk and wool. This effort resulted
in the grant of two patents relating to the decortication and defibril-
lization of certain bast and indogen fibres. It also developed, unfor-
tunately, that these same fibres were an excellent source of cellulose.
The supplier — Japan, and much of our raw material used for
other purposes, December 7, 1941.

The year 1938 found me with Miller Franklin Company, in dear
old New York, doing industrial economic research. Not for long,
however, as R.O.T.C. and a pilot’s license brought “Greetings” and
an invitation to Pensacola— transportation paid (Government

Transportation Request).

[222 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The following years — North, South, East and West: a bit above
average serving of “Fruit Salad,” including a citation or two; a
squadron command, success; sorrow; life and love. North meets
South in a merger of Maine and North Carolina — still valid reason
for family discussion (?). The children comprise a “Sooner,” an
“Empire Stater,” a second “Mainiac.”

Then came the time when, as must to all USNR members — back
to civilian life. The reorientation East or West, North or South,
free-lance or industry, large or small? The choice: General Elec-
tric Company, and the business: to put yourself out of business (as
a pilot), missiles, space ships, et cetera.

Thus, at this stage, 1961, twenty-five years later and twenty-five
hundred (approx.) hairs less, 1 guess it is about time to settle down.

TAGUE CLEMENT CHISHOLM

 

a}
i
*

«a?

Se

&

POE HS Rear ee ag

HOME ApbrEss: 1909 Irving Ave., S., Minneapolis 5, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 308 Physicians & Surgeons Bidg., Minneapolis 2, Minn.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1915, Millinocket, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, Cté77 laude, 1936; M.D. 1940.

MARRIED: Verity Constance Burnett, Oct. 5, 1930, Plymouth, N.H. cai pren:
Penclope Ann, Aug, 18, 1942; Christopher Tague, Aug. 20. 1944; Robin
Frances, Sept. 7, 1949.

occupation: Pediatric surgeon, education.

OFFICES HELD: Arthur Tracy Cabot Fellow in laboratory for surgical research,
Harvard Medical School, 1945-46; clinical instructor in SUTZCTY, 1Og7-4a
clinical assistant professor in surgery, 1949-54, clinical associate professor
in surgery, since 1954, University of Minnesota Medical School; chair-
man, Hlennepin County Medical Library (225,000 volumes), 1953-60; asso-
ciate editor, editorial board, Minnesota Medicine (state medical journal),
since 1954; trustee, St. James Militrary School for Boys, Faribault, Minne-

[ 223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

sota, since 1958; chief of pediatric surgery, Minneapolis General Hos-
pital, since 1958; president, Minneapolis Pediatric Society, 1959-60; vice-
president, Minneapolis Academy of Medicine, 1960; second vice-president,
Hennepin County Medical Society, 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate), since 1948; American
College of Surgeons (fellow), since 1949; American Academy of Pedi-
atrics (affiliate fellow), since 1950; Minneapolis Rotary Club; Harvard
Club of Boston; American and Minnesota State Medical Associations;
Hennepin County Medical Society; Minneapolis and Minnesota Surgical
Societies; Minneapolis and Minnesota Academies of Medicine; Minne-
apolis and Northwest Pediatric Societies.

PUBLICATIONS: “Pheochromocytoma in a Seven Year Old Girl,’ Spencer, B. J.,
Wyatt, O. S., & Chisholm, T. C., Minnesota Medicine, 39:220, April, 1956;
“Thoracic Surgical Emergencies in the Newborn,” Chisholm, T. C., Spen-
cer, B. J., McParland, F. A., Postgraduate Medicine, Vol. 23, No. 6, June,
1958; “Discussion on Postoperative Complications and Their Prevention.
The Nonoperative Aspects of Pediatric Surgery,” Ross Pediatric Research
Conference, 1958; “Lymphangiomas,” Chisholm, T. C., Spencer, B. J.,
McParland, F. A., Pediatric Clinics of North America, Vol. 6, No. 2,
May, 1959; “Primary Megacolon — Method of Therapy,” Chisholm, T. C.,
Spencer, B. J., McParland, F. A., Current Therapy, 1960.

FOR fourteen years, I was privileged to stay within the shadows of
Harvard: four years in the College, four years in the Medical
School, and six years in two of the Harvard teaching hospitals (the
Peter Bent Brigham, where I got my basic training in general surgery,
and the Boston Children’s Hospital, where I got my special training
in pediatric surgery). And then this young (?) gosling looked the
country over from Portland, Oregon, to Baltimore, Maryland. Re-
sult: pulled up lifelong New England roots and transplanted them
to Minneapolis, Minnesota, where they have remained ever since,
except for an annual family pilgrimage to Nantucket to spend the
month of August.

Our summer holiday is the peak of our year’s calendar: sailing,
fishing, camping, swimming, tennis, beach picnics, crabbing, blue-
berrying, and most recently (for. three years), doing water color
sketches of sea and shore. In the fall — partridge and deer hunting.
In winter — skiing and skating out of doors and raising African
violets and orchids, indoors. Each spring we follow the magnificent
bird migration up the Mississippi flyway, north into Canada, on a
canoe and fishing trip. What more noble sweat is there than that
from carrying everything (canoe, tent, camera, fishing gear, and
camping equipment) over portage after portage deep into the wil-
derness! What greater joy than to sleep under the stars beside one’s
son!

[ 224 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At one time Verity and I thought our brood of three would ex-
pand, but it hasn’t. And now that we own our home (instead of the
bank), we can see we soon won't need it. Penny is a freshman at
Colorado Women’s College. Kit is a sophomore at Shattuck School
(Faribault, Minnesota). And Robin, our twelve-year-old baby, and
only child at home, is in the sixth grade at Northrup Collegiate
Day School.

Professionally, I am now an associate professor of surgery at the
University of Minnesota Medical School and chief of pediatric
surgery at the Minneapolis General Hospital (our city hospital).
My time is divided between teaching and private practice. Teach-
ing invitations have afforded delightful opportunities to travel —
from Winnipeg to Houston, from Buffalo, New York, to Honolulu.
My original chief, Dr. Oswald Wyatt, passed away three years
ago, but I am blessed with two wonderful associates, Bernard J.
Spencer and Felix A. McParland. Frankly, we three spend more
wakeful hours together than any of us does with his family.

My spare time is spent writing and editing (I’ve been on the
editorial board of Minnesota Medicine, our State medical journal,
since 1954); working toward a new Minneapolis Children’s Hospital
(besides property and nearly two million dollars, we now have a
hospital consultant and an architect); and organizing child accident
prevention programs.

Nostalgia: Pll never forget some of A. Lawrence Lowell's pearls
of wisdom: “You can’t say to Harvard College, ‘give me an educa-
tion,’ any more than you can say to a cow, ‘give me thy milk’.”
How true this was, and is, and the work involved goes far bevond
those happy days in Cambridge. Or again: “Your days at Harvard
are the beginning of your education.” Yes, reading is a delight: God
help those who are wed to a television screen. And another: Peyy hich
craft rides out the storm best? The one with a single frail line and
light anchor? Or the one with several stout ropes and heavy
weights?” And hence the professional work, the family, the canoe
trips, the birding, the water color sketching, etc., ete.

To have been trained at Harvard was a privilege, but with it
mature responsibility — and time is so short to fill out one’s steward-

ship.

[225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CREIGHTON CHURCHILL

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Woodstock, Vt.
BorN: Oct. 1, 1912, Cornish, N.H.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.
marRiED: Martha Bacon, April 25, 1940, Washington, D.C.; Camilla White

Metcalf, Nov. 25, 1956, Providence, R.I. cumpren: Alexandra, Sept. 7,
1946; Daniel Creighton, July 19, 1948; Patricia Morgan; Mabel Harlaken-

den.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Dwight Winston Churchill, °26.

occupation: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club, Washington, D.C.; Harvard Club of New
York; B.P.O.E. (Elks); American Legion; National Grange; National
Republican Club (NYC); Chevalier de la Confrérie du Tastevin (France).

SINCE leaving Harvard at the end of our sophomore year, I have
been occupied with these somewhat diversified activities: a student
and graduate of the Ecole de ’Orchestre Symphonique de Paris and
Mozarteum Orchestral Academy at Salzburg, Austria; assistant re-
gional director, Federal Music Project, guest conductor, Buffalo
Philharmonic Orchestra, Hartford Symphony, Bridgeport Sym-
phony (and others); reporter, New York Daily News; associate
editor, Cue Magazine, New York, U.S. Army: captain, Military
Intelligence Division, War Department General Staff, consultant,
U.S. Government, Washington, D.C.; farmer (in) and selectman
(of) Plainfield, New Hampshire. I am presently engaged on a book
having to do with the wines of France, scheduled to be published
in 1961. Counting children and stepchildren (and two Irish setters),
we are twelve. Permanent base of operations is Woodstock, Ver-

mont.

[ 226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD MORTON CLAFLIN

  

HOME AppRESS: 65 Green St., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.
Boston 17, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1913, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Jane Evans Darrah, March 25, 1940, Mobile, Ala. cHiLpREN: Thomas
Mack, 2d, March 10, 1941; Robert Darrah, June 19, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Mack Claflin, 2d, ’63.

occuPATION: Manager of sales promotion, John Hancock Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Harvard 25th Reunion Committee; president,
Harvard Club of Springfield, 1946-50; blood program chairman, 1948-51,
chapter vice-chairman, 1951-53, American Red Cross, Springfield, Mass.;
member of chapter, Christ Church Cathedral, Episcopal, Springfield,
1951-53; member, Republican State Finance Committee, 1956, member,
since 1956, vice-chairman, 1960, Milton Republican Town Committee;
chairman, South Metropolitan Division, Boston United Fund, 1959.

MEMBER OF: Milton-Hoosic Club.

TIME moves much too rapidly. Twenty-five years is nothing at all,
and life is still full and exciting. Our elder son is a sophomore at
Harvard and the other a freshman at St. Paul’s, and yet, with no
young children at home to be cared for, there is still much that
is left to be done.

My business responsibilities and interests have always had to do
with marketing, sales promotion and point-of-sale advertising and
merchandising. In the first eight years it was glass and paint at the
wholesale level; in the next eight it was hardware and housewares
at retail; and, in these last eight years, promoting the sale of John
Hancock life insurance nationally, with a fair amount of travel
into most of the fifty states, has been more than a full-time occu-

[ 227 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

pation. The fourth set of eight years is just ahead and the pattern
up to now would suggest another switch, but there are no plans
for any change now, except that it be within the Hancock frame-
work.

Extracurricular interests have primarily included sports and poli-
tics. I am just beginning my fifth year as a Saturday morning
hockey coach of young teen-agers at Milton Academy and play
myself j in occasional informal games at other times to help keep in
shape. My children afd my southern wife have encouraged me to
take up that great family sport of skiing, and this I have done in re-
cent years. Franconia at Christmas-time and Vermont in the spring
have been the vacation pattern for the last few years. In the spring,
summer and fall tennis, golf and cruising off the coast of Maine have
all had a fair amount of time and attention.

Political interests and activities have kept me busy in the time
that is left in the evenings and on weekends. I am currently vice-
chairman of the Milton Republican Town Committee. My “full-
time” extracurricular project for the next two years is to build
from scratch an organization in the 13th Congressional District that
will nominate and elect in 1962 a capable, competent and respected
Representative to Congress from the same district which for so many
years was so well represented by the late Richard B. Wigglesworth.
Any other classmates living in the district are urged to make them-
selves known and report for duty.

Judging from the early interest indicated, and from attendance
at pre-reunion events, I shall predict a record number of classmates,
wives and children at the Twenty-fifth in June. Your Reunion
Committee has been hard at work for many months, and the
monthly report meetings and check sessions are expertly and bene-
ficially conducted by our Reunion Chairman, Nelson Bartlett. Am
looking forward to seeing you all at Cambridge beginning June 11th.

[ 228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RUSSELL GOULD CLAFLIN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 577, Wolfeboro, N.H.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Montgomery School, Wynnewood, Pa., Country Day School
for Boys of Boston, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937.

MARRIED: Alice Porter Stocking, Sept. 22, 1939, New Haven, Conn. cnitp:
William Holden, Jan. 4, 1944.

occupaTION: Land surveying, owner and operator, research.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1947-60, chairman, 1951-60, Wolfeboro Planning &
Zoning Commission; member, Land Surveyor Committee, New Hamp-
shire Society of Professional Engineers, 1951 and 1954; Transportation,
Claims Committees, 1957; chairman, Public Health Committee, 1959; repre-
sentative, New Hampshire General Court, 1957-1959, re-elected to 1961.

MEMBER OF: New Hampshire Society of Professional Engineers; Sports Car
Club of America.

AFTER a year and a quarter of what can only be described as
floundering, I enrolled in the Harvard Bureau for Street Traffic
Research, administratively in the Engineering School. Here, during
the academic year of 1937-38, we concerned ourselves with various
aspects of Highway and Traffic Engineering and Motor Vehicle
Administration. The following year, the whole affair was moved to
Yale, and those who had worked on motor vehicle and driver re-
search matters separated, and became the Driver Research Center of
the Yale Institute of Human Relations. I worked here from Septem-
ber, 1938, into the summer of 1939, assisting, among other matters,
in the preparation of a standard driver’s manual for the use of the
various states, in attempting to make their drivers’ licensing proce-
dures uniform.

During that year, I met my wife-to-be, by the simple process of
running into her parked car outside the Sterling Hall of Medicine,

[ 229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HENRY MOWAT CLARENDON

 

HOME appress: 70 Brookside Rd., Darien, Conn.

porN: March 25, 1911, Springfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1936(37); ED.M. (Univ. of Bridge-
port).

marriED: Grace I. Whitney, Oct. 16, 1943, Darien, Conn. cHILDREN: Henry
Mowat, Jr., June 27, 1945; Anita Leila, Dec. 19, 1949.

AFTER leaving Harvard and placing my hard-earned sheepskin
safely behind glass, I sought my fortune in selling F.H.A. mortgages
to accredited mortgagees. This led me into the field of real estate
until December of 1941, when I decided to serve my country best
by helping to build submarines at Groton, Connecticut.

In 1943 I was married to Grace Whitney of Darien, Connecticut,
and continued with the Electric Boat Company until 1945. Our
first child, Henry, Jr., was born two months before the war ended.
Soon after this event and with the war over I entered the insurance
business, until my old friend and classmate, Liv Lansing, and I de-
cided to set up a new business in Utica, New York.

From Utica, Liv and I branched out into various enterprises in-
cluding the radio station WBRV, in Boonville, New York, which is
sull sending out music and news with great success.

A year or so after our second child, Anita, was born, my family
and | returned to Connecticut where I acquired a Master’s degree
in Education at the University of Bridgeport.

Now the family can spend part of our summers in a wee bit of
leisure on our very small outboard motor boat on Long Island
Sound. And I hope, at the Twenty-fifth Reunion this year.

[232]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NORTHROP CLAREY, JR.

 

HOME appRESs: 47 Osborne Lane, Southport, Conn.

OFFICE apprEess: D’Arcy Advertising Co., 430 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 20, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. 1934-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrigD: Elizabeth Butler, November, 1936, Armonk, N.Y. (divorced 1939);
Marjorie Alice Joan de Glanville, Oct. 28, 1940, Nassau, Bahamas. cutt-
prEN: Alan de Glanville, Dec. 12, 1941; Barbara, Sept. 26, 1944; Brian Scott,
Sept. 21, 1946.

occuPATION: Advertising, copy writer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, local Boy Scout Council, 1956-
61, executive board, local Multiple Sclerosis Chapter, 1959-61; vice-presi-
dent, Bruce Enderwood Company, 1957-58; president, North Clarey Asso-
Clates, 1958-59.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Saturday Evening Post, Esquire, Coronet, Liberty
magazines.

SO where have these golden twenty-five years gone? My life
would provide material for a series of comic valentines. The photo
above (a stiff, contrived affair) reveals the marks of character I
have acquired — puffy eyes, tension wrinkles, saggy jowls, fat neck,
thin hair. Not shown are the benchmarks of the Highly Developed
Commuter — sprung sacroiliac, wafflefanny, vestigial legs. Nor the
inner scars of twenty-odd years as a writer, paterfamilias, garbage-
canstuffer, lawnsprinkler, weedmower, checkwriter.

I am a copy writer in an advertising agency. As a wordsmith, I
have the typewriter-trained fingers, the shadowed baggy eyes, the
side pocket full of paper clips, the pencil always in hand even though
it is just for waving in conversation, the office bag or attaché case on
my lap during the train ride home at night. Plus the twitches and
shakes, the witchridden nights of the professional creative man.

[ 233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

When the coroner finally dissects me, out will pour a gallon of cof-
fee, $17.00 worth of tranquilizers, and enough Super Potency vita-
min pills to string a necklace for a Zulu medicine man.

My home is in a sweet little hamlet on Long Island Sound, which
is connected by the New Haven railroad tracks, as if by a damaged
sciatic nerve, to the island of New York fifty miles away. Once in
the stimulating metropolis, I lean against a desk for seven hours, en-
during a swarm of people who buzz about me demanding bits of
copy which I promise for 3:00 p.M., knowing full well nothing will
be written until two days later. (No matter anyway — it’s going to
be pawed over like a pile of neckties on a bargain counter before our
own office geniuses and our client geniuses decide it is sufficiently
garbled for publication.) °

Such are my days, such are the facts of my life — but they don’t
tell the tale. In every one of these biographies, the real story is in-
evitably a summary, a judgment: “What has this guy done with the
best quarter-century of his life?” The only objective answer on this
must come from others who know us. Wherefore, I turn this re-

port over to those closest tome...

MY WIFE — North has been many things, but he’s housebroken
now. Mostly he’s a gentle, tumultuous rebel with sinus troubles and
a stout faith in Doing Things the Hard Way. Thirty minutes be-
fore dark, he'll decide that the dead birch in the front yard has to
come out and nine other families in the neighborhood have late din-
ners that night because all the husbands are out marveling at the
confusion of chains, wire cables, crossed timbers lashed together,
pickaxes and shovels with which he has blocked the road. By this
time, he will have both cars out there with headlights on, and the
whole scene looks like a disaster area—all for one little tree.
Twenty years with him have been exhilarating and exasperating.

One thing, I’ve never been bored.

MY NINETEEN-YEAR-OLD SON — All my friends have
trouble with their Dads, but not me. Oh, I get those inebrious lec-
tures about The Good Life and Truth is Fundamental and all that
jazz, but we get along without any friction. Mostly because I live
427 miles away in New Hampshire.

MY SIXTEEN-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER — Nothing mysteri-
ous about Dad-O. He’s a stuffy old cube who can beat out real
Dixieland on the drums. He has to squint when he checks the ther-
mostat, but he’ll recognize one of my pony-tail friends with a man-
trap physique at three blocks. He’s built like an overstuffed walrus,

[ 234 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but he must have looked almost human twenty years back or Mom-
my wouldn’t have said “Yes.” When he’s not being too utterly
stupid, I can stand him. Things are sure quiet when he’s away.

MY FOURTEEN-YEAR-OLD SON — I guess every boy has to
have a father, like every dog has to have a boy. This one. f got is a
real kookie. You think he’s miles out nowheres — until all of a
sudden he opens both eyes and you can see lightning in them.
Right now is the most painful period of growing up, when this
creaky old sack wants to Do Everything With Me. Model railroad.
Let’s run the printing press tonight, son. Let’s rake the leaves, old
buddy — you rake, I'll burn. Hey, gang, how’s about you and me
sweeping out the old garage? Sometime I swear I'll have to take
this guy out behind the barn and teach him The Facts.

PROPRIETOR OF LOCAL GIN EMPORIUM — Red Clarey
is a thoroughly fine, upstanding citizen. A little slow on paying the
charge account, but he’s putting my daughter through college.

THE MINISTER — Northrop is very deep and contemplative by
nature. He sits all through my sermons, eyes closed, lost in pious
reflection.

ERIC BRADFORD CLARK

 

MAILING ADDRESS: % Miss Constance Clark, 9 Summit Ave., Winchester, Mass.

[ 235 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN LAING CLARK

  

HOME ADbRESS: 57 Barnes St., Providence 6, R.I.

OFFice appREss: Edwards & Angell, 15 Westminster St., Providence 3, RI.

BORN: June 9, 1914, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1939.

marrieD: Cherry Nichols, Feb. 8, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. cumpren: Thomas
Laing, July 29, 1942; Joanna, Oct. 20, 1947; John Gilman, Feb. 4, 1951;
Martha Nichols, Dec. 5, 1954, Charles Henry, June 30, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Geoffrey Clark, qr.

occupaTIon: Lawyer.

OFFicEs HELD: President, Harvard Club of Rhode Island, 1953-55; trustee, The
Mary C. Wheeler School, Providence, since 1957, Providence Athenaeum,
since 1958; area chairman, Program for Harvard College, 1957-59, Harvard
Fund, 1960. “

MEMBER oF: American and Rhode Island Bar Associations, Harvard Club of
Rhode Island; Agawam Hunt; Providence Art Club; Sandy Bay Yacht
Club; The 300 Club.

AFTER all those notices and in an effort to get this thing off the
ground, I sought help from “The Harvard Book” but was taken
aback when I read Bentinck-Smith’s conclusion that “Taking pen in
hand as a Harvard man isa dangerous thing” — so I’m running scared
in making these cryptic observations: .

What I Did— The first thing I did after leaving Harvard was
to go to Yale for three years — law school, with nine of our class-
mates also crossing the line. It was excellent, stimulating and par-
ticularly fun being a Harvard man, in Fliville. My “career” com-
menced in New York City in 1939, where for over two years I
served as one of the simplest of those “simple, barefoot Wall Street
lawyers.” It was interrupted by four years in the Navy, mostly in
the Adantic and Mediterranean, with a slow boat to Tokyo and

[ 236 }

bce EEE a A ERIE TE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a fast one back, to top it off. After that, New England looked good
to me. In November, 1945, I took a job with the law firm of Ed-
wards & Angell, in Providence, and have been here ever since, be-
coming a member of the firm in 1950. For the most part, I have
specialized in labor law and relations, a “company lawyer” as some
would put it. In working for various community and educational
projects over the years, I hope I qualify for inclusion in what Har-
vard calls “the aristocracy of those who care.”

What I Didn’t Do —I didn’t set the world on fire and don’t ex-
pect to, although I must admit that such a prospect did not seem
utterly impossible to me in 1936. After all, every American boy
hopes he’ll be president — at least until he’s forty-three!

What a Family — As the father of five and husband of a sixth
force to be reckoned with, this has been fascinating, sometimes
frightening, but the most fun of all. In 1936, this certainly did not
loom as the large factor it has turned out to be for me—a real
career in itself.

What about Harvard —If the two recent U.S. presidential can-
didates had been running instead for president of Harvard, there
would have been no prestige issue. I guess we all know now, if we
didn’t before, what Marquand must really have meant when he
said: “If you have ever been to Harvard, you will never be allowed
to forget it.”

What I Think — While the Class of 1936 is perhaps very for-
tunate not to have to undergo the scrutiny of the 1961 Admissions
Committee, we’re a congenial and worthy group, have been pretty
good Alumni, and that’s important too.

[ 237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RAYMOND SKINNER CLARK
Fo oe mene

Amer?

  

HOME ADDRESS: R.D. 2, Havre de Grace, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: WW. R. Grace & Co., 7 Hanover Sq., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 31, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1936; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),

1939.

marRiED: Louise C. Morgan, June 23, 1937, Glen Cove, N.Y. (divorced 1946);
Marjorie A. Gorman, 1947, Baltimore, Md. cumpren: Raymond Skinner,
Jr., May 18, 1938; Junius Morgan, Sept. 26, 1940; Jonathan Edwards, Oct.

6, 1942.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer; assistant secretary, W. R. Grace & Company.
OFFICES HELD: President, Baltimore Federation of Young Republicans, 1948-50;
trustee, Garrison (Md.) Forest School, 1950-61; director, Baltimore Sym-
phony Orchestra, 1955-57; treasurer, various Republican Congressional

Campaign Committees.
MEMBER OF: Green Spring Valley Hunt Club, Garrison, Md., Harvard Club

of New York.

UPON graduation from Yale Law School in 1939, I practised law

in Baltimore until June, 1941, when active duty orders were re-
ceived from the Navy. Served in the Navy until 1946, when I re-
turned to Jaw practice in Baltimore. In 1951, I joined the Davison
Chemical Corporation which in 1954 was merged into W. R. Grace

& Company. Presently, I am in its legal division in New York while
spending weekends on our farm in Maryland. This is a stupid way to
live and will be shortly corrected. Maryland is the place to live.

The trend toward centralization of power in the federal govern-

ment is to me the alarming feature of the last twenty-five years. We
are approaching national socialism. It is indeed unfortunate that the
freedom under which the country grew great is to be replaced by
1 dull, unimaginative, oppressive statism, under the guise of such

erms as “general welfare” and “new frontiers.”

[ 238 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM LINCOLN CLARK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 139 Gloucester Rd., London SW-7, England.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Embassy, London, England.

BORN: June 7, 1914, Cynwyd, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Sylvia Mitchell, Jan. 5, 1946, New York, N.Y. cHi_pren: Jennifer,
Feb. 16, 1948; Lucy Prescott, Aug. 3, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Percy Hamilton Clark, Jr., ’30; George Roberts Clark, ’32,
M.B.A., '34; Thomas Williams Clark, 734; John Roberts Clark, ’38,; David
Williams Clark, ’42.

—occuPATION: Counselor for Public Affairs, American Embassy, London, in
charge of U.S. Information Service in United Kingdom.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C.; St. James Club and Ends
of the Earth Club, London,

PUBLICATIONS: Contributed anonymously to vast number of government papers,
cables, etc.

WHEN I knew I would have to miss the Twenty-fifth Reunion, I
began to wonder what else I missed during the twenty-five years
we are celebrating. Certainly I’ve missed seeing most of the Class of
1936. Certainly [ve missed previous Reunions, And obviously
somewhere along the line P’'ve missed making a fortune or writing a
novel.

Why then should I be proud of my association with Harvard?
From where I sit under that controversial Eagle in that controversial
Embassy i in London, there are a lot of answers. When you think
back it was in large part the things that Harvard stands for that
Joe McCarthy was against. I cannot catalogue the stream of ideas,
men and thought that have come and are coming from our predeces-
sors and our successors, But they make me proud of Elarvard’s
record and glad I can use her name.

[ 239 ]

ee -

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

You ask for my views of my “career.” As has been chronicled, |
joined a Washington newspaper in 1936 and ever since I have been
concerned with things governmental. Right now I’m abroad trying
to convince others that the U.S. isn’t on its last legs, isn’t a war-
monger, isn’t going broke and also hopefully convince them that we
have many decades ahead of strong and progressive leadership.

ROBERT HASWELL CLARKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 251 Edmands Rd., Framingham Centre, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: W, W. Winship, Inc., 51 Central St., Wellesley, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 30, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936, DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Buckingham, Jan. 20, 1945, Winnetka, Ill. camp: Susan
Jean, Jan. 6, 1950.

occupation: Manager, Wellesley branch store, W. W. Winship, Inc.

OFFiIcEs HELD: Lieutenant commander, USNR, 1942-1946; assistant to chairman,
Boston Red Cross Drive, 1946; governor, 3 years; vice-president, 1 year,
Wellesley Board of Trade.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Iroquois Club.

AFTER graduation I spent a year going around the world, and
then joined Raymond Whitcomb, Inc., as a European travel agent.
When the Germans marched into Poland, I left my job in London
and entered the Harvard Graduate School of Design. Our entry
into the war ended my aspirations as a budding architect, and in
March of 1942, I left for the Navy. After training at Quonset Point,
Rhode Island, I went to the Pacific in June. In April, 1944, I was
returned to the States and ordered to the Naval Air Station in
Glenview, Illinois. While at Glenview, I met and married Flizabeth
Buckingham, of Oak Park, Illinois. After being released from the

[ 240 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Navy, we came east and settled at my old stamping ground “the
farm” in Marlboro. During the winter of 1946, I worked for the
Boston Red Cross Fund Drive as assistant to the general chairman,
and shortly afterwards made the fateful decision to enter the mer-
chandising business. |

I started this career in the newly-opened luggage department of

the Paine Furniture Company in Boston. After five and one-half
years with them, I joined forces with W. W. Winship, Inc., one of
the country’s oldest established stores dealing in fine luggage and
leather goods, and have been with them ever since. In 1953, we
opened our first branch store in Wellesley, where I am the manager.
It has been a fascinating experience to see this store grow from
nothing into a very pleasing volume of business, and to become a
part of Wellesley’s business community. For four years I was a
governor in the Board of Trade in Wellesley and finally became its
vice-president, and saw it change to the present Chamber of Com-
merce, which is much broader in scope.

Two years ago, we moved from “the farm” in Marlboro and
bought a smaller place in Framingham Centre, where we still have
enough land around us to breathe comfortably.

My joys in life are watching my daughter and my garden grow,
and on weekends, working on perfecting the perfect dry martini
for our friends. Our door is always open to the Class of 1936.

GIBSON BARRY CLAY

     

4

   

‘tis

HOME ADDRESS: 9892 Catherine Ave., Garden Grove, Calif.

OFFICE ApDpRESs: Long Beach Board of Education, Seventh & Locust, Long
Beach, Calif.

BoRN: April 24, 1914, White Salmon, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Seattle, Wash.

[24r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935, 1936-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1936(37); A.M. (Long
Beach State Coll.), 1954.

MARRIED: Hazel E. Sanders, Nov. 17, 1941, Beatrice, Ala. cuitpren: David M,,
Dec. 8, 1943; Nancy Lee, April 23, 1955.

occupation: Teacher of physics, senior high school.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Orange County; Sierra Club.

AS I look back now on my last years at Harvard, I realize I had no
real idea what | wanted to do with my life after graduation. I had
always been an “eager beaver” in school and college, but this did

not give me a goal. I’ve often wondered how many others were in
the same boat.

My first job, immediately after graduation, was as an attendant
at one of the state institutions near Harvard Square, the Fernald
School. I took night work and took courses at the Harvard Grad-
uate School of Education. I can’t remember any good reason for
doing this, only I had to choose something. This led shortly to a
job teaching science at Tabor Academy, down on Cape Cod.

The war came next and always having a desire to fly I volunteered
for navy flight training. At Pensacola I met and married Hazel
Sanders. Hazel is from the Deep South near Montgomery and the
combination of the “Deep South” and the “Far North” (Seattle
and Boston) has been most interesting and successful. Over the
years, two children were born: David, now sixteen, and Nancy
Lee, five years of age.

Going back to the war, I did not last very long. Flying a PBY
out of Iceland in June of 1942, I was shot down by my own convoy,
of all things. They didn’t recognize us in the fog bank, they said.
I was severely injured with a punctured lung and almost didn’t

make it. I was in and out of navy hospitals in Iceland, Boston, San
Diego and Seattle and finally the Navy retired me, on pay, for-
tunately. By this time, I was enamored of aviation, but flying for
the airlines was impossible and I ended up teaching in aircraft me-
chanics schools, such as the Boeing B-29 school in Seattle and Cal
Aero in Los Angeles.

However, by 1948 the bloom had gone off such schools and the
ex-G.l’s stopped coming. After a good deal of inner torment and
indecision | decided to enter public school teaching and stick with
it, if I possibly could. I took a full year off, went to U.C.L.A. to get
my California credential and was offered a job in Long Beach,
California. I have been here ten years now, the first eight in junior

high and the last two in senior high, teaching physics.

[ 242 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In recent years I have come to have some fairly strong views
about American education. I don’t push these very much; I guess
I’m not the type to become a controversial figure. But I have been
hoping. I tend to feel that our education is too soft, that we are in
a deadly competition with Russia and that we had better do some-
thing about it a lot faster than we are. I find much to agree with
in Dr. Conant’s articles and also those of Admiral Rickover,

During the last three years I have been forced to learn a great
deal of physics in a great big hurry. Both physics and math. were
very rusty, yet I always have all the brightest students in school in
my physics classes. This rapid learning has been a great deal of
work but it has also been a marvelous thing because of the way it
has reopened the avenues of the mind. If time allows I would like
nothing better in the years to come than to make a major study of
all the new things in physics, math. and chemistry.

JOHN CLEMENT

en SPT EN

  

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: MM. Ros Beyaerd, T.C.F., Quai de la Conférence,
Paris VIII, France.

BoRN: April 3, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

MarRIED: Estelle de Biaudos de Casteja, Aug. 16, 1941, Vichy, France. c#it-
DREN: Alexandra, May 14, 1942; James Francis, Aug. 8, 1948.

OccUPATION: Partner in film distribution company, Brussels, Belgium.

ON graduating in 1936, I taught French and coached hockey at
Middlesex School until June, 1938. At that time I left Middlesex
to go to the University of Grenoble to perfect my French. My
skiing ability as well as my rock climbing technique increased ap-

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

preciably during my stay in Grenoble. In 1939, I joined the Ameri-
can Field Service and was taken prisoner in May, 1940. Thanks to
a Belgian Red Cross lady, I finally made the U.S. Embassy in Brus-
sels. No one in the Embassy would believe I was an American until
[ discovered the Ambassador was Mike Cudahy’s uncle. He came to
my rescue, and thanks to him I became a diplomatic chauffeur and
left Belgium when the American Embassy was expulsed from this
country.

I remained in unoccupied France and drove five-ton trucks for the
French Red Cross to various prison camps with provisions (includ-
ing one where I spent three and one-half months). I then worked for
the American Red Cross setting up milk distribution in southeastern
France. I traveled by motorcycle and also served as messenger for
the French underground. In Vichy, I had the good fortune to marry
my “boss” who was head of the French Red Cross truck drivers.
I returned to the States just before Pearl Harbor. Shortly after-
wards I joined the ski troops and made an invasion in the Aleutians
and spent two and one-half years in Italy where I ran patrols and
taught skiing and rock climbing to just about every British regiment
existing.

I returned to the States in October, 1945, and joined Republic
Pictures. In 1948, I came back to Europe and ran their offices in
France and Belgium until 1959. Unfortunately Republic sold out
to television at this point, and I was left without a job. At present, I
have started a distribution company in Belgium with our former
director for this territory, and J trust it will become a successful
venture. We are now battling like all new companies for a foothold.

Due to the housing situation in Paris, I bought an old Dutch
clipper and have been living at the Pont de la Concorde for the last
eight years aboard the Ros Beyaerd. | must say, my wife is patient,
because to live without town water and electricity in this day and
age is an experience. We have weathered two floods, and the last one
kept me ferrying the family back and forth in a canoe for twenty-
eight days. However, by and large, even with generator trouble it
has worked out very well.

I am grateful to the years I spent in Harvard for many reasons
but perhaps the most rewarding is that Andy, at Weld boathouse,
taught me to scull. I keep a single shell in a boathouse under the
Alexander III bridge and row frequently around the two islands, Ile
de la Cité, and Ile St. Louis. I figure in the last two years I have made
this trip over one thousand times. Until recently we were five

[ 244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

aboard the boat, my wife, the two children, the governess, and a
cook, who only came during the day. At present, we are only
three, as my boy is in boarding school in Switzerland. We are
amazed at the space we have.

I also play ice-hockey on a Paris team and during the last years
I have had fourteen stitches in my face and neck and one cracked
rib. I don’t know if they play rougher then they used to or if I
am too slow to get out of the way.

All in all, I have been very happy in my twenty-five years out
of Harvard, although God knows I have not set the world on fire.
I have a farm in Warrenton, Virginia, but I doubt if I shall live there.
Every time I contemplate leaving Europe, I think of the vast snow
fields with powder snow and no trees which are only a few hours
away.

I have also been most fortunate in that a friend of mine has built
the first Sparkman Srevens Finistére-type yawl in France. We
have ocean raced it for two seasons; this year I took it from Le
Havre to Malaga, via Lisbon, with two Englishmen and my boy,
aged eleven.

I only wish I could bring my family to the Reunion, but with
the expenses of forming a new company and the cost of travel, I
am afraid it will be impossible. I trust, however, that any of my
Classmates who are in Paris will come down to the Touring Club
de France yacht harbour at the Concorde Bridge and drop in and
see us.

RUSSELL STURGIS CLYMER

 

HOME apprEss: 24 Fiske Rd., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass,
BORN: Aug. 25, 1914, Dedham, Mass,

[ 245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrieD: Eileen Williams, Feb. 11, 1939, Newton Center, Mass. cHILpREN:
John Howard, Nov. 19, 1939; Judith Welles, Sept. 4, 1943; Nathaniel
Russell Sturgis, Jan. 9, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Branford Shubrick Clymer, '28, M.B.A. °30.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Country Club.

LIKE many others, I had no particular goal when I graduated, after
four uninspired years of just getting by at Harvard. Continuing
my aimless pattern, I spent three years with Filene’s, Boston’s largest
specialty store, and six months selling (?) Fuller brushes. By this
time I had a wife and child, and thought it might be well to work
out a plan with a future to it, Metal fabrication and assembly in
general, and production control in particular, seemed to appeal.
In seventeen years, I] progressed from machine operator to assistant
production manager in one company, and in the last two years,
have had three jobs in production work. My last experience has
proved what I previously suspected. Although I have a certain
flair for this type of work, I wear my birth certificate on my
sleeve. The ability—even the desire—-to push people around is
not strong in my make-up. At this point, I am casting around for
a way to use my experience in a manner which will be beneficial
to my employer, and remunerative and happy for me.

Over the past twenty years, I have developed an interest and
ability in turning pieces of lumber into uncomplicated cabinetry
(speaker cabinets, tables, and such), but the best thing I have fabri-
cated, to date, is my family. Jack— named for a classmate — is an
honor student at Princeton, in addition to J.V. crew last year, asso-
ciate editor of one of the class books, and financial chairman of
the junior prom, Judy is doing honors work in advanced courses at
Wellesley High. Having been primed by her mother for seventeen
years, she hopes to go to Smith next year— what other women’s
college is there? Nat, too, is finding himself in junior high, but he
still would rather grow — an activity in which he excels — than
anything else!

If I were destined to set the world on fire, there would surely be
a smouldering glow by now. If I can maintain, in the second half
of my life, the financial and social level of the first half, I suspect
that this will satisfy me and my family.

[ 246 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD COBB

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2933 Cathedral Ave., N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Navy Dept., Constitution Avenue, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Feb. 28, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1936; M.B.A. (North-
western Univ.), 1960.

MARRIED: Marion Colwell, June 20, 1942, Los Angeles, Calif. cuipren: Win-
throp Colwell, Jan. 29, 1950; Diana Van Vorst, March 22, 1954.

occupaTION: Captain, U.S, Naval Supply Corps, assigned to: head, Procure-
ment Branch, Procurement Division, Office of Naval Material, Navy
Department.

MEMBER OF; National Association of Purchasing Agents; Military Order of
the World Wars; Armed Forces Management Association; Beta Gamma
Sigma; Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.

PERHAPS too late I have finally mustered enough courage to at-
tempt to record my undistinguished activities during the last quarter-
century. I wonder how many other classmates felt the same sense
of inadequacy when they reviewed the “Sample Lives” helpfully
distributed by the Class Report Committee last September. After
scouring my library and private records and finding that I had
failed to write any novels, articles for national publications, or any
scientific papers, and further that I had failed to acquire high office
even in a country club, it seemed that silence would be the best
course of action. However, the postman has finally persuaded me
to submit my drab tale to spare him the burden of delivering the
daily sack of follow-up letters from our dedicated Class Report
Committee. .

Although my father suggested a number of other pursuits, I did
not see why the lumber business would not be appropriate as it had
provided a means of livelihood for my family since my grandfather's

[ 247 ]

_ _

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

yard skating rink which was in commission for three months each
winter. The children received excellent education in the Lake
Forest Country Day School where their mother took on the career
of Madame Cobb of the French Department. Her teaching activi-
ties provided the necessary justification for a visit to France in the
summer of 1959 where she took refresher training at the Sorbonne.
We were members of Classmate Reverend George Tittmann’s
church. As usual, we all hated to leave Lake Forest but did look
forward to reoccupying our Washington house. I am now back in
Main Navy and am working in the area of procurement policy and
training.

Many of our Class served with distinction in the Armed Forces
during World War II. Although a number probably considered
staying in the service, I believe that only a few chose the military
career, During the past sixteen years, the high level of business
prosperity, creeping inflation, expense account living, and public
apathy to the military profession have all been good reasons for
avoiding a service career. For my part, all things considered, I am
not disappointed in my choice as | would not want to have missed
the responsibilities and opportunities afforded in my dozen “Navy
lives.” However, I do feel a real concern for those who have to
make a choice in 1961. In my opinion, the American public must
change its present attitude toward the military profession or the
country will not have the leadership talent needed to cope with
the problems of national survival which are vastly more complicated
today than could have been imagined in 1936.

MURDOCH COE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 430 S. San Rafael, Pasadena, Calif,

{ 250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EFDWARD JAMES COFFEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Purchase St., Danvers, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mann & Creesy, 70 Washington St., Salem, Mass.

BORN: July 11, 1912, Salem, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Rita M. Madore, Oct. 7, 1949, Salem, Mass. cHitpreN: Edward
James, Jr., Feb. 13, 1951; Brian Francis, Dec. 20, 1953; Sheila Mary, Aug.
255 1955.

occuPATION: Stock broker and underwriter; registered representative, account
executive.

OFFICES HELD: General manager, Rushton-Carroll Company, 1938-39, Records
Servicenter, Inc., 1952-54; corporator, Salem Savings Bank, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and North Shore; Wardroom Associates,
Casco Bay Associates.

FOLLOWING graduation in ’36 came a semester or two at the
‘B’ School across the river, and thus I became a captain of industry.

My first assignment was arranged by our good classmate, Charlie
Carroll, in a small manufacturing plant in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
. My work took me as far as Denver, Colorado, in 1939, where
Charlie and I held our own version of a Reunion.

Next came a term at United Shoe Machinery Corporation at
Beverly, Massachusetts. But before much could be accomplished
here, World War II was at hand and I went off with the Navv
early in 1941. Five years, four promotions, and three theatres-of-
operation later I was back on the beach looking for a job again.

These were busy days. I worked for United Shoe, continued my
association with the new Naval Reserve Base in Salem, Massachu-
setts, and began a courtship which culminared in marriage on
October 7, 1949, to Rita M. Madore. We settled down in Danvers,
Massachusetts, and now have a family of three fine children: Eddie,

[251]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ten; Brian, seven; Sheila, five. Currently there are three kittens un-
derfoot, one for each child, of course.

Over the years we have had several pleasant visits from class-
mates from far and near, including one just a few months prior to
his passing, by the late Mike O’Brien. .

No account of this kind would be complete without a reference
to our parents. The good Lord has been kind enough to keep them
hale and hearty to date. Both Rita’s mother and father and my
mother and father are alive and well. They do so enjoy a weekly
visit from their grandchildren.

Danvers is a fine small New England town but is growing too
fast. For the past ten years all of my spare time, plus some that
was not spare, has been spent on a never-ending round of commit-
tees — the school building committee, the town recreation commit-
tee, the urban land acquisition committee (new residential construc-
tion has swallowed up so much of the area that we are out looking
for land which the town may purchase or take and hold in inventory
against future needs for additional schools, firehouses, recreation
areas, etc.). There have been few fund-raising drives — Polio, Red
Feather, Boy Scouts, even Harvard — in which either Rita or I, and
sometimes both of us, have not been ringing doorbells with the good
ole pledge card in hand. But that is all part of living in your own
community and liking it well enough to go out and work for it.

We have been fortunate to spend several summer vacations on
Cape Cod, sometimes for only a week or two, once for two full
months. And now we have a rather heavy mortgage on a small
place down there.

In the meantime, as the stock market goes, so goes my earning
power. When times are good and Dow-Jones is rising, then all is
well. However, when the market is off, as it was in all of 1960,
and part of 1957, then we securities salesmen fall on lean times.
Presently we are all looking forward to June of ’61. See you then.

[252]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BERNARD HYMAN COHEN

      

KN

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Putnam Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: B. Cohen & Co., Inc., 33 E. 33d St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 10, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Frances Block, Oct. 8, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Judi Lynne,
June 7, 1947; Russell Bennett, May 1, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Salesman, production coordinator, secretary-treasurer, B. Cohen &
Company, Inc., ladies’ robe manufacturer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Negligee Manufacturers Associa-
tion.

MEMBER OF: Ryewood Country Club.

TO bring back to memory highlights of twenty-five years is asking
a lot, but here’s the old college try. After leaving the hallowed halls
along the Charles, I spent many a month making the futile rounds
of newspapers, magazines, etc., in a vain attempt to lay the corner-
stone for my career as a movie critic. Gave it all up to join the tex-
tile company, Cohn-Hall-Marx, whence, after three and a_ half
years of acquiring the necessary experience for my proposed future,
I went into the ladies’ robe business with my father.

In 1941, married Frankie Block and received a reprieve from
Uncle Sam that lasted fourteen months (the reprieve, not the mar-
riage! ), In January, 1943, I was invited to join the Army Ordnance
Department and spent nine months in Augusta, Georgia, learning to
be a soldier. Having made the grade, I was ordered overseas and
before you could say “809th Ordnance Company” we were in
Calcutta, India, after a six-week trip via Oran and Bombay. After
a few months, four of us founded the first G.I. newspaper in India,
The Command Post, and here, finally, I achieved my lifelong am-
bition (?). I became an accredited motion picture critic — the easy

[253]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

way, | must say—and dispensed entertainment news of the Cal-
cutta cinema palaces for the lonely G.I. After two and a half years
supplying most of the ammunition, bombs, etc. for the China-
Burma campaign; having taken most of the snapshots — ‘Taj Mahal,
Kashmir, the tops of the Himalayas from Darjeeling; having sent a
sufficient amount of ivory necklaces, sandalwood boxes and other
trinkets to the folks at home; having had my share of fever and
of losing enough weight, I left the shores of the Hooghly River and
returned to the shores of the Hudson River in February, 1946.
Judi arrived in 1947 and Russ two years later; our little crew was
now complete. In 1954 we said farewell to our New York apart-
ment and became members of the suburban movement, to join
the bank-beholden group of mortgagees in Scarsdale. My extra-
curricular major is golf — as much as business and family will per-

mit— and my ambition here is to break through the ten-handicap
barrier before old age sets in.

+ MANLEY BENJAMIN COHEN

 

Born: Sept. 7, 1914, Boston, Mass. parenrs: Morris Aaron Cohen, Anna
Shain.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; Mw. (Laval Univ.), 1942-

marrigp: Lois Hollander, Dec. 30, 1937, Pawtucket, RI. cuirp: Myles Joseph,
Aug. 22, 19go.

pirp: May 24, 1959, El Paso, Texas.
wwow: Mrs. Manley B. Cohen, 1491 Santa Ana Drive, El Paso, Texas.

AFTER receiving an A.B. degree with our Class, Cohen did gradu-
ate work in biology at Harvard and then studied medicine at Laval
University, Quebec, where he received an M.D, degree in 1942-

[ 254}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After a tour as house officer in surgery at the Massachusetts Me-
morial Hospitals in Boston, he was beginning a residency in genito-
urinary surgery when called to active duty in the Army. In the
course of his military service with the 14ist Anti-Aircraft Artillery
Gun Battalion overseas, including participation in the Battle of the
Bulge, he was awarded the Purple Heart with a cluster and a Bronze
Star. After the war he resumed his training in surgery at the U.S.
Veterans Administration Hospital in Newington, Connecticut. He
was later on the staff of the V.A. Hospital, Legion Branch, in Kerr-
ville, Texas, and subsequently practised in El Paso, Texas, his spe-
cialty being thoracic surgery. He was chief of staff at Providence
Memorial Hospital at the time of his death.

He was a member of the County Medical Society, Texas Medi-
cal Association, American Heart Association, National Tuberculosis
Association, World Medical Association, Southern Medical Asso-
ciation, Southwestern Medical Association, National Medical Vet-
erans Society and was a fellow of the American College of Chest
Physicians. He wrote a number of papers on chest disease and was
consultant in thoracic surgery at the V.A. Hospital at Fort Bayard,
New Mexico. He was survived by his wife and son.

Arthur Francis Gale, Class of 1939, writes: “Cohen possessed
the rare combination of a mind capable of doing highly-skilled
work and a pleasant, warm personality. The city to which he had
moved had taken him to its heart, had honored him and would
have honored him more had he lived longer. It was said at his
funeral that his life reflected credit upon those who had loved and
trained him for his life of service to his fellow-man. This com-
pliment was deserved by him.”

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MARTIN ERWIN COHEN

 

HOME ADpREsS: 1 Newbrook Circle, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: B. L, Cohen & Sons, 7 Water St., Boston, Mass.

Born: April 2, 1914, Chelsea, Mass.

prepaRED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrieD: Alice F. Wander, Sept. 15, 1940, Albany, N.Y. CHILDREN: Steven
Paul, July 23, 1941; Laura Ellen, April 18, 1944; Gilbert Mark, Oct. 18,
1948; Burton Joseph, Dec. 6, 1950.

occupation: Real estate; partner, B. L. Cohen & Sons.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1946-48, member, board of trustees, 1958, Temple
Sinai Brotherhood; member, Cub and Boy Scout activities, 1949-59;
treasurer, Spaulding School P.T.A., 1955.

MEMBER OF: Moses Michael Hayes Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Realty Lodge, AF.
& A.M.; National Association of Real Estate Boards; International Coun-
cil of Shopping Centers; Harvard Club of Boston.

WHILE my name is certainly Cohen, as I think back and try to
describe my last twenty-five years, I suspect that my name could
just as well be Babbitt. Nevertheless, however dull and prosaic the
tale must be to someone else, to me it was exciting. Marriage, the
_ birth and growth of a moderately sizeable family are in themselves
not only the purpose of life, but to me, the basic excitement and
reward of life.

We live in a relatively quiet corner of suburbia. I fight my way
through the unloved traffic nightly. We’ve spent our required hours
in: P.T.A.’s (many), Cub Scouts, Brownies, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts,
and Temple activities. We (mostly my conscientious wife) have
rung the doorbells for the various fund drives. We've nurtured
(almost individually) the tiny blades of grass that grew up to be
excreted upon by our large and fast-digesting dogs. Our children
have fared better.

[256]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our eldest, son Steve, is an active sophomore at Brandeis —
leader in religious activities, school politics, interested in sociology,
etc. (two earlier years at Mount Hermon). Our second, daughter
Laurie, is a happy (albeit intellectual) senior at Newton South
High School. Laurie, so far, has been in the opening classes of
four brand-new schools while living in the same spot. Qur third,
son Gil, is an artistic and perceptive red-head in the seventh grade
at Meadowbrook Junior High School. Our fourth and last, son
Burt —a doggedly determined rock ’n’ roll fan—is in the fifth
grade at the Spaulding School. Two dogs and an obviously rugged
cat complete the menage.

In earning a living I have found — somewhat to my surprise —
that I know no one brilliant enough to do it the easy way. I find
that I, like everyone else, work like hell — but I enjoy it. Specifi-
cally, I am with my father (now almost eighty-six) and my brother,
in the firm of Benjamin L. Cohen & Sons. We are real estate and
mortgage brokers (mostly the latter). To those not in commercial
real estate, I find that “mortgage broker” needs a little translating:
basically, we manage to shuffle the money around so that those who
need it in order to build can get it away from those who have it in
a relatively stagnant condition. Thank goodness, | like arithmetic
and I get a lot of satisfaction from seeing the economy expand just
a little because I helped give it a shove.

+ MAYNARD IRVING COHEN

  

BoRN: Feb, 2, 1915, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B, cum lande, 1936; Mo. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1940.

[257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MaRRIED: Phyllis Hagedorn, Nov. 16, 1941, Washington, D.C. ceitpren: Law-
rence Franklin, April 2, 1946; Alan Philip, Nov. 12, 1947; Robert Maynard,
Aug. 20, 1952; Bruce Hagedorn, Nov. 9, 1954.

pieD: Jan. 11, 1961, Arlington, Va.
wiwow: Mrs. Maynard I. Cohen, 7214 Rollingwood Drive, Chevy Chase 15,

Md.

MAYNARD COHEN, chief of pediatrics at the Washington Hos-
pital Center, died suddenly while attending a pediatrics meeting in
Arlington, Virginia. The story he had sent in for this book had gone
to press so the Editor is printing it as Cohen wrote it:

“Twenty-five years is a long time. It seemed like yesterday,
however, when, on a visit to Cambridge with my wife and four
sons two years ago, I was recognized by the caretaker at Eliot
House, who remembered my room number. Aside from this visit
and another (on my honeymoon), I have spent the entire twenty-
five years away from Harvard, and yet Harvard has traveled with
me one way or another wherever I have gone. This includes four
years at Hopkins Medical School, two years’ residency at Babies
Hospital, New York, two years as a naval medical officer in the
South Pacific, and the rest of the time on the eastern seaboard, with
a smattering of trips to Cuba, Puerto Rico, Mexico and Europe.
Since 1946 I have practised pediatrics in the Washington area,
chiefly the Maryland sector.

“Harvard has traveled with me in several ways. Certainly a num-
ber of friendships have continued happily over the years. And then
the attitude of inquiry and skepticism fostered in the years at Cam-
bridge has in this time brought a certain satisfaction, but also some
pain. Subsequent training in various medical fields — pediatrics,
psychiatry and allergy—have developed the interest in human
values partly traceable to the Harvard exposures. I don’t wish to

run this theme into the ground, so we'll let ic go at that.

“Along with some others of our generation, I have felt the pinch
of the perilous ’30’s, the anxieties of the wartime ’40’s, the com-
placencies of the conforming ’50’s. The ’60’s loom as a time of
challenge. The state of the world in the space age brings to mind
an early Churchill expression to the effect that nothing which we
had regarded as permanent has lasted, and nearly everything we
considered impossible has come to pass. | have enormous faith in the
coming generation to solye problems we didn’t do so well on, based
on a good deal of admiration for my four sons — an admiration
which I hope the Harvard Committee on Admissions in the course

[ 258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of time will come to share. My wife feels in this connection that

apologies to Smith College are in order, but agrees that it’s still a
man’s world.”

STANLEY ROBERT COHEN

 

HOME ApprRESS: 10 Leland Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gold Seal Rubber Co., 174 Lincoln St., Boston 11, N{ass.

BORN: Oct, 21, 1914, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1936.

MarRiED: Sylvia Aaron, June 22, 1947, Boston, Mass. cHitprREN: Ellen Doris,
Aug. 17, 1951; Richard Joseph, Nov. 4, 1953.

occupaTION: Credit manager and advertising manager, Gold Seal Rubber Com-
pany, manufacturers of rubber and canvas footwear.

TWENTY-FIVE years can be a very comparative figure. Look-
ing ahead in 1936 it seemed a long time, too distant to conjure.
Looking back it seems a capsule, but one that is full and rewarding.

To chronicle briefly, after army service at home and abroad
came association with my present organization. Marriage, family,
suburbia — and to date. Golf and music continue as major hobbies.

[ 259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GEORGE HUTCHINSON COLLINS, JR.

 

HOME abpREsS: 33 Park St, Wollaston 70, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 925 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: May 12, 1913, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriep: Edith M. Reynolds, June 1, 1943, New Orleans, La. CHILDREN:
Michael O'Bannon, Feb. 11, 1948; Maria Lites, Sept. 13, 1950; Leslie Anne,
Feb. 8, 1953.

OCCUPATION: National Guard Officer; executive officer, 3d Rocket Howitzer
Battalion (HJ8-In), rorst Artillery, Massachusetts Army National Guard.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1957-59, vice-president, 1959-61, Harvard
Club of Quincy.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy; First Friday Club of Boston.

TWENTY-FIVE years! And (I wonder how many others are
starting their report this way) “where did they go?” A cliché, no
doubt, but as someone has said, clichés get that way mostly because
they are true. Looking at the individual years, some went by slowly
(the war years?) and others flew. My over-all feeling, however,
is one of a few short years—and what happened to them? Cer-
tainly not what I had looked forward to on a day in June, 1936!
In 1936, my future looked bright —at least to me—and as I
look back now it should have looked slightly on the dull and
monotonous side. As it turned out, it was neither, and in most
instances I don’t think I would like to change it. Some things, yes
— who wouldn’t? — but God has been good to me. The day after
Commencement, I started on a supposedly Jong and successful
career in the old and established Boston Wool Trade, with one eye
slightly — very slightly — cocked toward Furope. During the next
four years, T Iearned the wool business and advanced in it as my
plans called for. Bue as those four years passed, my originally

[ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

slightly-cocked eye became wide open and was joined by its mate.
Result: In January of 1941, I enlisted in the National Guard and
went on active duty later that month with the 180th Field Artillery
Battalion of the 26th Division, and for over five years the Army
was to be my life. These same years turned out to be the back-
ground for my present occupation,

During these years, I saw a good deal of this country that was
new to me and met and married my wife. After about a total of
three weeks together, Edie, an Army nurse, was sent to the South
Pacific and I to Europe to become the lowest paid officer in my
battalion, although at the time the senior captain. How did I man-
age this? All the married officers drew allowance for quarters —
except myself. In those days, if a married couple were both in
the service, neither could draw this additional pay. I’m still trying
to figure out how they could call Edie’s tent in the Pacific and my
foxhole in Europe “adequate quarters”! After taking part in four
major campaigns in Europe, I ended up on V-E Day in Czecho-
slovakia. Late that year, I returned home and was discharged a
slightly decorated major in February, 1946. The Army returned
my wife to me, and | returned to the wool business. Also, as an
avocation, I helped reform my wartime battalion in the National
Guard. More changes lay ahead. As the years went bv, a definite
change due to technological and other reasons took place in the
wool business, and it became more and more obvious that this busi-
ness as it had been for a hundred and fifty years was becoming a
thing of the past. The result was that I took a big step and left
the business. Time has proved this to be one of the few truly wise
moves I have made. I then entered into an entirely new field of
business for me — the life insurance business — and spent four happy
and reasonably productive years with it. During the years since
the war, I had been active in the National Guard, and in October
of 1959, when the opportunity presented itself, I turned my avoca-
tion into my vocation and assumed my present duties as a guard
officer on full-time duty. I am pleased to say that I don’t regret
the decision one bit, and while I have had to forget some of mv
1936 grandiose ideas, I am more than happy with what I am doing.

My extracurricular activities over the years have been few. Orher
than the Guard, my only real one has been the Harvard Club of
Quincy, of which [ have been an officer of one sort or another for
many years and kept busy mostly trying to raise che money for
our continually growing annual scholarship, These, plus an occa-

{ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

sional — too occasional! — round of golf, my family, my home and
my business have kept me well occupied. And so I come up to date
on the past tw enty-five years. Nothing world-shaking, nothing bril-
liant and very different from what I envisioned back in °36. But I
have been blessed with a wonderful wife, three fine children, a few
good friends, and a job I enjoy and from which I receive a great
deal of satisfaction. The past twenty-five years? They were fine!

RAYMOND CHARLES COLLINS

     

BUS La Gg Raa

 

HOME appress: 16 Country Rd., Albany 3, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1914, Albany, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

MARRIED: Alison Heath Kline, June 20, 1936, Amsterdam, N.Y.; Doris Sylvia
Nunez, M.D., June 4, 1955, Cleveland, Ohio. cHi_pren: Nancy Randolph,
Nov. 6, 1938; Susan Parker, July 7, 1942.

occupation: Residential building and real estate.

AS I am not an accomplished teller of tall tales, and have done
little or nothing of notable worth, my story can, thank heavens,
be very short.

1 have worked in a bank, sold carpet and silk machinery, sold
cows, sold stocks and bonds for a member firm of the New York
Stock Exchange, been employed in semi-administrative capacity for
seven years by a leading food company, conducted my own retail
furniture business for twelve years in Cooperstown, New York,
moved back to Albany in 1955, sold the furniture business in 1957,
worked as executive officer of the Capital District Home Builders
Association for two years, and am now connceted with two fine
gentlemen in building and real estate, in what they are pleased to
refer to from time to time as a semi-retired position.

[ 262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I rate myself as a truly happy individual, one of life’s fortunates
If you will check the date of my second marriage, you will appre
ciate what I mean when I say “life began for me at forty.” 4
pretty late bloomer, what? My hobbies are home, work, music
and golf. Pm looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion witt

much pleasure. It will be the first time J have been back to Cam.
bridge in twenty-five years.

THOMAS FRANCIS COLLINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Glen St., Melrose, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Atlantic Refining Co., Revere, Mass.
BORN: May 9, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MaRRIED: Alice G. Donovan, 1942, Washington, D.C. cuipren; Patricia A
1943; Chomas F., 1945 (deceased 1954).
occuPaTION: Marketing supervisor.

MEMBER OF: American Petroleum Institute; Kiwanis.

WHILE a quarter-century slipped by, I lived quietly, satisfactorily
and sufficiently. I consider myself well-to-do in having journey ed
in good health through the depression decade of the “thirties, the
service-connected years of the forties and the ever-threatening

times of the fifties. With great optimism, I look forward to the
space craft era ahead.

[ 263 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CHARLES AMIEL COLMAN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 523 W. Front St, Wheaton, Ill.

- KENNETH ELMER COLTON

 

HOME appreEss: 4619 Hunt Ave., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of Defense, Washington, D.C.

BoRN: Feb. 3, 1913, Des Moines, lowa.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Des Moines, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: $.B., cum laude, 1936, A.M. (State Univ.
of Iowa), 1942.

marrieD: Hattie Kawahara, June 15, 1954, Tokyo, Japan. cHILDREN: Kendrew
Hiram, Sept. 27, 1955; Barbara Mary, Aug. 22, 1958.
occupation: Area analyst.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1951-52, president, 1953-54, Harvard Club of
Japan.

MEMBER oF: Association for Asian Studies; Japan Socicty; Japan-American
Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Some dozen articles in lowa-regional history, Aunals of lowa,

[ 264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1937-42; “The Stagecoach Comes to Iowa,” Aznals of lowa, 1960; “Prewar
Influence on Postwar Conservative Parties (Japan),” American Political
Science Review, October, 1948; “Japanese Conservative Leadership,” Far
Eastern Survey, June, 1955; Japan Since Recovery of Sovereignty, Annals,
American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 308 (co-editor);
Outline of Japanese History in the Meiji Era (co-editor), Obunsha,

Tokyo, 1958, “Reflections on Japanese Politics,” Japan Quarterly, Tokyo,
April-June, 1958.

THE Twenty-fifth is a trial balance before the final summing u
and editing in the mind, at least, of the questions: What has been
achieved in the past two decades and one-half? What has Harvard
contributed to the result? It is also a battle report, of sorts, of a
journey, for we are all involved in what Professor Wilbur Cortez
Abbott would have called a “conflict with oblivion.”

The first stop on the journey was as editor of a midwestern
state historical quarterly, where the struggle was to fill the required
number of pages, to outmaneuver a rival state historical society
(by organizing a grass roots local level historical association). The
war ended this parochial fight; the orange had been squeezed dry.

Omitting the war, the second stop began with arrival in Japan
in November, 1945, a stay that became twelve rewarding years,
and half the span of time since 1936. There I met the girl I mar-
ried —at a general election post-mortem seminar, she asked the
only intelligent questions — Kismet. As a freshman I had selected
the field of history, rather than government, to avoid, I naively
thought, becoming caught in a political career. But since January,
1946, politics and government, albeit foreign, have been the focus
of my interest and my bread and butter. The twelve vears offered
a rare Close association with a political experiment still in process,
an increasing involvement in the Fulbright, Harvard and other
scholarship selection committees—the dedication of Tom Van
Nuys and other Harvard men was always impressive. And there
were the number of articles and two volumes which also mark this
period. No one working in Asia since 1945 could fail to recognize
the connection between education and political attitudes and gov-
ernment. In our last three years in Tokyo, mv wife and I both
taught government in the International Christian Univ ersity there,
an experience which whetted my appetite for more —an earlier

taste of the classroom in Japan had somehow not got into the blood
stream, that one did.

In 1958, the third leg of the journey began with resumption of
stateside residence and an awareness of what fifteen years’ absence

[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

does in terms of local roots and community identification, I h

hecome a modest bureaucrat, acquired a mortgage, added a sis
wo the little boy whose grandmother used to call him “senator”

and have continued to lose hair. But the itch to teach, work in t
government domain, and to travel remains,

Varvard did not materielly alter my directions so much as e
rich the journey. It seems I have always been interested in educ:
tyon, religion and public affairs ever since 1936, interests I broug

to Camibridge, Besides working in government, and slaving at
lamentable belated PhD, Tm trying to teach a Sunday schoo

Cass a view of religion that will not leave them religious moron.
ag adults, 1 owe Harvard much, most of all for the pleasures of <
skeptic and a doubter of claimed truths, the optimism that cheers
a quest which may never be ended, to his satisfaction, and for a
horror 1 feel when | feel too satisfied. It took me a long time, but

\ learned to be proud that Veritas has no objective, and, J think,
to understand why this necessarily had to be so.

GEORGE VAN DANIKER COMFORT

 

DAT

HOME ADDRESS: Long Hill Road, Briarcliff Manor, NY.
orice apuanss: oF. gzd Se, New Vork, N.Y.
BORN: March 5, 1914, New
PREPARES Mans

dk, NAY,
York, NY.
ace Mar

TEARS UN COLLEGE:

wn School, New York, NY.
3935 -

MARRIED: Lee Morrison, Oct,

Sepe.

 

. 10, 1042, Memphis, Tenn. cHitpren: Lee Me

143; Lyn L., Sepe. 22, 1945; Dana M., Jan. 24, 1947; Sharon 1

nih 7, 1950.

CCKORATION: Real estate; president, The George Comfort Co, Ine.
empen oF: Sleepy Hollow Country Club, Scarsborough, N.Y.

[266]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANFORTH WILLIAM COMINS, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: Barnes Hill Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: S. C. Hooker, Inc., Winchester, Mass.; S. C. Hooker (Canada)
Ltd., Montreal-Toronto, Canada.

BorN: May 16, 1912, Winchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lilton School, Tilton, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MaRRIED: Evelyn Anderson, June 8, 1937, Concord, Mass. cHitpren: Lee
Ellice, Feb. 28, 1938 (a2. Frederick C. Calder, June 21, 1956); Sarah Mar-
low, Feb. 8, 1942; Danforth William, 3d, March 8, 1945. GRANDCHILDREN:
Alexander Grant Calder, Jan. 12, 1958; William Musgrave Calder, 4th,
Dec. 14, 1960.

OccUPATION: Electronics; vice-president and sales manager, S. C. Hooker, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and chief engineer, 1944-57, advertising and sales
manager, 1952-57, Cambridge Thermionic Corporation, Cambridge, Mass.;
president, Consolidated Metal Corporation, 1950-57; division manager,
Epsco, Inc., Boston and Cambridge, Mass., 1957-39. ,

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club (member, governing board, 1957-60);
Kittansett Club, Marion, Mass.; Institute of Radio Engineers (associate
member); New England Chapter, Electronic Representatives Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Three U.S. patents, relating to electronic components.

AFTER having spent many years in engineering (and in sales man-
agement) in the electronic component manufacturing field, I now
find myself with a substantial interest in a small firm engaged in sales
engineering work in the New England area and in eastern Canada
—this endeavor still being in the field of electronic components.
This new venture holds great promise, its growth being tied directly
to that of the overall industry, which appears destined for a rather
fantastic future. I find that it’s great fun to be associ iated with a
small, flexible organization.

My family has been a source of constant enjoyment, mixed, |
fecl, with something less than the usual amoune of frustration.

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Credit for this most happy situation, of course, goes to my realistic,
always-feet-on-the-ground spouse, who has done a rather superla-
tive job of rearing her children (and me). This family is about as
provincial New England as you can get — parents raised in the
same village, children born in the same village, and all have lived
in the same house which they somehow managed to erect back in
1938. Said house, of course, has had sundry additions thereto, as
requirements demanded. Oh yes, number one daughter married the
boy across the street, to complete the picture.
My hobbies, | suspect, are quite average. I love music, bridge,
fishing, golf —and | will tackle-anything-myself with hammer and
saw. Incidentally, have you noticed that these new golf balls don’t

go so far as the old ones did, and that golf courses (in general) are
longer than they used to be?

CARL RODNEY COMSTOCK, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: McKenna Road, Norwich, Vt.

[ 268 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL FRANCIS CONNOLLY

    

HOME ADpRESS: 10 Fernwood Rd., West Roxbury, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: % Immigration & Naturalization Service, 150 Tremont St.
Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 14, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; A.M. in Teaching, 1941.

MARRIED: Frances Ann Watson, March 12, 1944, West Roxbury, Mass. cuu-
DREN: Paul Michael, April 12, 1945; Richard Joseph, Nov. 20, 1947; Stephen
Francis, Feb. 8, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Martin Connolly, ’48.

occupPaTION: Inspector, Immigration & Naturalization Service.

MEMBER OF: Varsity Club.

AFTER four aimless years at college, I drifted into teaching. For-
tunately for the profession, and probably myself, I drifted out
after the war. Four years in the Navy left me reluctant to return
to the classroom, for I was not a dedicated teacher. The impatience
I presently show when helping my own children convinces me that
I made the correct move. (The fact that I lost my voice in 1947,
for two months, was also a factor in my decision.)

During the war, at least for the final fifteen months, 1 was among
those who could have been accused of never having had it so good.
As special assistant to the American Consul, Shannon Airport, I
had a car, unlimited gasoline, steak for breakfast, Scotch for one
dollar a bottle, and played golf about five days a week. My work-
ing hours were irregular and unpredictable. My present job also
involves irregular hours, but there the resemblance ends — inspect-
ing ships and planes, adjudicating petitions of various types sub-
mitted in connection with the Immigration & Nationality Act.
The fringe benefits scarcely equal those of the Navy-State Depart-
ment days.

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

To keep from growing old or, as some might term it, failing to
grow old gracefully, I am wrapped up in Little League activities
summers, and still play some hockey in the winter. Since my boys
are becoming stronger as I grow weaker, I'll probably have to dust
off the rocking chair pretty soon.

It is my fervent wish that my children will embrace their edu-
cational opportunities with more sense of purpose than I did. Judg-
ing from the admission standards of the better colleges, a fairly
clear-cut goal in life seems necessary just to be accepted.

RICHARD BORDEN CONNOLLY

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Rose Lane, Old Lyme, Conn.

Born: April 23, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1933.

MARRIED: May Driscoll, April 23, 1940, West Newton, Mass. (divorced 1945);
Ruth Seymour, March 16, 1946, Barrington, R.I. (divorced 1959); Con-
stance H. Cook, 1959, Johnston, R.l. crtpren: Margaret M. Brust, Feb.
23, 1935 (stepdaughter); John C. M. Brust, Aug. 20, 1936 (stepson);

Nicholas C. Brust, Nov. 29, 1938 (stepson); Walter Edward, Nov. 7;
1947; Gerald T. Church, Jan. 17, 1951 (stepson).

HARVARD SON: John Calvin Morrison Brust, ’58 (stepson).

occupaTion: Industrial sales representative, Mystik Adhesive Products, Ines
Chicago.

oFFices HELD: Director and secretary, United Chemicals Corporation; vice-
president and director, Incorporated Designers and Engineers.

Member oF: General Industrial Equipment Division, National Defense Execu-
tive Reserve; Harvard Clubs of Connecticut and Washington, D.C.;
American Ordnance Association, Old Lyme Country Club,

AFTER leaving Harvard | attended and graduated from Babson In- |
stitute in 1935- After a start on Wall Street which netted me

[270]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nothing much other than experience. I progressed to the building
and operating of processing and chemical plants, working in Illi-
nois, Minnesota, Florida and New England. In 1939, with other
members of my family, we founded the Triton Chemical Corpora-
tion, which had plants in New Jersey and Virginia. This company
produced ‘T'ri-nitro-toluene for the U.S. Government and several
of our allies. In 1942 this facility became the Virginia Ordnance
Works. At this time I left and took a contract on my own to de-
velop a small demolition bomb for retreating action for the U.S.
Navy. This work was completed late in 1942. At this time I
joined the Chemicals Bureau of the War Production Board, serving
as chief of special ratings unit, basic chemicals unit, acting chief of
drug and penicillin unit. I was also liaison to C. F. Kettering of
General Motors Corporation on a secret fuel project and was as-
signed to work with the Army-Navy Aviation Petroleum Board on
problems of the catalyst program.

After the war I left the War Production Board and took a much
needed vacation for several months and finally went into the real
estate business in Rhode Island. I was also interested in an import-
export business as well as sales representative and broker for various
products. In 1952 I was called back to the National Production
Authority to be the industrial representative to the Savannah River
project of the Atomic Energy Commission. Upon completion of
this work I joined Peter Kiewit Sons, prime contractor for the
Portsmouth Area Project in the contract administration department.
In 1956 I joined the Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics
Corporation, with which most of my time was spent in customer
relations of the research and development department. In this work
I contacted customers and prospects in all areas of the United States
and many areas of Europe.

In the spring of 1960, I purchased a home in Old Lyme, Connecti-
cut, and during the summer I resigned from General Dynamics so
that I might better enjoy the advantages of my new home and fam-
ily. Presently, I am New England industrial representative for
Mystik Adhesives Products, which allows me to stay much closer
to home. I am officer of two other companies, namely, United
Chemicals Corporation — secretary and director — and Incorpor-
ated Designers and Engineers — vice-president and director.

[271]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN O'CONNOR CONWAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 95 W. Bridge St., Oswego, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 E. Bridge St., Oswego, N.Y.
BORN: July 26, 1911, Oswego, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Oswego High School, Oswego, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Attorney-at-law; city attorney.

ACTIVE in politics.

JOHN DONALD COOK

beni lisa sza52 Ahi Sia ae Bik Hees A eR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1333 Bennington Ave.,, Pittsburgh 17, Pa.

orFice appress; Metz, Cook, Hanna & Kelly, 3600 Grant Bldg,, Pittsburgh 19,
Pa.

BORN: June 23, 1913, Pittsburgh, Pa.

PREPARED at: Wilkinsburg High School, Wilkinsburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., 1936, LL.B, (Univ. of Pirrsburgh),
1940.

[272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Helen H. Hogan, June 23, 1942, Pittsburgh, Pa.

occupaTion: Attorney, partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and board member, numerous corporations,

MEMBER OF: University Club; Duquesne Club, Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club;
Longue Vue Country Club; Pittsburgh Athletic Club; Canadian Club of
New York.

AFTER graduation from law school I passed the Pennsylvania bar
exams and became an associate in the Pittsburgh law firm of Pat-
terson, Crawford, Arensburg & Dunn. In 1942 I married and shortly
thereafter entered the service as an ensign in the Naval Intelligence
Service. During the next four years my naval work carried me to
most, if not all, of the theatres of conflict. After separation from
the service, instead of returning to my law firm, I became a trust
officer in Peoples Pittsburgh Trust Company (now Pittsburgh Na-
tional Bank) in order to acquire more experience in trusts and
estates. After leaving the bank in 1950, I began forming my own
law firm for the private practice of law. My present firm is Metz,
Cook, Hanna & Kelly, and my specialized field is trust, estate and
corporation law.

ROBEY HUNTINGTON COOK

 

HOME AppRESS: 1510 Pine St., Berwick, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESs: H. A. Whiteman & Co.,, Inc, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

Marriep: Marjorie Stewart Shunk, Sept. 14, 1940, Wollaston, Mass. critpren:
Deborah Susan, June 29, 1943; Christine Wentworth, Nove 13, 1048)
Stuart Sheldon, Nov, 21, 1950.

occupation: Paper products salesman.

[ 273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, JayCees, Berwick, Pa., 1946-48; treasurer, Com-
munity Concerts, 1947-50; vice-chairman, Green Brier District, Boy Scouts,

- 1948-50; president, Merchants Bureau, 1948, 1949, Kiwanis, 1956, Pres-
byterian Men, 1957, Berwick High School Band Boosters, 1959; director,

Chamber of Commerce, 1948, 1949, 1950; chairman, Heart Fund, 1951;
member, executive council, Columbia-Montour Council, 1953-61.
MEMBER OF: Kiwanis; Boy Scout Council; Legion; 4o & 8; Country Club.

FOLLOWING my departure from Harvard I acquired my first
tan while working “on deck” on a freighter going to South America.
Returning home, I went sailing for a few weeks around Nantucket
and burned and peeled twice during the cruise. Life is like that and
that is why I find it so interesting. When I asked Marjorie to marry
me I told her that she would never have much money but that I'd
try and make life interesting. She sometimes shakes her head and
says, “I can’t blame you, you warned me!” Electric welding was
coming into vogue in 1935 and I learned it at the Fore River Yard,
Quincy, Massachusetts, becoming a “production welder” and acquir-
ing an old “I” boat which I raced in the Massachusetts Bay Asso-
ciation for three years. Welding on galvanized iron took twenty
pounds off in a hurry and I was sent to a tuberculosis sanitarium
for x-rays. The x-rays were negative and I was scared from welding
to New England Mutual Life where I stayed until 1941.

In September, 1940, 1 was married to Marjorie Shunk and Ted
Darrah, ’36, was the minister. The following year we drove to
Berwick, Pennsylvania, while on vacation and I was hired by Ber-
wick Store Company, the Company Store for American Car and
Foundry. As merchandise manager of a small department store
(three floors, basement, plus complete food market, and a garage
and Plymouth-Chrysler Agency across the street), you may well
imagine that life became interesting. Deborah was born in 1943,
and after avoiding the draft for a year and a half they caught up
with me. Three battle stars, an Arrowhead for southern France, a
Bronze Star, and a Purple Heart later, I was mustered out of the
Army into Allied Commission, Headquarters Company in Rome.
Having attained the rank of private first class and the privileges
that go with it, plus the sanctity of “no further combat because of
wounds,” I thoroughly enjoyed the remaining eleven months of my
Army career. Opera, concerts, and museums were visited and
memories of the Eternal City plus temporary duty in northern
Italy are still vivid. Christine made her appearance in 1948, Stuart
came along in 1950, and our family was complete. Company Stores

[ 274]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the “check-off” started going out of business in 1947, and by
1952 had about “had it.” I worked as a Fuller Brush Man from
February to July that year, sold water softeners during July and
August, and then went to work for Whiteman, buying my territory
from the sales manager. In 1955 I was made assistant to the general
manager with “emphasis on delinquent accounts.” I have yet to
hear a good reason why a bill cannot be paid that I have not already
used on a salesman while at Berwick Store Company. As a com-
mission salesman who pays his own expenses, my political opinions
are strictly Early American, considerably right of center. FDR
wrecked the country, maybe JFK can restore it. My religious con-
victions are stronger than ever. The Golden Rule works, but don’t
forget to cut the cards. My wife says I play dirty bridge, but if
you don’t want to win why keep score? She plays like a man and
I prefer her as a partner. As our family grows we become more
closely knit. All are healthy and bring home far better marks than
their parents did. Marjorie and I are both up to our necks in Boy
and Girl Scouts, Band Boosters (two French horns and a baritone,
plus piano), and PTA. Church, youth, and civic work are both
interesting and enjoyable. If the next twenty-five years proceed
on the same plane as the last, all will be well.

& WHITNEY MOWRY COOK

 

BORN: Sept. 28, 1912, Boston, Mass. Parents: Harry Irving Cook, Ethel Whit-
ney.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193271936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Stuart Whitney Cook, °32; George Gardner Cook, Lia,
"40.

piEp: Killed in action, Jan. 9, i945, Fakao Harbor, Formosa.

[275]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

AFTER a year at the Law School and a year in the insurance busi-
ness, Cook became associated with the real estate firm of Bigelow,
Cross & Hobbs in Boston. Commissioned an ensign in the Harvard
ROTC while an undergraduate, he served aboard the USS Arkansas,
USS Hamilton and USS Enterprise during the summers of 1937 and
1938. Following a year as instructor at the U.S, Naval Academy, he
requested assignment to the Asiatic Fleet and served three months
aboard the USS Luzon, stationed at Shanghai. He was commissioned
a lieutenant (j.g.) and shortly before the war broke out his ship
was ordered to Manila where he joined General MacArthur’s forces.
He was taken prisoner at the fall of Corregidor and placed aboard
a Japanese transport which was bombed and sunk off the Philippine
Islands, He survived this sinking, was captured and placed aboard
another ship bound for Japan and lost his life when this ship was
bombed while in Takao Harbor, Formosa. He was survived by his
mother and two brothers,

ALDEN KENDALL COOLIDGE

 

HOME AppRESs; Broad Cove, Cape Elizabeth, Maine.

OFFice Appress: H. P. Hood & Sons, 349 Park Ave., Portland, Maine.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1914, Arlington, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

Marnie: Eleanor C. Allard, Sept. 27, 1947, Newton, Mass. cutpren: Alden
Kendall, Jr., Aug. 11, 1950, Carolyn E,, June 2, 1956, Roberta I, June 5,
1959.

occupation: Regional comptroller, covering Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
portion of Massachusetts, H. P. Hood & Sons, dealers in milk, ice crcam
and other dairy products.

MEMBER oF: Corinthian Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Concord, Mass,

[ 276 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM RICHARDSON CORBIN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 111 Eastern Ave., Arlington 74, Mass.

EUGENE CORDELLE

   

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Pisgah Road, Durham, Conn.

BoRN: Aug. 1, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MarRieD: Else Maria Rosetta Charlotta Outzen, Nov. 18, 1939, New York,

N.Y. cumpren: Francis Hart, Dec. 9, 1942; Guy, May 16, 1946.
OccuPATION: Manufacturers’ agent.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, United Churches, Zoning Board of
Appeals, Durham,

THIS summer, oddly enough, I had gone up the brook a half-dozen

times, at most; “oddly enough” because going up the brook was a

pursuit which I had cultivated and elaborated on for years with a

regularity associated, by and large, only with pursuit of some vice

or other, Else, whose natural inclination is to express kind thoughts

[277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

and rock maple seem to do so, too, but not as readily, for they have
drier ground and rocks and grasses and all kinds of undergrowth
to contend with. Or, perhaps they refer to the grouse and wood-
cock and deer, none of which we shoot, though there are too many
of the last. Or, even to the kingfisher clattering his way up and
down the brook, dining royally on an occasional fat trout.

But to come back briefly, and in conclusion, to this business of
earning a livelihood —the area, roughly, from Springfield, Massa-
chusetts, to Stamford, Connecticut, has, in the process, acquired
another manufacturers’ agent. I have been fortunate in representing
people of integrity in their way of doing business, and with par-
ticular regard to quality of workmanship. When you boil it down,
I have nothing to sell but the integrity of owners of shops I repre-
sent. For my part, I have tried to discourage my principals from
taking on business on which it is unlikely that they would do more
than break even, a failing which shops large and small indulge in
all too often. This is not a matter of altruism, but of self-interest.
There is nothing worse for a manufacturers’ agent than to find
himself in the position of representing one or more shops which
are not making money, especially when his own desire for large
commissions has substantially contributed to the situation. All too
many of my confreres find themselves in just such a tenuous posi-
tion, to their own detriment, to the detriment of their principals,
and to that of the trade in general. J am equally fortunate in
having for customers people who, in the very great majority, are
straightforward in their dealings and pleasant to work with.

In a word, in this sphere of activity, as in the others, I am happy
doing what I am doing, and that is what counts.

[ 280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SCIPION FELIPE CORTES, JR.

BR PA a op nseanin: ok gpemecirs fe teie . en gy

  

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Hacienda El Melon, Estacién Melon, Chile, South

America.

BoRN: Aug. 12, 1912, Cambridge, Md.

PREPARED AT: Gilman Country School, Roland Park, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

marRieD: Maria Luisa Zorrilla, 1939. CHILDREN: Marie Isabel; Hernan.

occupaTION: Trucking, ranching, farming, mining.

OFFICES HELD: Alderman, Nogales Municipality; member, international com-
mittee, Chilean World Football Cup (Jules Rimer).

MEMBER OF: Wanders Football Club of Valparaiso.

OWING to the depression that hit Chile in 1933, I was forced to
leave Harvard at the end of my freshman year and return to my
home in Vifia del Mar, Chile. I was fortunate to get a job with
the West India Oil Company, a subsidiary to ESSO, where I re-
mained until 1935. The next step was to join my father, a contractor
at the time, and assist in the construction of a Decauville railroad
(narrow gauge) ten miles long, connecting the Miniere du MZaita
copper mine with the Northern State Railroad. I managed this
little railroad until it went out of existence in 1953, owing to com-
petition with modern roads and trucks. This turn of events put
me into the trucking business, and at present, my partner and I
operate eight large trucks, ranging from twenty to ‘forty tons each.
In the meantime, I worked with and for the family concerns, ranch-
ing and farming on a very large scale at the Hacienda El Melén,
where I am also co-owner. Mining is another activity with which
I am connected.

As regards politics, I may add that I have been elected alderman
four consecutive times to the Nogales municipality; however, I do
not care for politics. In my spare moments I have dedicated time

[ 281 ]

— ~anstteretnamctsemaa _ ~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

and grey hairs to Wanderers Football Club of Valparaiso, a pro-
fessional team in the first division soccer league. Soccer is the big
sport in all South America, Chile being no exception. ] am a mem-
ber of the International Committee of the Chilean World Football
Cup (Jules Rimet) —the World Cup finals will be held in Chile in
1962. In my very spare time I try to complete, if that word is pos-
sible, my model “S” gauge railroad.

Chile is a great country for dove-shooting and all kinds of fish-
ing, and in winter I enjoy the shooting very much, The season
opens April 1 and continues until September. I am very happy to
extend an invitation to any of my former classmates, if they happen
to be in the vicinity during that period.

I married Maria Luisa Zorrilla in 1939 and have two children —
Maria Isabel, nineteen, a student at the Universidad de Chile, and
Hernan, fifteen, a prep student at the Grange School in Santiago.
Since leaving Harvard I have been to the United States twice but
never back to the University. Nevertheless, I trust I shall be able
to return in 1961 and attend our Class Reunion.

++ HUBERT VANSANT CORYELL, JR.

 

BorN: May 14, 1913, Germantown, Pa. parents: Hubert Vansant Coryell, ’11,

Etta Verona Child.
_ PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1934.

MarpigD: Doris Wolcott, June 12, 1948, Maumee, Ohio. cHipREN: Stephen
Wolcott, Aug. 14, 1950; Abby Helen, Sept. 18, 1952.

DIED: March 18, 1959, Carlisle, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Hubert V. Coryell, P.O. Box 196, Carlisle, Mass.

AFTER leaving Harvard at the end of his sophomore year, Coryell
taught at the Beacon School, Wellesley Hills, Massachusetts, for

{ 282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

three years and then continued his studies at Boston University. 1
then returned to teaching and for sixteen years was associated wit
the Maumee Valley Country Day School in Toledo, Ohio, wher
he was successively head of the history department and assistar
headmaster. In June, 1956, he moved to Brattleboro, Vermon
where he joined Stephen Greene, ’37, in his publishing company
Stephen Greene Press. For two years he remained in Vermont, en
tering into the community life, participating in the Chamber o
Commerce, Rotary, Experiment in International Living and servin
in the religious education department of the Unitarian Churct
Since September, 1958, he had been a member of the faculty o
Concord Academy, Concord, Massachusetts, as head of the history
department.

He was the author of a number of published books, a play anc

magazine and newspaper articles. He was survived by his wife anc
children.

JOSEPH SIMON COTTON

 

HOME AppRESS: 136 Bartlett St. North Wilbraham, Afass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Cypress St., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1915, Turners Falls, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Turners Falls High School, Turners Falls, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1936.

MargiED: Vivian J]. Plouffe, Aug. 20, 1942, Miami, Fla. catiworen: Jane Fliza-
beth, Oct. 15, 1949; Sarah Ann, March 20, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Newspaperman, assistant city edicor, Springfield Union.

REVIEWING twenty-five years is a sobering chore for someone

still trying to get used to bifocals, but then, bifocals put things in
clearer focus,

[ 283 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Instead of scrambling after The Buck, my wife and I decided to
go for broke on contentment. We made it! Ten years ago, We
bought what had been a three-room camp on Wilbraham Moun-
tain — after my wife convinced me I ought to join the do-it-yourself
club. Up to then, I had done nothing to convince her I knew any-
thing about carpentry. Matter of fact, I was ready to send back the
first load of lumber because the 2 x 4’s didn’t measure a full two
by four. A neighbor sneeringly explained the facts of life about
dressed lumber to me.

My wife, as usual, was right. I did learn how to build a house —
the hard way, through mistakes. Vivian — my wife — braided rugs,
made lamps from old jugs and proved she had natural talent as a
decorator. People who used to know me in my less ambitious days
still won't believe I made the knotty pine hutch and trestle table
and benches and coffee tables.

We've got nearly three acres — mostly swamp — that I’m clear-
ing and filling, and we enjoy cooking outdoors. Ever try parboiling
corned beef until it’s about two-thirds done, then finishing it off
over a hickory twig fire? We even made a bit of maple syrup this
spring — about one and a half gallons. It took about a dozen cords
of wood and my spare time for nearly a month to boil the sap down
at the outdoor fireplace. I promised my wife she’d have the roasting
pan I used cleared for Thanksgiving — and getting the char off that
is one of my many unfinished jobs.

Outdoor living adds up to this. I don’t have ulcers. My heart's
o.k. I weigh less than when J was at college. When I have steam to
blow off, 1 get down in the still-unexcavated part of the cellar and
belt the mountain with a sixteen-pound sledge or with wedges and
a striking hammer. And when I can get down to the store to pay
the thirty-five cents I owe for the Sunday Times I haven’t picked
up yet because we were away the past weekend, I won’t owe any-
body a cent!

In the moneyless 1930's, I was well on my way to an inferiority
complex because J had to leave Harvard early in my senior year.
But I met a girl at the Heath Fair who taught all eight grades in one
room in that town of about 250 and she helped me to get rid of it.

I married her in 1942 while 1 was stationcd at Miami Beach with

the Army Air Corps. All these years, I've had her conned into

thinking I’m still a good husband,

I started in newspaper work in 1938. In 1ggo [ was publishing
my own paper —a weekly I started with $150 capital. In 1942, 1

[ 284]

—— eno

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was drafted. After a year and a half at Miami Beach, where | pe
in a stint as managing editor of the post newspaper, I went overse:
and floundered around Normandy shortly after the invasion as

ublic relations noncom with the Ninth Air Force. In early fall ¢
1944, 1 landed on the Paris edition of Stars and Stripes. When th
New York Post started its Paris edition, I became makeup editor —
a cushy job, considering the paper was a four-page tab and that th
plant where it was printed had two — count them — bars.

After the war, my wife and I bought a printing business. It wa
a flop, and we got out fast about a year later. I became a publi
relations man for a bank but being desk-bound didn’t appeal to m
and a couple of years later I became a printing paper salesmar
Still hankering for newspaperwork, I got back into it in 1951 as :
reporter for the Springfield Union. 1 was tapped as assistant nigh
city editor three years ago. I’m also a stringer for Time and Lif.
magazines.

Working nights and the continuing chores of country life leave
little time for photography and chess— my hobbies —and_ the
night hours also forced me to drop out of clubs and other activities
But it hasn’t interfered with weekend hospitality — as my wife anc
I would be delighted to prove.

EDWARD AUGUSTINE COUNIHAN, HI

 

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Elinwood Ave, Cambridge, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Banking Dept. 150 Causeway St, Boston, Mass.
BoRN: March 1, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED at: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE! A.B. 1936,

MARRIED: Louise Watson, Sept. i t9go, Belmont, Mass. cattpres: Susan

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Louise, July 3, 1941; Edward Augustine, qth, July 17, 1947; Carol L.,
Sept. 23, 1948; Christopher, Jan. 23, 1952; Stephen, June 13, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Pau! Gerard Counihan, ’39, Li.B., °43.

occuPATION: Lawyer; Commissioner of Banks, Commonwealth of Massachu-
setts.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant U.S. Attorney, 1948-51; trustee, Mount Auburn Hos-
pital, Cambridge, Mass., since 1959.

MEMBER OF; Union Boat Club; National Association of Supervisors of State
Banks; Massachusetts Bar Association; Middlesex Bar Association.

SINCE graduation, I have lived within a seven- or eight-minute
walk of Harvard Square, and on the whole I have been quite satis-
fied with my life in Cambridge. It is possible that I have the shortest
span of service during the war of any of our classmates. I was given
a medical discharge after eighty-seven days in the Navy when un-
satisfactory X-rays finally caught up with the medical officer at
Quonset. I practised law in Boston with my brother, Paul, ’39, and
my father, until he became a Supreme Court Justice, from 1940
until 1958, with time out as an Assistant U.S, Attorney from 1948
to 1951.

On January 1, 1958, Governor Furcolo appointed me bank com-
missioner of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to complete the
unexpired term of my predecessor, Charles P. Howard, ’o9, who
was forced to retire because of age. I was reappointed for a full
term in April, 1958, principally because of a lack of candidates who
were Democrats. The work in the office is most satisfying, and
the aid and assistance of the career personnel within the department
is of such a high quality that it would be difficult to make a wrong
policy decision. Further, since most bankers are, by and large, law-
abiding citizens, the supervisory features of the office are not par-
ticularly onerous, which leaves the department free to work with the
banks to make the service which they render to the public more
efficient. 1 miss the practice of law, but console myself with the
thought that when my term is ended I will presumably be better
equipped to represent clients within the banking field, if such there
be.

Politically, as noted above, I am a Democrat. I remember my
father saying in 1932 that it was his belief that not more than two
percent of the Class of 1904, of which he and Franklin D, Roosevelt
were members, voted for their classmate in that presidential election.

I suspect that the percentage of our Class who voted for Senator

Kennedy was a great deal higher. It would be interesting if we

were able to determine whether or not he received a majority vote.

[ 286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

| worked in a minor capacity in the presidential campaign as a
fund-raiser, and I am confident that Senator Kennedy will be a
great President.

I never thought of myself particularly as a homebody, but I
happily admit that I derive a great deal of satisfaction from my
associations with my children, who are good kids all —and this is
due in large measure to the machinations of my wife, Louise. The
whole family has become tennis nuts, with Susan winning the New
England Junior Championships four years in a row as our brightest
light to date. Seven or eight years ago, I discovered the joys of cruis-
ing, through the good offices of Alfred Shrigley, and as a result
summers are a happy time for the Counihans with our house on
the Cape, our boats and our tennis rackets. So far as community
life is concerned, my participation has been limited to serving as
trustee of the Mount Auburn Hospital, but Louise has more than
made up for my lack. She works enthusiastically on so many com-
munity projects that a mere listing of them would make this par-
ticular report much too bulky.

My experience over the past twenty-five years has not resulted
in the formulation of any profound and original truths which I feel
should be published through the medium of this Report. In the
special questionnaire, I answered affirmatively the question “Are
your religious beliefs stronger today than when you were in col-
lege?” My philosophy is expressed in my answer to this question.

WALTER LAURENCE CRAMPTON

  

‘

4

An |

MAILING appress: Box 1621, Arabian American Oil Co, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.
BORN: July 20, 1913, Manila, Philippine Islands,
PREPARED AT: St. Mary's College High School,

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Rosamond Crampton. CHILDREN: Jane, 1947; Barbara, 1950.
occuPATION: Oil business.

I AM still operating at the same old stand in Saudi Arabia. I sin-
cerely regret that I shall be unable to attend the Reunion in 1961.
It is hard to believe that twenty-five years have passed. I suppose
the graduates of 1961 will have the same thoughts concerning the
aged individuals returning for the Twenty-fifth. Well, here we are
and we don’t feel so old, do we?

DAVID COOLIDGE CRAWFORD

 

HOME AppREss: 417 S. Elm St., Hinsdale, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stanray Corp., 200 S. Michigan Blvd., Chicago, Il.

BorN: March 4, 1914, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1936.

Marrigp: Gloria Jeanne Difford, Sept. 16, 1942, Tacoma, Wash. CHILDREN:
David Coolidge, Jr. April 25, 1944; Wallace Frederick, March 23, 1946,
Christopher C., April 18, 1949; Jonathan F., March 24, 1951.

occupation: General manager, Products Division, Stanray Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Grosse Pointe Property Owners Association, 1953-58;
president, Harvard Club of Detroit, 1954-55; president and director, Sales
Executive Club of Detroit, 1955-56; regional vice-president, Association of
H Clubs, 1956-58; director, Grosse Pointe War Memorial Association,
1957-58.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Chicago; University Club of
Detroit, Detroit Athletic Club; Hinsdale Golf Club; National Sales Ex-

ecutive Club; Machinery and Allied Products Institute; Hinsdale Play-
readers; Salt Creek Club.

1 AM sure that when I graduated in 1936 1 was ready to spend my
life as an engineer, but $1000, one year and thirteen countries later,

[ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I was convinced that the world was not full of “things” but full
“people.” 1 went to Detroit with $50 from my father in my pock
for emergency, and after considering several of the giant fir
whose employee exits spewed men like cattle, I concluded that
small company offered the most opportunity for variety of expe
ence and responsibility. Work began on the reciving dock of a lit
plant with five people, and lasted for twenty years, through eve.
job that exists up to a vice-presidency of what had become
$13,000,000 business. Three years ago | parted company with tt
lifetime association and joined a Chicago firm, with the interestir
assignment of “do something we are not now doing that will t
profitable.” The satisfactions of “operating” are many, but th
thrill of “creating and operating” is superior. Since then, afte
many hours and frequent disappointments, there are emerging a soli
beachhead in the aircraft ground support field, exciting and profit
able entrance into atomic energy, and two new plants established fo
re-enforced plastics production, for the transportation industry
Progress has been made in a new concept of off-highway truck con
struction, and a third plant will fabricate the first all-aluminun
highway bridges that promise to be competitive with steel and pre-
stressed concrete. Life in 1961 is more exciting and more of a chal-
lenge than ever.

My greatest achievement has been to convince a west coast girl
to marry me and put up with my peculiarities for these many years.
We have four boys, completely different in appearance, abilities
and personality, but each considerably superior to his father. Home
is a delightful little community west of Chicago, that comes as close
to being a New England village as is possible outside of New Eng-
land. Our friends are many and stimulating, our community oppor-
tunities boundless, our living problems few. I would only hope that
life has been as kindly to my classmates.

Now what of the future? Of course, excited by our break-
throughs in knowledge of “things,” I am increasingly concerned
about our apparent loss of understanding of “people.” I am con-
founded by the fact that so many of apparently greater intellect

than I, come to such opposite political and economic conclusions. I
cannot understand how what are obvious lessons of history can be
so blithely ignored by supposedly educated people. I can under-
stand but not explain the refusal of the management class of my

generation to assume many of its obligations, W hy such commit-
ment of the “anti- -capitalist mentalitv’? What has happened ro

[ 28 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

“principle” and individual responsibility? Perhaps such things have
always been the concern of the aged, but I am certain there is more
to it than this, and that we are losing many of the secrets that have
brought us this far. I look forward to seeing what twenty-five

ears have done to the appearance and the thinking of others of
the Class of 1936.

JOHN CROMWELL

 

HOME Abpress: Hérouville, Seine et Oise, France.
Born: Aug. 25, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Theatre.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club.

RODNEY SVOBODA CROOME

 

MAILING aporEss: 3A North View, Wimbledon Common, London, S.W. 19
England.

[ 290 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILFRED CROSSLEY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 204 Jill Lane, Cheshire, Conn.

MICHAEL CUDAHY

    

HOME AppRESS: 80 N. Green Bay Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Callaghan & Co., 6141 N. Cicero Ave. Chicago 46, Ill.

BORN: Feb, 20, 1914, Chicago, III.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE! A.B. 1936.

marRieD: Annie May Henry, Jan. 11, 1938, Chicago, Ill. cHipren: Michael,
Jr. Dec. 10, 1938; Shaun, Aug. 28, 1941; Huntington Henry, Oct. 7, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Brewer Cudahy, °34.

OccuPATION: Publisher; president, Callaghan & Company.

OFFICES HELD; Alderman, Lake Forest, Ill, 1954-58; director, First National
Bank of Lake Forest, since June, 1959, Lake Forest Hospital, since January,
1960.

MEMBER oF: Onwentsia Club, Lake Forest, Il, Shoreacres Club, Lake Bluff,
Til.

[291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PEARSON CHURCH CUMMIN, Jr.

    

HOME ADpRESS: 125 Ashwood Rd., Villanova, Pa.

oFFice Apress: Philip B. Knowlton, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

porn: Nov. 14, 1913, Dayton, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriep: Martha Graham French, June 18, 1941, Cape May, N.J. (died Dec.
22, 1953). CHILDREN: Pearson Church, 3d, Nov. 25, 1942; Arch Walker,
June 11, 1944; Martha French, July 3, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Pearson Church Cummin, 3d, "64.

HARVARD BROTHER: Graham Cummin, ’38, M.B.A., '40.

occupaTIon: Real estate broker.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1953, member, executive board, 1954-56, assistant
treasurer, 1960, Ashwood Manor Civic Association; low-echelon jobs in
various fund-raising drives such as United Fund, Heart, Cancer, etc.

MemseR oF: Pennsylvania Society of Sons of the Revolution, Welcome So-
ciety of Pennsylvania; World Affairs Council; International House of
Philadelphia; Korea Society; Radnor Hunt; U.S. Pony Clubs; Pennsyl-
vania Horse Breeders’ Association; Philadelphia Dog Training Club; Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Philadelphia Conservationists;
National Audubon Society; Valley Forge Audubon Society; Mill Dam
Club; Merion Cricket Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

AS I recall it, there were very few vice-presidencies being offered
to newly-graduated Harvards in the fall of 1936. So I accepted the
next best position befitting my highly enviable educational back-
ground: mail-room clerk in an eminently respectable, local (Phila-
delphia) trust company. It was exciting, stimulating work. What
a challenge to see whether I could get all those year-end statements
properly metered and into the mail bags by 2 am., New Year's
Day! Persevering still, I went to AJB. night-school where I
learned more about trusts and trust instruments than I can possibly
remember now. Quick to recognize ability, the bank promoted

[292 ]

2. —— ecm

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me out of the mail-room— but not quite into a trust officer's
chair, as I had every reason to expect. It was then that I decided
that an M.B.A. was the only sure stepping stone to top management.
I enrolled in the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administra-
tion.

After Harbus gave me the boot at the end of the first year, I
landed a job as commentator for the Owens-Corning Fiberglas ex-
hibit at the World’s Fair. When Flushing Meadows closed down
for the winter, Owens-Corning took me under its wing: first in its
plant at Newark, Ohio, next in its sales office in Pittsburgh, and
finally back “home” in the Philadelphia office.

In the fall of ’40, stirred by red-blooded patriotism and a very
low draft number, I enlisted as a private in a local National Guard
Field Artillery battery. I still had my job, I was safe from the draft;
I was in love and became engaged. The next thing I knew, I was ona
troop train headed for Camp Shelby, Mississippi, the 166th F. A.

Regiment had been activated.

(Good Lord! Look how I’ve been running off at the mouth.
This has got to stop. I still have twenty more years to cover.)

THE WAR. Married while a sergeant. Pearl Harbor news whis-
pered to wife and me by waiter at Antoine’s in New Orleans. O.CS.
and commission from Fort Sill, Oklahoma. Instructor in tactics for

a year at the Field Artillery School. Number one son born in Law-

ton, Oklahoma. Transferred to Military Intelligence School, Hagers-

town, Maryland. Student, then instructor, in aerial photo interpre-
tation. Landed in England Valentine’s Day, 1944. Attached as cap-
tain of photo interpreter team to 79th Infantry Division prior to

D-Day. Stayed with 79th until after V-E day, then returned to

MIS Headquarters outside of Paris as PI instructor for Pacific-

bound troops. V-J Day, and home in September, 1945. First

glimpse of fifteen-month-old, number two son.

POST WAR. Entered Smith, Kline and French Labs., Philadel-
phia. Bought present home. Had a daughter. At job, first worked
in market research department. When the advertising production
manager was drafted, I took his place. When he returned from the
Army, he got his former job back. I marked time in the advertising
department for a while, then was fired. Got a job as salesman with
real estate broker who had sold us our home. Licensed as a real
estate broker. Enjoyed life, work, family and friends.

CRISIS. On Christmas Eve, 1958, I buried my thirty-nine-vear-
old wife, who had dicd absolutely without warning, from a core-

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

nary thrombosis two davs earlier. Already rather a heavy drinker,
I took to the bottle in earnest. By spring, I was an out-and-out alco-
holic. My doctor and some true friends persuaded me to go up to
Tracy Farms near Albany for three months and take the “cure.”
I still consider myself an alcoholic, but I haven’t had a drink since
April, 1959. [ hope I have the guts to keep the record intact.

MORE TROUBLE. Just to keep things from getting dull, I
suffered a coronary thrombosis of my own while on vacation in
Charleston, South Carolina, in April, 1960. As of the first of this
year (1961), I seem to be recovering nicely.

THE BRIGHTER SIDE. I have two nice sons whom I seldom
see: one (eighteen) at Harvard (tenuously); the other (sixteen) at
St. Mark’s. I have a thirteen-year-old daughter who goes to Shipley,
but lives at home and keeps her old man “bewitched, bothered and
bewildered.” I ride a little, walk a little and shoot a little. I do
watch birds, but I don’t play bridge. I weigh only five pounds more
than I did in college. Even short-term capital gains have become
more interesting than straight, taxable income. I may not even
renew my real estate broker’s license this year. June is a long way
off. Who knows what may happen between now and then?

+ JOHN LAWRENCE CUMMINGS

 

BorN: March 22, 1913, Indianapolis, Ind, parents; Lawrence Belding Cum-
mings, 03, Mabel Louise Talbott.

PREPARED AT; Kent School, Kent, Conn,

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

pep: March 24, 1952, San Francisco, Calif,

SINCE leaving college, Cummings had been engaged in the real
estate business, associated with the Douglas L. Flliman Company in

L 294 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York, and in accounting work in San Francisco. During

World War II, he served with Battery FE, 52d Coast Artillery, US.
Army.

JOHN VINCENT CURRAN

 

HOME AbpRESS: 415 Veteran Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Collector of Customs, Treasury Department, 354 S. Spring
St., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 5, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

MARRIED: H. Lucille O’Brien, June 25, 1949, Montreal, Canada. CHILDREN:
Angela Frances and Felicia Christine (twins), Feb. 3, 1955-

occupation: Entry officer for the Port of Los Angeles, Customs Bureau,
Treasury Department.

MEMBER OF: National Federation of Federal Employees; National Customs
Service Association.

SINCE the date of the last Report, I was transferred in October,
1957, from the Port of Boston, Massachusetts, to the Port of Los
Angeles, California.

Life in this sprawling metropolis is certainly a contrast from that
in Boston. The mild climate, however, is a definite compensation
as one grows older. It is hoped that smog-control devices on auto-
mobile exhausts within the next year or two will help to restore
the purity of our air here.

Meanwhile, time flies by for the parents of kindergarten-age
children (twin girls), with little opportunity for reflection on the
past. Only the present and the future are significant.

—
ov
<c
a
ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD JAMES CURRIE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4793 Ottawa Drive, Okemos, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Doubleday & Co., Inc., Garden City, N.Y.

BORN: July 20, 1915, East Orange, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Xavier High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(38).

MarriED: Catherine Wade, 1953, West Orange, N.J. camp: Mary Catherine,
April 4, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Joseph Currie, LL.B. °33.

occuPaTion: District manager, institutional sales, book publishing.

EDWARD PUTNAM CURRIER, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS; 23 Wydown Terr,, St. Louis 5, Mo.

[ 296 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Time was when we used this vibrating power

The myriad deeps of the oceans to scour

In hopes that a sub ora shrimp might be found

Or else to give warning of running aground.

Then work had a link with the best things of life
For me and the kids and, sometimes, my wife.
There’s only one place where this man can be free:
That's sailing a boat, where he wills, on the sea.

THOMAS GRAY CURTIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Ridge Drive, Chappaqua, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 230 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: Oct. 8, 1913, Minneapolis, Minn.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Minneapolis, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., Cum laude, 1936.

markiED: Margaret Harding Eustis, Sept. 16, 1937, Milton, Mass, CHILDREN:
Cynthia, May 22, 1941; Thomas Gray, Jr., May 16, 1943; Margaret Eustis,
Nov. 30, 1946.

occupation: Paper manufacturing; sales manager, Eastern Sales Division.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Milton-Hoosic Club, May to
September, 1953, treasurer, Milton Cub Scouts, January to September,
19§3; eastern assistant vice-president, Salesmen’s Association of the Paper
Industry, since October, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Union League Club, New York, Town Club, The Wassailers,
Seven Bridges Field Club, Chappaqua; Salesmen’s Association of the
Paper Industry; Paper Club of New York; Lithographic Technical Founda-

tion.
PUBLICATIONS: “Safety Sentinel,” US. Jr. Chamber of Commerce, January, 1949.

PROOF of my participation in a course of study with Harvard ’36
presently consists of a note from Stan Deland for the Harvard Fund
Council, six proofs from the Blackstone Studio, a note from Ray

[ 298 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ALEXANDER COCHRANE CUSHING

     

HOME AbprEss: Squaw Valley, Tahoe City, Calif. .

OFFICE ADpRESS: Squaw Valley Development Co., Squaw Valley, Calif.

porn: Nov. 28, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., 1936; LL.B., 1939.

marrigp: Justine B. Cutting, Dec. 17, 1938, Brookville, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Justine C., Oct. 7, 1940; Lily D., Jan. 18, 1944, Alexandra D.,
July 28, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Howard Gardiner Cushing, ’28,

occuPATION: Lawyer, ski-bum.

OFFICES HELD: Special assistant to the Attorney General, 1940-41; lieutenant
‘colonel, U.S. Naval Reserve, active duty, 1942-45; president, Squaw
Valley Development Company, 1949.

MemBER oF: New York Bar Association, Washington, D.C., Bar Association,
several social clubs.

 

gr ONL NONANOOELEMIOEND LLEEN TA gH
é aoe : e
iy : ca
po Ogg» SEER pe TE
‘i ’ a By 4
. ae , " ae

FOLLOWING my graduation from the Harvard Law School in
1939, I did what was then considered fashionable — joined the New
Deal in Washington, as a special attorney in the anti-trust division.
My boss, Thurman Arnold, had the novel idea of trying to put
labor racketeers in jail for violation of the anti-trust laws and at the
same time lower the cost of housing, through the elimination of
countless restraints of trade. We had a ball for two years, until the
Supreme Court decided that labor unions, in effect, were not sub-
ject to the anti-trust laws. That was that. Since housing doubled
in price, I hardly feel that what influence I might have was brought
to bear very effectively in that instance.

I then replaced Owen Root (who was trying to get Willkie
elected President) in the Wall Street firm of Davis, Polk, etc., for
eleven months prior to my joining the Navy right after Pearl Har-
bor. I spent most of the war as a naval air transport service ‘cx

[ 300 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ERNEST WATSON CUSHING

 

HOME ADDRESS: 52 Riggs Pl., South Orange, N.J.

BoRN: March 18, 1913, Randolph, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-193}.

MarriED: Jean Ann Yoccodine, Feb. 4, 1940, Hoboken, N.J. cHitpren: Robert
Ernest, Feb. 24, 1941; Mary Theresa, Dec. 5, 1942; Evelyn Jean, March 16,
1946.

occupation: U.S. Postal Service.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, N.A.L.C.

MEMBER OF: Holy Name Society; Knights of Columbus.

MY one year at Harvard, 1932-33, was a very full year. Between
football, baseball, boxing, waiting on tables at the Freshman Dining
fall, and trying to keep up in my studies, I found myself with

ttle spare time. However, if I were entering the freshman class
yain, the books would come first.

From 1936 to 1939, three years were spent in the U.S. Coast
tard, patrolling Long Island, Montauck Point and New York
rbor. After my discharge from the Coast Guard, I was married
i have lived in New Jersey since. During the war years I was
sloyed by Gibbs and Cox, naval architects in New York City.
sequently, I found myself in the U.S. Postal Service.

uring the boom days of uranium, I became grossly engaged in
very speculative Canadian market. I had visions of beconung
anium prospector, traveling into Blind River, Ontario, and
‘um City, Saskatchewan, but I got no further than Bay Street
ronto, Canada. Things were going great guns, when all of a
1 an Indian scientist named Bubba, or something like that,

he apple cart and predicted that uranium would be supplanted
sionable material. This caused great turmoil for the uraniums

[ 302 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and that was the beginning of the end for the uranium issues. How-
ever, my interests are still north of the border. For speculative
fervor the Toronto market is second to none, when the big boys on
Bay Street are in the promoting mood.

My interests, at present, are to see my children educated and on
their way to face this great space age with our new president, John
F. Kennedy.

DONALD FREDERICK CUTLER, JR.

  

HOME apprEss: 24 Crafts Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bay State Electronics Corp., 43 Leon St. Boston 15, Mass.

BoRN: April 2, 1914, Dover, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MarriED: Nancy Shaw, Sept. 2, 1936, Hamilton, Mass. (divorced 1958); Judith
Lloyd Ilsley, Aug. 20, 1958, Glenbrook, Nev. cHitpreN: Naneen Shaw,
Jan. 20, 1938; Donald Frederick, 3d, Dec. 5, 1941; Geoffrey IIsley, Jan.
29, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Cutler, ’41; Richard Mortimer Cutler, °43.

occupation: Electronics, various management positions.

OFFICES HELD: With Berwind White Coal Mining Company, 1936-41; US.
Navy, 1941-46, overseer, Boys Club of Boston, 1948-50; vice-president,
director, Laboratory for Electronics, 1946-56; director, Arthritis and
Rheumatism Foundation, 1951-53; owner, C & D Associates, since 1956;
president, director, Electronic Detection Products, since t9s7; president,
director, Bay State Electronics Corporation, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club, Hamilton, Mass.; Somersee Club, Boston;

The Country Club, Brookline, Mass; Harvard Clubs of Boston and New
York.

AFTER returning in 1946 from four years in the Navy, PE chose with
regret not to renew my association with the Berwind White Coal

[ 303 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Mining Company. Instead I became identified with New England’s
burgeoning electronics industry. It has been extremely good to me
and gives promise of allowing more time for my family and recom-
mended athletics for the middle-aged.

ELIOT WADSWORTH DALTON

 

HOME appreEss: Brynilawn Road, Villanova, Pa.

OFFICE ApprEss: Harrison & Co., 123 S. Broad St., Philadelphia 9, Pa.

BoRN: July 30, 1913, Nahant, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriep: Marie Hulburd, Sept. 23, 1941, Lake Forest, Hl. cHitpren: Julia
Howe, Dec. 8, 1944; Marie Hulburd, Feb. 20, 1947; Katherine Dexter,
July 11, 1949; Eliot Wadsworth, Jr., May 27, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER; Philip Spaulding Dalton, 31.

occuPATION: Investment banking.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee of Seventy, since 1956, director, Black
Manufacturing Company, since 1956, Alexander Micharn Company, since
1956, Beach Air Brush, Inc., since 1956, Kingsport, Inc., since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Gulph Mills Golf Club; Racquet Club; Harvard Club of Phila-

delphia.

SEEKING fame and fortune, upon graduation I sold my talents to
Air Reduction Company, Inc., and moved to New York and then
to Cleveland where in 1940 I joined the Naval Reserve as an appren-
tice seaman. Before | or the enemy knew it, I had started a five-
year cruise on three destroyers which ended in October, 1945, with
two and a half stripes and a powerful yen for the beach. Chicago
was the location — Air Reduction the reason — until 1949 when
I was transferred to Philadelphia. In 1955 I shifted fields and entered
the business of stocks and bonds with Fahnestock & Company, mov-

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing in 1959 to Harrison & Company with whom I am presently asso-
ciated.

My spare moments continue to be divided between, and combined
with, my growing family and sports of all kinds, and travel to the
extent that time and pocketbook permit.

I like to think that my social, political and religious convictions
are constructive, and I look forward to the next twenty-five years
with the same pleasure which the last have provided.

ALBERT HERMAN DAMESHEK

 

HOME apDprEss: 119 Harwich Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Earle Shoe Co., 171 Lincoln St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1911, Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., 1936.

MarRRiED: Lillian Raskind, June 20, 1937, Brookline, Mass. cHi_pren: Earl Fred,
July 31, 1938 (72. Myrna Sue Solin, Sept. 5, 1959); Gerald David, May 4,
1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Dameshek, ’21, M.D, °23.

OccUPATION: Wholesale shoes and retail outlets in U.S.A. and Canada.

WHEN I reflect about my first days at Harvard, I now figure that
I had a lot of “nerve.” My total assets were $125, but ‘the loan
fund helped me, and I soon augmented my income by going into
retail nut and candy business (borrowing §300) after classes, My
original intention was to teach high school, but my mind was
changed by the poor financial offers that I received from the various
school boards and the fact that the candy business started to grow,
My one store soon became a chain of nine, which was dissipated
when the war came along and created such scarcities that I was
forced out of business.

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Meanwhile, having married my Lillian in 1937, 1 became the
father of two sons in 1938 and 1943. For a while I helped build
the U.S. Navy at Fore River, and when the war was over, I entered
the wholesale shoe business. About nine years ago, I opened a retail
outlet in Maine, which is visited by many Canadians, one of whom
became attached to son Earl and influenced me into opening two
units in Montreal. Earl married this lovely girl last year, but she
was gracious enough to allow him to graduate from McGill Uni-
versity. They are happily settled in Montreal, where Earl manages
the units.

My other boy, Gerald, is a senior at Newton High School, but
hasn’t decided as yet on a college. Pve taken both boys to most
Harvard athletic contests, to expose them to the school spirit, but
the results so far have been negligible.

So, I can say that life has been good to us, and it’s been fun being
here,

THOMAS APPLETON DANA

 

HOME ADDRESS: 77 Ridgefield Rd., Wilton, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Phelps Dodge Corp., 300 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1912, Elmira, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Storm King School, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MARRIED: Suzanne W. Hutton, Feb. 21, 1942, Rochester, N.Y. cHilpREN:
Rosamond Wild, July 5, 1943; Peter Hutton, Oct. 3, 1945; Thomas Apple-
ton, Jr., Nov. 29, 1947; Alice Longfellow, Nov, 21, 1949; Sarah Griggs,
Dec. 23, 1952; Elizabeth E., Oct. 31, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allston Fairficld Dana, ’33, 11..8., °37.

OCCUPATION: Tax accountant and public accountant,

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, various civic and non-profit organizations.

MEMBER OF: National Society of Public Accountants,

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOOKING back to the Decennial Report I find the following
changes over the intervening years:
1, Four more children for a total of six, with a definite indica-
tion of yet another.
2, Living ina larger home by necessity.
From public accounting to corporate tax work.
4. Employment in midtown instead of downtown New York
City, eliminating that horrible subway ride.
5. Working five days a week in place of six in the city but work-
ing five nights a week at home.
6. Aged far less (or so I think) than has the equipment on the
New Haven Railroad.
7. Squeezing in local civic and community activites in my
“spare” time.
8. But getting away from it all to a very lovely spot in the hills
of Vermont on weekends all year round.

THEODORE STANLEY DARRAH

 

HOME AbpreEss: 2215 Via Luna, Winter Park, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rollins College, Winter Park, Fla.

BORN: Jan, 31, 191g, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.L

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DFGREES: S.8., 1936; S.T.B, 1939.

MaRRiED: Cornclia Saunders Srott, June 28, toyg, Se. Paul, Minn. catnern:
Jonathan Duncan, June g togr; Mary Flizabeth, Jan. 2, rogis Timothy
Stort, Nov. 11, 1944; Deborah Ann, Sept. 2, tost.

oocuPaTION: Ministry and education, dean, Kaowles Memorial Chapel, pro-
fessor of religion, Rollins College.

offices HELD: President, Harvard Club of Central Florida, 1g¢2-¢3. Natenal
Association of College and University Chaplains, racy 60.

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: National Association of College and University Chaplains; Har-
vard Club of Central Florida; Pi Gamma Mu; Omicron Delta Kappa.

WRITING about the last twenty-five years of my life sounds like
a preliminary reckoning with St. Peter. If we must some day give
an account of the whole affair perhaps it would be well to get some
of the years under order. Well, what have I to show for my twenty-
five years? I have a wife, four children, my health and a job, These
have been very happy years for me; not in terms of money or fame,
for I have no money and I shall not go down in history as one who
changed the course of destiny. But I have had a hand, in a small
way perhaps, in changing the lives and thoughts of some people,
for | have been and still am a preacher of sorts and a teacher of
sorts.

After eight years in the parish ministry I came to Rollins College
as college preacher and professor of religion. My years here have
been exciting and rewarding. By and large, although students are
not exactly pliable, they are at least less rigid than their elders and
capable of some persuasion. It is this task of persuading which I
have found both taxing and exciting and which keeps me steadily

occupied and gladly willing to live the life of the preacher and
teacher.

BERJE DAVID

 

HOME appress: 88 Corey Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE appgEss: Hearthstone Insurance Co. of Massachusetts, 395 Common-
wealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: June 19, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B., 1936,

Magriep: Laura M. Hamilton, April 19, 1938, Boston, Mass, (divorced 1954)

[ 308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Muriel P. Munafo, April 19, 1954, Killingly, Conn. cHmoren: Laurie
Ann, April 17, 1947; Juliet Muriel, April 26, 1958, June Ellen Munafo,
June 16, 1945 (stepdaughter), Nick W. Munafo, Nov. 22, 1947 (stepson).

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Hearthstone Insurance Company of Massachusetts,
subsidiary of Combined Insurance Company of America, Chicago, Illinois.

OFFICES HELD: President, Senior Choir, 1940-50, deacon, 1946-49, Eliot Congre-
gational Church, Roxbury, Mass.; member, board of directors, Roxbury
Y.M.C.A.

MEMBER OF: Men’s Club, Leyden Congregational Church.

I HAVE delayed writing this brief summary until the very last
minute. Upon graduation, | entered my father’s business. That was
the first of many mistakes in my early life. I had no definite plans
of my own; no specific idea of what I wanted to do. This could
be called a period of hibernation until I was drafted into the Army
during the summer of 1943. This certainly could be called a period
of activity. I joined the goth Division, March 23, 1944, the day the
outfit sailed overseas. My outfit landed on D-Day at Utah Beach
in Normandy. I was fortunate I didn’t receive my baptism of fire
until the following day —I had a day of respite. I served as a com-
bat infantryman in every campaign unul V-E Day. At umes, I
still wonder how I survived all that walking with my flat feet.
During my army career I received one promotion —I became a
P.F.C. I don’t believe too many others in our class can hold claim
to that distinction, dubious as it may be. Then followed another
period of years of indecision.

I finally found myself in 1952; I terminated all the business con-
nections with the family. I also separated from my first wife; this
step ultimately ended in a divorce. I decided to enter the insurance
field, specifically accident and health insurance, It has turned out
to be a very successful and prosperous association and the future
is equally promising.

During the past years, I have been very active in both my church
and the YMCA. I am a Congregationalist, which denomination is
very strong here in New England. I have always been a YMCA
member. When I left the service, I was asked to work with the
Boston YMCA, in extension work, as a committceman. The year
1961 will be a banner year for us, for we shall attain branch status,
with all its diversified problems of fund-raising, building-planning,
etc.

In 1954, TP remarried. This has been the beginning of another
wonderful phase of my life. My wife, “Mickey,” has been tremen-
dously helpful in my new carcer by her devetion and PMLA.

[ 309 ]

| ——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

(Positive Mental Attitude). We are a very close-knit family, en-
joying each other’s company and doing everything together as a
family. There are four wonderful children. Laurie Ann is now
thirteen, so is Nick; June Ellen is going on sixteen and our darling,
Juliet, is now two years old.

During the last tw enty-five years, I have lost touch with most
of my friends and classmates; however, my thoughts have frequently
been about them, and I am hoping to see them all at our Twenty-

fifth Reunion.

LYN DAVIES

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 549 W. 123d St., New York 27, N.Y.

BERNARD DAVID DAVIS

 

HOME AppRESS: 23 Clairemont Rd., Belmont, Mass.
OFFICE Appress: Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass,

BORN: Jan. 7, 1916, Franklin, Mass.

[ 310 ]

ad
SORA Meta g — LONNIE RMA tt AIT OIE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Franklin High School, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1936; M.D., sti77ta
cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Menzel, June 19, 1955, Cambridge, Mass. cuitpres: Frank-
lin Arthur, Sept. 9, 1956; Jonathan Harry, Aug. 20, 1958, Katherine
Judith, Feb. 23, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Davis, ’32.

occupPaTIon: Professor and head of Department of Bacteriology and Immu-
nology, Harvard Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: Commissioned officer, U.S. Public Health Service, 1942-54; pro-
fessor of pharmacology, New York University College of Medicine,
1954-57; member, various times, divisional committee for biology and
medicine, National Science Foundation, Research Advisory Council, Na-
tional Cancer Society, medical advisory board, Hadassah-Hebrew Univer-
sity Medical School.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; American
Society of Biological Chemists; Society of American Bacteriologists; So-
ciety of General Physiology; American Academy of Arts and Sciences;
past member: American Chemical Society; American Association of Im-
munology, American Society of Pharmacology; Genetics Society of

America; American Society for Clinical Investigation, Society of American
Naturalists.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in scientific journals, principally biochemical
and bacteriological.

FOR those of us who are faculty members as well as alumni the
course of university affairs is of particular interest. Coming back
to the Medical School three years ago, I have found Harvard just
as impressive as it seemed in 1936, and I have been proud of its out-
spoken role in defending high principles in difficult times. The
great traditions of the institution clearly contribute much toward
cultivating high standards in the students. At the same time I re-
member that an important part of my own education developed
only after I left here: the realization that the world is full of smart
people who have been well-educated elsewhere.

My academic history has been somewhat that of a wanderer —
not only among institutions but among fields. After Harvard Medi-
cal, an internship at Johns Hopkins convinced me that my tempera-
ment was better suited for life in the laboratory than for medical
practice. Military service led to ideal opportunities for a research
career in the U.S. Public Health Service which continued for a
dozen years, at five university and research institutes in Washing-
ton and New York. During this period my area of research shifted
from protein chemistry to immunology to medical bacteriology
to bacterial genetics and metabolism. In 1954 1 poined New York

[30]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

University College of Medicine, metamorphosing into a professor
of pharmacology, Then came an invitation to return to Harvard
as professor of bacteriology and immunology (how I despised that
empirical subject in medical school!).
The possibility of making all these shifts reveals something pro-
foundly true of modern biological and medical investigation: as it
roceeds to a molecular level the differences between organisms and
between fields become less prominent than their similarities. ‘This
development has particularly affected the nature of microbiology.
A major challenge of my job is that of providing medical students
with a balanced exposure to two aspects of the field: the traditional
study of microbes as agents of infectious disease, and the additional
approach to microbes as model cells which will help us understand
how our own cells work. Incidentally, after many years of full-
time research | find myself increasingly interested in teaching.
Social convictions? I do believe that the development of science
bears part of the responsibility for a weakening of public agreement
on matters of ethics, for science has generated widespread skepticism
toward the theistic beliefs in which our value systems have been
traditionally rooted, and yet it has not offered most people much
help in the development of an alternative set of roots. I cannot
console myself with the optimistic view that science, penetrating
into more and more complex levels of organization, will eventually
solve the problem of social values; neither can I accept the opposite
belief of many humanists that science can have nothing to say about
values. I share the view of Freud: that conflict over moral issues is
inherent in the biological nature of man, and that scientific findings
about his nature will surely make increasingly significant contribu-
tions to the flux from which society distills its value systems. Here,
it seems to me that our universities have a major role to play in
helping us solve a critical problem: that of improving contact be-
tween the humanist and the scientist who are hardly able to com-
municate with each other any longer.

I suppose most men who acquire families late feel especially grate-
ful for this enrichment of their lives. After years of rather single-
minded preoccupation with science and scientists, I was fortunate
in falling for a lovely girl, full of warmth, spirit and music. She is
not a scientist, but her understanding is bringing up a batch of won-
derful and responsive children. 1 put a good deal of time into this

rewarding enterprise. My pattern of living has meanwhile shifted
at an astonishing rate from a tiny New York, fourth floor walk-up,

[ 312]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to a large colonial house in Belmont and a summer cottage in Woods
Hole — and the care of this property has given me a new avocation.
During one of my periods of reflection in a maternity hospital, I
recognized a simple quantitative index of my progress: taxes or rent
on an additional six bathrooms in four years!

*k JOSEPH EDWARD DAVIS, JR.

 

BORN: Sept. 15, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Joseph Edward Davis, Mary
Maxwell.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.
DIED: Jan. 9, 1946, Miami, Fla.

JOSEPH EDWARD DAVIS, JR., spent three years with our Class.
After leaving college he worked for the Auto-Lite Company in
Toledo, Ohio. In May, 1942, he entered the Army as a private, was
assigned to Battery I, 79th Coast Artillery, Anti-Aircraft and sailed
for England in November, 1942. On D-Day he was sent to France
and served in the Ardennes, Central Europe, Normandy, Rhineland
and Northern France campaigns. He returned to the United States
in November, 1945, and was discharged with the rank of corporal.

[313]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PHILIP AUGUSTUS DAVIS, JR.

SH mee AER ORES:

   

HOME AppRESS: Carr Road, Concord, Mass.

oFFICE AppRESs: Hemphill, Noyes & Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

porn: April 13, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; M.B.A., 1938.

marriep: Ann Winship, June 12, 1941, Charles River, Mass. CHILDREN: Deborah
Ann, Dee. 19, 1943; Philip Winship, June 20, 1945; Mary Ellen, June 12,
1951,

occupation: Registered representative, Hemphill, Noyes & Company, invest-
ments.

OFFICES HELD: Member and chairman, Standing Committee, First Parish, Con-
cord, Mass. 1950-56; member of council, Appalachian Mountain Club,

1950; chairman, Troop 131 committee, 1958, Explorer Post 131, 1960, Boy
Scouts Sponsors.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club; National Ski Patrol, Concord Square
Dance Committee; Concord Sailfishers.

LOOKING back at the Reports of 1947, 51 and ’56, I am struck
with the sameness of my life in the past fifteen years. The only
changes, seemingly, are a different job as a registered representa-
tive (salesman to you) in a good stock-exchange firm and a televi-
sion set (horrid contraption) in the house. In 1956 I was working
for the Abbot Worsted Company, in September of that year, this
fine old Massachusetts company was bought by an enterprising
hardware company which took advantage of its tax losses and
eventually suspended all its manufacturing activities, My present
job is fascinating, but hard to keep pace with.

We have not yet finished rebuilding our 1870 house (maybe
we'll replace the earliest bathrooms this year), We all ski furiously
in the winter; sail our Sailfish anywhere there's water all summer,

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with a moderately mad group known as the Concord Sailfishers;
climb in the White Mountains and camp on vacations in between.
Actually, things do change of course — mostly our children who
are rapidly growing up. Debbie is a charming, mature, seventeen-
year-old, who has just been admitted to Wellesley via the “early
decisions” route, which I think speaks pretty well for her training
at Concord-Carlisle Regional High School! I prophesied in our
1947 Report that she might be a candidate for May Queen at
Wellesley — just wait until 1965! Winky is fifteen, not yet com-
pletely convinced that studies are the be-all and end-all of a teen-
ager’s life, and suffering from the usual pains of growing up that
all of us went through. He is larger and stronger than I, so I can’t
try to beat sense into him, but I think, at times, that I can see the
glimmerings of maturity, nevertheless. He loves the mountains and
skiing, and is trying to be a week-end Buddy Werner. Our young-
est, Ellen, is nine and a half, was born on our tenth wedding anni-
versary (which means that we'll have our twentieth in the middle
of the Twenty-fifth Reunion!), loves all animals and particularly
horses. She wonders incessantly why we can’t have a horse, but
she is a minority of one in the family, albeit a vocal one. My wife,
Ann, is teaching French via the latest electronic methods at Con-
cord-Carlisle Regional High School, which is vastly more satisfying
for her than “housewifing.” She has many more gray hairs than
back in 1941, but we have had a good life together, and our greatest
pleasures have been our children, of whom we are verv proud.

Our main problem is that of a huge insufficiency of time — time
to do what we really want to do, time to really understand the
children, time to enjoy our friends, time to read. I’m sure that this
is a common complaint, and there seems to be no real cure, short
of our becoming complete recluses. Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Ap-
palachian Mountain Club, First Parish in Concord, fund drives,
trying (legally) to defraud the government via income tax returns,
all take more time and energy than they should. I know that they
are good causes and I know that someone has to do the work —
but why can’t more people share the load? Actually, though, |
have had a good deal of fun and have perhaps accomplished some-
thing of value in undertaking these tasks, so I] don’t really begrudge

the effort, although my wife often has wished that I were home
more.

Pm not one to try to philosophize, other than to add that it’s
high time for all of us in the world to make sincere, united efforts

[ 315 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

to try to solve the multitudinous problems which beset us. I am
surprised that our own government often acts as if it were afraid
that we might someday agree with the Russians on something. I
am also amazed that Christians (?) in this country act toward one
another as the determined, southern segregationists act toward the
brave judges and pitiful, small, Negro children who try to follow
the truly Christian way of brotherhood in education. Lastly, I
am perplexed as to what we parents can do about these and other
problems, beyond trying to bring up our children to be good
citizens who respect the law and love justice, and who are willing
to try to think for themselves.

WILLIAM GROSVENOR DAVIS

 

HOME appress: Lawrence Hill Road, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: §0 Elm St., Huntington, N.Y.

BoRN: Oct. 30, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED at: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB, 1936, 11.8. (Univ. of Virginia),
1949.

marrieD: Betty Peyton, April 23, 1938, Staunton, Va. cuitpren: Alice Gros-
venor, June 4, 1941 (mm. Franco Codognato, Sept. 22, 1960); Margot, March
24, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Fellowes Davis, "42, B.ARCH., '51.

occuPATION: Law, general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Law assistant to Suffolk County Court Judge, July, 1954, to
January, 1959; law secretary to New York State Supreme Court Justice,
roth Judicial District, since January, 1959.

Member oF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club of New
York City.

SERVICE in the U.S. Naval Reserve during the last great war was,
1 believe, adequately covered in the Tenth Report. Suber reflection

[ 316]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

during the years in training and at sea prompted me to attend law
school in Charlottesville, Virginia, midst delightful surroundings
and with the comfortable aid of the G.I. Bill. Upon graduation,
decided to return to our original home base, having been torn be-
tween the lure of the sea as a hobby and the charms of the southern
life. Have since enjoyed a quiet local practice, now supplemented
by a welcome compensation from the State, in my work as law
secretary to the Supreme Court.

Vacations have been spent traveling whenever we could — twice
now through Western Europe, to Mexico, and five times to the
Islands in the Sun. As with everyone, I am sure, the time has passed
too quickly, and to suddenly realize I am the father of a married
daughter warns me that I am much older than I feel. Time has
treated me well though and I have no cause for complaint.

We hope to attend the Reunion, accompanied by our elder daugh-
ter and her newly-acquired husband, provided he can spare the
time from his own business obligations in Florence, Italy, where
they live. Look forward to seeing all then.

SYDNEY THOMAS DAWSON, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 4 Cross Hwy., Westport, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Security Bldg., 1115 Main St. Bridgeport, Conn.
BORN: May 2, 1914, Waterbury, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS [N COLLEGE! 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B, 1936; LIAB, 1941,

MARRIED: Marion McLaughlin, Feb. 12, 1949, Fairficld, Conn. cata: Deborah
Ann, Dee. 31, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Sydncy Dawson, M.a.a., 132; Lp, °37.
OoccuPATION: Attorncy-at-law,

orrices HELD: Member, Republican Town Committee, & years, Republican

[317]

enn nn nm nnn eee enema meeceneiaatasanae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Town Member, 3 terms, Westport, Conn.; director, 2 years, treasurer, 1
year, Connecticut Hotel Association, Ine.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Bridgeport, Conn.; Country Club of Fairfield,
Fairfield, Conn.

L ATTENDED Harvard Law School, graduating therefrom in 1941.
J spent the war years as an officer in the Navy, ending up with the
rank of lieutenant (senior grade). I served as a communications
officer on convoy duty, on a destroyer escort doing escort work,

on a transport during two invasions, and ended up the last few
months of the war at Pearl Harbor.

On discharge from the Navy, I entered the practice of law in
Bridgeport, Connecticut. From 1946 through 1949, I worked for
the law firm of Marsh, Day, & Calhoun. In February, 1950, I
opened my own office. At the present time, I am associated with
another lawyer, Howard L. Shaff, with offices in the Security
Building, 1115 Main Street, Bridgeport. On February 12, 1949, I
married Marion McLaughlin in Fairfield, Connecticut. We have a
delightful daughter, Deborah Ann, born December 31, 1949. Since

1949 we have lived in Westport, Connecticut, where our present
address is 4 Cross Highway.

1 have been active in Westport for eight years as a member of
the Republican Town Committee, I have also served for three

terms as a member of the Representative Town Meeting (RTM is
the legislative branch of the town government). My wife has been
active in Westport as a Girl Scout leader. She has also been an
enthusiastic member of various garden clubs. Recently, she has
been busy trying to persuade independent voters in Westport to
vote for Nixon, meeting with only partial success. My daughter,
Deborah, is an avid skier and rider.
For the past eight years, in addition to my law practice J have
been active in the management of Norwich Inn, Norwich, Con-
necticut, which has been owned and operated by my family since
1941. In connection with this activity, | have served for two of the
past three years as a director of the Connecticut Hotel Association,
Inc., and for the past year as treasurer of this association.

I continue to play squash during the winter. We try as a family
to take a winter vacation skiing, usually in the vicinity of Man-
chester, Vermont. 1 play golf whenever I can find time. Recently,

1 have been joined in this activity by both my wife and my daugh-
ter. My wife and | have been enthusiastic members of a square
dance group for the past six years. The years have certainly rushed

L318]

* 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by. I seem to get involved in more activities every year. It has been
an exciting and rewarding period of time. I sincerely hope to get
back for the Twenty-fifth Reunion. I look forward to seeing how
other members of this Class have withstood the past twenty-five
years. Perhaps they will have some of the answers which I, at the
writing of this report, do not have.

FAIRFIELD POPE DAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: Lee’s Hill Road, Basking Ridge, N.]J.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Joseph P. Day, Inc., 7 Dey St., New York 7, N.Y.

BoRN: April 3, 1912, Short Hills, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.; New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: $.B., 1936(37).

MARRIED: Frances Statter, June 28, 1933, Sioux City, Iowa (divorced 1949);
Josephine de Zeng, April 7, 1949, Reno, Nev. (divorced 1953); Melissa
Read, May 4, 1954, “Fort Gates,” Fla. cumpren: Fairfield Pope, Jr. March
18, 1939; Estella Pope, June 8, 1943; Tallifer Rees, March 24, 1950.

HARVARD SON: Fairfield Pope Day, Jr., ’61.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bernard Pope Day, ’25; Joseph P. Day, Jr, ’27; Charles
Pope Day, ’27.

OccUPATION: Real estate broker; executive vice-president, director, Joseph P.
Day, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Salesman, Joseph P. Day, Inc., 1936-38; head, real estate depart-
ment of northern New Jersey, Gulf Oil Corporation, 1938-40; heutenant
(j.g-) to lieutenant commander, USNR, January, 1942, to February, 1946;
executive vice-president, director, Joseph P. Day, Inc. Joseph P. Day
Florida Realty Corporation; vice-president, director, Joseph P. Day, Inc.
of Virginia, Joseph P. Day Management Corporation, Joseph P. Day
Building & Engincering Company, Day Brokerage Company, Inc. Joseph
P, Day of Ohio, Inc, Joseph P. Day West Virginia Company, Henry
Broderick Inc. (Seattle, Washington); delegate, American Kennel Club
representing Jacksonville Dog Fanciers Association, vice-president, Pointer

[319]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936 _

Club of America; past president, Borzoi Club of America; director
past treasurer, Dachshund Club of America; judge, licensed do sh
licensed real estate broker, 20 states (including F lorida, California, em)
MEMBER oF: National Panel of Arbitrators, American Arbitration Soci
Harvard Club of New York; Naval Order of the US. Navy Lea v3
American Legion, Society Friendly Sons of St. Patrick; Touchdown Chon’

Elks Club. -
PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles pertaining to dogs, dog shows, and judg

ing.

AFTER graduating from Harvard, I took what I thought to be the
easy way, by going to work in my father’s real estate company,
What with three older brothers and two brothers-in-law already in
the firm (all Harvard graduates), I found I had too many bosses.
Gulf Oil Corporation had an opening in their real estate department,
where eventually I became head of their real estate department for
northern New Jersey. After several years, my father hired me back
to administer our Virginia company. I worked there until Pearl
Harbor, then took a commission as lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy,
ending up as lieutenant commander, in Tokyo, with two Army and
one Navy commendations. I came back to Joseph P. Day, Inc., as
a director and vice-president, and executive vice-president of our
Florida company.

My business of auctioning and appraising real estate takes me all
over the country, United States and Canada. This I combine with
my hobby of showing or judging at dog shows. Recently, I was
appointed executive vice-president of the parent company.

During college days, and up to the present, I have sired three
children (Fairfield Pope, Jr., Harvard, 1961) and acquired three
wives, saving the best till last.

[ 320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT DAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3214 Newark St, N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2000 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.,, Washington 6, D.C.

porN: Oct. 4, 1915, Washington, D.C,

preparED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; Mp. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1943-

MARRIED: Joan Goodwin, May 2q, 1942, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN: John An-
thony, 2d, July 18, 1945; Robert Barton, May 25, 1947; Francis Bigelow,
March 25 1949; Deborah, Oct. 30, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Anthony Day, 37.

occupation: Physician — ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pithotomy Club, 1942; intern in medicine, 1943, intern
in ophthalmology, Wilmer Institute, 1946-47, assistant resident in ophthal-
mology, 1948-50, resident in ophthalmology, 1950-51, Johns Hopkins
Hospital; assistant resident in medicine, Salt Lake County General Hospi-
tal, 1944; lieutenant (j.g.) and lieutenant, Medical Corps, US.N.R., USS
Broadwater APA 139, 1944-46; chief, Corneal Clinic, Episcopal Eye and
Ear Hospital and Washington Hospital Center, 1953-60; secretary-treas-
urer, Eye Department, Washington Hospital Center, 1958-60.

"MEMBER OF: Pithotomy Club, Baltimore, American Academy of QOphthal-

mology and Otolaryngology; American Ophthalmologic Society; Uni-
versity Club, Washington, D.C.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers in Bulletin of the Jobns Hopkins Hospital,
Southern Medical Journal, American Journal of Ophthalmology and
Transactions of the American Ophthalmologic Society.

IF George Lyman Kittredge, in 1935, had ticd me to the floor of
Harvard Hall and dripped ice water on my head, drop by drop, he
would have done that something extra cool to prepare me for the
hext twenty-five years. I sce my hitherto life as a series of anti-
climaxes rising out of a murky sea of carnest toil, just about sufficient
by now to maintain one house at 70°F, from November to April; to
Pay the annual keep of one and one-half federal file clerks; and to

[32]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

satisfy the caloric demands of one wife, two cars, four children and
one self (in the last instance gxrooox8 or 72,000 calories “de trop”).
But enough of that, let the lamb fry proceed.

Anticlimax One: The first job — or the assault on New York, cita-
del of opportunity and capitalist decay. 1936— our hero aet. 21,
Rockefeller Center, N.B.C. college boy page boy, potential Sarnoff
— “No, madam, the ladies’ room is on the other side of the foyer
(fwa-yea!).” Minor Episodes: 1937— oral examination for the
US. Foreign Service: “But surely, Mr. Day, if Galsworthy is your
favorite author, you can perhaps recall just one of his works.” 1938,
cub reporter, Washington Star: “I know, sir, but the lieutenant him-
self told me the awnings on the Washington Monument are on
fire.” Major Episode: 1939-1944: the slow traverse of the medical
forest begins, interrupted by:

Anticlimax Two: The war — the great crusade — romance in the

mysterious East — water water everywhere, nor any drop but medic-
inal whisky to drink. Major war achievements: (1) protection of
thirty seamen (ordinaires) from the infectious embrace of one lady,
smuggled aboard ship in Legaspi, Luzon; (2) curing of assorted
petty officers of pseudo-coronary occlusion on their approach to San
Francisco and desired transfer to California hospitals; (3) rescue of
six seamen (extraordinaires) from the heap of drunken naval per-
sonnel (U.S. Fleet Landing, Manila), without soiling my uniform.
1946-1951: back to the forest. Meanwhile, 1942 — marriage to dear,
unsuspecting Joan; and 1945, one; 1947, two; 1949, three; 1952, four
— offspring — all springing mightily from the first hour of the first
day. 1951-1960: out of the forest into the town, and the increase
of debts, joint pains, satisfactions and dissatisfactions. Ahead, per-
haps even aequanimitas.

Finally 1961, Anticlimax Three—which never came to pass,
but was, is and ever shall be that climax of climaxes — the ‘Twenty-
fifth Reunion of the Harvard College Class of 1936. Have I not
handled the subject adequately?

[322]

sconmsmmameanmamemnanssmaneans eran ncn

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS LOGAN DAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 87 Dodgintown Rd., Bethel, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Connor Engineering Corp., Danbury, Conn.

BoRN: Feb. 17, 1915, Hewlett, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 1945-1948. DEGREE: S.B., 1936(48).

MaRRIED: Geraldine McCasky Farnham, Aug. 29, 1953, Bethel, Conn. cHLpREN:
Fred A. Farnham, June 20, 1941; Alan S. Farnham, July 2, 1942 (stepsons).

occupation: Chief design engineer, Connor Engineering Corporation, designing
and developing air diffusers and high pressure mixing valves.

OFFICES HELD: Professional engineer.

MEMBER oF: ASRAF.

MY feelings toward the Class of ’36 are mainly of wonder that we
have come to our Twenty-fifth so soon. Can we be that old?
Perhaps. In my case | returned to Harvard after the war to finish
my undergraduate course, so that I am really a more recent grad,
just as close to the Class of ’48 as °36. Since leaving Harvard the
second time, I have been with Connor Engineering — learning about
manufacturing, selling and air-conditioning. In 1958 I took a re-
fresher night course and obtained my professional engineer certifica-
tion.

Luckily my company moved to Connecticut in 1950 and I have
been growing more and more fond of country living (and work-
ing). We sail on the Sound in summer and ice-boat on the lakes in
winter, and ski when there is too much snow on the ice. Mowing

lawns, painting boats, house upkeep, ete, take much too much of
our free time, but I would hate to return to the city.

[ 323]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

D. STUART DrBARD

 

HOME appreEss: 58 Whiton Ave., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: May 13, 1915, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. c77 laude, 1936; LL.B., 1939.

MarriED: Katherine deCazenove Douglas, July 7, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa. cHiL-
prEN: Ellen Douglas, April 16, 1941; Nancy, Aug. 3, 1945; Davis Mead, 2d,
May 31, 1950.

occupation: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: President, Boston Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1947-48; vice-
president, World Affairs Council of Boston, 1949-60; secretary, Advisory
Committee, 1950-54, member, six other committees, 1947-60, chairman,
Planning Board, 1957-60, Town of Hingham, chairman, Legislative Com-
mittee, Massachusetts Federation of Planning Boards, 1957-60, executive
secretary, Association of Town Finance Committees, 1960.

MEMBER oF: Hingham Yacht Club; National Anti-Bricker Amendment Com-
mittee; Boston Committee on Foreign Relations; legal associations.

AFTER making out the above list, I pause to wonder whether there
is a cause and effect relationship between a Harvard education and
community work representing perhaps three evenings a week for
fourteen years. Part of the motivation is the desire of a lawyer in
general practice to become known; a golf course or poker club
would be as useful. Another part is probably vanity. The do-good-
ism evident in the above list may stem in part from a New England
belief in redemption through good works! Giving these elements
due weight, it still seems as if I'd have led a more relaxed and pros-
perous life had I not been imprinted with the mold of Harvard.
Ray Dennett introduced me to internationalism in action in 1946.
Since then I have been speaking, raising money and gencral chore

[ 324]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

boy for the World Affairs Council. My thesis had “international
cooperation” as part of its title, so a direct link with Harvard is in-
dicated.

The jobs undertaken for Hingham must have a connection, too.
Some of my pet projects have been helped and a few ruined by
other Harvard men indigenous to the locale!

This year ’'m doing some work for Cub Scouts, with a church
choir, with a bar association and the Reunion Committee to while
away the idle hours. During the active ones, my partners and I
keep a medium-sized law office. It is a life of variety and challenge
where there may be more satisfaction in patching up a marriage
headed for the divorce court than in saving taxes for wealthy clients.

At times our residence seems almost a way of life rather than
merely shelter. A seventy-year-old summer house on Hingham Bay
was winterized and done over, year by year, by hand. One wall is
changed to glass and we delight to watch ships and sea-gulls while

nursing the evening highball.

If independence or originality is Harvard-influenced, we plead
guilty. Why else camp aboard a twenty-foot sailboat eleven nights
on a cruise from Cape Ann to Buzzards Bay? Or why spend the
last dollar on a two-month camping trip to the far West and Can-
ada? Or why (last summer) charter a houseboat in Wisconsin for
a 175-mile river cruise? I can only suppose a Harvard degree is
some defense against being considered eccentric — or minding.

I often think (sometimes I’m told) that I should have gone to
Dartmouth or Oklahoma Aggies and learned the common touch.
In 1946 I rose to junior vice-commander of the local Legion post
without knowing the first names of any of the comrades.

When my kids need help with their homework, it appears that
what facts I once learned have slipped my mind. But interest has
remained and is proof against most TV shows, most movies and
most novels. Books on foreign affairs, science and history, some
classical records and occasional attempts at painting just seem more
fun. At least a rainy weekend afternoon at home holds no terrors.

Community work requires a large store of optimism; most plans
fail once or twice and are only compromises when and if adopted.
In local government, the enemies are chiefly indifference, narrow-
ness of outlook and conservatism. One who wants to have towns
plan their growth intelligently, save their wild lands from the sub-
dividers and administer their finances intelligently has to persuade
people, first, that it matters, second, that they can do something and,

[ 325]

te tete etna

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

only third, that particular courses of action are best. When four
proposals for a highway to serve 15,000 people bring out only those
whose land is affected—to object—the task seems impossible.
Sometimes a salt meadow saved forever or a square mile properly
zoned gives hope that skills and attitudes learned at Harvard are not
entirely wasted.

TABER pe FOREST

 

HOME AppreEss: Parkers Point, Chester, Conn.

orrice appress: P.O. Box 151, Chester, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1913, Princeton, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-10934.

marRieD: Marion P, Archbald, 1936, Germantown, Pa. cuitpren: Taber, Jr.,

Sept. 30, 1939; Alfred V., March 25, 1942; Elizabeth W., Dec. 20, 1946.
occuPaTION: Research engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Second vice-president, 1942-59, director, 1945-59, Magnaflux
Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Society for Non-destructive Testing, American Society for Metals.
PUBLICATIONS: A few technical papers.

IN 1934, I left Harvard (not under the best circumstances) with
a strong desire to try my hand at something really different. My
father had started a small company which I was convinced I should
not join. For awhile, Jack Doll, Harvard ’36, and I experimented
with collapsible boats, a venture that more or less folded. At this
point my future wife appeared on the scene and all my well meant
thoughts of independence yielded to the necessity of making a liv-
ing. After we were married, Marion and I started the Los Angeles
office of the Magnaflux Corporation (the little outfit which re-
sulted from some of Dad’s ingenious inventions),

[ 326 ]

’

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After a year in California, we moved to Chicago where I engaged
in research activities. At first this was considered to be a temporary
situation but we stayed there twenty years, renting first in Win-
netka, then building in Northbrook.

The Magnaflux Corporation continued to grow, which had its
assets and liabilities. In the early days I took part in a wide variety
of activities ranging from sales through research and commercial
testing. As the company grew the breadth of activities was neces-
sarily narrowed and ended in research which was over my head.
During this period, I invented or co-invented quite a number of
gadgets, including a beer bottle testing machine, methods for locat-

ing flaws in metals as well as ceramics, and a system for non-destruc-
tively testing brazed honeycomb structures.

Boats have always been an avocation and building odd craft a
great satisfaction, so that, when our company was merged into Gen-
eral Mills last year, I jumped at the chance to move back east within
smelling range of salt water. I also hope for more boating time
although I still continue as part-time consultant for Magnaflux in
non-destructive testing.

We have three children. Our elder boy, Taber, Jr., is a senior at
(don’t tell anyone) Yale where he is doing far better in physics
than I had hoped to at Harvard. It also makes the game quite a family
affair. My daughter Lisa and I are ardent Harvardians while Marion
(whose father was Yale ’98) and Taber are utterly disgusting. Our
second son, Vic, is a freshman at Colby, thus avoiding the Harvard-
Yale issue completely.

In spite of not being a Harvard graduate, I often feel as though
I were, if the amount of literature I receive is any indication.

It has been a source of satisfaction to be reminded that I was once a
member of such an august institution.

[ 327]

i

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CHRISTIAN peEGUIGNE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 891 Crystal Springs Rd., San Mateo, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stauffer Chemical Co., 636 California St., San Francisco, Calif.

porn: Aug. 26, 1912, San Mateo, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Hun School, Princeton, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

Marrigp: Eleanor Christenson, July 27, 1935, Burlingame, Calif. CHILDREN:
Christian, 4th, March 13, 1937; Charles, April 23, 1939.

occupation: Chairman of the board, Stauffer Chemical Company.

oFFices HELD: Director, Bank of California, Pacific Telephone & Telegraph
Company, Stanford Research Institute, Society of California Pioneers,
chairman of the board of governors, International Science Foundation,
chairman, de Young Museum Society.

MEMBER OF: Pacific-Union Club; Bohemian Club, San Francisco; Burlingame

Country Club; The Brook, Racquet and Tennis Club, New York, The
Travellers; Jockey Club, Paris, France.

INASMUCH as I was in college from 1932 to 1933 only, I feel that
I am rather imposing on the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report of
the Class of 1936. However, I do not like to be called a “reluctant
one,” so here are a few of the things that have happened to me since
1933-

I was married in 1935, and joined Stauffer Chemical Company,
which was then a family corporation, but is now a public one.
This and my outside interests kept me busy until July, 1942, when
I was commissioned a second lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps,
and sent to Quantico, Virginia, for training.

After going through several schools, 1 was sent to the South
Pacific, where, after a few months in the New Hebrides, I was
assigned to Air Combat Intelligence, starting in squadron intelli-
gence work, and then transferred to staff duty. 1 went through
most of the Solomon campaign and then returned to the United

[ 328 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

States, where I remained until the end of the war. I was discharged
in December, 1946, as a captain, and four years later attained the
rank of major in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve.
I went back to business in San Francisco, and have since traveled
uite extensively, both here and in Europe. This, plus my varied
interests, has kept me well occupied.

FRANK STANTON DELAND, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 100 Cabot St., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sherburne, Powers & Needham, 77 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 9, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Susan Robertson Reeves, Aug. 10, 1940, Summit, N.J. CHILDREN:
Michael Reeves, Dec. 13, 1941; Frank Stanton, 3d, Jan. 10, 1944; Susan
Graham, Oct. 6, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Michael Reeves Deland, ’63.

OCCUPATION: Attorney, partner.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant athletic director, 1936-40, Class Agent, since 1936,
Athletic Committee, 1946-51, Harvard College; member, since 1960, vice-
chairman, 1960-61, Harvard Fund Council, director, Massachusetts So-
ciety for Prevention of Cruelty to Children, since 1936, Church Home So-
ciety, 1954-57, Army and Navy Service Committee, Inc., since 1935, Brook-
line Visiting Nurse, Inc. 1955-58, Chemical Manufacturing Company,
since 1957, Colonial Operating Company, since 1957, Brookline Trust
Company, since 1958, Moran Leather Company, since 1958, Deland, Gib-
son and Wrye, Inc., since 1958; secretary, since 1948, trustee, since 1956,
General Investors Trust; trustee and treasurer, Park School, 194853;
trustee, Noble and Greenough School, 1949-52, since 1954, Dexter School,
1953~56, Brookline Savings Bank, since 1954, Browne and Nichols School,
since 1957, Wentworth Institute, since 1958; vestryman, Trinity Church,
Boston, 1950-58; trustee, since 1954, Vice-president, 1960-61, Boston Lying-
in Hospital; member, finance committee, 1954-58, Town Meeting, since

[ 329]

ee ee | _

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

1954, Planning Board, since 1958, Town of Brookline; clerk and trustee,
New England Peabody Home for Crippled Children, since 1957; clerk
and executive committee, Winsor School, since 1958; member, executive
committee, Massachusetts Golf Association, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Varsity Club; Delphic Club; The

Country Club; Kittansetc Club; City Club; Beverly Yacht Club, Nisi
Prius; American and Boston Bar Associations.

“THIS account of your life... should be informal . . . reflect
yourself and your points of view.” What I dread most about this
25th business is facing up to the wives. I’m still smarting from one
madam 736 whose greeting at the zoth was “So, you're the jerk who
plagues us to give our hard-earned dough to deah ole Harvad.”
Nonetheless, I have survived the taunts, enjoyed the correspondence
(not all one way) and appreciated the unbounding capacity and
loyalty of those bold ones able to circumvent their wives.

“The Class wants to know all about your career .. . family ...
travels, hobbies, war record. . .” I had no idea you.cared. A gen-
eral law practice — corporations and coupons, deeds and divorces,
wills and widows — comprises the career. Extracurricular excursions
have been allocated among politics, schools, church and charities,
while an indulgent wife (courtesy of Vassar) tends to the minor
details, such as bringing up the children, to say nothing of father.

“Hobbies” — golf and yachting (the Bermuda race produced first
gray hairs to the delight of other aging classmates). “War record”
— spectacularly unspectacular: A net tender with a skipper who
earned his commission by deep-sea experience as night watchman
on the Fall River line; an escape to escort duty, followed by en-
rollment at the Naval War College where we were astounded to
learn in a top secret session all about the Nazi snorkel — two weeks
after Time magazine. We were privileged to participate in the
celebrated War College games where we refought the Battle of
Jutland over and over, all the time being spurred on by a retired
captain to “lay your ship up alongside the enemy.” From New-
port to Admiral Kelly Turner’s staff and 1 was a hoary old com-
mander, doing my best to live down my Harvard background,

when the affair happily ended. My closest rendezvous with death
was in a Miami taxicab with female driver, and most remarkable

fact was avoidance of court martials in various encounters with
trade school superiors.

“Family” — two boys and a girl, all happily endowed with ma-
ternal inheritance and only an occasional trace of paternal temper.

L 330]

ewe |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Number one boy is now a sophomore, Class of 763, at the old stand.
In case you haven't heard, that remote area to the north unexplored
in halcyon days of 736 is no longer a forbidden frontier, the
“Cliffies’ have taken over what was once a male institution. For
all that, the present crop is smarter, more purposeful and demo-
cratic than their old men.

“Travel” — endlessly, as a commuter — happily in olden days by
train, but no longer in this enlightened age which has banished this
too obvious mode of handling commuters. Boston planners are now
brilliantly at work to see if their network of highways can produce
by 1980 a traffic jam so massive as to throttle the old town once
and for all, so we can all live in the country — any country.

“Social, political or religious convictions” —aren’t you getting
a bit personal? Well, politically I’m basically Republican, which is
neither popular nor practical in this Democrat-ridden Common-
wealth. We survive only by virtue of delightful Democrat donny-
brooks, which enable an occasional Republican to be elected.

“Write in narrative style’ — My goodness, why didn’t you say
so at the outset?

“Tf you find you can’t handle the subject adequately. . .” That's
been my problem all these twenty-five years, but the family has
been indulgent and it has been fun. And so we go, wallowing along
in the Middle Ages, looking forward to swinging slower, sailing
faster and dying gracefully, but not before expanding the travel
section to Europe, Africa, Hawaii and, of course, Tahiti.

RICHARD CLARK DELONG

  

FAI AB FER LONER ROTI IRE OMIT
4

 

Co

HOME Appress: 349 Mr. Vernon Rd., Snyder 26, N.Y.
OFFICE AppREsS: National Aniline Division, Allied Chemical Corp. Buffalo 5.
N.Y.

[ 331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
porN: Dec. 18, 1914, Brookline, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B. 1936; 8.M. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1938.

marrieD: Virginia Kline Black, Nov. 6, 1948, Brookline, Mass. cHipren:
Marianna Clark, Feb. 3, 1952; Richard Loy, Nov. 29, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Hetherington DeLong, ’40.

occupation: Research chemist.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; National Geographic Society.
pustications: “Condensation Products of Silane-Diols,” with J. F. Hyde,
Journal of the American Chemical Society, 63, 1194, 1941.

MY Twentieth Report just about covered all the major develop-
ments of my life. In the last five years, Virginia and I have had
the normal, complicated-uncomplicated tasks and pleasures of start-
ing two healthy, lively children off to school. Professionally, I
have had the pleasure and profit of close association with the steady
growth of a new, sometimes odoriferous, but always interesting
process for the production of a very versatile family of chemicals.
Personally, 1 have managed to find enough leisure to be glad that
I have a sound Harvard education to teach me how to enjoy it.

CAMPBELL DeMALLIE

 

HOME appreEss; 23 Lilly Lane, Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 5, 1915, Lowell, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.M., cum laude, 19363 11..By. 1939:

mMara|iep: Elizabeth Pratt, Feb. 22, 1947, Lowell, Mass. cripren: Campbell,
Jr, April 7, 1950; Richard Pratt, Jan. 10, 1953; Joanna, Feb. 1g, 1957.

occupation: Lawyer; agency assistant, General Agency Department, John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

| 332]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Committeeman and treasurer, Dedham Cub Scout Pack 3, since
1958.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Lowell; Harvard Law School Association.

AFTER graduation I spent three very busy years at the Harvard

Law School with many of our classmates. The Law School awarded

me an LL.B. in 1939 and in that same year I was admitted to the

Massachusetts bar.

I had barely started in the practice of law in my home town of
Lowell, Massachusetts, when World War II came along. I went
into the Navy as an ensign. The Navy sent me to that sister Cam-
bridge institution, M.I.T., for nine months to learn to forecast the
weather for the Navy Air Arm. Then after a brief stay at the Naval
Air Station, Pensacola, Florida, I went to the Navy Department,
Washington, D.C., for the rest of the war, where I forecast the
weather for the admirals and was engaged in personnel work in con-
nection with navy weather officers. Washington and the Navy De-

artment were very interesting places to be during the war.

After the war I returned to Lowell to resume the practice of
law. In 1947 I had the good fortune to marry a Lowell girl, Eliza-
beth Pratt. We have since had three very active children, two boys
and a girl, They keep us quite busy.

In 1949 I went to work for the John Hancock Mutual Life In-
surance Company at the home office in Boston where I have a
position of a legal and semi-legal nature in a sales department, the
General Agency Department. Have enjoyed the work and the
associations there very much. Classmate Mort Claflin has his office
next to mine and Classmates Jack. Hill and Lee Howard are also at
the home office.

In 1951, to be nearer to my position in Boston, we moved to the
pleasant suburb of Dedham, where we have been active in such
things as P.T.A. and Cub Scouts. I still go up to a law office in
Lowell on Saturdays, except in the summer, to engage in the prac-
tice of probate law. Summers we spend at Squirrel Island in Booth-
bay Harbor, a delightful spot just off the rockbound coast of Maine.

[ 333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RAYMOND DENNETT

    

HOME ADDRESS: 330 Waverley St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Unitarian Association, 25 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 31, 1913, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1936; A.M. 19393
L.H.D. (Hon.) (Augustana Coll.), 1958.

marRiED: Charlotte Woodall, June 17, 1938, Middletown, Del. (divorced 1957);
Nina Pantaleoni, Dec. 13, 1957. CHILDREN: Peverley Woodall, June 5, 19423
Charlotte Raymond, Dec. 17, 1945; Abby Abajian, Feb, 8, 1952 (stepchild),
Edward Abajian, April 14, 1954 (stepchild).

occuPaTION: Consultant on international affairs, American Unitarian Associa-
tion.

OFFicEs HELD: Graduate Secretary, Phillips Brooks House, 1936-43; UNRRA,
1944; secretary, Americal Council, Institute of Pacific Relations, 1944-
45; director, World Peace Foundation, 1945-54, World Affairs Council
of Massachusetts; member, board of editors, International Organization,
1945-60; visiting lecturer in international politics at Harvard, Fletcher,
M.LT., Brown and Columbia Universities, at various times; president, 1954
59, trustee, American Scandinavian Foundation; treasurer, Scandinavian
Seminars, 1955-59. .

MEMBER OF: Century Association (N.Y.); Council on Foreign Relations; Knight
Commander, Order of the White Rose (Finland).

PuBLIcaTions: Editor (with various others), Documents on American Foreign
Relations, vols. 7-12, 1945-52; editor (with Joseph E. Johnson), Negotiat-
ing with the Russians, 1951; collaborator, with Amy Leiss, Peace Treaties
after World War I; various articles in professional journals.

I AM a happy man. My children are healthy, with the eldest now
in Mt. Holyoke. My stepchildren are a second family and a delight.
In the twenty-five years since graduation, I have never stayed on a
job I did not enjoy and I have enjoyed nearly all the jobs I have
had. I have shifted from being an “expert” on the Far East, to one
on the United Nations, to one on Scandinavia. My love of teaching

[ 334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has been satisfied by appointments to Harvard, Brown, M.LT. and
Columbia, plus a stint at Fletcher as some professor went on sab-
batical or became ill. I am loved. As we used to say, “Who could
ask for anything more?”

Certainly there have been problems, but the joys have exceeded
them by far. My association with the Institute of Pacific Relations
interfered with a State Department job, but I sicked the F.B.I. on
Scott McLeod and got that cleared up. McLeod soured me on
the State Department, so I went to the Scandinavian Foundation and
association with wonderful people from the most beautiful part of
the world. I have met kings, presidents and prime ministers and
spoken to 500 Finns, thirty miles from the Russian border, on an
“America Days” weekend of the Finnish-American Society.

There must have been something special about Harvard ’36 and its
impact on those of us interested in international relations. At one
time, in New York, George Franklin ran the Council on Foreign
Relations, Doug Overton the Japan Society, Paul Geier was with the
China Institute and I ran the American Scandinavian Foundation.
And, of course, there is Bob Amory with C.1.A. in Washington,
John Dorman in the Foreign Service and a half dozen others. This
is no record, perhaps, but those of us in what a Norwegian friend
of mine calls “international service” have had a full and reward-
ing time of it. A glance at the headlines assures our children that
we have not done well, but we have done what we could.

My health is failing and I am in a losing battle with a terminal
cancer. An operation ten years ago was followed by one three
years ago; the second attack has returned five times in five separate
parts of my body since then. Recently, chemo-therapy has pro-
duced what the doctors call “dramatic” results and I am temporarily
free of the disease for the first time in over a year. Illness caused

me to leave the American Scandinavian Foundation and establish a
place to live where my wife and stepchildren can live with more
comfort than they could have in New York. This we have done.
A problem is for solving. As I say, I am content and I am happy.
If I am at reunion, I hope we have a toast to the joys of life and the
beauty we have been permitted to enjoy.

[ 335 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD HOLLIS DENNIS

    

HOME aAppRESS: 55 Roosevelt Ave. Waterville, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 College Ave., Waterville, Maine.

BORN: June 30, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1940; s.p.
in Medicine (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1950.

MarriED: Lee Katharine Hearn, April 29, 1943, Fort Meade, Md. ciipren:
Richard Hollis, Jr., Feb. 13, 1944; Deborah Leigh, Jan. 14, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Sibley Dennis, 3d, '32, M.B.A., 34, LL.B. 738.

occuraTION: Ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in ophthalmology, University of Pennsylvania Medi-
cal School, 1946-48; attending ophthalmologist, three local hospitals, since
1948; consultant in ophthalmology, Veterans Administration Hospital,
SINCE 1954.

MeMBER oF: American Board of Ophthalmology (diplomate); Academy of
Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology (fellow); College of Surgeons (fel-
low); Phi Chi (medical fraternity); Rotary; American Medical Associa-
tion; Maine Medical Association, Mayflower Investment Club (secretary);
New England Ophthalmology Society; Kennebec County Medical So-
ciety.

PUBLICATIONS: “Effect of Low Voltage X-rays on Rabbit Corneas”; “Devics
Disease’; “Pigmented Nevus of Conjunctiva”; “Treatment of Alkali Burns
of the Eye”, “Retinal Separations in Young Adults”; “Glaucoma in Young
Adults”; “Thyrotropic Exophthalmos.”

I SUPPOSE this is a time to stop and try to evaluate what one has
done in twenty-five years. On looking back it doesn’t seem possible
so many years have raced by. I remember vividly our graduation
exercises in the Stadium. While watching the Twenty-fifth Re-
union Class, I remember also how impossibly far away that number
of years appeared. The recorded milestones are easier to put down
on paper and are always of interest to me in reading the reports
of others, so let’s start with these stepping stones,

[ 336]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tufts Medical School as the first stone, following which I had an
internship in Worcester City Hospital. It was here that I was for-
tunate enough to meet my wife. We were married in 1943, while
I was in the Army. This tour of duty was with the Medical Corps
and lasted from 1942 to late 1945. It was during this time, in 1944,
that our son was born.

In the latter part of 1945, I returned to do graduate medical work
in ophthalmology at the University of Pennsylvania Graduate
School of Medicine. I continued on in the hospital of the university
as a resident until 1948. During this time I did some joint research
which earned me a second Doctor’s degree in medical science.
This was awarded in 1950, nearly two years after I had entered
private practice.

In 1948, our family of three moved to Waterville, Maine, where
we have been living ever since that time.

As to the intangibles — the goals attained —they are more diffi-
cult to assess. Of course, the most important is our family. In com-
mon with all other families, I suppose, it constantly bewilders me

but always remains the bulwark and the real reason for everything
else. As for other intangibles —I enjoy my work very much and
find new interests and opportunities in it with each passing year.
Although we don’t have much time for relaxing, we enjoy the
many off-duty opportunities afforded to us here in Maine — both
in the summer and in the winter.

There are other goals but they are still ahead. That is, after all,
the best part.

WILLIAM A. DENNIS, JR.

    
    
      

. b
Sy Aw
HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS; Wrest Lake Road, Tuxedo, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1912, Newark, N.J.

[ 337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Cheshire Academy, Cheshire, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1940.

marriED: Alice M, Sullivan, Oct. 9, 1943, New Hope, Pa. cuitpren: William
A., 3d, June 11, 1945; Robert B., April 27, 1947.

occupaTION: Management and financial relations consultant.

MEMBER OF: Tuxedo Club; Harvard Club of New York, New York Athletic
Club; Dunes Club and Point Judith Golf Club, Narragansett, R.I.

AFTER graduating from law school, I spent a short period of time
in the law office of Bouvier & Beale, New York City, and the legal
branch of the War Department, Washington, D.C. Having no de-
sire to be chained to a desk during the war, I joined the Navy as a
lieutenant (j.g.), in the spring of 1942, and took the usual ninety-
day training course at Quonset Point, Rhode Island. Thereafter, ]
served on two flag staffs in England, under Commodore Hamilton
and Admiral McFall, and back to Quonset Point, Rhode Island, on
the staff of Commodore Dixie Keefer. I received a letter of com-
mendation and was released to inactive duty early in 1946, as a
lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R.

Having been away from the law for approximately four years,
I determined to use my limited knowledge of this learned profes-
sion in business, instead of endeavoring to practice it. Acting as a
management and financial consultant has presented some interesting
and challenging problems in various fields, and has enabled me to
acquire an interest in several small enterprises.

I have gained about twenty pounds, kept my good health and
enjoyed a happy married life, blessed with two sons. The boys
are now attending Staunton Military Academy in Staunton, Vir-
ginia. They are both good athletes and hard workers, and I hope
and trust that they will have the good fortune of being able to
attend Harvard. My politics have remained on the conservative
side. I enjoy a good game of golf, a bit of weekly exercise at the
Athletic Club, and spend as much time as possible with my family.

Sometimes I wonder how many of us have found what we want
out of life. How many changes would we make if we could do it
over again? Some of us have made substantial contributions to our
fields of endeavor, and even to world affairs. Harvard could not
instill in us the “know-how” that experience teaches, but she cer-
tainly contributed substantially to our way of life.

[ 338 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSIAH DERBY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 102-11 68th Ave., Forest Hills, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rego Park Jewish Center, 97-30 Queens Blvd., Rego Park, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1913, Berdichev, Ukraine.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1936; MHL. (Hebrew
Teachers Coll. of Boston), 1936; a.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1940, Rabbi (Jew-
ish Theological Seminary of America), 1943.

MarrigD: Bertha Reifel, Nov. 1, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Jefferey Haskell,
March 26, 1947; Lavey Jay, May 11, 1951.

occuPATION: Rabbi.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive council, New York Board of Rabbis, Rabbin-
ical Assembly of America; chairman, National Commission on Jewish
Education of United Synagogue of America, 1955-58, National Commit-
tee for Day School Education of Conservative Judaism, Board of Educa-
tion, Solomon Schechter School of Queens.

FROM mathematics to theology — this, in brief, accounts for my
twenty-five years since graduation. At first glance, this might ap-
pear to be a sort of schizophrenic wrench of one’s universe of dis-
course if not of one’s complete personality. Yet, deeper reflection
will reveal that there is nothing quite so convincing of the existence
of a Cosmic Mind than the pure product of man’s mind as it is ex-
pressed in its purest, most harmonious and highest perfection — the
mathematical process. And the more abstract the mathematics the
higher one reaches towards the Highest One, The Eternal, in whom
are contained the ultimate thoughts of all men. Einstein's search
for a Unified Field theory was an act of faith, Bertrand Russell's
stubborn atheism was the consequence of historical prejudice.

This alone, it must be admitted, does not account for mv deci-
sion to exchange the academic robes for the ministerial cloth. Ir
was not an easy transformation. The struggle between the desire

[ 339]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

for the cozy life of the academician and the hectic and frequently
stormy existence in the ministry was fierce. In the end the latter
won.

Were the many hours spent wrestling with integral equations,
gamma functions and linear transformations in Hilbert’s space, a
complete loss? Far from it. I am convinced that no man should
be admitted into the ministry without an intensive training in higher
mathematics! Paul Tillich, please note. I must pay tribute at this
point to Professor Murray, who admitted me in my junior year to
psychology 34A_ and B, even though I had had practically no prep-
aration for it—he took pity on me because I simply had to have
that course for my “distribution.” Much of my pastoral work is
founded upon the wisdom I acquired from him and his fundamental
insights into human nature.

I came to my present — my first, and thus far my only — con-
gregation at the conclusion of my first year at the Seminary. It was
housed in a small store and boasted forty-two families. My duties
involved every phase of ministerial activity, including taking the
mail to the postoflice. Today, nineteen years later, the congregation
numbers nearly twelve hundred families, housed in a magnificent
structure on one of the great thoroughfares of New York City.
There are more than sixty people on my staff, and our activities
range from the pre-school age group to the several hundred mem-
bers of our Golden Age Club, The door of my study is closed to
no one, so that a sizeable proportion of people who come through
it are total strangers, frequently not even residents of my com-
munity.

My day begins at half-past six, when my elder son gets up to get
ready for his subway trip to high school, and ends past midnight.
This is a far cry from the life within the ivy-covered walls. But I
love it. This accounts for the fact that I did not reply to the ques-
tion: ‘Societies and Clubs.” On occasion, I relax by escaping to the
basement in my home where I do some not too meticulous wood-
work, largely for my sons.

Among my major achievements I regard my two trips to Israel —
in 1958 and 1960—as ranking highest. On my second pilgrimage
to the Holy Land, I shepherded thirty-one parishioners. It was a
very taxing experience, ‘but extremely worthwhile. One can be
moved by the sheer creative genius and power manifested by the
ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, but it cannot compare in its emotional
impact to the climb up Mt. Zion to King David’s Tomb. Of course,

| 340 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Old Jerusalem and the sacred Wailing Wall, stained with the tears
of generations of Jews, is inaccessible today to its rightful heirs.

For the record, it should be noted that as a son of Harvard I
served in the armed forces in World War II. I was a chaplain with
the Infantry at Fort McLellan, Alabama, and at Scofield Barracks,
Hawaii. I was headed for Manila and the planned invasion of Japan,
when Hiroshima brought a sudden end to my travels overseas.

It is fitting to conclude with the thought that because of my
mother, to whom a gracious providence has granted these years, I
visit Boston once or twice a year, and never fail at least to pass
Harvard on the drive, if time does not permit me to step into the
Yard. When I do, the sight of Widener and Weld and Memorial
Hall evokes within me an unforgettable nostalgia. I hope that some-
day my sons will have the joy and privilege of a similar emotion.

PHILIP NASH pe ROSSET

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Marshfield Hills, Mass.

[ 341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

VINCENT GASTON DETHIER

 

HOME aporeEss: 1 Brookside Rd., Wallingford, Pa.

oFFIcE ADpRESS: Zoological Laboratory, Univ. of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 4,
Pa.

BorN: Feb. 20, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica Plain High School, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936, A.M. 1937; PH.D.
1939.

marrizp: Lois E, Check, Jan. 23, 1960, Philadelphia, Pa. camp: Jehan Vincent,
Aug. 14, 1960.

occuPATION: Professor of zoology and psychology, University of Pennsylvania.

OFFICES HELD: Mfember, Advisory Committee on Quartermaster Research & De-
velopment, since 1954: consultant to Surgeon General of the United States,
1956-61; Surgeon General, U.S. Army, since 1957; associate of Neurologi-
cal Institute, Univ. of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, since 1959; con-
sultant, Canadian Defense Research Board, 1959.

MEMBER OF: National Research Council Committee on Sanitary Engineering,
1954-59; Entomological Society of America (fellow); American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science; Southern California Academy of
Science; Sigma Xi; American Society of Zoologists; American Physiological
Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Chetnical Insect Attractants © Repellents, Blakiston, 1947; Ani-
mal Bebavior (with E. Stellar), Prentice-Hall, 1961; “The Bottle,” Texas
Quarterly, “Haboob,” Kenyon Review; “The Chocolate Coated Ice,’
Catholic World; 97 scientific papers.

HARVARD prepared me for every eventuality except unemploy-
ment; nevertheless, my career commenced with a long impecunious
respite from the chores of mental effort. After six months of ascetic
living I managed to acquire a “job” at an unknown university in
Ohio where single-handed, from 9 a.m. to 10 p-m., I attempted to
mould the unwilling minds of prewar youth. Pearl Harbor freed
me from this drudgery, and for a year I made the acquaintance of

[ 342 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the lesser known swamps and barrens south of the Mason-Dixon
Line. Having thus become acclimated to the tropics, I was sent on
a world tour that included tropical Africa, Arabia and India. As
an assistant medical inspector to the surgeon of the Air Transport
Command, I met first-hand or vicariously many of the esoteric
diseases of mankind and was eventually rewarded for my efforts by
receiving a promotion to major, an honorable discharge in 1946,
and another taste of unemployment.

My professional career began seven months later with a professor-
ship at Ohio State University. After sampling academic life at a
great state university for one year, I moved to the Johns Hopkins
University where I spent eleven happy years in a most stimulating
atmosphere. During this period I probably learned a great deal
more than any of my students. Harvard taught me how to learn and
appreciate, these years permitted me to extract the fullest enjoy-
ment from intellectual life. At the same time, a desire for travel
that had been stimulated by the war was fulfilled on various occa-
sions by trips to scientific meetings and by sojourns in foreign
lands. I spent four months in the Belgian Congo, studying sleeping
sickness, and a year in Britain as a research scientist at the London
School of Tropical Medicine. Over the years I was presented with
the opportunity to lecture at most of the British, Dutch, Belgian
and German universities.

After eleven years, the University of Pennsylvania offered new
challenges, so I moved to Philadelphia and thus returned once more
to the Ivy League. My interest in science continues. Although I
began my scientific life at Harvard as an entomologist, I shifted
gradually toward the field of tropical medicine, and finally into
neurology, animal behavior, and psychology. At the same time my
interest in the humanities has increased over the years, and I begin

to appreciate a growing need for a meeting of what C. P. Snow
refers to as the “two cultures.”

L 343]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ANTELO DEVEREUX

 

HOME appress: Morris Road, Ambler, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, 1500 Spring Garden St.,
Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1913, Oreland, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1036. DEGREE: A.B., 1036.

marrigp: Sydney E. Cheston, Aug. 22, 1942, Oreland, Pa. cuitpren: Antelo,
Jr., Aug. 16, 1943; John C., May 12, 1946.

occupation: Departmental administrative manager, Research and Development
Division, Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, pharmaceutical manufac-
turers.

OFFICES HELD: Member of board, Seamen’s Church Institute, Philadelphia Con-
servationists, Inc., St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Wissahickon
Valley Watershed Association.

EVENTS after graduation took place in about this sequence: I spent
the summer of 1936 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, together with
W. W. Prout, ’36, learning elementary chemistry. Following this,
the plan was to cover the balance of required premedical courses
during following winter at the University of Pennsylvania. Illness
in the spring of that year terminated this attempt and also plans for
medical school.

Fortunately, Smith, Barney & Company, investment bankers, em-
ployed me in their account supervision department in the fall of
1937, after I returned from a European tour, during the summer,
with A. E. Newbold, 3d, ’36, and M. C. Stewart, ’34.

My wife and I were married in August, 1942, and lived, at first, in
a succession of rooms, flats, etc., near some of the more attractive
military reservations down south. Our first son was born about a

year later; our second in 1946. They presently attend St. Mark’s
and Westminster Schools, respectively.

[ 344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In February, 1941, my tour of duty with the Army was initiated
by induction into federal service with the Pennsylvania National
Guard. After a few days with the 10qth Cavalry Regiment, I spent
almost five years with the 28th Infantry Division. Among other
things, I learned how to enjoy a good walk, especially in pleasant
surroundings.

We now live in what, all too recently, was largely farming coun-
try outside of Philadelphia. It is rapidly becoming a bustling part of
Megalopolis. Hunting, fishing and, occasionally, bird-watching and
golf seem to be the outdoor pursuits that can occasionally be
squeezed into one’s all too limited free time.

Since 1946 I have worked for Smith, Kline & French Laboratories
in Philadelphia, now in the department of general therapeutics of
the R & D Division.

This summer, my family and I took a trip to Europe, the high-
lights of which were a motorboat trip through the canals in Holland,
a visit to prehistoric caves in south-central France (including Las-
caux), and a kayak trip down the Mosel River from Trier to Ko-
blenz, almost. We joined G. F. Tyler, Jr., ’38, for that episode. It
was idyllic; highly recommended.

Philosophically, I get the impression, as time goes on, that the
greatest rewards are to be found in intellectual and spiritual spheres,
not the crassly material. Things might be better for all of us if we
ran the rat-race with hamsters. One of my deepest concerns ts the
competition between fast-growing populations and diminishing nat-
ural resources, hence my association with the type of extracurricu-
lar activity which contemplates this sort of thing. I would hope
that, in the near future, schools and colleges could develop insight
and perspective along these lines in the student body, before
“mother necessity” does the job for us.

[ 345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ALFRED SWIFT DEWEY

|
ood

  

HOME ADDRESS: 67 Oriole Ave., Providence, R.L

OFFICE ADpREss: Snelling & Snelling, 38 Arcade Bldg., Providence, RI.

BORN: June 14, 1913, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriep: Nancy Clark, Sept. 6, 1941, Norwell, Mass. cuttpren: Pamela, Feb.
2, 1943; Alfred Swift, Jr., Sept. 27, 1945; Daniel Dennett, Nov. 28, 1947;
Davis Adams, March 18, 1951,

OccUPATION: Owner-manager of Providence franchise, Snelling & Snelling,
personnel consultants.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, since 1947, vice-president, 1954-55,
Providence Boys’ Clubs.

MEMBER oF: Adelphoi Lodge, Masons; Agawam Hunt Club; Providence Art
Club.

MY four liberal arts years at Harvard had so broadened my hori-
zons by the summer of ’36 that I crossed the Charles and went to
work for my father in Boston (Dewey Gould, wool merchants).
Three years later, the Wanskuck Company of Providence thought
I knew enough about wool to make me an assistant buyer. The war
got me out of New England, with most of my three years spent
in the South Pacific on the Bunker Hill, where this non-pilot di-
rected pilots aboard the carrier as landing signal officer. It was
wonderful for Lieutenant Dewey, USNR, to return home to Nancy
and meet our little daughter. (She wanted to know who “that man”
was.)

The next eleven years were back with Wanskuck, and perhaps the
mills wouldn’t have been bought if they’d known I was leaving.
When Burlington Industries took me on in their Pacific Mills Divi-
sion in Lawrence, we made our home in Andover, but within three
and one-half months my department was shipped south — without
me. It seemed prudent to get out of the wool business,

[ 346 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since 1956, then, I’ve owned my own franchise, the Rhode Island
branch of Snelling & Snelling, coast-to-coast personnel consultants,
It’s a fascinating and frustrating game of fitting square pegs into
round holes or better. (Don’t call me if you’re looking for a
$50,000 executive job .. . I'd have taken it myself.)

Like many Providence families, we spend our summers in Sakon-
net, where, after five years, I’ve finished building the other house,
doing most of the work myself. (It seemed a good idea when I
started.)

Three boys, a poodle and a kitten or two have joined the family,
some of whom, I hope, will get to Harvard, too, some day.

WILLIAM ANDERSON DICKSON

 

HOME ADDRESS; 75 Canton Ave., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 266 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 23, 1914, Weston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1943.

MarRiED: Harriet W. Brigham, July 26, 1941, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cHitpren:
William Anderson, Jr.. March 16, 1943; Peter F. Dec. 29, 1945; Thomas
W., May 29, 1949; Joan W.,, Feb. 20, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Mellen Dickson, 734.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Harvard Medical School, since 1950; associate physi-
cian, Massachusetts General Hospital; assistant physician, Children’s Hos-
pital, Boston; member, executive board, Milton Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Pediatrics Society. °

ALAS, it is time to roll up the wheelchair and reminisce; medical
school, house officership, and hospital residency all seem a long
way back. Also my sojourn with the Medical Corps of Uncle Sam's

[ 347]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Army leaves a feeling of duty done and a hope that such will not
have to be repeated. The practice of pediatrics medicine, which has
absorbed most of my working hours of the last fifteen years, has
given me the just reward of feeling that at least I have been able to
offer a service to a few. At the same time, a little bit of instructing
has made me hope that perhaps I have led a few medical students
down the same rewarding path.

Life is full of family. Pat is going to college next year, Pete
going four years hence, Tom going seven years hence, and Joan
going nine years hence, That they shall all go to Harvard and to
Bennington (Harriet’s Alma Mater) seems most unlikely.

There are diversions such as amateur radio, waterfowling, skiing,
camping and cruising. Almost all of these diversions have been
limited geographically to New England, with the exception of
camping which has taken us to the North Rim of the Grand Canyon
and cruising which has included the Bahamas several times and the
Bras D’Or Lakes last summer with Joe Knowles and Gordon Scan-
nell.

For some reason, I have been a member of the American Academy
and Board of Pediatrics, president of the Amphibicon Association
(that is a good one, but it includes Bob Amory and Jim Field),
member of the Council of the American Association of Medical
Milk Commissions, and president of the Boston Medical Milk Com-
mission (it includes Bill Berenberg). In spite of the last two items,
I do not recommend yogurt and tiger’s milk — yet.

May I take this opportunity to extend my best regards to all
readers. I am looking forward to seeing you at the Reunion. How-
ever, I fear that the sight of all those old grey, bald heads may be
very sobering.

[ 348 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS EARL DIGGIN

Z

  

Vt

HOME AppREsS; 1216 S. Frederick St., Arlington 4, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of the Army, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: May 19, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRIED: Ellin D. Legrow, June 28, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Daniel Roy,
Aug. 1, 1943; John Legrow, Jan. 3, 1946, Thomas Earl, Jr, Feb. 23, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Personnel officer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1952-55, chairman, Credit Committee, 1958-60, Federal
Pentagon Credit Union; recording secretary, Federal Conference on Em-
ployee Relations, 1959-60, chairman, Book Discount Program, Society for
Personnel Administration.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Washington; Society for Personnel Admuinistra-
tion; Federal Conference on Employee Relations; Personnel Officers of
Research and Development Agencies.

THREE years after graduation from Harvard I abandoned any
“get rich quick” schemes I may have been nurturing in favor of a
career with the Federal Government, preferring the security It
offered during those dark days of the depression to the potential
but uncertain clamor of private industry.

Twenty-five years out of Harvard have not produced a fortune,
nor enabled me to discover that “pot of gold” at the end of the
rainbow. However, success is not alway measured by money and
I have found my work as a personnel officer with the Signal Corps,
Department of the Army, to be stimulating, interesting and chal-
lenging. The combination of travel, dealing with management at
all levels and helping people with their problems provides “rewards”
which compensate for the absence of the more material standards.

In 1955, I heeded the call of my native Boston, and teok a job
in the Boston regional office of the Post Office Department. How-

[ 349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ever, after one winter of snow, ice, sleet, freezing cold, and more
snow, even the lure of watching a good Harvard hockey team in
action could not keep me in Boston, so I returned in 1956 to my
adopted home in good old “Virginny” and resumed my career with
the Department of the Army.

My wife is the typical American housewife, being busily engaged
in various community activities, including the Home Demonstration
Club, Contest Club, P.T.A., Cub Scouts and other things too numer-
ous to mention. She has become quite proficient at winning contest
prizes, some of which are worth while, others of which are of
dubious value, but all of which help to raise the old income tax a
few notches.

Our oldest boy, now a senior in high school, has the build of a
football player but not the inclination, so Harvard will have nothing
to look forward to in this regard. We are hoping that some astute
college Dean of Admissions will recognize budding genius and
permit Danny to enter the sacred portals.

Our second boy is enamored of anything that runs on wheels
and hopes to change over the automobile industry, one day. He
is currently engaged in restoring a Model-A Ford of questionable
vintage to something which resembles an automobile.

Our youngest son, Tommy, at eight, is the shining light in the
Diggin household and shows some encouraging early signs of be-
coming a scholar. Having learned to read, he has become exposed
to the wonderful world of fantasy. He has an inexhaustible supply
of questions, many of which send Mom or Dad searching in the
Encyclopaedia Britannica.

Even though life has many frustrations, it also has its brighter
moments, its compensations and its incentives. The frustrations are
identified in the lack of money, fame and popularity, The com-
pensations are reflected in the satisfaction of helping three growing

boys find their place in life, in the companionship and support of
a good wife, and in meeting the challenge of trying to do my job
better. Edgar Howe once said, “As a man handles his troubles during
the day, he goes to bed at night a general, captain or private.”

[ 350]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HARDING DILL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Bellevue Ave., Rumson, N_J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sanderson & Porter, 72 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1913, Perth Amboy, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: M.E. (Srevens Inst. of Technology), 1937.

MaRRIED: Margaret Tuller, 1939, Red Bank, N.J. cHitpren: John Colby,
April 27, 1942; James Tuller, Feb. 27, 1945.

OccUPATION: Engineering design and construction.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Tuller Foundation for Economic Education,
trustee and treasurer, Rumson Improvement Association, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Rumson Improvement Association; Sea Bright Beach Club, Sea
Bright Lawn Tennis & Cricket Club; Monmouth Boat Club.

AFTER my freshman year at Cambridge, I transferred to Stevens
Institute of Technology, graduating as a mechanical engineer in
1937- I went to work for DuPont Film, as an engineer and later as
an operations supervisor making X-ray and photographic film. In
two years, I had acquired a bride who later presented me with two
sons, now freshmen in Dickinson College and Cardizan Mountain
School, respectively.

For the past dozen years, I have been with a consulting engincer-
ing firm in the Wall Street area and have made my home in Rumson,
New Jersey. Major interests are centered on home and family with
gardening, skiing and small boat sailing hobbies generally exploited
in proportion to the movements of the Dow-Jones averages.

[351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOSEPH FRANCIS DINEEN

   

BRST PRE Sree
E

  

HOME appress: 7 Logan St., Lawrence, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lawrence Housing Authority, 90 Broadway, Lawrence, Mass
BORN: Oct. 30, 1911, Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1935} 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(38).
Marriep: Ann Marie Burke, June 16, 1941, Lawrence, Mass. CHILDREN: Mary

Andrea, May 7, 1942; Jerelyn Ann, Feb. 24, 1945, Joseph Francis, Jr.,
May 28, 1946; Peter Burke, Jan. 22, 1948.

yccupaTioN: Chief accounting officer, Lawrence Housing Authority, self-

employed amusement enterpriser, Hampton Beach, New Hampshire.

9FFICES HELD: Chairman, Lawrence Infantile Paralysis Committee, 1949-53;

president, Lawrence “L” Men’s Club, 1959-61, director, New England
Association of Amusement Parks, Beaches, and Pools, 1960-62, Merrimack
Valley Chapter, Bentley Alumni Association, 1960-61.

EMBER OF: Harvard Club of Andover, Phillips Exeter Academy Alumni Asso-
ciation; Lawrence “L” Men’s Club; Bentley Alumni Association; Law-
rence Lodge of Elks; Lawrence Council of Knights of Columbus; St.
Gabriel’s Laymen’s Retreat League; Gridiron Club of Boston, National
Association of Accountants; Hampton Beach Chamber of Commerce, New
England Association of Amusement Parks, Beaches, and Pools.

CEPT for having developed an expanded waistline (one-third
-), and the loss of two molars, there has been no change in my

sical stature or appearance during this twenty-five-year period.
wise, I have managed to maintain a sense of humor which
nust have to “keep on the go.”

» raise a family of two boys and two girls, possessing four dif-
t temperaments, has been a most time-consuming but interest-
nd pleasant task which my wife Marie and 1 have shared.
equirements call for a knowledge of the arts and sciences,
ility to coach football, baseball and basketball, and the talent

[ 352 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to keep posted as to why one disc jockey is more popular than
another.

My office desk has been moved only once in almost seventeen
years. This was due to an expansion program. Having lived with
public housing in Lawrence, Massachusetts, from practically its in-
fancy, I have watched it grow to five times its original size. To
some foes, the program is “socialistic” and to others it’s “political.”
I have listened and argued with both. However, it is indeed satisfy~
ing to know that many unfortunate, deserving people have been
adequately provided with decent housing. Like most large growing
organizations, the many problems have presented unexpected chal-
lenges and seemingly unending accomplishments.

Supplementing the duties of an accountant, it was in 1959 that
my brother-in-law and I opened an amusement arcade (FUNA-
RAMA) at Hampton Beach, New Hampshire, where I have spent
the summer months for many years, having been initiated into the
amusement industry in 1929. This is a ten-week seasonal opera-
tion, and now, after two seasons, we proudly boast of operating
(so we are told) the largest and most modern amusement arcade on
the Atlantic seaboard. It has been gratifying to observe that our
efforts to provide entertainment and amusement for the many thou-
sands of vacationists have been successful.

In an effort to help the underprivileged, I was associated with
the Greater Lawrence Infantile Paralysis Committee for a period
of thirteen years, from 1944 to 1957. For the past seven years, many
hours of my time have been spent with the Lawrence “L” Men's
Club, for the sole purpose of establishing and maintaining a perma-
nent scholarship fund for deserving high school bovs.

Now, having a more conservative outlook on life, it has not
taken me twenty-five years to discover that life is well worth
living, provided that the little everyday problems are met with face
to face, and also one can develop a sense of honesty with his fellow-
man. Of course, a Harvard education was not necessary to evaluate
this finding, but I believe that somehow and in some manner it
has reflected the means to this end.

[ 353 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CHARLES JAMES DOHERTY

 

HOME apprEss: 26 Sterling St., West Newton, Mass.
oFFIck appress: Armstrong Transfer Co., 60 Bristol St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 29, 1912, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., 1936; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1940.

marrieD: Madeleine M. Collins, Oct. 19, 1946, Newton, Mass. cyitpren:
Charles James, Jr, Aug. 31, 1947; Richard J., Sept. 7, 1954.

occupation: President, Armstrong Transfer Company.

HAVING experienced the phenomenon many years ago of seeing .

for the first time a policeman who was younger than myself, I have

now reached a plateau where I can look upon a president of the

United States who is younger than I. Despite all this, I think I
maintain a fresh outlook, especially since I have at home a six-
year-old, Richard, who seeks my assistance in the identification of
birds and other small matters of which he thinks me capable, and
also a stalwart thirteen-year-old, Charles, Jr, an ardent sports fan
without benefit of any coaching whatsoever from his dad. Made-
leine, fortunately, is an active participant in all of the boys’ activi-
ties, and so altogether we manage very well. This year, also, Mad
is busy with plans for her own reunion next June, serving as general
chairman of the Radcliffe ’36 Twenty-fifth. Hers ends on Sunday,
he day ours begins.

My day-to-day activities are in the trucking business, one of the
ewards being that we have had each summer a pleasant vacation in
laine at Drakes Island. This second home is probably the most
tisfying of our possessions. It is on a beautiful beach yet only a

w steps from the woods and fields.
For one who did not even remotely consider taking an ROTC

irse in college, my life has been somewhat strongly tied to the

[354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

military. After five years of service in the Artillery during the v
1 continued to be active in the Army Reserve after the war a

to this day, devote at least one evening a week to my assignment
the 94th Infantry Division.

Politically, I have always supported the Democratic Party a:
though I have not run for public office, I have served as a Den
cratic member of the Newton Board of Registrars of Voters fo.
number of years.

The years since 1936 have brought much for which to be thar
ful. Looking back I can see how I could have done many thir
differently and better, however. I still have many ideas, fort

nately, and so look forward with thankfulness for whatever of t
Bounty we may receive in the future.

+ JAMES DANIEL DOHERTY

 

BORN: July 6, 1914, Brighton, Mass. parents: Daniel Aloysius Doherty, Agnes
Angelina Mallanaphy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-19343 1937-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1936 (39).

MARRIED: Irene S. Doherty. caitpreN: James Daniel, Jr.; William Henry.
DIED: Oct. 20, 1957, Boston, Mass.

JAMES DANIEL DOHERTY was in college two years with our
Class, then returned to Harvard in 1937, receiving his degree in
1939, as of our Class, The Secretary has no information about his
post-college activities except that in 1942 he was in government
service at the United States Post Office in Boston. Doherty was
survived by his wife (now Mrs. De Vito) and his two sons

[355]

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 936

HARRY FRANCIS ROBY DOLAN, Jr.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 52 E. Meadow Rd., Wilton, Conn.

OFFICE ApprEss: 1 Atlantic St., Stamford, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1911, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Riverdale
School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., 1936 (38).

maraiep: Ruth Bradlee, 1936, Winchester, Mass. (divorced 1946); Sally Wil-
bur, 1936, New Haven, Conn. cHioren: Sarah Bradlee, Aug. 1, 1940;
Harry Francis Roby, 3d, July 17, 1943; Johannah Roby, Nov. 1, 19475
Peter Browing, Jan. 24, 1950.

occupATION: Importer.

OFFICES HELD: City manager, Lever Bros., Cambridge, Mass., 1936-38; associate,
Alan A. Claflin Company, Boston, 1938-39; sole proprietorship imports and
exports, Boston, 1939-56; managing director, Thai Tapioca Ltd., Bangkok,
Thailand, since 1956; president, Tapioca Associates, Inc., Stamford, Conn.,
since 1959, vice-president, Tapioca Importers Assoc., New York City,
since 1960. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Fairfield County Hunt
Club.

SINCE our Decennial Report, I have remarried, located both home
and office in the New York area, become a producer as well as an
importer and, to keep the bank happy, incorporated.

My family enjoys very much the country living in Fairfield
County and the advantages of being near New York City. It was a
good move both for living and business; if we were to consider an-
other change, it would be only to obtain a warmer climate, enabling
more outdoor living.

For a good many years, I have managed an average livelihood,
acting as an importer and agent for foreign producers of starch and
starch derivatives. In 1956, 1 joined with the Bombay Burmah
Trading Corporation, Ltd., to form Thai Tapioca Ltd., which be-

[356]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gan a sizeable plantation and modern manufacturing facilit
interior of Thailand. This venture has been gratifying be
monetary return in that this relatively small investment
tributed largely in the development of a new industry and
tional exportable crop for Thailand. Through steady emp.
training and fair wages, the standard of living of the pec
large area of Thailand has been greatly improved. I travel to
frequently, and to Thailand and the Far East almost ever
year. My religious and political beliefs seem to become more

JOHN ANTHONY DOLAN

MAILING ADpRESs: 11 Elko St., Brighton 35, Mass.

JACOB DOLL, III

Re reece Serenata:
ier -

a

  

HOME ApprEss: 90 Wake Robin Lane, Stamford, Conn.
BORN: Jan. 17, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1933-

MaRRIED: Marion Dixon, Nov. 8, 1956, Greenwich, Conn.
OCCUPATION: Retired.

MEMBER oF: Cruising Club of America; Storm Trysail Club,

FROM 1936 to 1941 I traveled and cruised quite extensively. During
World War IIL, I was chief officer and then master in Army Trans-
port Service, small ships branch, in the South Pacific. Duties con-
sisted mostly of carrying medical supplies to forward areas and

evacuating wounded to base hospitals and hospital ships. Areas of
operation — Australia, New Guinea, lower Philippines.

[357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Post war — again cruised extensively; worked in and then man-
aged a small yacht yard. Went into yacht brokerage in 1952. Re-
tired in 1959.

WILLIAM HENRY KEITH DONALDSON

 

HOME appress: 46 Dearborn St., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6 Lynde St., Salem, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 5, 1914, Elwood, Ind.

TRANSFERRED FROM: George Washington University, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; LL.B. 1939-

Marriep: Miriam J. Daly, June 4, 1955, Milton, Mass. cup: Claire Marie,
Oct. 9, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: President, Salem Chamber of Commerce, Beverly-Salem Civic
Music Association, Salem Lions Club, North Shore Society for Prevention
of Cruelty to Children; executive director, Salem United Fund; trustee,
Salem Hospital, director, Salem Red Cross, Boy Scouts, Family Service
Association, Bar Association; incorporator, Salem Savings Bank.

MEMBER OF: Salem Country Club; Society of Former F.B.I. Agents; North
Shore Harvard Club.

FOLLOWING college, 1 spent three more years in Cambridge at
the Law School preparing for gainful employment. Thereafter I
practised Jaw in Boston until this country entered the war, and I
entered the F.B.1. During four and one-half years in the varied
and interesting duties of a special agent, 1 was in many parts of the
United States. I then practised Jaw in Miami, Florida, for two years
before returning to Massachusetts and opening my own law office
in Salem. I had not previously lived in this historic and pleasant
city, but ic has been a happy choice of a place to live and work,
offering the rewards of pleasant associations, comfortable living

[358]

penn AIMEE Pe cnn emerge hapemtnt poet ten tg A SEPA ITO A II

cee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and public and private interests which we of the small community
feel our big city brethren are achieving only with more frenzied
efforts.

After a long bachelorhood with its many enjoyments, the memo-
ries of which I have now put aside, I married Miriam J. Daly of
Milton, Massachusetts, as the zoth Reunion drew nigh. With the
intensive training and experience of the aforesaid bachelorhood,
J made an excellent choice in my wife and our marriage has been
completely happy. I have settled into the role of a husband with
an easy satisfaction. Our daughter, Claire Marie, is four years old
and a delight to her parents. As is true of many of us, I would
like to spend more time with my family but business and outside
interests encroach upon the family scene. Charitable and community
activities are seemingly continuous but enable one to contribute to
the life around us in some fulfillment of the educational benefits our
Harvard education has given us.

My golf has been largely supplanted by a lawn. I once enjoyed
mountain-climbing in this country, Canada and Switzerland, but
now that we are on the eve of our 25th Reunion, I begin to appre-
ciate having my office on the ground floor.

Life moves on but, with the assistance of the basic instinct for
adaptation, gets better. Those things we cannot have we no longer
want, and that which comes to us we appreciate. “Simple joys and
destiny obscure” has its compensations.

I believe I have kept a liberal outlook on the world since college
days. I maintain my faith in the Democratic party and look forward
to the years of the Kennedy administration. I am forever grateful
for the opportunity of a Harvard education; the spirit of the free
inquiring mind, favored in the classroom, has been a standard I have
at least tried to follow. My college years have made my later life

much more enjoyable and satisfying, The years have sped by quickly
but they have been good ones.

[359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PAUL DONHAM

 

HOME AppRESS: Rock Harbor Road, Orleans, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kyoto Imports, Rock Harbor Road, Orleans, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1915, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.B.A., Cum? laude, 1938.

MarigD: Louise Killam, Aug. 27, 1936, Chatham, Mass. cHrLpreN: Brett, April
18, 1938 (mm. Priscilla Bagg, Feb. 7, 1958); Paul, Jr., Dec. 10, 1939; Dexter,
Aug. 25, 1942. GRaNpcHiLp: Thayer Donham, Sept. 26, 1958.

HARVARD SON: Brett Donham, "60.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Donham, ’27; Philip Donham, ’30.

OccuUPATION: Merchant, educator, consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor of business, University of Toledo, 1947-48;
Management consultant, since 1948; chairman, Industrial Division, United
Fund, Toledo, Ohio, 1952; vestryman, St. Paul’s Church, Maumee, Ohio,
1952-54; associate professor, Harvard Business School, 1954-59; council of
consultants to Small Business Administration, 1955-59; vice-president &
director, Boston Committee on Alcoholism, 1956-59; faculty member,
Advanced Management Program of the Far East, 1957-58; vestryman,
Trinity Church, Concord, Mass. 1957-60; director, Institute for Small

Business Management, since 1958.
MEMBER OF: Academy of Management, Harvard Club of New York; Orleans

Yacht Club; U.S. Naval Reserve.
puBLicaTions: New Enterprises and Small Business Management, Richard D.
Irwin, Homewood, Ill., 1959; articles in Harvard Business Review.

LONG before this gets into print, Louise and I shall have returned
from our third trip to the Far East. The first two times, we were
tourists after I completed a stint as a faculty member in the Ad-
vanced Management Program of the Far Fast. This time we go
as buyers for our joint endeavor as proprictors of Kyoto Imports,
an importing retailer of far eastern goods, In 1957, we took our
three sons and, after visiting the Fast, continued around the world.

[ 350 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For all of us, it was a real eye-opener, making reality out of the
old adage that “‘travel broadens.” Certainly, no one of us can ever
look at the world again as we did before. Louise and I love the Far
East, particularly Japan, without doubt the most beautiful count
in the world, and with people whom we came to like and admire
(so different from what we had anticipated), and Hong Kong,
possibly the most exciting city in the world. But we would return
some day to Bangkok with its fascinating canal life; to Ceylon
with its tremendous surf, as one looks out over the Indian Ocean
from the Mt. Lavinia Hotel; to Singapore with its Arab Street, a
center for beautiful yard goods from Malaya and Java.

The 25th Class Report stimulates a mood of retrospection. As I
look back, I realize that I have done most everything, variety and
change have been the keynotes of my working life. For this 1 am
most grateful, because, as I have told our boys, life has never been
dull routine, and I have got pleasure or satisfaction, sometimes both,
out of virtually everything I have done. In business, I have had
every kind of job from cleaning house weigher in a steel mill to
president of a corporation. I have started new businesses and pre-
sided over the liquidation of old ones. I have had major responsi-
bilities in marketing, manufacturing and finance. As a consultant,
I have been an adviser to the Federal Government, to giants such as
the Ford Motor Company and to many small businesses.

During my time at the Harvard Business School, I not only taught
business policy and management of new enterprises, but also taught
other teachers from business schools across the country in a Case
Teaching and Writing program sponsored by the Ford Foundation,
and taught older business men in programs for the Young Presi-
dent’s Organization and the like. One of the most intellectually
rewarding experiences was to teach a group of business men, pro-
fessors, and clerics in the Danforth Program on business and reli-
gion.

As a parent, there were times when I thought Cub Scouts would
never end, only to move on to troop committeeman in Boy Scouts.
Then, of course, came my turn as president of the P.T.A. While
serving in this spot, I got embroiled in an ¢ argument about the three
R’s versus social studies, received an anonymous letter characterizing
me as a “reducator from Harvard,” and wound up running for
Village Council — a post I lost.

My service experience was in marked contrast to that of many.
I was put in a job for which my civilian experience qualified

[ 368]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

me. This meant that I spent my war years fighting the battle of
Washington as an assistant to the Assistant Chief of Naval Opera-
tions. 1 confess to vot being one of those in Washington who were
alwavs bemoaning their land-bound fate; with a wife, and three
children, 1 was quite happy not to have sea duty. Besides, the
twelve of us who comprised the Navy’s Inventory Control Office
felt that we had an important job to do. In the fiscal year, 1945,
we were able to track down and secure the cancellation of over
$5,000,000,000 of materials not truly required for the war effort.

Perhaps the most significant fact for me in these twenty-five
years has been the development of my religious life. Until 1949,
| remained unbaptized and a confirmed agnostic. Following a spirit-
ual experience which I shall not attempt to relate, 1 was baptized,
confirmed, and in short order a vestryman of my church and most
active in its affairs. My religion and my faith are now the bulwarks
of my life, for God of my understanding has taught me to live for
this day. With Him, life has purpose for me; without Him, it is as
nothing.

This purpose makes for peace of mind. Louise and I are doing
what we want to do; in a major segment of our living we work
together, and now that our children have left us, this brings happi-
ness to us both. We are able to live on Cape Cod, a dream of ours
ever since we met and were married there, and our boys love it
equally well when they get home.

I can be proud of our children. The oldest, Brett, is married and
a father, and appears to be able to carry these burdens of responsi-
bility with courage and forthrightness. Our middle boy, Paul, has
found himself at the Rhode Island School of Design where he is
now a sophomore. Our youngest, perhaps inherently the smartest
of us all, is still working things out. He graduated from Exeter last
year, but is doing postgraduate work at Moses Brown because he
found out too late that you have to work hard for what you want

— that self-discipline and tough-mindedness are essential in this fast
changing world.

Since | must be one of the early Class grandfathers, perhaps I
should pass the word along. It is indeed true that being a grand-
parent is the ideal state: all the fun and none of the responsibility.
We look forward with anticipation to many more.

Perhaps I may summarize by saying that my life has not been
remotely as I anticipated it would be twenty-five years ago. But
despite the full awareness that “I have done the things I ought not

[ 362 J

ee ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to have done and left undone those things I ought to have don
1 am not sure that I would change much of any of it should -
good Lord give me the opportunity. I only ask that in the n
twenty-five years I may love and be of service to God and 1
neighbors and that in return, I receive the challenges and exci
ment and stimulation without which I shall corrode.

JAMES FRANCIS DONOVAN

 

MAILING appRESS: 418 Harbor Rd., Southport, Conn.

JOHN DORMAN

 

HOME ApprEss: 7016 Beechwood Drive, Chevy Chase 15, Mad.
OFFICE AppREss: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C. -
BORN: Scpt. 22, 1913, Beirut, Lebanon.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; A.M, 1942,

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

acarrieD: Martha Clifford Anderson, Feb. 10, 1947, El Paso, Texas. cxipren:
John Anderson, Jan. 27, 1948; Mary Dale, Dec. 30, 1949; Melissa, Dec. 6,
19§2.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Gerald Dale Dorman, 25; Harry Gaylord Dorman, Jr.,
"26, AM., 26; Daniel Bliss Dorman, °32, M.D, °36; David Dorman, ’46.
occupation: Foreign service officer, currently assigned to Department of

State, Washington, D.C.

OFFICES HELD: Served at American consulates in Tunis, Tunisia, and Rabat,
Morocco, and at American embassies in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and Paris,
France.

MEMBER OF: Foreign Service Association.

ALTHOUGH twenty-five years ago I put down “business” as my
intended vocation — any business would do —I taught prep-school
English for five years instead, fought World War II from the safety
of several naval shore installations, and ended up some fifteen years
ago in the Foreign Service. Because I was born and brought up
abroad, it was inevitable that whether I had started out in business
or in teaching I should be lured away by an expanding Foreign
Service made necessary by the staggering commitments and obliga-
tions thrust upon us by World War II.

The setting has changed frequently during the last twenty-five
years, but the central theme has always been my family. My wife
was a Navy Wave officer from Texas whom I met during the war
while we were both stationed in Washington. Ours is an inter-
national family — Ande, now thirteen, was born in Washington,
Mary Dale, eleven, in Tunisia; and Melissa, eight, in Morocco.
Schooling was difficult across North Africa, in Ethiopia, and less
so in Paris, but the children seem to thrive on the continual changes
and their resilience is a cause of amazement to their parents. During
the three years we have spent in Washington, the children have
completely forgotten their French, and the Little League and
Brownies have long since pushed the Guignol and the Jardin d’Accli-
matation into the background. Within the year we’re due to pull
up stakes again and will be off to still-unspecified foreign parts. Life
has been good to me, and I frequently succumb to the complacency
of having everything I need and virtually everything I want.

I have spent much of the last three years as adviser to the United
States Delegation to the United Nations. Here the world’s problems
and frustrations pass in review, the weak mingle on an equal footing
with the mighty, and everything anybody says is translated into
five languages. Through it all, one is constantly aware of the ex-
tremely narrow margin which enables the United Nations to con-

[ 354 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tinue as the arbiter for peace and world order despite tremendou
problems and constant efforts to sabotage the very concepts o:
which it was established.

Never before has the United States had so great a responsibilit
for maintaining strong leadership in international affairs and neve
before has this role been so complex and at the same time so essen
tial for the very existence of the free world. The field of foreigs
affairs today is confusing, frightening and intensely absorbing.

JOHN DELMAR DORR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Mt. Prospect St., Bridgewater, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dorr’s Print Shop, Bridgewater, Mass.
BoRN: March 17, 1914, Bridgewater, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Bridgewater High School, Bridgewater, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MarRigD: Dorothea Minner, April 30, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHmpren: Peter
Delmar, Oct. 9, 1939; Douglas Haig, March 4, 1942; Persis Anne, April
13, 1946.

OccUPATION: Printing and publishing.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Town Advisory Committee, 1953-56, School Com-
mittee, since 1956, Bridgewater, Mass.; corporator, Bridgewater Savings

Bank.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; other bodies of the York Rite.

HAPPILY, I can report that I have the same wife, same children,
same business, same house and same interests as mentioned in prior
years — also some hair. With our number one son a senior at Brown
University, our number two son attending the Bentley School of
Accounting and Finance, and our “charmer” (sce the Decennial Re-
port, 1947) a ninth-grader ac the Howard School for Girls, the

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

favorite sport of my wife and me, at present, is trying to keep one
jump ahead of the various business offices concerned.
Sound rather dull and drab? Believe me, these twenty-five years

since Commencement have been anything but—and I’ve liked
them!

RICHARD GIBSON DORR

 

HOME apprEss: 7 Lincoln Circle, Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1915, Lancaster, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1936; LL.B., 1939.

marriep: Grace Staines Westlake, Feb. 20, 1943, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Gibson, Jr., Nov. 23, 1946; Allyn Abbott, Oct. 19, 1949; Rachael
Maclndoe, Feb. 14, 1953; Jonathan, March 22, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Dudley Huntington Dorr, Jr. ’29.

occupaTiON: Attorney, partner, Hale & Dorr.

OFFices HELD: Director and clerk, Children’s Mission to Children; director and

vice-president, Benevolent Fraternity of Unitarian Churches, director,
North End Union, Beneficial Finance Company.

MOTHER, the children’s mother, not mine, caught me reading the
corset ads again yesterday and, running her fingernails through the
folds of scalp, muttered lovingly, “You haven't changed.” In a
subtle way, she’s right. Even more subtly, she’s wrong. What I
mean is, by this time you've had it. Not just the arthritis, the slight
coronary, the double-duty ulcer, you’ve had the pattern of your
life fixed. No longer do you have to struggle to become vice-
president. (Note that I became such, albeit the organization con-
tends for the longest name known.) Like the fly on the stickpin,

you're no longer struggling. You're grounded, That’s why she’s
wrong.

| 366 ]

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Felix Frankfurter just finished saying that autobiographies are the
more mythical, the more apt the writer. This applies to reunion
reports. Mine isn’t going to be quite accurate because aptness as a
writer seems a glorious goal. Recently a Milton man appointed me
to a committee to consider nominees for marshal. To no one’s sur-
prise, the best choices seem to have come from you-know-where,
but secretly my favorite was Bissell, a writer.

The other clue to my life, as opposed to yours, would be fear
of giants. The aura of a great man, physical or mental, strikes ter-
ror. It is hard for me to remember that when playing football you
can trip a giant simply by leaning over in front of him. Yet I love
the lowly types. Having received the Class Reports, I am pleased
to note that many of us are pretty fair citizens without being famed.
And now, twenty-five years out, the giants seem pretty tame and
even the famous ones congenial.

Joe Welch was a giant of sorts and a partner in the firm to which
my last name is attached. He was unusually gentle in dealing with
young and old law clerks and gave us a standard by which to
measure quality in people.

Being a lawyer, and a family one at that, is a gratifying experi-
ence, This is a service industry in the truest sense. It is true that all
the joys of learning, which were emphasized to us twenty-five years
ago, are no longer present in the academic sense, but now that the
pattern of life is set, the learning gained from experience is a dif-
ferent kind and dramatically applicable.

RICHARD BACHELLER DORT

 

MAILING Appress: 64 Fifth Se, Bangor, Maine.

[ 367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

THOMAS HENRY DOWD, Jr.

  

HOME appress: 29 Lincoln St., Hingham, Mass.
orFick apprEss: Hale, Sanderson, Byrnes & Morton, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston,

Mass.
BoRN: June 24, 1914, Newton, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1936; LL.B., 1940.

marrigD: Jacqueline Quincy Ott, June 27, 1952. CHILDREN: Henry Quincy,
April 20, 1954; Lucy Glover, March 12, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Reynolds Dowd, ’40 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Boston, and American Bar Associations. -

AS predicted in the senior album, I did enter the Army after gradu-
ation as a Cavalry lieutenant under the Thomason Act, which at that
time made it possible for graduates of institutions other than West
Point to do so. By the end of the year for which I had signed up,
which was enjoyable and I now think profitable, it had become ap-
parent to me that law rather than military service was the objective.
Returning to the Harvard Law School, I really got down to hard
work, by dint of which I managed to graduate in 1940. No sooner
was the hurdle of the Massachusetts bar examination surmounted
than my military past insured me of early re-entry into the Army.
For the next few years, horses being out of style, | was concerned
with tanks. After the war, being a bachelor with low priority for
homecoming, I found myself provost marshal of the City of Munich
for a time. Back in this country, I was appointed to a permanent
position in the Regular Army but declined. I did continue actively
in the Reserve for several years, and for two of them commanded
the tank battalion of the 94th Division (Reserve),

The loss of my brother, who had Ieft law school to go to wat

[ 368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and with whom I had hoped some day to practise, probably con-
tributed to my turning from the practice of Jaw for the time being.
As a related alternate, I went to work for the Connecticut General
Life Insurance Company in Boston, working on the thorough estate
analysis and planning methods then being pioneered by that com-
pany and also on employee benefit plans. This experience proved
extremely useful if not immediately profitable. However, after two
years of it I realized that I really did want to practise law and in
this same field. I opened a one-man law office which was not too
busy for some time and have been working on estates, trusts, wills
and related matters, such as pension and profit-sharing trusts, ever
since. It seems to me that it is one of the most rewarding and satis-
fying types of practice because it is constructive planning for the
well-being of people. Many lawyers see people at their worst —
when they are bickering, or battling, or in the toils; I see them at
their best — when they are thinking about their wives and children.
In 1960, I joined the firm of Hale, Sanderson, Byrnes & Morton,
which is not a partnership but an association of individual practi-
tioners such as I, sharing office facilities and expenses. It seems to
be a happy combination of independence and cooperation.

As previously reported, my best luck so far was my marriage in
1952 to Jacqueline Quincy Ott of Milton, also a lawyer. We have
settled in Hingham in a large, old, white house (larger and older
than the one in which we lived five years ago as required by an
increase in population) and have two children. A two-hundred-
year-old house and children six and two years old seem to absorb
most of the energy not expended in the office for the present. Ob-
servations on life, love, politics, education, and other suggested
topics, I leave to my more thoughtful and eloquent classmates.

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

** GERALD WHELAN DOWNER

 

BorN: Nov. 22, 1915, Northampton, Mass. parents: Henry Ernest Downer,
- Anne Veronica Whelan.
PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: .B., cl laude, 1936; S.M. IN MECH.
ENGIN., 1938.
marrieD: Virginia Marie Murphy, Nov. 21, 1941, Beverly, Mass.
pieD: Nov. 28, 1942, Boston, Mass.

GERALD WHELAN DOWNER spent four years with our Class.
While an undergraduate he was a resident of Lowell House and a
member of the track and house baseball teams. Since graduation
from the Engineering School, he had been employed in the mechani-
cal engineering department of the United Shoe Machinery Corpora-
tion in Beverly. While celebrating their first wedding anniversary,
Downer and his wife died in the Coconut Grove fire in Boston on
November 28, 1942.

FRANCIS XAVIER DOYLE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 22 Boylston St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

[ 370 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM ELIJAH DOYLE, JR.

 

HOME ADDREsS: 100 Jefferson St., South Braintree 85, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Doyle Shoe Co., 16 N. Warren Ave., Brockton 55, Mass.

BORN: July 18, 1915, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

MARRIED: Eileen M. Brennan, Feb. 12, 1945, Randolph, Mass.

occuPATION: President, Doyle Shoe Company, Brockton, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of managers, the Quartermaster Association of
New England; corporator, People’s Savings Bank, Brockton, Mass.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Brockton; Kiwanis Club of Brockton.

ON July 15, 1936, I started working in our family’s business, manu-
facturing men’s shoes. With the exception of naval service, 1942-45,
I’ve been at the same old stand ever since, in association with my
father and two brothers. I suppose we typify the New England
family “small business.” Problems of purchasing, sales, finance, per-
sonnel, production, maintenance, taxes and all the other facets of
business life will probably be encountered several times in the course
of a day’s work, and in the process I have received a well-rounded
education in business and people.

It’s often hard and confining work and doesn’t leave much time
for social activities, but once or twice a year I manage to get away
from business for a short time during which my wife and I take
trips to which we have looked forward since our preceding one.
Hobbies: bird watching, national and world politics.

[371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROGER WOLCOTT DRURY

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Barnum Street, Sheffield, Mass.

BorN: March 3, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B., ¢47” laude, 1936.

MARRIED: Virginia Jenney, Sept. 13, 1941, Cambridge, Mass, cuitpren: Tom,
July 10, 1942; Geoffrey, Jan. 12, 1945; Daniel, May 18, 1947; Julia, Nov.

15, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Smith Drury, Jr., °35.

OCCUPATION: Farmer, writer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Sheffield Parent Teachers Association, 1948-50; clerk
of vestry, since 1949, lay reader, since 1953, church school superintendent,
1953-56, Christ Episcopal Church, Sheffield.

OBEDIENT to the pleas of 1936, I have stood R. W. Drury against
a door with a book on his head, and proved the lurking suspicion
that he has a good way yet to grow.

At graduation, full of zest for a literary career, he went to work
as cub reporter on a New York newspaper, but after a year al-
lowed a salary-jump to pull him into advertising copy-writing
for a book publisher. He stayed with this folly for two years, then
set out on his own to be a full-time servant of the Muse.

War pried him from his ineffectual attic in the fall of 1941, when
he volunteered to work under the Quakers in whatever alternative
to armed madness might be found for conscientious objectors. After
three years as a volunteer and draftee in tamely “constructive” con-
servation work, Drury was fortunate to be assigned as an attendant
in a mental hospital ward. There, among prisoners of ignorance, he
served a satisfying, taxing year and a half.

Idealism, not ending with the war, next deposited Drury with
his wife and two young sons on an cighty-acre farm in the hilly

[ 372 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

southwest corner of Massachusetts. (Fifteen years later he is still
there.)

The plan was radical and, for a Harvard English major, just a
shade presumptuous: to work full-time with one’s hands producing
a necessity of life, in this case, milk. Be it admitted that a ten-cow
herd of gentle Jerseys did their share! The intent was to live as far
as possible without hiring labor, to give the children an environ-
ment in which daily living generated its own entertainment, art,
discipline, recreation and service to the community — all but travel,
the dairy farmer’s never-never-land.

To the ten years during which this venture absorbed his family,
Drury owes new amateur skills in carpentry, cabinet-making, plumb-
ing, wiring, masonry, etc.; two abortive campaigns as Democratic
candidate for town assessor; rediscovery of an old talent — the
tendency to leave projects not quite finished in the face of a fresh
challenge or emergency (ever present on a family farm) crying to
be met.

About 1956, events combined to narrow down the experiment.
The farm was proving too small for economic survival, yet it was
already more than a handful for A.B., 1936, with no previous knowl-
edge of farming. Determined to continue it as a one-man family
farm or not at all, Drury was already edging toward the latter alter-
native when a most unbucolic ulcer spoke up in support of this
trend. Was the old literary yen gnawing at his vitals, he wondered.

The past four years seem to have answered, yes. A rigid regimen
of mornings for writing, afternoons for the farm’s reduced demand,
has brought gastric quiet and the beginnings of a possibly worth-
while literary product.

Drury claims no notable achievement in the twenty-five years,
unless it be recognition of an error: he used to take great satis-
faction in his rebellions (and ample credit too), ladling blame on
parents and schools for making rebellion necessary and proposing
to make his stand on some assortment of borrowed genes.

Now, at forty-six, he has gratefully discovered his debt to all
who had a hand in making him; above all to a devoted wife whose
honesty shames his self-deceit, and to four children whom he
strains not to disappoint.

[ 373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

DOUGLAS POOLE DRYER

 

HOME apprEss: 66 Duggan Ave., Toronto, Ont., Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Toronto, Toronto, Ont., Canada.

BorN: Nov. 27, 1915, Toronto, Ont., Canada.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1936; a.M., 1939.

MARRIED: Pegeen Synge, March 22, 1946, Toronto, Ont. Canada. cHILpREN:
Dagny Elizabeth, June 3, 1948; Matthew Synge, April 27, 1950; Moira

Jane, Aug. 9, 1957.
occupaTion: Associate professor of philosophy, University of Toronto.
MEMBER OF: Mind Association; American Philosophical Association, Univer-

sity of Toronto Faculty Club.

PuBLIcATIONS: “Ethical Reasoning”; “Metaphysics and Christian Faith”; vari-

ous book reviews.

FROM 1936 to 1939, I did graduate study in philosophy at Harvard,
then taught at Union College, Schenectady, 1939-41, at Harvard,
1943-45, and at Tufts, 1944-45. In 1945 I left Cambridge to join
the staff at the University of Toronto. In a few months I had the
good fortune to meet and marry a Toronto girl of Anglo-Irish ex-
traction. Although I had been born in Toronto, I had lived almost
all of my earlier life in the United States. With a Canadian wife
and three children growing up as Canadians, I have been becoming
increasingly a Canadian myself. 1 now pronounce ‘z’ as ‘zed’ and
spell ‘honor’ as ‘honour’ but balk at pronouncing ‘schedule’ as
‘shedule’ or ‘trait’ as ‘tray.’ In Canada one shares the heritage of
both of the main segments of the English-speaking world. I read
far more English novels and journals than hitherto and sce more
British films and plays. Although steeped in school days with
veneration for Lincoln and the glories of ’76, here in Toronto I
lecture on political philosophy to loyal subjects of Ter Majesty.
Living outside the United States, one acquires fresh perspective

[374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

toward it. When I return to ‘the States,’ I find brashness, blatancy
and shallow familiarities which grate upon me. Yet anti-American
prejudice and hostility which one meets outside the United States
but deepen one’s affection and appreciation for so much that is
distinctively American.

My hobbies include walking, skiing, swimming, scything and
forestry. My chief intellectual interests are substantially two which
I already had in college days. One of them has been to determine
what can be achieved in the perennial effort to understand the
nature of things generally. I find that Kant has quite a bit to offer
in clearing up this matter. What he has to offer is largely forgotten
today; one has to dig for it. I am getting my results ready for pub-
lication. My main other intellectual interest has been in figuring
out what is needed for reaching sound solutions to the dilemmas
which public affairs present.

In the University of Toronto we are fighting to retain high aca-
demic standards in the face of greatly increasing waves of students.
The city of Toronto too has been expanding more rapidly than
almost any center on the continent. One has to raise a family
either in inaccessible suburbs or in an older residential area where
apartments and office buildings are encroaching. We choose the
latter. To get away from it in summer, we find too many people
everywhere on the Atlantic coast of the United States. In recent
years I take my work and my family for the summer to the northern
shore of Nova Scotia. A message to old friends: look us up there if
you are nearby. (R.R. 2, Amherst.) I recommend the region to
any of you who wants to own his own stretch of ocean shore, away
from the throngs, but with water warmer than most of New Eng-
land.

L 375 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT MORRISON DRYSDALE, JR.

 

HOME. ADDRESS: 2116 Stuart Ave., Richmond 20, Va.
orice Appress: % Recony Division of Vinco Corporation, Belle Isle, Rich-

mond 3, Va.
BORN: Jan. 9, 1915, Detroit, Mich.
preparen AT: Detroit University School, Grosse Pointe, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; LL.B., Cleveland-

Marshall Law School, 1949.
marriep: Madeleine Guion Drake, Feb. 23, 1952, Warrenton, Va.

occupation: Business executive, manufacturing.

oFFIcES HELD: Vice-president, Recony Division, director and secretary, Vinco
Corporation; director and vice-president, Rhodes-Jackson Corporation,
Rhodes Manufacturing Company, Inc.; director, Foster-Thornburg Hard-
ware Corporation; director, president, chief executive officer, Virginia

Metal Products, Inc. Orange, Virginia, 1953-56; director, executive vice-
president, Federation for Railway Progress, Washington, D.C., 1949-52;

director, Missouri Pacific Railway Company, 1949-52.
MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C., Harvard Club of New
York; Farmington Country Club; 1925 F Street Club; Washington, D.C.,

Chapter, Newcomen Society; Young Presidents Organization.

ALTHOUGH my copy of the 1936 Class Year Book was lost when

I moved my few possessions to Bogota, Colombia, some twenty years
ago, the photograph clipped therefrom and mailed to me to black-
mail me into writing this Report has stirred my memory. This age-
encrusted document records, I believe, that I was to become an
archaeologist. How exciting and fascinating a career that would
have been! — digging into the glorious past! The sober, cold fact
is, of course, that I have had to live in the sordid present of war,
socialism, and a fattening, Harvard-encouraged bureaucracy. And
his has not at all times been easy. But having survived the “deals”
of Roosevelt, F., and Truman, H., World War II, Korea, and hurri-
‘ane “Hazel,” I have a feeling that the day is coming when I may

[ 376 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be able to report significant and interesting accomplishments to my
Harvard classmates. In the meantime, twenty-five years have come
and gone much too quickly, and there is very little worth recording
here for such a sophisticated readership.

Instead of archaeology — or even school teaching, the career I
tried to embark upon in the first few years out of Harvard —I have
pursued the challenge of industrial management, a challenge which
has provided me with the opportunity to participate in making deci-
sions with some very outstanding senior industrial leaders, and the
satisfaction of successfully discharging the responsibility for sub-
stantial business affairs. It has, however, so far prevented me from
establishing any permanent home. I have lived in New York, Bo-
gota, Long Island, Cleveland, Washington, Fairfax County, Madison
County and now Richmond, Virginia. And, unfortunately, in all
these domiciliary moves, my path has not crossed that of any Har-
vard classmate more than fleetingly.

From the beginning, but briefly, the story goes something like
this. The first year after leaving Harvard was spent in England as
the Harvard Scholar at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, a wonderful
year even in memory. Vacation trips to the Continent took me as
far east as Greece, where for a few moments I played the part of
the archaeologist — the team “digging” the Market Place at Athens
mistook me for Charles Lindbergh, who was also visiting Athens at
the time, and Jet me handle a few potsherds. I returned to the U.S.
at the beginning of the Roosevelt depression and went to work as
a messenger boy in a fine old family shipping and trading organiza-
tion down near the East River in old New York. While I was in
England, the distinguished headmaster of one of the leading New
England boys’ schools, who had offered me a job teaching Latin
and Greek, passed away, and with him apparently went my chances
of becoming a schoolmaster. I talked with one or two other New
England headmasters, but when the chairman of the board of the
shipping company recommended me for the job of secretary to the
chief executive officer of the steamship line, all further thoughts of
school teaching went out the window. There followed two instruc-
tive years of learning the steamship business by looking over the
shoulders of top management and traveling with them on the com-
pany’s shipping routes in the Caribbean and along the west coast
of South America, The next stop was a “stretch” as the company’s
sales representative in Bogota, Colombia. This was a fascinating
assignment. I made some dear friendships among the Colombians,

[ 377 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

tration of seeing what you have built pass into hands of those whose
objectives you cannot share.

The most rewarding part of this experience, however, was that
it took us to the part of the world we now call “home,” even
though at the moment we have no house or other property there.
For surely, the Virginia Piedmont is a land “where men with splen-
did hearts may go,” and in that region | shall take my stand where
the mountains meet the Rapidan. For eight happy years we lived
“in peace and holy quiet” in the residence of Glendalough, near
Locust Dale in Madison County, part of a community of gentle
country people who “love the Good” and “worship Truth.” No
question about it, “The women there do all they ought, the men
observe the Rules of Thought.” They also “laugh uproariously in
Youth.” But now the Harvard Class of 1936 comes to remind us
that Youth does not linger. The laughter fades, perhaps, but the
echo of it can still be heard, resounding through memories which
will be there to stir the heart and soul until the end.

The Reunion year finds us living comfortably in Richmond, half-
way between mountains and sea. In the fall and spring, we can be
back in our favorite Piedmont “homeland” in ninety minutes; in
the cruel heat of the Richmond summer we can escape, in about
the same length of time, to the refreshing waters of the Atlantic at
Virginia Beach. My new assignment is as challenging and as absorb-
ing as the others. As an associate of two particularly gifted indus-
trialists and a director of a nationally listed corporation, we are try-
ing to restore profitability to a manufacturing business which was
“run on the beach” by some operators and to build the organization
into a worthwhile contributing unit of the economy.

The twenty-five years have been good to me. God has blessed
them with opportunity and with accomplishment, but above all
He has left me with an unsatisfied longing to know and do His

work, and with faith that I shall continue to have His help in finding
my way up the path and over the hill.

[ 380]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS DUCEY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Marshall Ridge Rd., New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Brake Shoe Co., 530 Fifth Ave. New York 36, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1914, Detroit, Mich.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Katharine Munson, Oct. 2, 1937, Merion, Pa. cHwpren: Watharine
Townsend, Nov. 22, 1940 (7. Rodney D. Hardy, Harvard ’60, Nov. 26,
1960); Ethel Barroll, Aug. 20, 1943, Georgina Munson, Sept. 30, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Garfield Ducey, ’42 (deceased).

occupaTion: Director of acquisitions, American Brake Shoe Company.

OFFICES HELD: Ward heeler, New York City, 1938, officer, USNR, 1941-45,
director, Northern California Chapter, Arthritis & Rheumatism Founda-
tion, 1952-54; treasurer, 1956-58, president, 1958-60, Harvard Club of
New Canaan; member, board of managers, Harvard Club of New York,
1959-62; trustee, St. George’s School, since 1956, New Canaan Country
School, 1956-59, St. Timothy’s School, Stevenson, Md., since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Currently, Harvard Clubs of New York, New Jersey, New
Canaan and San Francisco; Country Club of New Canaan; Racquet and
Tennis Club; American Association of Mechanical Engineers, Railway
Progress Institute, New York Railway Club; Pacific Railway Club, for-
mer member, Morris County Golf Club; Pretty Brook Club, Princeton,
N.J.; University Club and The Family Club, San Francisco; Burlingame
(Calif.) Country Club.

THE well-defined periods that have marked my life make it all
seem incredibly short. The college years were for my gallant mother
and me a struggle culminating in a degree, which provided a job,
which permitted a wife, and a navy commission (which at the time
seemed incidental), Then followed a period of bliss — learning to
live with a new bride, a fascinating job in New York, new friends
and, at last —a daughter born in Morristown, New Jersey, on the
autumn day in 1940 that Harvard beat Yale.

[ 381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

The navy commission, held so lightly, ended this phase in March,
1941, when the furniture went to storage, my wife and child went
home to Philadelphia, and I went to Norfolk, Virginia, supposedly
for one year! On November 1, 1945, I returned from four years at
sea in destroyers, with enough compassionate leave (as the English
call it) to find a family of two daughters, a wife, a steadfast set
of in-laws, and a compelling desire to re-establish long-lost ruts.

They were eventually re-established in Princeton, New Jersey,

which best suited my new assignment in my good old company,
which took me back with open arms. Here, daughter number three
appeared, and here, caught in the impossibilities of inflation (which
I had never really believed in Economics A), we began a career of
do-it-yourself house remodeling, which has engrossed us ever since.
We decided we would never be moved from the East by Old Uncle
Brake Shoe, so we cut a Victorian house in half, moved it across
Princeton amid an outraged citizenry, spent a year making it up-to-
date and livable — then we were moved to San Francisco to repre-
sent the company there. This phase almost achieved the state of
bliss we had known once before. Whatever anyone has ever said
about that city is not enough. But, we had to do over another house,
get established in. school and business again and — in three years —
we were called back to New York.

For the second time, we found our belief in the independent
school system was well-founded. In New Canaan, as in San Fran-
cisco, the children were accepted at once on their records, duly
forwarded by that wonderful fraternity. We chose New Canaan
because of proximity to an uptown office and friends (we never
want to start from scratch again), as well as its position midway
between our two families in Philadelphia and Boston.

The constant element in our lives has -been Northeast Harbor,
Maine. Here we met; here our second child was born; and to here
we have struggled every summer (but one) that we have had to-
gether. The children have inherited our love for Mount Desert
and it has done much to dispel the strains of their many homes,

despite the loss in 1959 of their Uncle Jim (Harvard 42) who was
so vivid a part of the charm of that island.

The rest is, at last, rather routine. At our age we do all the acts
of citizenry that we are asked to perform. We have a bond with
St, Timothy’s School, where all the girls have, or will have gone;
and a continuing love for St. George’s which gave me for a term
the job of alumni president in view of my lack of sons, Harvard

[ 382 ]

eT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has been with us wherever we have gone, and Harvard football —
both good and bad — has been faithfully followed by my female
family. We now rejoice in a new Harvard addition to the family,
a son-in-law from the Class of 1960, and expect to attend the forth-
coming Reunion en masse.

In summary, we have been fortunate, active and reasonably aver-
age. We remain Episcopalians and Republicans and we hope the
next twenty-five years will be as good to us as those just passed.

ARTHUR FRANCIS DUFFEY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 527 Ocampo Drive, Pacific Palisades, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Airlines, Inc., Los Angeles International Airport, Los
Angeles, Calif.

BoRN: April 1, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Franke Fitch, Oct. 26, 1940, Coronado, Calif. cHitpren: Arthur Fran-
cis, 3d, Sept. 28, 1942; Michael, Dec. 24, 1943; Peter, Aug. 15. 1945;
Patrick, April 2, 1949; Diane, Oct. 28, 1955.

occupPaTION: Captain, American Airlines.

[ 383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN GORDON DUFFEY

 

: apprEss: 141 Robins Drive, San Antonio 41, Texas.

: appRESS: HQ. SAAMA, Kelly Air Force Base, Texas.

Feb. 6, 1914, Boston, Mass.

=p AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

N COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

: Mary Louise Lappen, Aug. 31, 1940, Lexington, Mass. curren:
1 Gordon, Jr. Feb. 16, 1942; Robert Anthony, Sept. 3, 1943; Patricia
se, Nov. 29, 1951; Margaret Ellen, Feb. 20, 1953.

rorners: Arthur Francis Duffey, Jr., '36; Roger Duffey, ’45.

‘: Colonel; Director of Special Weapons, U.S. Air Force.

iough I’m fortified with the precision vision engendered
"-five years of hindsight, I can’t read the signs well enough
ze. But in looking back I feel that several of life’s goals
ly been met. First off, I have a wonderful and under-
fe. Then I have four fine children. These people, large
ive meaning and substance to my life. I can remember
couraged me to finish college on the basis that college
better and higher paid jobs. I have a “better” job,
ause it is a useful and very interesting one. Indeed, |
uniquely privileged to have been engaged over the
in nuclear w eapons logistics. It might even be said

hat the interesting nature of this work produces a
which compensates in part for the modesty of other
ars that in the cold war's amphitheatre where the
1m 1s forced by the bomb my work from time to
at somewhat closer to the so-yard line. My work
some fifteen addresses in the past twenty-five years
interesting places as India, Okinawa and England.
ess, there are indications that we shall be moving

[ 384 |

_—— —

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

overseas very shortly, perhaps to Europe, I hope. We retain a ve
healthy respect for, but confidence in, the future.

Two boys in college next year will undoubtedly leave us ve
short on status symbols. Think of the frustration of living in E
rope next to all those fine things produced there and not being al
to buy all of them. We have already rationalized the fact that
Mercedes is after all a necessity.

Since graduation I guess that I learned at least one fact and th
is that we as a people are committed, or should be, to unremitti:
vigilance. Heroic size efforts must be employed to insure that o
American civilization is not added to Toynbee’s list of the defune

In summary, as you can probably already see, we are not te
much elated with the modicum of success suggested herein, b

neither are we dismayed at the thought of past or even futu
failures.

Thank you for the use of the hall.

FRANCIS GREGORY DUNLEVY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 145-53 167th St., Jamaica 34, N.Y.
BORN: Nov. 22, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).

[385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILLIAM HETHERINGTON DURFEE

 

HOME appress: 20 Atwood Rd., South Hadley, Mass.

orice appress: Mount Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass.

porN: April 12, 1915, Montague, Mass.

prepareD at: Geneva High School, Geneva, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1940; PH.D.
(Cornell Univ.), 1944.

MaRRIED: Sylvia Brooks Taylor, Sept. 2, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHmpren: Alan
Hetherington, Sept. 2, 1943; Charles Brooks, Nov. 11, 1946; Elizabeth Tay-
lor, April 30, 1952; William Keith, June 17, 1954.

HARVARD SON: Alan Hetherington Durfee, ’65.

occupation: Associate professor of mathematics, Mount Holyoke College.

MEMBER oF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; Souhegan Country Club (president, 1959-61).

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on mathematics in professional journals; Fundamentals of
College Algebra, Macmillan, 1960.

AFTER graduation I tried actuarial work in an insurance company
for three years before deciding that I was more interested in mathe-
matics and teaching than business. Accordingly, I returned to Har-
vard for a year of graduate study and then transferred to Cornell
to work on my doctorate. Since then I have taught mathematics
around the Ivy League — Cornell, Yale and Dartmouth — and now
for six years at a distaff counterpart, Mount Holyoke. These posi-
tions were interspersed with two periods of work as an applied
mathematician for the government, once during the war and again
in the early 1950's, but after each I returned to teaching with the
pleasure that comes from feeling more at home in one job than any
other.

Although college teaching is demanding and takes more time than
one’s business friends can ever believe, it is a rewarding and pleasant
career, not the least of its pleasures in a small college community

[ 386 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

being the close mixture of one’s social and professional life. In
spite of its drawbacks, we like small-town living. To be near the
country, to be able to walk to work and home again for lunch, and
to see one’s friends on the street, are little things that can contribute
so much to the enjoyment of life.

At times it seemed as if the children would never grow up, but
now the end is in sight. Our oldest son enters Harvard this fall and
the next one will be college bound in three years. The two youngest
children are still in grade school, so we shall have a chance to catch
our breath before their college bills are upon us.

WALTER WILLIAM DWYER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4901 Strathmore Ave., Kensington, Md.

OFFICE appREsS: Interstate Commerce Commission, Washington, D.C.
BORN: March 25, 1914, Newport, R.I.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. C17 lade, 1936; LL.B, 1939.
MARRIED: Julie Stephanie Badylak, April 17, 1948, Gary, Ind.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Xavier Dwyer, '23, a.M., '24.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

SINCE 1936 I have lived in New York City, Mobile, Alabama,
Atlanta, Georgia, Knoxville and Nashville, Tennessee, and Wash-
ington, D.C. I have been an attorney, a teacher, a special agent and
now am a specialist in research. I have learned a little about people,
a little about myself and a lot about the contentment to be found
in family life. My guess is that I'd be farther along if I'd staved in a
rut and progressed in a straight line; but ’'m afraid I'd have been
bored. As it is, I’m only frustrated. I intend to keep try ing. Don't

be surprised if you receive a similar report on our Fifueth — if
I’m one of the survivors.

[ 387]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

EDGAR IVAN EATON

 

MAILING ApprEss: U.S, Embassy, Geneva, Switzerland (until August, 1961);
416 Lyric Lane, Falls Church, Va.

LAWRENCE VOSE EATON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 248 Windsor Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

oFrFice appress: Colony Food Products, Inc., Medford, Mass.

BORN: Nov, 22, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: 8.B., 1936.

MarRigD: Jeanne Kopp, Sept. 29, 1939, Huntington, W. Va. cHipren: Mal-

colm Vose, Aug. 7, t940; Carolyn Pryor, March 31, 1943; William Law-
rence, March 12, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Sumner Eaton, "45.

occuPaTION: Food processing, president and treasurer, Colony Food Products,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, Union Church, 1959-41.
MEMBER OF: Brae Burn Country Club, Harvard Club of Boston; Waban

Neighborhood Club, Men’s Club of the Union Church; Massachusetts
Restaurant Association.

[ 388 ]

257TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TWENTY-FIVE years certainly have slipped by quickly. It seems
only yesterday that we were undergraduates in Cambridge. With
the exception of adding a little weight and growing a few gray hairs,
I feel as young as I did while in college. No doubt most of the credit
belongs first to the good care given me by my wife and secondly
the technical advancement in medicine such as vitamin pills, etc.

In the past twenty-five years, my wife Jeanne and I have had two
sons and a daughter. The elder son, Malcolm, is attending Babson
Midwest Institute in Kansas. The younger, Bill, is at Middlesex
School in Concord, and my daughter Carolyn graduates from New-
ton High this spring. We have always liv ed in suburban Boston —
the last twenty years in Waban, where Jeanne and I have been
active, as all suburbanites are, in community, church and club
activities.

The first half of my working years were spent in the restaurant
business and the second half in supplying these restaurants with
peeled potatoes. Due to the long working hours, I find myself with
little leisure time. However, I do manage some curling at Brae Burn
Country Club. During the winter months, Jeanne and I usually
manage a few weeks in the Bahamas in lieu of a summer vacation.

After watching my two oldest children trying to select a college,
Iam very thankful that I lived back in the thirties when getting a
college degree was much easier. I doubt very much if I would be
attending a Twenty-five-year Reunion at Harvard if conditions
were as difficult then as they are now.

Although Jeanne and I see several of the local classmates occa-
sionally, we welcome any of the out-of-towners who can find time
to drop in at our home in Waban.

[ 38y ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

THEODORE GILBERT ECHLOV

 

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Rawson Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1682 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 23, 1913, Chelsea, Mass.

prePareD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936, M.D. (Middlesex Univ.),

1940.
MarriED: Esther Katz, Dec. 25, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Stephen Law-

rence, Sept. 4, 1941; Brenda Lois, Feb. 25, 1948.

occuPATION: Physician and surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Major, USMC, 1942-46; assistant professor of medicine, Massa-
chusetts School of Chiropody, 1943-45; assistant director, Medicine for
Attorneys (publication), since 1945; counsel surgeon, United Commercial
Traveler; medical director, Civil Defense, Brookline; chairman of Civil
Defense, Brookline Medical Club; owner and medical director, Regent

Nursing Home.
MEMBER OF: Greater Boston Medical Society, Norfolk District Medical So-

ciety; American Medical Association, American Academy of General
Practice (fellow); American Geriatrics Society (fellow),

AFTER graduating from medical school and spending two years
in hospital training, I entered the service, traveling all over this
country, then England, France and Germany, finally returning to
these United States in February, 1946. After several months of
rehabilitation and refreshing courses, I opened my practice on
Beacon Street, Brookline. It is now sixteen years since I started
practice and life has been full, active and pleasant. My family has
developed and is a great source of pleasure to me. My days are
long but stimulating. My professional career has extended into real
estate and directing a nursing home (owner and medical director of
the Regent Nursing Home, 74 Corey Road, Brighton, Massachu-
setts), And with the help of my good wife, so far we have man-

[ 390 |

—. 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

aged well. In my few spare moments, I enjoy the outdoors, fishing
being my main interest.

THOMAS HORTON EDMANDS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Academy Lane, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Traveler, 300 Harrison Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 28, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1936(37).

MARRIED: Louise Ravel Judge, April 22, 1942, Holyoke, Mass. cHiLpREN:
Thomas Franklin, 2d, Dec. 28, 1946 (died Jan. 28, 1947); Lee Judge,

July 20, 1948.
OCCUPATION: Newspaperman; assistant to head of copy desk, Boston Traveler.
MEMBER OF: Reserve Officers’ Association.

EDMANDS is at the same old stand, the Traveler, where he holds
the dubious title of assistant “slot” (not to be confused with slob)
editor. He will take neither the time nor the space here to tell you
what he does. Drop in some time at the “Most Modern Newspaper
in the World” and he’ll show you.

Mrs. Edmands is still living with him, and that’s something. It
would be only fair to let her tell her own story — at the Reunion.
His daughter is twelve now, practically a teen-ager. She takes after
her mother in good looks and in most anything that counts. Lee ts
smart, of course, like her father, and, like her father, seems a bit
allergic to anything that resembles hard work.

The Edmands family lives a turbulent life in the so-called suburbs.
They don’t have any money and don’t know where to get any, so
don’t ask them for any contributions, They are interested in ani-
mals, so they keep a large, black dog, a sixteen-year-old cat, a white
rabbit, an ornery guinea pig and three goldfish.

[391 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

At present, Edmands is recovering from the effects of a blood
clot at the base of the brain, This incapacitated him for about two
months. He is now back at work and hopes for full recovery. On

doctor's orders he has dropped about twenty-five pounds to 160, the

weight he carried when battling on the gridiron for Dear Old
Adams House in the early °30's, See for yourself at the Reunion.
During World War I, Edmands served as an intelligence officer
with the 13th Air Force in the Pacific. He keeps active in the
Army Reserve and has been a light colonel since 1946 (Pentagon

take notice).

JOHN NEWELL EDSON

fer

   

HOME AppRESS: 30 Garden Pl, Brooklyn 1, N.Y,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 142 Joralemon St., Brooklyn 1, N-Y.

porn; Nov. 2, 1913, Waterbury, Conn,
PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, NLY.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DECREE: M.D, (Long Island College of Medicine),
1939.
Maxpigp: Frances Ricciardelli, April 12, 1941, Brooklyn, N.Y, CHILDREN: John
Richard, Jan. 21, 1948; Joanne Newell, Nov. 18, 1949.
occupation: Physician; specialty — internal medicine and cardiology.
orFfices HELD: Clinical associate professor of medicine, State University of New
York, Downstate Medical Center, since 1957, chairman, graduate training
committee, Long Island College Hospital, since 1957, Brooklyn sub-
committee, Public Health Committee, New York Heart Association, since
1959; director of medicine, Long Island College Hospital, since July, 1959°
memper oF: American Board Internal Medicine—Internal Medicine and Car-
diovascular Diseases (diplomate) , American College of Physicians (fellow);
American Federation of Clinical Research (fellow); Brooklyn Society of
Internal Medicine (fellow); New York Heart Association, New York
Academy of Science, Brooklyn Medical Society; Kings County Medical

Society.
L392]

_ A emmen

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: “Higher Frequency Phenomena in the Normal Ballistocardio-
gram,” Edson, Dickes, Flamm, Tobin, Circulation Research, 1:405, 1953;
“Thoracic Ballistocardiography,” Edson, Flamm, Tobin, Dickes, Loeb,
American Heart Journal, 48:987, 1954; “Review of Benzothiadiazine Deriv-
atives in Cardiovascular Disease,” Edson, Schluger, American Heart Jour-
nal, 60:641, 1960; and 15 others,

TWENTY-FIVE years of learning, teaching and the practice of

medicine about sums it up. Learning did not stop with college or

medical school, or internship or residency in internal medicine.

Nor did it stop with teaching medical students. It goes on and on,

in fact, journals and midnight hours are frequent companions. My

wife asks, “How is it that you still have to look up information in
journals and books? I thought you were a smart doctor.”

Teaching medical students and house-staff at the hospital has
been an important avocation through the years. Time-consuming,
but stimulating, a most important part of a physician's career. The
voluntary staff makes up a large portion of the teaching staff of a
medical school. I am one of this staff.

Research is another important avocation. Not world-shaking
to be sure, but interesting enough to keep one’s mind inquisitive
about human biochemistry and physiology. It creates a more dis-
cerning attitude in practising medicine. Thus, I spend about half of
my time with my avocations, and the other half with an urban medi-
cal practice. It sounds crazy, but I wouldn't give up any of it.

My wife, my two children and I live in a brownstone on Brook-
lyn Heights, close to my office and the hospital, and we don’t envy
our suburban friends in the least. I wouldn't have ume to cut the
grass and plant the tulips anyway. Result: less trees and more art
museums, less country clubs and more symphonies. A month on a
lake in Maine each summer keeps our green thumbs from becoming
too arthritic. We are a closely knit family, living intensely, and
grateful for every minute of it.

[ 393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF | 936

LEONARD JESSE EDWARDS

    

HOME ADDRESS: 73-44 Austin St. Forest Hills, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Royal Paper Corp., 210-216 11th Ave., New York, N.Y.
Born: Nov. 26, 1913, Camden, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Elmira Academy, Elmira, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

UN MARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stuart Duncan Edwards, ‘41.

occuPATION: Purchasing agent, manager, paper mill department, Royal Paper
Corporation.

EXCEPT for several years’ sojourn in New Guinea with the Army
during the war, ever since graduation I have been associated with
the paper industry, a field closely allied with my biology major at
college, It was in my senior year at college, under the stimulating
tutelage of Professor Oakes Ames and Dr. Horace N. Lee, that my
interest was first aroused in this giant and essential industry which
has become my lifetime career.

Including my involuntary tours to Australia and certain South
Pacific Islands in the early 1940's, I have found world travel to
be one of the most rewarding and worthwhile ways yet devised to
spend annual vacations and surplus funds.

Another avocation— trying to make a fast buck the hard way
via Wall Street — has been quite rewarding (at times!). Currently,
the Dow-Jones Index is trending in a direction which, if unchecked
by 1961, would seem to indicate that my travels next year might
well be confined to “Bear Mountain,”

[ 394]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JESSE EFFRON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Sunrise Lane, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: The Three Arts, 56 Raymond Ave., Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1915, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Poughkeepsie High School, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., magna cum laude, 1936.

marRIED: Lillian S. Cahan, March 7, 1942, New York, N.Y. cup: Walter
Henry, March 26, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Marshall Roven Effron, 742.

occupation: Shopkeeper (book-record-gift shop).

AFTER graduation and until entering the Army in 1942, I was
sort of migratory department store worker. The one notew orthy
thing I did during this time was to help organize the first union of
department store employees in Chicago.

I spent two years in England during the war as an armament
officer with a B-17 squadron in the Eighth Air Force. In retrospect,
I feel that I was a part of a spectacular and miserable hoax. Under
the guise of fighting a war and to the accompaniment of a gigantic
publicity campaign, we devastated huge areas of Germany, intlicted
untold hardship on civilians while the German Army, almost un-
engaged elsewhere until mid-1944, was free to busy itself with the
Russian Army and people. Meanwhile, by the end of the war, as I
have discovered, German production was higher than at its start.

After the war, I decided to turn my back on such great and
heroic deeds and make some simple contribution to my own com-
munity. My wife and I set up a shop in Poughkeepsie, known as
The Three Arts—a combination art gallery and book-and-reeord
shop. We are still at this stand, offering some beauty and truth to
those who feel a need for such things. This has afforded us what
can accurately be called a modest income. As an independent shop-

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

keeper, running a personal store—non self-service, non-discount,
non-promotional — we feel the cold breath of extinction blowing
on us. This kind of retail store will in the not-too-distant future
be as ready for the Smithsonian as the Atwater-Kent radio.

Still, being a shopkeeper has certain compensations. Like an-
other very old and not very noble “profession,” there is no pre-
tense about the transaction. The client pays his money and gets
what he pays for. Unlike doctors, lawyers, preachers, etc., the
shopkeeper does not have to pretend to operate on a higher level.
In our society simple honesty and reliability in trade is itself a
virtue, perhaps a rare virtue — certainly one that has to be guarded
and cannot be taken for granted.

I find that a lot of my time is spent helping to establish a first-
rate symphony orchestra in Poughkeepsie. Oddly enough, we are
achieving a measure of success beyond what might be expected
from a community of this size. I play the recorder with a small
group of amateurs who have been meeting regularly for the past
ten years. What time is left goes toward a hundred-year program
of landscaping the area around the house we built for ourselves
four years ago.

In spite of the gentle cynicism expressed above, which I feel not
inappropriate to an “elder statesman” twenty-five years out of col-
lege, I look forward confidently to a steadily improving future.

WILLIAM CONSTANTINE EGAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12003 Tall Oaks Rd., Houston 24, Texas.

OFFICE appress: Carrier-Houston Corp., 7007 Katy Rd., Houston 24, Texas,
BORN: Nov. 29, 1912, Chicago, II].

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

[ 396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1936. DEGREE: S$.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Jane Calkins, Sept. 19, 1939, Highland Park, Ill. cHttpreN: Raymond
Calkins, Feb. 9, 1943; William Constantine, Jr. April 3, 1945; Nancy
Christine, July 26, 1947.

occuPaATION: President and general manager, Carrier-Houston Corporation, a
subsidiary of Carrier Corporation and wholesale distributor of Carrier
Air Conditioning products in the Gulf Coast area.

MEMBER OF: International Club, Houston, Texas.

UPON graduating from college, I followed my father’s business
pursuit and went to work for an investment banking house in Chi-
cago. I began in the usual manner by handling ticker tape, and
after some six months set out to try my luck at sales. This was in
March, 1937, and it may be remembered that at that point the re-
covery from the depression ended and the market dove into a reces-
sion which lasted well beyond the start of World War II. At any
rate, selling securities in that market was a pretty tough assignment
and I was satisfied to be able to make a living out of it.

Soon after Pearl Harbor, I made an attempt to get into the Navy
but was turned down because of a heart murmur. This was a new
discovery as far as I was concerned, but it was all Uncle Sam needed
to keep me out of his ranks. It looked like the next best bet was
to get into defense work and it seemed like a wise move to pick
an industry which might have a good postwar future. Air condi-
tioning was my choice and I went to work for Carrier Corporation
in Syracuse, New York, in 1942. I found that I was quite welcome
as the draft had been severe and Carrier was willing to hire anyone
who was “warm.” I went to work in the factory “office and spent
most of my time in the plant. The salary was low, so I was hungry
for overtime and had no difficulty in getting plenty of it. I worked
six regular ten-hour days a week and very frequently on Sundays.

When the war was over I found my way back into sales and
became active in Carrier postwar activity with respect to room
air conditioners and food freezers. From this point on, my jobs
were many and included living in a number of cities. I was district
manager in Cleveland, merchandise manager in Chicago and assistant
to the president in Syracuse. My latest move brought the Fgan
family to Houston, Texas, in August of 1958, and I am president of
Carrier-Houston Corporation, a subsidiary of Carrier Corporation,
and the only wholesale distributor of Carrier products in the coun-
try. All other distributors are independently owned. Iam never sure
what is ahead in the way of a business assignment, but it is verv
likely that Houston is not our last stop, and I would not be at all

[ 397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

surprised if I was asked to return to the home office in Syracuse
within two years.

I have only played about five or six golf games a year since get-
ting married, and I would like nothing more than to play several
times a week, I am starving for a good poker game and haven't
really done much of this since college. I can’t see how we were
able to afford it during the depression, and I do not think it would
be any easier now, but I would certainly like to try.

Ray is our elder son and is at Choate in Wallingford, Connecticut.
Unlike me, he is very much interested in hunting and fishing and has
found that Texas is a true hunter’s paradise. On the other hand,
there are no trout streams and he misses upper New York state
for this reason. Bill, Jr., is fifteen, a good basketball player, and is
a sophomore at Spring Branch High School, a public school in the
area where we live. Nancy is in seventh grade at the Kinkaid School.
This is a private day school and enjoys a good reputation — com-
pletely air-conditioned, by the way. Nan has a horse and, to her,
Texas is the only place on earth to live.

Jane has survived the many moves and the normal problems any-
one faces in bringing up three kids. In spite of all this, she con-
tinues to look well, and young, and smiles frequently, even at me.

The Egans have managed to see the Counihans almost every year
since graduation, and we have also had a reasonably good record in
seeing the Whittemores, Gliddens, and J have also seen Bill Baker,
Mae Millard, Mike Cudahy and Dud Warwick. I feel that I have
been very fortunate in maintaining these contacts and the Egans
probably have more fun with members of the Class of ’36 than on

any other occasions. I have never attended a Reunion, but I am cer-

tainly counting on taking the entire family to Cambridge for our
Twenty-fifth.

[ 398 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT EARL EICHLER

A RS EE Tt IR Tyo
¥ +

  

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Lowell Road, Concord, Mass.

BoRN: May 7, 1913, Waltham, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marRiED: Winifred Pike, Jan. 6, 1951, Cambridge, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Commercial photography, real estate.

OFFICES HELD: President, Highland Mills Company, Newton Highlands, Mass..

MEMBER OF: Monitor Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Boston Museum of Fine Arts, De-
Cordova Museum; Harvard Club of Boston.

SALES promotion department, Lehigh Cement Company, Allen-
town, Pennsylvania, 1936-41. Nearly encircled the globe with vari-
ous operational groups of the O.S.S. as demolitions officer and para-
chutist, 1941-46. Attained the rank of Major. Sales promotion for
Hudson Coal Company, Scranton, Pennsylvania, 1946-52. Presi-
dent and treasurer, Highland Mills Company, Newton Highlands,
Massachusetts, 1952-60. Presently engaged in commercial photog-
raphy and real estate venture on Cape Cod. Hobbies: travel, pho-
tography, fishing and beachcombing from the Bahamas to the coast
and lakes of Maine.

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

LEONARD PAUL ELIEL

 

HOME AppRESS: 2541 Wilshire Blvd., Oklahoma City 16, Okla.
orFice appress: Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, 825 N.E. 13th St,

Oklahoma City 4, Okla.
BORN: Sept. 14, 1914, Los Angeles, Calif.
PREPARED AT: University High School, Oakland, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936(39); M.D., cua laude, 1940.
MarRiED: Marjorie Blake, Jan. 14, 1943, Whittier, Calif. cumpren: Alan Blake,

Jan. 16, 1945; Suzanne, May 31, 1946.
OccuPATION: Physician; executive director, head of Cancer Research Section,

Oklahoma Medical Research Institute. |
OFFICES HELD: Instructor, 1949-50, assistant professor, 1950-51, Department of

Medicine, Cornell University, associate professor of research medicine,
1951-56, professor of research medicine, since 1956, University of Okla-
homa School of Medicine; president, Association of University of Okla-

homa Medical Faculty, Inc., 1957-60.
MEMBER OF: American Association for Cancer Research; American Medical

Association; American Federation for Clinical Research; Endocrine So-
ciety; American Society for Clinical Investigation, American College of
Physicians (fellow); Alpha Omega Alpha; Oklahoma City Rotary Club

and Chamber of Commerce,
PuBLicaTions: About fifty scientific papers, abstracts and contributions to books,

on investigations in leukemia, breast cancer and mineral metabolism.

A Class Report, memorable for brevity and stimulating reading,
could: be achieved by establishing such qualifications for the con-
tributor as unusual fecundity, annual income over $100,000 from
unconventional sources, or pauperism, or a life of utter depravity
or originality, This classmate, unfortunately, qualifies on none of
these scores but was goaded mercilessly into cataloguing the fol-
lowing pedestrian facts.

Medical school at Harvard and internship consumed six post-
raduate years in Boston. The war found me far from combat,

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

first as a Civilian medical officer in military air transport operations,
here and in West Africa, then on active duty in the Navy in moun-
tainous Oregon, attempting, with only fair success, to rehabilitate
battle-fatigued Marines with malaria and filariasis. Five years of re-
search fellowships in Boston and New York were followed by
exodus to Oklahoma City in 1951, to become head of the Cancer
Research Section of the then new Oklahoma Medical Research
Foundation. The job of director of research fell in my lap in 1955,
after the first two incumbents became victims of a stormy begin-
ning. A resourceful and capable scientific, administrative, and fund-
raising staff keeps the chores of managing and guiding 130 em-
ployees at a minimum, and permits plenty of time to enjoy the
frosting on the cake, which is my research.

The importance of an individual’s scientific contributions is
trivial compared to the staggering problems of a world whose
future is being determined by scientists. How to preserve a humani-
tarian attitude and approach in the scientist’s (and physician’s)
training and work, how to find and properly motivate young
people with scientific potential, how to equip people for good citi-
zenship in a scientific world, how to cope with the stupendously
increasing morass of scientific knowledge — these are the problems
that a scientific institution is obliged to face, if it is to function use-
fully in present-day society. I find myself, therefore, increasingly
involved in a halting and uncertain approach to these problems
through scholarship programs, research training, forums, motiva-
tional films, and speeches to educators and parents.

My wife, Marge, makes her contribution to the community as
director of a busy voluntary health agency and, incidentally, makes
it possible to stretch a professor’s salary to cover the cost of school-
ing two teen-agers. The problems of overcrowding of public
schools and low scholastic standards are apparent here as elsewhere.

On the adventuresome side, we annually refresh ourselves and
our outlook on a grim world by disappearing for several weeks into
the wilderness areas of the Wind River Mountains of W yoming,
thankful that such magnificence, in isolation and solitude, can still
be found two days away. Gardening, swimming, color photogra-
phy, church work (Episcopal), arrowhead hunting, and reading in
history and biography (especially of the western United States)
seem to occupy the few remaining moments.

Pride in Harvard's growth and unique accomplishments increases
with time, as does gratitude for a Harvard education that has given

[ 4o1 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

access to a satisfying career and a priceless group of friends
ASSOCIANES

KYRLE ELKIN

goers eg
v <
t { . Bh
7 ‘

f .

   

RES

 

MALLING ADDRESS: 105 Lorraine Ave, Mount Vernon, NY.

ROBERT ERNEST von ELTEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2141 Sickeltown Rd, West Nyack, NLY.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Esvo Export Corp, 60 W. goth St, New York, N.Y+

oan: Aug. 1, 1914, Brookline, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Fall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS UNS COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEcREEs: 3.8, (New Y. i . . (St.
John’s Univ), 1946. ew York Univ.), 19905 ue

MarmEp: Dorothy M. Lahey, Sept, 10, 1938, Brooklyn, NvY, CHILDREN: Bruce
Robert, June 12, 19940; Peter Ernest, Aug. 16, 1943; Marie Isabelle ‘Aug:
17) 1948) Steven Walter, March 27 s .
OCCUPATION: Traffic manager, Esso Export

+19:

5°.
Corporation.

{402}

ee |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Various positions in civic associations, Boy Scouts, Tennis Club,
Credit Union, Horsemen’s Association.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Phi; New York County Lawyers’ Association, Upper
Nyack Tennis Club; Hudson Valley Horsemen, Tappan Zee Power
Squadron.

PUBLICATIONS: St. John’s Law Review; art work in house organs.

THE accident of birth and incidental economics presented a chal-
lenge that yours truly found to be more of a hurdle than Horatio
Alger, Jr., had indicated would be the case. The years spent in
night school garnering an education, while my Dottie sat at home
and knit, finally resulted in my laying two- thirds of a stomach upon
the altar of knowledge. Perhaps the sacrifice was worthwhile in
terms of self-respect, "engendered by becoming a member of the
State and Federal bars. Meanwhile, the mundane demands of life
have been met by employment, since 1934, in the service of Standard
Oil Company (New Jersey), accompanied through the years by
changes of title and an occasional trip, the most interesting having
led me through all the by-ways of the Middle East.

In 1938 my bride and I started off in our own little home in Flush-
ing. While many happy hours were spent there, and the first two
boys were born there, we longed for the country life, moving to
Rockland County in 1947. Here we found an old barn that a pre-
vious owner had undertaken to remodel into a country home; his
plans after completion of the first floor had petered out when he
hit the bottom of his pocketbook. The main charm consisted of
seven rolling acres overlooking the West Nyack Valley, and here
we settled to enjoy the country life. Acquisition of an old polo
pony for fifteen dollars, and a donkey for the children, required in
turn purchasing a tractor and farm tools to manage the property
and insure stowing away each spring a respectable. crop of hay to
feed my livestock. The acquisition of a blooded broodmare, and
the birth of a foal (slightly bandy-legged), required my assuming
the duties of a poor country squire.

But civilization intruded upon our peaceful rural existence with
the building of the Tappan Zce Bridge. As the hordes piled in from
Westchester and New York, [I have regretfully witnessed our fair
countryside succumbing to the bulldozer and the ring of the car-
penter’s hammer, We are being surrounded by the advent of
civilization, My riding days are gone, thanks to the buc hing abiliev
of a big yellow-ev ed buckskin, and only the donkey is left to ream
my seven acres. A few years ago the call of the sea intruded upon

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

my devotion to the good earth, and now we and our brood of four
put-put up the Hudson to Canada, or along the shores of Long
Island Sound, in our ancient cabin-cruiser.

And what of the future? We fondly hope our children will have
the wisdom to turn aside from the dead ends we have traveled. Yet,
with regret, we note a desire to make their own mistakes. Perhaps
it is the failures, and not the successes, that bring maturity. Look-
ing backward one treasures a warm handclasp, the inscription in

the fly leaf of some faded volume “to a true friend,” and recalls the

\ines:

If 1 can help a fainting robin unto his nest again
T shall not have lived in vain.

STANLEY MEYER EMERMAN

 

HOME appress: 35 Maxwell Ave., Geneva, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Stanley’s of Geneva, 28 Seneca St. Geneva, N.Y,
porn: Aug. 7, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Strong Vincent High School, Erie, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).
Marrtep: Marjorie Kahn, March 8 1942, Erie, Pa, cumpren: Robert David,
July 27, 1946; Richard Maxwell, Nov. 5, 1949.
occupation; Owner, women’s specialty shop.
orrices HELD: Member, board of directors, Community Chest, 1949-51, Family
Service, 1950, Red Cross, i954, Civic Music Association, 1955, Geneva
Sesqui-Centennial, 1957, member, board of directors, 1951-53, treasurer,
1952, Y.M.C.A, president, 1952, member, board of directors, 1958-60,
Temple Beth Fl, member, board of directors, 1953-58, president, 1956,
Chamber of Commerce, chairman, USO-Pal Day, 1953-55; member,
Geneva Planning Board, 1954, member, board of directors, 1956, vice-
president, 1961, Kiwanis Club; president, Downtown Geneva Association,

1959-60.
[ 404]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club; Harvard Club of Rochester; University Club,
Seneca Lake Country Club.

MY first years after graduation took me to Chicago, and combined
the “rigors” of bachelor life with many months of “‘basic training”
in retailing, during which I rose to the point where I was ready both
for a business for myself and for the better life of blissful matri-
mony! December, 1941, brought a delay of the first of these ven-
tures, but crystallized the second — and I was married on March 8,
1942, to Marjorie Kahn, of Erie, who decided she would have me
before Uncle Sam did! April 28, 1942, “we” entered the Army and
spent the next three years-plus there, mostly in Richmond, Virginia.

1946 was our year of readjustment. Our first boy, Bob, was ‘born
on July 27 and our long-awaited relocation established in Geneva,
New York. Here, on Valentine’s Day of 1947, along with the “new
look” in fashion, we opened “Stanley’s” — Geneva’s new fashion
store.

Our move to this charming community has been one of extreme
satisfaction to us, for we found here the gratifications of small
town life, along with the busy stimulations of a college community.
By 1950 we had added to our family our second son, Dick, and a
completely new addition to our business.

Geneva became an Air Force town with the opening of Sampson
Air Force Base that year, and we found ourselves closely related
to base activities during the next few years, and with the many
base and community interrelated problems. The closing of Sampson
in 1956, in spite of what some might say, was not a direct reaction
to my being president of Geneva’s Chamber of Commerce that
year — but somehow, we and the community survived!

My best growth in 1957 was a scrubby sort of mustache to help
celebrate Geneva’s Sesqui-Centennial, and although the hairs under
my nose were somewhat sparse, I’m afraid they outnumbered those
on top of my head!

By 1960 our boys have far out-paced me. My elder one’s “Cha
Cha” — with variations — makes my 1936-type “smooth” dancing
very out-dated, But our business has kept up with the times, and
we were able to open a completely new and larger store on March 7
last.

I imagine we would be considered typically small town, up-state
New Yorkers — whatever that would mean to my fellow "36ers —
and as such, looking forward, at the moment of this Writing, to

[ 405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

digging out of the fifteen-inch snowfall that ushered in this twent
fifth year, 1961! y-

ASHTON EMERSON

 

HOME appress: Thistleton, Jackson, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jackson, N.H.

BoRN: Feb. 14, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB, 1936; M.D, cM. (McGill Univ.),
1940.

marrigD: Lilian E. Wylie, Nov. 11, 1941, Port Orchard, Wash.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eugene Emerson, ’38, M.B.A., '42.

occupation: Medicine.
OFFICES HELD: Medical officer, USS Williamsburg, 1946-49, chief of surgery,
US. Naval Hospital, Naples, Italy, 1952-54; health officer, Jackson, N.H.
MEMBER OF: Association of Military Surgeons; Carroll County Medical So-
ciety; New Hampshire Medical Society, American Medical Society; Jack-
son Ski and Outing Club; Harvard Club of New Hampshire; National
Rifle Association of America, Eastern Slope Animal Welfare League;
Friends of McGill University; Friends of Memorial Hospital, North Con-
way, N.H.; Wildcat Rifle and Pistol Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Professional.

WHEN | left Cambridge in 1936, I went to McGill Medical School
in Montreal. There, in addition to learning a little medicine, |
played on three championship hockey teams, During those summers
I was at Camp Monadnock in Jaffrey, New Hampshire, the last
two of which I was head counselor.

In 1940, I joined the U.S. Navy and served until 1955. My career
in the Navy was varied and interesting. 1 was a medical officer
aboard a battleship, cruiser, repair ship and President Truman’s
yacht, the Williamsburg, as well as being in charge of the sickbay

[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at Camp Shangri-La, now known as Camp David. I also had dut

at the Naval Hospitals in Philadelphia, Portsmouth, Virginia, ar
Bethesda, Maryland. My last two years of duty were at the Nav
Hospital in Naples, Italy, where I was chief of surgery.

Since 1955, I have been living in Jackson, New Hampshire, an

am enjoying life as a country doctor in the White Mountains. I

1941, 1 married Lilian Wylie of Newcastle-on-Tyne, England, ;

Port Orchard, Washington. My hobbies include ‘farming, fishins

hunting, golf, skiing, photography and the stock market. My socia

religious and political convictions are few, and not for publicatio
at this time.

ORVILLE HICKOK EMMONS

 

HOME ApprEss: “Knollwood,” Dover, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Emmons-Walker, Inc., Whiting Road, Dover, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 5, 1913, Dover, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1939.

MarRRigD: Virginia P, White, Feb. 14, 1942, Forest Hills, N.Y. cHitpren:
Geoffrey Arthur, Feb. 9, 1945; Nelson Hickok, Aug. 4, 1949-

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Brewster Emmons, 3d, °33.

occupation: Publisher of travel guide.

OFFICES HELD: President and treasurer, Emmons-Walker, Inc

MEMBER OF: Harvard Travelers Club; Harvard Mountaineering Club; Ameri-
can Alpine Club; U.S. Power Squadrons; Annisquam Yacht Club,

WHAT happened to that lovely, well-marked and smoothly paved
road which wound so gently out of Cambridge over the horizon
to the golden success of twenty-five years later? It was such a
pleasant road, for the most part, through carefree country. Burt
then, in spite of the bumps that turned up and the holes, the steep

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

grades and uncertain curves, I don’t think I would have chosen an-
other route, It has been an interesting road with an assortment of

happiness, success and trials and tribulations. I have vastly enjoyed
the greater part of it.

After a couple of pleasant trial and error years teaching in Dublin
School, New Hampshire, I joined American Airlines in 1941. Until
1954, | lived in the world of commercial aviation, working in many
capacities. During the war I served in our Military Operations Divi-
sion, under contract to the Air Transport Command, as briefing
officer for trans-atlantic flights. Though in a soldier suit, I retained
civilian status. Later in the war I wrote technical data for our pilots
— instrument landing and airways procedures—and worked in
flight control, which gave me some insight into the growing prob-

lem of handling air traffic around big airports.

Shortly after the war, I transferred from LaGuardia Field, New
York, to Boston, to handle the sales and traffic functions of the new
American Overseas Airlines, clearing the first Boston-London com-
mercial flight. Four years later, having built a splendid European
service into a dominant position, the company sold out. After three
more years covering the sales interests in northern New England
and Canada for the domestic company, I left American Airlines
under the most pleasant circumstances, receiving an honorary title
which was the first ever given to an employee.

For seven years now, | have owned and operated a small business.

1 publish the Enmons Walker Motor Guide, which now serves over

a million motorists with a guide to the better motels, and serves the

motel industry as a form of advertising. When I am not filling out

government papers, | roam the northeastern states and adjoining

Canada, and in winter can even be found poking about Key West.

Everybody thinks I have a gold mine. When not in my “mine,” I

can be found aboard a twenty-five-foot cabin cruiser, or studying

piloting with the U.S. Power Squadrons, doing photography, read-

ing, working on a stamp collection, and now I have just acquired a

purebred greyhound (for show, not track), who will probably pull
me into the dog show world. I have two fine boys, one in Fessenden
School, the other a good hockey player at Kimball Union Acad-
emy. My wife is an accomplished portrait artist, with a studio in
Gloucester and gallery in Rockport, Massachusetts,

It is my conviction that in spite of many religious and moral
failings which make more headlines than do acts of virtue, the
United States will eventually triumph in a long, international, death

[ 408 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

struggle. I believe we shall have, constantly, to fight for freedom
as our forefathers did, and I hope that leaders in personal freedom
will continue to come from Harvard. It is my more fervent hope
that we shall not find ourselves alumni from a school that is known,

principally, to preach scorn of the liberties that made this country
great.

GEORGE JOHN ENGELHARDT, JR.

   

 
 

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Woodland Glen Rd., Thorn Creek, Park Forest, Ill.

OFFICE appREss;: Loyola University, Chicago, Ill.

BORN: April 16, 1915, Naugatuck, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Naugatuck High School Naugatuck, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1936; PH.D. (Yale Univ.),
1943.

MarriED: Olga E. deCillis, Sept. 2, 1950, Fort Monroe, Va. cHiLpREN: John G.,
March 23, 1957; James C., July 25, 1959.

occuPaTiIoN: Education; professor of English and medieval literature.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Medieval Academy of America.

PUBLICATIONS: “Beowulf: A Study in Dilatation,” PMLA, 1955; “The De con-
temptu mundi of Bernardus Morvalensis: A Study in Commonplace,”
Medieval Studies, 1960, etc.

 

AFTER Commencement — the word has some meaning for me —
I submitted myself to commerce for one year. Since the square hole,
a teller’s cage, seemed not to suit a personality which my hiberal
education had rounded so well, I enrolled in the English Depart-
ment at Yale in the fall of 1937. There for the next five and one-
half years I devoted myself to studies in the fields of English, Clas-
sics, Medieval and Oriental Languages, perplexing some of the
dons, I regret to say, by preferring Classical Arabic and Hebrew to
Boswell and Johnson. Then as now I was interested less in any
national literature than in literature itself.

[ 409 ]

RR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

During World War Il, I served or rather sat and waited in the
Chemical Warfare Service, emerging without medals but in good
odor.

After the war I did more work in medieval languages at the
Universities of Chicago and Wisconsin. Since then I have taught
in a variety of universities, public, private, Protestant, Catholic,
eastern and western. Fach has provided me with an experience that
I should happily repeat. I have lived in college towns and in com-
munities in which the university seemed lost.

During these years my life has taken on its most important
dimensions — those of marriage and parenthood. Through my wife,
who has a Doctor’s degree in psychology from Columbia, I have
acquired new hobbies in addition to that by which I earn my
living —an interest in Indian handicraft that has taken us into

some of the remoter recesses of the West, and an interest in the
practical arts of architecture, landscaping and furniture. This last
interest has led to my first intrusion into public life as a lay member
of the architectural control committee that is endeavoring to pre-
serve against the encroachment of unenlightened self-interest the
natural beauty and architectural simplicity of our small community.
Meanwhile, my two small sons are initiating me anew in the won-

der of life, the sense of which I had all but Jost in the complacency
of advanced youth and latent middle age.

RICHARD CHARLES ERNST

  

HOME ADDRESS: 895 Park Ave., New York, NLY,

: Bloorningdale P i ‘
OFFICE, ADDRESS oomingdale Properties, 770 Lexington Ave, New York 22,

porn: April 2, 1915, New York, NY,

[ 410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1939.
MARRIED: Susan Bloomingdale, Aug. 11, 1938, Purchase, N.Y. CHILDREN: John

Lyman, Sept. 1, 1940; Carolyn, July 19, 1946, Dorothy, May 8, 1949.
HARVARD SON: John Lyman Ernst, ’62.

OccUPATION: Investments; president, Bloomingdale Properties.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Atheneum Publishers, Commentary Magazine, Strategic

Materials Corporation, Adler Electronics, Handerson-Hazel Corporation;
Republican County Committeeman, New York County.

MEMBER OF: Century Country Club; Harvard Club of New York.

HAYDEN ESTEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5241 Westpath Way, Washington 16, D.C.

BorN: Aug. 16 1913, Billerica, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Margaret Garrison, Dec. 13, 1940, Washington, D.C. cHmpREeN
Victoria Garrison, July 7, 1947; John Hayden, Feb. 14, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Endicott Estey, ’35 (deceased); Harold Watson Estey,
38, M.B.A. 43.

occupation: Government service.

MEMBER OF: National Press Club; National Photographic Society; Harvard
Club of Washington.

AN incipient thought, with little form and no protective shell, early
in college twitched occasionally. It suggested that I devote my lite
to observing and, perhaps to some extent, influencing the foreign
affairs of our country. Since this thought was in raw form, un-
hewn by graduate disciplines, I tossed it like a stick into the stream
to sce where it would go. So far it has taken me into three basic
enterprises, all of which have given it growth if not true sculpture.
The first of these was news work, often merging with the other

[git]

Re

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

two, then the Army and now government service. But I must can-
didly admit that the stream of history since we have been out of
college, rather than my deliberate planning, has furrowed the course,
News work: Shortly after I left college, while serving a de-
lightful tour as “foreign correspondent” for the New Bedford
Standard-Times on Martha’s Vineyard, George Weller (Harvard
"29, Not to Eat, Not for Love), an author and correspondent of
renown, stirred me with tales of reporting in Europe. After a year
as Sunday editor in New Bedford, 1 wrote under his supervision in
New York and then left for Paris. There I stayed until the German
army ended the fullest year I have yet spent. Some months after
fleeing Europe through Spain and Portugal—the Germans were
said to have been unsympathetic with my work with the British
and French — I received a letter in Buenos Aires from Edward H.
Brooks, our ROTC gunnery instructor at college who was then a
lieutenant colonel on General Marshall’s staff, asking me to serve
with him. It was five and a half years before I returned to news
work. Somehow it had lost a little of its zest. While in the business
1 worked for the Standard-Times, Exchange Telegraph of London,
the Associated Press, Opera-Mundi of Paris, Paris Mondial, a radio
service, the Columbia Broadcasting System, Time and Life, the
Evening Star of Washington and World Report which later merged
with U.S. News. Also I did occasional public relations and free-
jance work writing for magazines in New York.
Army: After two years on the War Department General Staff,
the first with Colonel Brooks and the second with Major General
Wilton B. Persons (Harvard Business School), Brooks, then a

major general, was given an armored division and brought me
along as his aide. There I was also under the strong thumb of our
ROTC hippology instructor and polo coach, Charles D. Palmer,
whose brilliant work as chief of staff led to jobs which now rate
him four stars. One time, returning from three months of desert
training, I tried to duck an assignment to command an inefficient
squadron of mule troops on mountain maneuvers. To my pleas
that I knew nothing of mules, Colonel Palmer ended the discussion
with, “I taught you about animals at Harvard.” Like my college
roommate, Jim Donovan, a most capable commander of pack artil-
lery, 1 got quick on-the-job training. After about a year as aide,
General Brooks permitted me to join an artillery battalion as ex-
ecutive officer. The 11th AD, in its successful race to be first into
Austria, gave us a rough and rapid tour of France, the Lowlands

[412]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(Battle of the Bulge) and Germany before getting into the horrors
encountered while liberating the frightful concentration camp at
Mauthausen, Although I left the Army early in 1946, as a licutenant
colonel, I have stayed with the Reserve in the same grade. Reserve
training, particularly active duty in places like Headquarters Far
East Command, Cape Canaveral, Fort Bragg, Fort Sill and the Pen-
tagon, has added an important dimension to my civilian activities.

Government Service: From the time I left World Report at the
end of 1946 to go into government service my duties have largely
grown from earlier experience as a reporter and army staff officer-
While there has been little consistency in my specific assignments,
these duties have taken me for visits or residence in some forty
countries.

I still feel like the stick carried in the turbulent waters of a moun-
tain stream and often I suspect that I should do more to design my
course, but in fact I have enjoyed the voyage and the uncertainty
that such a cruise gives. My hopes lie in absorbing enough from
this stream to give my children the chance to lead as fortunate and
full a life as I believe that I have had. And undeniably a verv large
part of the pleasure I have had comes from Harvard and the asso-
ciations accruing from college.

GIBSON CLARENCE FAHNESTOCkK

 

MAILING AbpreEss: Kentmore Park, Kennedyville, Ma.

(413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ALFRED FREEMAN FALK

 

HOME Appress: 70 Hyslop Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Arthur Andersen & Co., 294 Washington St. Boston 8, Mass,

BorN: March 2, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MARRIED: Jane Meyer, Aug. 28, 1941, New York, N.Y. cuiLpReN: Matthew Ste-
phen, May 12, 1943; William Ellis, June 19, 1945; Charles Alfred, April
11, 1947.

occuPATION: Public accountant; partner, Arthur Andersen & Company.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants; Massachu-
setts Society of Certified Public Accountants; Tax Institute, Incorporated,
“The One That Didn’t Get Away Club.”

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on taxation in professional journals.

THERE have been times when the hands of the clock seemed to
move not at all— hours of dullness in the routine of a first job —
hours of waiting as a small cog in a military machine. But these
have been seldom things remembered by their standing apart.
Mostly the clock’s hands kept spinning at a rate that never left
time for all the things there were to do, permitted no moments
of dullness and made the passing of a quarter-century very hard
to believe.

After Harvard came a first full-time job as an office boy and
recognition of the need for some skill to offer the business com-
munity. Night school to study accounting came next, and promo-
tion from office boy to auditor. Then a move to New York, partly
for a better job and partly for the indescribable reasons that have
brought so many moths to that flame.

The years in New York brought many good things; night school
at Columbia; friends with whom the wonders of Gotham were dis-
covered and enjoyed; my mecting with Jane who will have shared

1414]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with me eighty per cent of this quarter-century by Reunion time.

The New York years also brought a low draft number and a
brief army career. Then, a chance to enter the public accounting
profession brought me back to Boston with Jane following, as
soon as the arrival of number one son permitted. Since then, me
has been at full gallop and the years and their memories all run
together with tomorrow very much a part of them. Number two
and number three sons arrived; houses number one and two were
acquired; my firm’s Boston office expanded and work responsibili-
ties increased (my own centering in the field of tax accounting),
children grew; town politics were attempted (with success on the
distaff side), college approaches for our eldest; golf is attempted
once a year; fishing provides relaxation; books are bought and some-
times read; and, oh, if the days were only longer.

My profession has been good to me and I hope my efforts have
repaid it in some part. It is a young profession in its function of
serving as umpire in the economic game. Public accounting must
serve the public — all segments of the public — and in this respect
it still has growing pains. Much is being done in an effort to build
a sound foundation for fulfilling public responsibility, and, although
progress is slow, some is being made. I try to help that progress
and shall continue to try, for it is my firm belief that the public
accounting profession must fulfill its obligation to provide rules for
economic scorekeeping and adherence to those rules in a manner
that results in fairness to management and labor, consumer and in-
vestor. If this is not done, then, as in so many other areas, govern-
ment will step in.

In the battle for personal time, some progress is also being made.
Perhaps it is through greater eficiency but more hkely it “deriv es
from a slowing of effort. In either case, I look forward to it and
hope it will bring closer contact with family and a broader view
of the world.

[415]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HERBERT FANGER

    

HOME AbprEss: 134 Laurel Ave., Providence, R.I.

oFFIcE ADDRESS: Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, R.I.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, Cum laude, 1936; mM.v. (New York
Medical Coll.), 1940.

MarRiED: Shirley Frances Shutzer, May 31, 1942, Boston,. Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Ellen, July 15, 1945; Beverly Anne, March 18, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Irving Fanger, LL.B., ‘42.

occuPaTION: Pathologist; director, Institute of Pathology, Rhode Island Hos-
pital.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in pathology, 1943-44, 1946-47, 1949-52, appointed as-
sistant professor, 1952, associate professor, 1957, Boston University School
of Medicine, president, Rhode Island Society of Pathology, 1956; mem-
ber, Board of Medical Registration, Basic Sciences, Rhode Island; mem-
ber, executive board, Rhode Island Division, American Cancer Society;
chairman, Cancer Committee, Rhode Island Medical Society; counsellor
from Rhode Island, American Society of Clinical Pathologists; member,
executive committee, Rhode Island Cancer Society.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Blood Bank Directors Association;
Providence Medical Society; New England Pathologists Society; College
of American Pathologists, American Association of Blood Banks; New
England Association of Blood Banks.

PUBLICATIONS: “Thrombocythemia, Report of Three Cases and Review of
Literature,” Fanger, H.; Cella, L.; Litchman, H., New England Journal
of Medicine, March 18, 1954; “Ultramicro Procedures in Clinical Chem-
istry,” Caraway, W. T. and Fanger, H., American Journal of Clinical
Pathology, Vol. 25, No. 3, March, 1955; “Histochemical Studies of Some
Keratotic and Proliferating Skin Lesions I: Mctachromasia,” Fanger, Her-
bert, Barker, Barbara, A.M.A. Archives of Pathology, Vol. 64, Pgs. 143-

147, August, 1957; “Histochemistry of Breast Diseases — I. Phosphatases,”
Fanger, H.; Barker, Barbara, A.M.A. Archives of Pathology, Vol. 67, Pg.
293, March, 1959; “Capillaries of Normal and Diseased Breast,” Fanger, H.
Barker, Barbara, A.M.A. Archives of Pathology, Vol. 69, Pgs. 67-75

[416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

January, 1960; “Phosphorylase and Amylo-1, 6 Glucosidase in Breast Tis.
sue,” Fanger, H.; Barker, B., Journal of National Cancer Institute, Vol. 24,
Pgs. 691-697, March, 1960; “Carcinoma-in-Situ of Uterine Cervix,” F anger,
H.; Murphy, T., Surgery, Gynecology & Obstetrics, Vol. 111, Pgs, 117-
182, August, 1960.

INITIALLY surprised by the sudden occurrence of the Twenty-
fifth Reunion, I think a short review of my activities demonstrates
that life has been full and good to me. Upon graduating from Har-
vard, I received my medical education at New York Medical Col-
lege. Subsequently, most of my postgraduate medical training was
in the Boston area — Boston City Hospital, Salem Hospital, Mal-
lory Institute of Pathology and the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital.
It was about this time, 1942, I married Shirley Shutzer, a Smith Col-
lege graduate. I then went on to serve in the Army Medical Corps
during World War II, chiefly in the Philippines. Most of my army
service was devoted to the laboratory. As time went on, this medi-
cal specialty became more attractive to me than internal medicine.
Hence, upon discharge from the Army, I completed my training in
pathology in the hospitals previously enumerated. I was fortunate
to obtain an appointment as the director of pathology of the Rhode
Island Hospital. This offered an opportunity to develop and ex-
pand a laboratory in a large hospital which was in the process of
reorganization. Although it was quite a challenge for a young man
with limited experience, I can happily report that we have success-
fully accomplished our goal. The laboratory has a senior staff of
five pathologists, a biochemist and a bacteriologist, both with Ph.D.
degrees, and a part-time neuropathologist. We have an active train-
ing program for residents in pathology and also for technologists.
Under my direction, the laboratory of the Rhode Island Hospital
played a vital role in developing ultramicrochemical laboratory tests
for patients. This has enabled the performance of chemical tests
on minute quantities of patients’ blood, thus obviating the problem
of obtaining blood from the veins of tiny babies or very sick patients.
For the past several years, I have been developing a research pro-
gram on histochemistry as applied to pathology. I have studied
the microscopic chemical alterations in tissue affected by disease
and have had several articles published on this work. I have served
as the laboratory director of a state cytology research project de-
voted to the detection of early cancer of the female genitalia by
means of the examination of cells from the vagina, This project has
been completed successfully.

[4:7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

[am an associate professor of pathology at the Boston University
School of Medicine and am on the Board of Medical Registration in
Basic Sciences of the Rhode Island Department of Health.

My spirited wife becomes ever more charming and mellow with
age, and my two teen-age daughters contribute to the all too speedy
passage of time. I am grateful for the good fortune that has been
mine, in having a happy home life and a satisfying medical career.

EDWARD TROTTER FARLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: Warren Avenue, Harvard, Mass.

OFFice Appress: Heald Machine Co., 10 New Bond St., Worcester, Mass.

BoRN: April 1, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRiED: Kathleen Kernan, Dec. 27, 1945, Utica, N.Y. cuitprREN: Kathleen
Kelso, Oct. 8, 1946; David Wells, Dec. 5, 1947; Ann Devereaux, Nov. 23,
1949; Edward, Aug. 11, 1951; Elizabeth, Dec. 23, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Caloct Farley, Jr., ’36.

occupation: Personnel manager, Heald Machine Company.

IT’S hard to believe that the time has come for us to sit down and
review the past twenty-five years, to take stock of what we have
done and what we are, and compare that with what we set out to
do, and what we set out to become. Undoubtedly there are few if
any of us who are completely satisfied and that is good. For myself,
I have made no material gain or loss of any consequence, yet I
must admit that the years have been good to me. The good times
have by far exceeded the bad, and I have acquired a wonderful fam-
ily large enough to dispel both any delusions about acquiring wealth
and any dread of a lonely old age.

Now, back to 1936. Feeling in need of further information on

[4:8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the ins and outs of the business world, I enrolled at the “B” School
across the river, looking forward to another two years in Cam-
bridge. Somehow it didn’t turn out that way, and at the end of
the first year we parted company by mutual consent. Then came
three years with a rayon yarn converter in Providence, Rhode
Island. This was most interesting until I found myself selling to the
textile trade in New York. That was most uninteresting.

The year being 1940, with things getting hotter on the war front,
it was not long before I felt that a change was in order. I volun-
teered for active duty in the Navy in August and began the most
satisfying period, jobwise, that I have ever spent. My first assign-
ment was to assist in the recommissioning and turning over to Brit-
ain of one of the fifty over-age destroyers that we swapped for
bases. This was followed by duty as a watch and division officer and
later as a squadron staff officer in one of our newer destroyer squad-
rons. Then came a year and a half as commanding officer of one of
our old World War I destroyers converted to a high speed trans-
port. All of this encompassed five years in time and a considerable
area of ocean, from Denmark Strait, north of the Arctic Circle, to
Puerto Rico in the Atlantic, and from the Aleutians to Okinawa in
the Pacific. It also afforded a number of reunions with Classmates
in odd corners of the globe.

By 1945, I realized that, nice as the sailor’s life might be, it was no
life for a man that wanted a family; a conclusion brought on by the
fact that J had designs on a young lady named Kate Kernan (a sister
of Hube Kernan, ’36). The Army cooperated by dropping the
atom bomb while I happened to be in the States, and within a weck
I suddenly found myself footloose and fancy free, as a civilian, a
strange feeling indeed.

Having decided, after many hours of meditation on lonely night
watches, that there must be a better way of making a living than
in the rat race of industry and that the life of the country gentleman
was the life for me, I went back to Kent School, my alma mater, as
a combination business manager and teacher. The year was high-
lighted by my marriage on December 27, 1945, to Kate Kernan. By
June, Kate and I knew that trying to cram knowledge into un-
responsive subjects and correcting papers all night was noe for us
and I found myself back in the rat race of industry.

We moved to the pleasant town of Groton, Massachusetes, and I
went to work for Textron, Incorporated, in their Nashua plant, all
set for a long-term stand, but this was not to be. Afrer several

[419]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

frustrating years of haggling with the union, the company closed
the mill and moved south. The years were not completely lost,
however, as we acquired our first two children, Kathie and Dave.
We also found that Groton is strategically located on the route from
Boston to all points north. It also is a very convenient water hole
both to take on and eliminate ballast, particularly for small children.
Consequently, we saw lots of friends coming and going, which was
most pleasant.

My next venture was witha small company employing about forty
people. We manufactured narrow fabrics for the shoe trade and the
general idea was that I would learn the business and eventually take
over. It was quite a contrast from working with a large corporation
and offered many interesting challenges as well as being a very
profitable company. The only trouble was that after three years the
son-in-law came back from South America and bought the business.
Once again, however, we had not been wasting our time and had
acquired numbers three and four, namely Ann and Eddie. Also,
Groton was still a good watering hole.

At this time the textile business in New England did not appear
to offer many inducements and, therefore, I decided to “cast my
bread upon the waters” and look for something more promising,
Machine tools seemed to fill the bill and I started with the Heald
Machine Company, Worcester, Massachusetts, in the spring of
1952. This has been a very interesting association with assignments
in industrial engineering, production control, personnel, and now
purchasing evaluation.

All in all it has been fun, and while I haven’t made my million,
we have been able to enjoy life in the country with plenty of room
for children, dogs, cats, canaries, rabbits, coons, and other forms of
wildlife. We did find that it was a rather long commute from
Groton to Worcester and shifted our home base to Harvard — after
spending much time, effort, and especially money, in building the
“perfect” house. We moved into the basement on a cold dismal
rainy day, in early November, 1955. On December 23rd, when
Elizabeth, our fifth and thus far last child arrived, we were still in

the basement and firmly convinced that whoever said “fools build
houses for wise men to buy” knew what he was talking about.
Soon, however, we climbed above ground, and life became some-
what more normal. Now we seem to keep more than busy just
keeping up with the kids, planning for the future, and wondering
a little about our next twenty-five years.

[ 420 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS CALOTT FARLEY, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: Concord Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Bank & Trust Co., 111 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1913, Annapolis, Md.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrigD: Isabel Kernan, March 15, 1943, Utica, N.Y. cHitpren: Rosemary,
Aug. 22, 1948; Louise Kernan, Oct. 20, 1949; Susan, Aug. 31, 1953, Louis
Calott, 3d, Oct. 11, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Trotter Farley, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Banking; vice-president, International Department, State Street
Bank & Trust Company. :

LAST week, in response to persistent prodding, I had my picture
taken for the Class Report. The unflattering proofs indicate a de-
terioration over the past twenty-five years for which I find it difh-
cult to account.

After graduation I went into the banking business, on the naive
assumption that that was where the money was. Gathering war
clouds, in 1940, led me to volunteer for a year of active duty with
the Navy that lasted about five and a half eventful years. Most of
my navy time was spent at sea, first in destroyers and then in sub-
marines, culminating in command of the USS Billfish.

After the war I returned to the banking business and concen-
trated my spare time on the absorbing pastime of raising a family,
Needless to say, this requires some personal attention that could not
be effected by “V” mail from the Pacific. The next problem is how
are we going to educate the children and still have the money for
a high mountain skiing vacation every winter, Astutely-timed busi-
ness calls on banking correspondents in Zurich seems a partial solu-
tion.

[421]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Over these years my religious convictions have strengthened, due
in no small part to the inspiring example of Isabel, my wife. I hope
I have become a bit more understanding of others. All in all, life
has treated me far better than I merit and I just hope our luck holds
out — will let you know in our Fiftieth Report.

GEORGE RAILTON FARNHAM

  

HOME appress: 41 Drake Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 488 Madison Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

BoRN: Feb. 1, 1914, Fort Wayne, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Buffalo High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 19363 LL.B. 1939.

marrigp: Constance Amberg, June 6, 1942, New York, N.Y. cumpren: Caro-
lyn Jane, Oct. 12, 1943; Pamela Diane, Aug. 13, 1945; Marjorie Anne,
May 5, 1948; Laurie Jean, April 16, 1952; George Laurance, March 27,
1954-

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner, Coudert Brothers.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1953, president, 1954, Wilmont Manor Com-
munity Association (Eastchester); member, board of trustees, Union Free
School District, No. 1, Eastchester, 1955-59; chairman, social problems
committee, Scarsdale Congregational Church, 1960.

MEMBER OF: American, New York State and New York City Bar Associations,
New York State Congress of Parents and Teachers, honorary life member.

AFTER college I continued at the Law School and on completion
commenced practice in New York City. This was interrupted for
five years of service in the Army, with a parade through the ranks
from private to major, mostly in classification and testing work.
I took time out during the war to get married and the first two of
our four, successive daughters arrived during this period. Six years
ago our one Harvard potential arrived,

On my return to practice in New York City, early in 1946, we

[422]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

located our family life in Westchester where we have kept moving
to larger quarters as the family grew. Presently, we are enjoving
a new swimming pool. Professionally, I have specialized in wills,
estates and trusts, and as indicated above, was recently made a part-
ner of Coudert Brothers. Community, church and school activities
have kept both Connie and myself busy for some years. Our most
recent relaxation, winter cruising in the Caribbean.

COLIN FARQUHAR

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1635 N. Ogden Drive, Los Angeles 46, Calif.

ROBERT HORACE FARR

 

HOME ADDRESS: §214 Chicago St, Omaha, Nebr.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fairmont Foods, 3201 Farnam Se. Omaha, Nebr,
BorN: Feb. 8, 1913, Ludlow, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Ludlow High School, Ludlow, Mass.

[ $23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; A.M. (Univ. of Connecticut),
1938.

MaRRIED: Violet M. Ogilvie, Sept. 24, 1938, Ludlow, Mass, cuitpren: Edith
Ogilvie, Nov. 29, 1939 (wt. Roger W. Brown, Oct. 1, 1960); Robert
Horace, Jr., June 2, 1942; John Charles, Feb. 2, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Francis Farr, "33, LL.B., 36.

OCCUPATION: Economist and marketing research manager, Fairmont Foods.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Shriners; Boy Scouts; Chamber of Commerce; P.T.A.;
Ad Club; American Marketing Association.

OBVIOUSLY there has been a serious mistake somewhere. The
old men returning for their 25th, whose bags I toted from the
Union to their respective rooms during 1933-36, were for the most
part already in their dotage. I’m not nearly at that point yet de-
spite the facts that the stairs are now steeper, print smaller, and
clothes slightly tighter.

My wife, Susie, suggests a bit of restraint in my enthusiasm by
reminding me that we have a twenty-one-year-old married daugh-
ter, an eighteen-year-old freshman boy at the University of Michi-
gan, and a twelve-year-old “baby” with whom I now “reason”
rather than try to turn over my knee.

Life has been full and good since June, 1936. John D. Black
steered me up to Storrs, Connecticut, for a couple of years of grad-
uate work as an assistant to Dr. Irving Davis, head of the Economic
Department there, immediately after graduation. As one of a small
group of graduate students who lived, ate, worked, and argued with
the staff of the department, we learned more than I had thought
there was to know.

I was fortunate to be offered a ‘ob i in Washington, D.C., at the
Department of Agriculture immediately following graduation from
Connecticut, as an assistant economist in the then Dairy Branch.
The work was varied, the associations stimulating and the pay
livable. In part it consisted of developing orders regulating the
handling of milk, assignments in research both in Washington and,
for a year or two, in Atlanta, Georgia.

Throughout the war period I fought the battle of the bureaucrats
there in Washington where we labored to develop and administer
orders designed to assure needed dairy foods for the military and
our allies under the lend-lease programs. There were many times
when I would have gladly swapped those chores for some where
others had to make the decisions, rather than take the abuse that
went with limiting civilian supplies and rationing.

By the time the war was over, I had had my fill of bureaucracy

[ 424]

ERA een WA Vint hc rte emit tad es Speen 1 te Sanh “aber emma are ee UT rr |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and was anxious to see if the life in industry was as rosy as it
sounded from the outside — and the rewards were as great. Neither
proved to be the fact.

It was with some trepidation that we journeyed out to the “sun-
swept, windy plains of Nebraska.” The children were half con-
vinced that an Indian lurked behind every bush and that the buffalo
still roamed in herds at the outskirts of town — this didn’t prove to
be the fact either. The Indians we’ve seen are quite ordinary people
and the only buffalo the youngsters ever saw was a moth-eaten
mangy critter standing sunning himself in the zoo yard.

Life here in the midwest has been fun. The job is as varied as
I want to make it. The people are friendly, considerate, and make
wonderful friends. As economist and research manager for Fair-
mont Foods there is no limit to the challenging problems I find.
There is endless opportunity to be wrong and no professional or
bureaucratic gobbledegook to hide. behind. Decisions are made and
actions taken which result in measurable success or failure at the
cash register. It’s all enormously exciting and sometimes just a little
bit scary to realize how easy it is to pull a blooper that can mean
so much to so many people. So far though, I’ve been pretty lucky.

ERNEST BEL FAY

 

HOME ApbREss: 105 N, Post Oak Lane, Houston 24, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2304 First City National Bank Bldg., Houston 2, Tenas.

BORN: July 26, 1914, New Orleans, La.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE! S.B., 1936,

MarriED: Carolyn Grant, June 11, 1036, New York, N.Y. conpren: John
Spencer, March 28, 1938 Marie Bel, Jan. 2, 19g1; Carolyn Randall, Jan.
2, 1944.

[ 425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

occupation: Oil, marine, lumber.

OFFICES HELD: President, Seabrook Shipyard, John F. Grant Lumber Company;
vice-president, Bel Oil Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Houston Country Club; Bayou Club; Texas Club; Texas Corin-
thian Yacht Club; Seawawahaka Corinthian Yacht Club.

CHARLES BENJAMIN FEIBLEMAN

    

ae
oa)

HOME ADDRESS: 5117 Knollton Rd., Indianapolis 8, Ind.

OFFICE appRESS: Bamberger & Feibleman, 120 E. Market St., Indianapolis 4, Ind.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1916, Indianapolis, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: AB., magna cum laude, 1936; LL.B., cum
laude, 1938. 4

marrieD: Nahoma C. Schneider, Feb. 1, 1941, Indianapolis, Ind. cHitpreN: Jean
Elaine, Sept. 16, 1947; Dorothy Jo, Sept. 27, 1951. ,

occupaTion: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Editors, Harvard Law Review, 1936-38; presi-
dent, Indianapolis Lodge, B’nai B'rith, 1949-50, Indianapolis Hebrew Con-
gregation, 1953-54, Shortridge High School Alumni Association, 1955,
School Planning Committee of Washington Township, 1955-57; treasurer,
Indianapolis Bar Association, 1955; member, since May, 1960, treasurer,
Board of Education, Metropolitan School District of Washington Town-
ship.

MEMBER oF: Indianapolis, Indiana State and American Bar Associations; Colum-
bia Club; Broadmoor Country Club; Indianapolis Lodge, B’nai B'rith.

ALTHOUGH I earn my living by putting words together in con-
tracts, wills and briefs, it is difficult to find words to describe these
twenty-five years that have passed so swiftly. The pattern is
familiar: (1) the years of professional training and apprenticeship,
(2) the war, and (3) the years of family life and career. Yet per-
haps we are fortunate that life does not stay in neat compartments.

From Harvard College, 1 had the good fortune to attend Harvard

[ 426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Law School. I studied under the great teachers of our day — Eddie
Morgan, Austin Scott, Bart Leach and the incomparable Frank-
furter. I served for two years on the board of editors of the Harvard
Law Review. I returned to the Midwest in 1938, and entered the
law firm my father had founded in 1898. Dad’s patient guidance
and tolerance in the early days of my practice and his willingness
to let me share responsibility set an example that I have tried to
follow in dealing with younger men over the years.

In February, 1941, Nahoma and I were married. Four months
later I was inducted into the Army, as part of the peacetime draft.
I served from June 24, 1941, to September 15, 1945, at various ranks
from private through captain. I trained at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, went
through O.C.S. in Field Artillery and then taught tactics in the
Officer Candidate School for some seventeen months. In November,
1943, I was assigned as an artillery officer with the Japanese-Ameri-
can troops of the 44zd Combat Team. We were overseas from
April, 1944, until the end of the war in Europe. The movie “Go
for Broke” and a chapter in Michener’s Hawaii have publicized the
unit. I served as liaison officer with the rooth Infantry Battalion in
intensive combat in Italy and France. I shall never forget the
courage and dedication of men who fought for their country, while
their own parents were held behind barbed wire in relocation cen-
ters. Fortunately, America has tried to compensate for the wrongs
done to its Japanese-Americans. My most vivid understanding of
minority rights comes from living with, and fighting alongside,
those courageous, warm-hearted Japanese-Americans. Out of that
military experience comes a dream that will perhaps never be real-
ized — that a universal peacetime draft, for not over two years, pro-
vide troops for an international police force, serving under United
Nations command, with the educational benefits of the G.I. Bill of
Rights to be made available for all who serve.

From October, 1945, to the present date, business life, family
life and community activity have shared the scene. Our law firm
has grown to the point where we now have eleven lawyers (eight
partners and three associates), working as part of a team. T have
lectured on bankruptcy law and corporate reorganization for vari-
ous institutes of the Indiana State Bar Association. In early years,
I taught courses in constitutional law, and corporations and partner-
ships, at Indiana University Law School, Indianapolis division, Oc-
casionally, we have been able to rehabilitate a business and pre-
serve it for its owners and the community; forma corporation which

[427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

prospers; enable a displaced person to escape the threat of unjust
deportation and remain in this country to raise a family of Ameri-
can citizens, and counsel the average citizen on problems of buying
a home or business, or planning his estate.

On September 16, 1947, our daughter Jean was born. On Sep-
tember 27, 1951, Dorothy completed our family circle. The thrill
of parenthood added new meaning and a new dimension to our
lives. It also brought us the jov of suburban living, a houseful of
pets, a chauffeur’s license for Mama, a ride-it-yourself mower, and
a full round of school activities. ;

When Jean entered school in September, 1953, we dutifully at-
tended the first parent-teacher meeting. The president had been
in my high school class, though I hadn’t seen her since the night of
high school commencement, in 1932. At the end of the meeting
she said, “We're supposed to send ten delegates to some new school
planning committee. You're the tenth man.” On the strength of
that command, I joined the schoo! planning committee of Washing-
ton Township. We were in the path of the population explosion
just north of Indianapolis. I served six years on the school planning
committee, including a year and a half as president of the group.
In that time, we grew from a school system of three thousand
youngsters in four elementary schools to a system of ten thousand
youngsters in eight elementary schools, two junior high schools
and a senior high school. We established a metropolitan school
board to replace the old township trustee system, hired a skilled
superintendent and plunked for a modern curriculum and a generous
budget. After a sabbatical year, my neighbors were kind enough to
elect me to the school board for a four-year term, which began
July 1, 1960.

Perhaps I’ve given no more than the bare bones of twenty-five
years of living and learning since Harvard graduation. How do
you add to those bare bones the thrill of holding a newborn child in
your arms for the first time? Or the thrill of arguing a case before
the U.S. Supreme Court (Duggan v. Sansberry, 90 L.Ed.622), even
if you get beat? Or the thrill of helping dedicate a new temple,
after fighting five years to end the bigotry of a zoning dispute?
Or the sheer gratitude for being alive, after surviving weeks of
combat in which your unit suffered 65% casualties? Or, above all,
the joy of twenty years of devoted marriage? Somehow, the vears
at Harvard quickened our capacity for appreciation of these things.

[ 428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IRVING FEISTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7807 Wildwood Drive, Tacoma Park 12, Md.

OFFICE appress: Headquarters, USAF (AFCOA), Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1913, Kolka, Poland.

PREPARED AT: Norwich Free Academy, Norwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 7772 laude, 1936; A.M. (Duke Univ.),
1938.

marrigD: Shirley Maltz, June 27, 1948, Washington, D.C. cuHitpren: Sheila
Anne, March 6, 1951; Elaine, July 12, 1954; Alan Joseph, Jan. 16, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Operations Analyst, Operations Analysis Office, Headquarters,
US. Air Force, Washington, D.C,

MEMBER OF: Operations Research Society of America, American Association
for the Advancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Several research papers on nuclear physics published in Physical
Review and Journal of Research of the National Bureau of Standards,
1946-52; plus a number of classified research papers since 1952.

I PROBABLY have fewer pleasant memories of my four years at
Harvard than most of my classmates, since those years were un-
fortunately marred by extreme financial hardship. "Nevertheless, I
am deeply grateful to the University for the scholarships which
made my attendance there possible. These scholarships — plus some
meager savings — took care of my tuition, but I had still to earn
my living expenses. Accordingly, I lived off-campus in a cheap
rooming house and paid for my room and board by various menial
jobs, This left me neither time nor money to engage in any extra-
curricular or social activities, so that my college years were literally
“all work and no play.”

After graduation, I discovered with extreme dismay that em-
ployment opportunities were few and far between and that mv
Harvard education was inadequate to cope with this situation, I,
therefore, spent the next three years (1936-39) doing graduate work

[ 429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

in physics (my major subject) and in education, continuing to live
in an austere, hand-to-mouth fashion on graduate assistantships and
whatever summer jobs I could find, There followed a frustrating
period of job-hunting, a year of high school teaching, nearly two
years of work in an aircraft factory, culminating in three years of
service in the Army Air Force (1943-46). At no time during the
eight-year period from 1938 to 1946 did I have an opportunity to
make any significant use of my training in physics. In the Army, I
heard rumors that there was a shortage of technically trained men,
but apparently this shortage was not severe enough to persuade the
military authorities to assign me to a position requiring scientific
training.

After my return to civilian life in 1946, however, I discovered
that there was indeed a shortage of physicists; and for the first time
I was able to obtain a position in which I could utilize fully my
scientific background. I became a nuclear physicist at the National
Bureau of Standards in Washington, D.C., where I remained for the
next six years (1946-52). During this period, I met and married
my wife, bought a home, and started a family — activities that had
been unduly delayed by the depression of the 1930s and World
War IL. In 1952, I went to work for the U.S, Air Force as an opera-
tions analyst—a position which provides me an opportunity to
apply my scientific training to a wide variety of air power prob-
lems. The work is varied, involves a moderate amount of travel,
and on the whole is interesting and rewarding. This period (1952
to present) has been marked by the further growth of my family
to its present level of an ever-loving wife and three young, boister-
ous children.

In conclusion, I may sum up by saying that during the ten-year
period after leaving Harvard I had grave doubts that my years of
study — under conditions of severe financial need — had been worth
while. These doubts have since been completely dispelled; and I
shall be everlastingly grateful to Harvard for the scholarship assist-
ance which enabled me to go there, | hope, however, that in the
future poverty-stricken students who have both the ability and de-
sire to derive the maximum possible value from a college education
will have an opportunity to devote all their time and energy to this

task. I hope that a way will be found to provide such students suffi-
cient financial assistance to cover not only tuition but also basic

living expenses. Surely, the wealthiest country in the world can

[ 430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

afford to do this much —and in the long run, I believe, it cannot
afford to do less.

NICHOLAS FELD

 

HOME ADDRESS: % Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Legation, Budapest, Hungary.

BoRN: Dec. 5, 1915, Vicksburg, Miss.

PREPARED AT: Little Rock High School, Little Rock, Ark.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., #ag7a cum laude, 1936.

MARRIED: Cora Helene Hochstein, Dec. 27, 19495 Nairobi, Kenya. cHiLb:
Evelyn Dana, May 10, 1951.

OccupPaTION: Foreign Service officer; Counselor of Legation, Budapest, Hun-

ary.

oreiens. HELD: Vice-consul, Zurich and Basel, Switzerland, and Madras, India;
second secretary, Pretoria, Union of South Africa; consul, Dar es Salaam,
Tanganyika, and Geneva, Switzerland; officer-in-charge, West, Central
and East African Affairs, Office of African Affairs, Dept. of State, Wash-
ington, D.C.; consul, Singapore; officer-in-charge, Trusteeship Affairs,
Office of Dependent Area Affairs, Dept. of State; adviser, U.S. Delegation,
19th, zoth and 21st UN Trusteeship Council Sessions and rith, 12th and
13th UN General Assemblies; graduate, Senior Seminar in Foreign Pol-
icy, Foreign Service Institute, Dept. of State, 1960.

MEMBER oF: American Foreign Service Association; golf clubs in various parts
of the world, including the “Air Free” Golf Club, Budapest, Hungarv.

WITH the benefit of hindsight, it is infinitely easier to trace the
course of one’s life than to plot it fairly accurately in advance.
This is certainly true in my Case. When I finished college, IT had
not the dimmest perception that my life would mke the path of
service in foreign lands as an official of the Department of State. I
would definitely have dismissed such an idea as fanciful because
there was nothing in my family background, previous experience
or predilection which would have foreshadowed such a career. Yet,

[43r]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

there were one or two tell-tale pointers which at that time did not
appear very significant, but which I now realize were perhaps truly
indicative of my inner urgings. One was an impulse to travel over-
seas, something that I had not been able to indulge during the en-
tire period of my formal education, and the other was a taste for
something besides a business career along the lines previously and
customarily pursued by the men in my family. Perhaps the de-
pression and family business reverses which led to the loss of our
cotton plantation cut off that possibility effectively, and forced me
to seek my natural bent elsewhere. The often-quoted lines of
Robert Frost about roads seem to describe the situation most aptly:

I took the one less traveled by

And that has made all the difference.
In any event, after a short stint as a low-paid employee of a Boston
department store, I decided to study for the Foreign Service and
went back to the Harvard Graduate School as a special student with
that end in view. A year or so later found me, much to my sur-
prise, successful in the examinations and a probationary foreign
service officer.

While it is certainly true that my chosen profession has given me
ample opportunity to fulfill my desire to see the world, it has also
given me much more. In my travels, from Darjeeling and Kashmir
to the Cape of Good Hope, from the Alps to Singapore, from
Samoa, Fiji and New Guinea to South West Africa, from Kiliman-
jaro to Wellington, as well as through most of Europe, and in 1959-
60 throughout the United States, I have noted, as perhaps is pos-
sible in no other way, the strong political and social currents that
have swept the world since the beginning of World War II. Much
of my service has been concerned with areas in a colonial status:
I have assisted, especially at the Department of State and for three
years as a member of the U.S. Delegation to the United Nations, in
formulating and carrying out American policy towards dependent
peoples in Africa and the Pacific. This experience has underlined
the importance and the necessity, to my mind, of understanding and
harmonizing the emotional forces engendered in the modern world
by differences of race. Our success in dealing with this world-wide

problem in my opinion may well prove to be the crucial factor in
our international relations in future years, perhaps requiring even

more skill and knowledge than is needed in the current ideological
struggle. ;
I think the real turning point in my life was my marriage at the

[ 432 ]

__

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

age of thirty-four to Cora Hochstein, a Radcliffe Ph.D., whom I
met in Nairobi, Kenya, where she was U.S. Public Affairs Officer
for East Africa on the staff of the American Consulate General.
Without her, life in the Foreign Service would have been much
more difficult, for this is not a career in which bachelors, no matter
how resourceful, find it easy to lead full, rounded lives. With no
real physical roots at home, I feel that family life is the one thing
that makes our gypsy-like existence not only bearable but, indeed,
rewarding and enjoyable. My wife and our nine-year-old daughter
have made “all the difference.”

Would I do the same if I had it to do over again? Probably.
While I admit, every time I am home, to a certain envy of the
more comfortable, settled lives of many of my classmates, and find
each transfer to a new post a more difficult adjustment than the
last, no doubt due to the onset of age, I also find the prospect of
moving on a continuing excitement that is difficult to suppress. Sull,
my wife and I are now becoming more and more interested in ac-
quring a “local habitation and a name” preparatory to retirement,
probably in some convenient spot along the east coast of the United
States where most of our associations are. We would welcome any
suggestions or assistance from classmates in this regard, bearing in
mind that our financial means will be modest and our desires per-
haps less so. Our interests are in books, music, the theatre, and sports,
especially golf and skiing, so accessibility to these will certainly in-
fluence our choice.

NORMAN AUGUSTUS FERGUSON

 

HOME aporess: 9 Gallison Ave, Marblchead, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Jolin C, Paige & Co, go Broad St, Boston, Mass,

[ 433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

porn: Feb. 8, 1914, Marblehead, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Marjorie P, Stacey, July 26, 1941, Marblehead, Mass. cuitp: Elaine,
May 21, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Foss Ferguson, ’29, m.p., °33; John Humphrey Fer-
guson, °35.

occupation: Insurance; account executive and general brokerage.

OFFICES HELD: President, Old North Church Men’s Club, 1947; director, 1950-

57, president, 1956, 1957, Marblehead Y.M.C.A.; chancellor commander,
Knights of Pythias, 1953.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Yacht Club.

I SUPPOSE in June, 1936, we all had high hopes of conquering the
world or at least some notion that with our education and a reason-
able amount of ambition we could go out into the world and make
a comfortable berth for ourselves in a short time. I, for one, had that
hope dashed when I accepted a “position” four days after Com-
mencement in an insurance brokerage house. Did I say “position’’?
My choice of words could not be more inaccurate. It was a job
and I guess I was lucky to have one. However, what I did not real-
ize at that time was that I was practically useless as far as contribut-
ing to the company’s profits went. This coupled with the depression
caused a few lean years. Either I was too stubborn or stupid or
lacked the fortitude to attempt other work because I am still in the
same office and I must admit that I am now glad that I did not
change. I find more and more that it is a pleasure to do the work
that you enjoy.

In 1941 I married my wife, Marjorie Stacey, Radcliffe ’38, and
I must have had a great deal of nerve, an understanding fiancée or
both, since looking back at my then salary and bank account, I had
no right to embark on married life.

Like most of our generation I had started to progress financially
when I began my all-expense tour, courtesy of Uncle Sam. This
took me to California, North Carolina, France and Germany in the
Anti-aircraft Artillery. After eighteen months in this country and
eighteen months overseas, I returned to my office and life began to
look much brighter.

In 1948, my only child, a daughter, Elaine, was born. Needless
to say this was the big long-awaited event in our lives, We are now
approaching the problems of teen-age which I am sure most of
my classmates have experienced. To date they have not been prob-
lems but who can tell what the future will bring,

[ 434 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I] am now in the selling end of the insurance business and if any-
one had told me twenty-five years ago I would be doing this I
would not have believed them.

Now I am anxious to come back to the Twenty-fifth and hear
the Class of 1961 say how decrepit we look. Maybe I should con-
fess that 1 had somewhat of a similar feeling in 1936.

++ ARTHUR MORTIMER FIELDS, JR.

 

BORN: Sept. 29, 1915, Baltimore, Md. parents: Arthur Mortimer Fields, ‘11,
Lenore Gutman Straus.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

biED: July 19, 1939, Brooklyn, N.Y.

AFTER three years at Harvard with our Class, Fields transferred to
the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis and at graduation stood fifth
in his class. A few days before graduation, however, he became
seriously ill, was taken to the Naval Academy Hospital and later
transferred to the New York Naval Hospital in Brooklyn, where he
died on July 19, 1939. He was survived by his parents.

[ 435]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HERBERT WILLIAM FINBURY

    
 

once
“a
4
= ¥ 3
we 4 {

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Maplewood Terr., Haverhill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Merrimack St., Haverhill, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cur laude, 1936; LL.B, 1939-

marriep: Marion Kramer, July 8, 1949, New York, N.Y. cuiLoren: Elaine

Beth, Aug. 2, 1950; John Andrew, May 14, 1952; Daniel Charles, Jan. 225
1954-

HARVARD BRoTHERS: Alfred Jackson Finberg, ’33; Charles Mysel Finbury, ’4s,
D.MD., 47, MD.,'49 (deceased).
occupATION: Attorney.

US. Coast Guard, 1942-46; served on USS Hunter Liggett in South

Pacific; lieutenant. Returned to Haverhill after the war and have
practised law here since then.

STUART FINER

 

HOME Abpress: 129 St. Paul Sc, Brookline 46, Mass,

orice appress; Green Textile Associates, Inc, 222 Summer St., Boston, Mass
ston, :

[ 436 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: July 7, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

mMarriEeD: Betty Barbara Green, Oct. 31, 1945, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barry Stuart, Jan. 7, 1947; Deborah Lee, Dec. 4, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Green Textile Associates, Inc., purchase, sale and
manufacture of textile by-products, primarily cotton and rayon waste
fibres.

NINETEEN THIRTY-SIX! Glamor, expense account opulence, ex-
citement and ten dollars weekly writing copy for a Boston advertis-
ing agency. That’s the beginning of the quarter-century which is the
subject of this solicited monograph. It must be confessed that the
glamor was confined to a free seat at Suffolk Downs, the opulence
was meagre and closely controlled, while excitement was limited to
watching the Bashful Bees (née Braves) under Madcap Casey Sten-
gel as a necessary concomitant to a weekly column hopefully de-
signed to arouse the interest of the cash customers for that eighth
place club. But the ten dollars were real and thirty-five cents bought
a satisfying lunch.

Pluck, perseverance and depression brought fitting reward — mv
name as vice-president on the company stationery in letters raised
higher than the salary: “But think of the prestige, young man, and
the experience; that counts more than money.” The aphorism could
not be gainsaid, it took so little to count more than that.

During those years the real glamor came in on Jong legs with a
good forehand, fair vorlage and patience to sit in a dismal office
while deathless prose was being prepared for a midnight deadline.
To ignore chronology momentarily, let it be said that the waiting
eventually extended beyond World War I], precisely until October
31, 1945-

Interlude: Spring of 1941 and six weeks in the Naval Air Corps
until a thoughtful instructor explained that the plane following the
basic trainer was very expensive and while cadets were expendable,
the loss of a plane demanded detailed explanation.

Broken to a civilian, I became advertising manager for a chain
of building material shops throughout New England until Pearl
Harbor relieved me of a dull job and my employer of a dull ad
manager. So, in January, 1942, there followed a series of shots,
basic training, OCS and assignment as second in command of the
second platoon of the second battalion of a first-class .. . oh, well,
we were all civilians, In January, 1946, North Africa and the
bright years! We returned to the euphemisms of Victoria's dav:

[ 437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

one didn’t steal, he liberated; one didn’t lie, he outwitted the opposi-
tion; one didn’t cheat, his tactics were superior. Gayly we haggled
with the Arabs, later to carol with the Italians, exchange pleasantries
with the French (as liaison officer) and eventually to fraternize
with the German.
Finally, in October, 1945, a return to Boston to snatch my very
own from the cab she had been driving, that I might coddle her
in a world of my own making, surfeited with luxurious carpet
sweepers and monogrammed scrub board. Along the line the Abbé
Mendel’s little genes provided us with a boy and girl (sic) who
are passing fair and so gifted as to recognize rain, though at times
somewhat uncertain as to how that phenomenon should be handled.
Labor consists of buying and selling textile by-products here and
there, at home and abroad, which is somewhat interesting but still
leaves time for an extension course now and then at a local college
as well as skiing weekends and March vacations in the same vein.
The present seems so long and the past so short; yet, as I reflect
on what has been written above, I seem to have dwelt longer on the
past. But the present is the best time of all and so I look forward
to the future, knowing it must be good. Overly sentimental? Too
turgid? Undoubtedly! But then, I’m twenty-five years out of col-
lege . . . how goes it with you?

EGBERT WATKINS FISCHER

 

HOME ADDRESS; 2094 Lamberton Rd., Cleveland 18, Ohio.

oFFice appress: Music Dept. Western Reserve University, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

porn: Nov. 6, 1913, Butte, Mont,

PREPARED At: Butte High School, Butte, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; Am. (Western
Reserve Univ.).

[ 438 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrigp: Mary Elizabeth Hagerty, Aug. 20, 1946, Cleveland, Ohio. cHitprEn:
Robert Watkins, May 19, 1947; Mary Elizabeth, April 28, 1949, Andrew
Stuart, Jan. 2, 1953; Matthew Thomas, March 6, 1955; Martha Jane, Oct.
I, 1956.

occuPATION: Teacher and pianist; lecturer in music, Western Reserve Univer-
sity.

MEMBER OF: American Musicological Society, College Music Society; American
Society for Aesthetics.

AFTER an enjoyable two years as an instructor in music at Wes-
Jeyan University in Middletown, Connecticut, I went to New York
City to study piano and pursue a concert career. But the war cre-
ated a gaping hiatus in that adventure at a most awkward time, and
so I became, for about four years, an artillery-man, serving with
the 1oqth Division, IX Corps, and finally with the 756th F.A. Bat-
talion in France and Germany.

Once free of the Army, piano playing still had me by the tail,
and led me (or should I say dragged me?) here to Cleveland, where,
it would seem, unseen forces conspired to raise the tempo of my
life to a dizzying speed. In rapid succession, I acquired a teaching
position at Western Reserve University, met and married a lady of
beauty and charm named Betty, became a Roman Catholic, became
a father and acquired a house complete with mortgage. All this
within a period of some fourteen months. Running the house has
uncovered hidden talents (?) in painting, plumbing. masonry, Car-
pentering and mechanics. Marriage has brought us unbounded ; jov
in a full house (three kings and two queens), “and they in turn have
uncovered an extremely questionable talent in coping with them.

My playing has been limited mainly to local recitals and chamber
music concerts. But recently (December, 1960) I had the great
pleasure of playing an all-Beethoven program at Harvard in Paine
Hall and of spending a whole week in Cambridge, with the oppor-
tunity of visiting old haunts and seeing Woody (energetic and
stimulating as ever), Professor Merritt (all enthusiasm intact) and
E] Forbes (who keeps the Glee Club first-rate). Those who return
for the Reunion will certainly be as pleased as I was to sce the Yard
essentially unchanged, and I ‘hope they will be as delighted as I am
about the architecture of some of the new buildings — Lev erett
Towers, Leverett House Library, Winthrop House ‘and the new
Loeb Drama Center.

[ 439 ]

-nneieiccaatsseerin iaiasasbhiiatite Database ; | |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FREDERICK PERRY FISH

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 6 Prescott St., Brookline 46, Mass.

ROBERTS McKEE FISH

 

HOME appreEss: 474 Woodbine Rd., Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE appress; Lever Brothers Co., 390 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 5, 1913, Winthrop, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: $.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Mairi McAlister, Aug. 18, 1944, Glasgow, Scotland, CHiL-
preN: Sheila Margaret, Aug. 24, 1945; John McKee, July 13, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Elliot Gould Fish, ’32.

occuPATION: Marketing and production coordinator.

OFFICEs HELD: Commander, USNR, associate port director, organized Acorn
Command Division 3-2; past president, Ox Ridge Kennel Club, Darien,
Conn,

IN September, following graduation, I went to work for Lever
Brothers, then headquartered just out of Kendall Square, Cambridge.

[ 440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

With the exception of the period between 1942 and 1946, I have
been with them ever since; so that I have another twenty-fifth anni-
versary to celebrate as w ell.

On the sixth of April, 1961, I shall have completed nineteen years
satisfactory federal service in the United States Naval Reserve. The
way I feel now, if 1 complete my twentieth year, I'll be too de-
crepit to do anything but retire!

My lovely family is composed of my long-suffering Scottish
bride, a teen-age daughter who is in the tenth grade, after two years
in a boarding school in Scotland, and whose chief ambition at the
moment is to spend a summer in France with a French family, a
seven-year-old son in second grade, who knows more about space-
men than arithmetic, and four English cocker spaniel dogs.

Over the years we have derived much pleasure from welcoming
into our home students from foreign countries. Since we hear
regularly from all of them from all over the world, we feel some
satisfaction that we may have contributed in some small way to
better international understanding.

RICHARD THORNTON FISHER

 

HOME AppRESS: 296 S, Main Se., Cohasset, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Fisher Pierce Co. 1149 Hingham St, Rockland, Mass.

BORN: July 4, 1914, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS 1N COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936,

Marritp: Mary Holcombe, June 6 1936, Cambridge, Mass. quipars: Anne,
March 28, 1937 (mm. William G, Crowell, Aug. 2, 1998); Jane, Sepe, 34,
1939; Holly, June 29, 1942; Richard Thornton, Jr. Jan. 1, 1946

occupation; Manufacturing electrical apparatus, president, Fisher Preree Com-
pany; managing a new division.

Laat)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

IN the fall of 1936, I was employed in a Cambridge research and de-
velopment concern. This lasted until 1938, when several of us were
released in a retrenchment. Pierce and I started the Fisher Pierce
Company in his Duxbury garage, manufacturing speedometers for
sailboats. Upon the start of World War II, we undertook some
small navy work and bought one-half of a one-man business making
sensitive relays —viz. Sigma Instruments Inc. After some certain
labors‘ these gizmos became an important small specialty and to-
gether with three daughters kept me at work right here during
World War II.

We got into electric eye controls for street lights after the war,
which together with all the “soft money” boondoggles around
Route 128 kept us eating regularly after a tough year or two.
About 1954 1 got sick of easy living, and fighting with the Air
Force lost its early challenge. A marvelous construction material
caught my attention and I lost my heart to “goose poop,” a loose
term my former associates apply to polyester resin, glass fibers and
urethane foaming plastic. In five years 1 packed more work than
I'd done since 1936, and our marine division (Boston Whalers —
plug) has finally taught us the joy of a dollar’s worth of profit
wrested from a consumer while he’s conscious instead of $100
stolen from him while he’s helpless.

Since leaving college I’ve read three books: Wickford Point, The
Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged. The first was for amusement.
The latter two out of fealty to my favorite prophet — candidate
for Plato’s crown — Ayn Rand (another plug). I admit I didn’t
know these things about Ayn Rand until I'd read the books. You’ve
heard of gilding the philosophic pill? I would call Atlas Shrugged
a case of concealing a philosophic supermarket behind a combined
scenic montage of the Smithsonian Institution and Radio City Music
Hall. (Even if it is written in a sort of caricature style.)

My youngest child, little Dick, is a source of comfort. He hasn’t
hit any high-cost institutions of learning. He'll still mow the lawn
at piece-work rates and run the chain saw for one dollar per hour.
I fear he is succumbing to that occupational disease of the age —

going steady. If only 1 knew what to tell him to “save himself”
for. What the hell is needed in this world? I know — “stop bicker-

ing and cooperate” — but for the purpose of exactly what tangible
or discrete goal?

L 442 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MAURICE FISHMAN

 

HOME ApDprESS: 139 Dalton Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lincoln Bindery, 282 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN:; March 30, 1915, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MaRRIED: Sally Wimmer, May 14, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. cHitpreN: Roger
James, Oct. 10, 1943; Stephen Jay, Dec. 30, 1946; Joseph Howard, Aug.
27, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Fishman, ’31, LL.B., "34.

OccUPATION: Owner, Lincoln Bindery.

OFFICES HELD: President, Beth El Temple Center, Cardoza Chapter, American
Jewish Congress,

MEMBER OF: Freedom Lodge, Masonic Order; B'nai B'rith; American Jewish
Congress.

HENRY KING FITTS

  

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Prince Ave, Winchester, Mass.
oFFice appRrESs: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

porn: Dec. 21, 1914, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; A.M. (Columbia Univ.).

marriep: Brenda Skene, June 23, 1937, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN: William
Hughes, Jan. 6, 1942; Rebecca, Oct. 2, 1946.

occuPATION: Teacher of English, head of English Department, Winchester
High School.

MEMBER OF: National Council of Teachers of English; New England Associa-
tion of Teachers of English; Massachusetts Teachers Association; Win-
chester Tennis Association; Lake Sunapee Yacht Club (member execu-
uve board); New England Lawn Tennis Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Short stories for Open Road for Boys; articles in Yachting and

The Rudder, how-to-make-it projects in Popular Mechanics, Science
lustrated, etc.

BEING in the business of teaching school, I hear about a certain
educational institution on the Charles River now and then from
senior students of mine who think they might apply for admission.
Having seen the type of brain-picking that is carried on by the
College Board Exams these days, 1 am sufficiently humble to say
publicly thac I am glad I went to college when I did. (Recently I
overheard an admissions man saying quite frankly that back in the
thirties Harvard accepted almost anyone who applied.)

The thing that appalls me about all this reunion business is the
fact that I have been teaching school for a quarter of a century.
In September following our graduation from Harvard I accepted
a position as a teacher of English and dramatics at the New York
Institute for the Education of the Blind. My six years there I look
back on with real pleasure, in spite of being drafted to teach chemis-
try, general science and Latin II (with only two years of high
school Latin behind me). I know that I shall remember most of
the Braille system forever, and I can still feel the strange shock of

passing the pitch-black typing rooms at night and hearing the ma-

chines clacking busily.

Another six years I spent at the Morristown School in Morris-
town, New Jersey. Here I was a teacher of English and a coach of
tennis, and this athletic activity rekindled my interest in the racket
to such an extent that the game is still my chief source of relaxation.

In fact, my most pleasant memories of Morristown are the times I

spent playing tennis in West Orange.

I was ripe for a move northward in 1948, and when my old high
school beckoned I did not hesitate to accept the position which I
now hold, becoming a strong advocate of public education, One
of the appalling things about my twelve years at Winchester High

[ 444 ]

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is the realization that probably I have spent more time in reading
student themes than in any other reading. Yet, following the plans
and hopes and dreams and guiding the thinking of hundreds of boys
and girls is certainly anything but drudgery.

School teaching has given me a chance to really enjoy a summer
home, an old farm which my wife and I bought at Lake Sunapee,
New Hampshire, in 1941. Although I have never taken a free sum-
mer, my work as a free-lance carpenter, mason, painter, or whatnot
has been as good as a vacation. Sailing, swimming, or tennis after
work makes the day complete, with wife and kids enjoying the
same sports. Probably this is the place to mention my complete faith
in The Home Mechanic’s Handbook, the Plymouth Auto Manual
and other do-it-yourself publications.

There is no question that one of the best moves I ever made was
to attach myself to the girl who has cooked my meals and performed
other household chores since 1937. Our children are now nineteen
and fifteen (almost), both smarter than their father, one of them
determined on anything but further schooling beyond high school,
the other aiming at foreign language study at Smith College. Like
many another parent, I shall do my best up to a point — and then
pray.

There are times when I feel that Henry David Thoreau knew
what he was talking about when he said that most men lead lives of
quiet desperation, Generally, though, I can see that life is well worth
living because there are many things worth working for.

Summing up: a firm believer in marriage, public education, do-it-
yourself, and the tactic of advancing to the net at the earliest oppor-

tunity.

[ 445 ]

eae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WALTER SCOTT FITZ, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Prospect St., Claremont, N.H.

OFFicE apprEss: Robwood Advertising Associates, Inc., 9 E. Pearl, Nashua, N.H.
BORN: Jan. 1, 1913, Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.
marriep: Carolyn Ewing Kirn, July 16, 1938, Claremont, N.H. cxmpren:

Valerie, April 12, 1940; Walter Scott, 3d, Jan. 20, 1943; Carol Lynn, May
6, 1953.

occupation: Account executive, advertising agency; create advertisements,
supply advertising and marketing counsel.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Hoffman & York, Inc., Milwaukee, Wis., 1950-
57; product manager, Joy Manufacturing Company, Pittsburgh, Pa., 1957-
59-

MEMBER OF: Lodge No. 879, B.P.O.E., Claremont, N.H.

JOHN FRANCIS MOORE FirzGERALD

 

HoMeE appress; 30 Hopkins Rd., Arlington 74, Mass.
ovrice appress: 400 Boylston Sc, Boston, Mass.

[ 446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: July 8, 1914, Boston, Mass.
prepARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936, M.B.A.. 1938.

marriED: Barbara A. Ducey, Dec. 10, 1950. CHILDREN: James Francis, Nov
11, 1953; Julie-Ann, Nov. 2, 1955.

occuPATION: Operator and director, Stinson Lake Lodge Summer School fo.

Boys and Fairview Summer School for Girls, Stinson Lake, N.H,, anc
North Woodstock, N.H.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Boston.

MY life has been far from exciting but has been reasonably satis-
factory. From the Business School I went into retailing in New
York City. The war caught up with me there and I served for
three years — got overseas but stayed out of trouble.

Returned to Boston after the war and went into the educationa:
field as business manager of Suffolk University. Other educational
projects led to the establishment of the schools in New Hampshire
which will probably be the major interests in my life for some ume
as far as vocational enterprises are concerned.

ALBERT FLOWER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Lewis Ave., Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss; Kendall Co., Walpole, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 28, 1911, Peak Island, Maine.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.; Beacon School,
P.G,, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

Marriep: Marjorie Colclough, May ag 1942, Wellesley Hills, Mass. cam pasn:
Albert, 3d, Dec. 14, 1943; Pamela Rogers, April 20, 1938, Jetfrey Wool-
dridge, July 18, 1949; John Vesey, April 12, 192.

OccUPATION: “Tax adviser and consultant, Kendall Company and irs domestic
subsidiaries, manufacturers of textile products, pharmaceuticals, surgical
and industrial adhesives and related specialty irems.

[ 447 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1949-55, assistant treasurer, 1956-57, treasurer, since
1957, Walpole Country Club; president and treasurer, P.S. & S.C. (second
oldest ski club in this country), 1932-42; president, Ski Club, captain,
Ski Team, Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company (before the war); Eagle
Scout, 1927, all ranks to member board of directors, 1955-58; chairman,
Scoutarama, 1958, secretary, treasurer and director, Consignment Sales
Company, since 1956, Kendall Company, Delaware, since 1960, secretary,
assistant treasurer, director, Hoyt Pharmaceutical Company, since 1960.

MeMBER OF: Walpole Country Club, Inc.; Walpole Footlighters, Country Skat-
ing Club.

IN 1932 I entered Harvard bent on becoming a surgeon; however,
in 1934 the family funds vanished — and the surgeon. During the
next two depression years I pumped gasoline and tried various sell-
ing jobs; then in 1936 I entered the banking business with the Bos-
ton Safe Deposit & Trust Company. During the first years with the -
bank I spent my evenings at the Bentley School of Accounting
and Finance, graduating in 1939 as ninth in a class of about 300, all
of which led to various jobs as treasurer, looking after other people’s
funds, but none of which were too lucrative. After twelve years of
banking, progressing from messenger to assistant tax officer (the
present title for the position), I was wooed into the more hazardous
industrial field. I started with my present employer in 1948, as
assistant in the insurance, pension and tax department. As the three
elements of this department expanded, the tax responsibility was
transferred to the controller’s office where I am now the company
tax adviser.

As my family began to grow up as well as expand, I bought a Vic-
torian ark in Walpole, just two blocks from my office. I enjoy my
walk to and from the office, as well as my luncheons at home. The
house is bright and sunny, but most of all it is roomy enough for
our four children and their paraphernalia, including pets. We en-
joy the life of our small town with all the busyness one has with
children, school, church, Scouts and such. The oldest boy, sixteen,
leans toward flying. He received his automobile driver’s license one
week and his pilot’s license the next. He is now at the Barrington
School, in the Berkshires, with his wings clipped until next summer.
As the other children are twelve, eleven and eight, they do not as
yet have any specific plans for the future beyond where they will
build their next tree hut.

The whole family enjoys skiing and we go as often as possible.
The youngsters are all quite capable and particularly like Stowe
and Spruce Mountains. Another family sport is tent camping. We

[ 448 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

take two-week camping trips each summer and plan them for an
on-the-spot study of geology, history or language —the last
was this summer’s study in the French section of Quebec. It is
surprising how helpful the youngsters can become and how closely
the family works together on a camping venture. My favorite
sport is golf and snow is the only thing that keeps me from playing.
My average scores are in the middle eighties and are sparked by
those few real hot rounds.

For the most part my travels on my own time have been restricted
to eastern U.S. and Canada, although I have visited the west coast
and covered about two-thirds of our states. While with the Army,
I traveled extensively all over Europe and the North and South
Pacific — becoming a shellback on a Dutch freighter was quite an
unneat trick. I would like to return to the European countries to
see the changes reconstruction has brought them and their peoples.
Frankly, despite the gripes at the time, I look back to my army
travels with satisfaction, both for having been able to do my part
and for having had an opportunity to meet many different peoples.

FRANK HORTON FLOYD, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1258 Salem St., Malden 48, Mass.

[ 449 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANCIS MICHAEL FOLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 151 Neshobe Rd., Waban, Mass.

oFFicE appress: M. F. Foley Co., 3 Friend St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 15, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRiED: Rita Claire Martin, June 29, 1940, Belmont, Mass. cHtLprEN: Michael
Francis, Sept. 14, 1941; Patricia Blanchfield, Aug. 19, 1944; Rita Virginia,
March 20, 1953.

HARVARD SON: Michael Francis Foley, ’64.

OCCUPATION: Fish merchant.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Charles River Country Club.

CHARLES JEROME FORBES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 32805 Miles Rd., Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

OFFICE Appress:; American Stecl & Wire Division, United States Steel Corp.
Rockefeller Bldg., Cleveland 13, Ohio,

BORN: Oct. 28, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio.

[ 450]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936,

marrieD: Mary Ann Black, Jan. 16, 1937, Chagrin Falls, Ohio. cHitoreN: Judit
Ann, July 12, 1940; Gail, April 15, 1943.
occuPATION: Assistant director, industrial relations.

oFFIces HELD: Numerous volunteer positions with Cleveland Community Func
Red Cross and United Appeal, since 1937.

THE twenty-five-year mark finds me with a good wife, two fins
daughters, a comfortable home and an interesting job, all of whict
keep me much too busy to sit down and compose a detailed anc
witty report on my activities since leaving Harvard. Suffice it tc
say that, although I cannot claim any spectacular accomplishments

I do regard the past twenty-five years of my life as being construc-
tive, rewarding and enjoyable.

JOHN BERCHMANS FORD

 

HOME appress: 17 Main St., Salem, N.H.

OFFICE appress: Salem Depot, N.H.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1915, Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES! A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1940.

MaRRIED: Mary Margaret Clark, July 10, 1937, Arlington Heights, lll. car-
DREN: Lincoln Edmond, May 14, 1938; Pamela Ann, June 16, 1939.

HARVARD SON: Lincoln Edmond Ford, ’60.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Dudley Ford, ’39; Edmond John Ford, Jr. '40
LL.B., 48; Paul Theodore Ford, sp'48-49.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to the president, Northeast Airlines, 1gy2-45; secretary-
treasurer, National Federation of American Shipping, 1946-50; member,
Harvard Club of New Hampshire Scholarship Fund, nwo Harvard Business
School Research Staffs; chairman, Salem Budget Commitree,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New Hampshire.

[451 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

pusLications: Trends in Ground and Indirect Expenses in the Certificated
Domestic Air Transportation Industry; two articles for Barron’s financial
weekly.
I WORKED as a consulting actuary in Chicago for a year after
graduation, married, and went to the Law School. In the last two
years in law school, I had a wife and children to support and so J
went to school without going to school, held down three jobs at the
same time, copied notes, took examinations, and graduated in 1940.
On weekdays, one of the jobs was something that turned into becom-
ing some kind of assistant to the vice-president and actuary of Lib-
erty Mutual Insurance Company. On weekends, a second job was
as a consulting actuary, and six nights a week I was night auditor
at the Coop. I wouldn’t wish the program on anyone.

After graduation, I spent a year and a half in Atlanta in the office
of the general counsel of Eastern Air Lines and then returned to
Boston and practised law in the office of Stewart and Chase, work-
ing largely on celebrated litigation. In 1942, I became assistant to
the president and attorney for Northeast Airlines engaged in the
chaotic work of trying to help operate, within the framework of
wartime regulations, aircraft in the Arctic and North Atlantic, an
advanced pilot training school, and an airline. When the Arctic
and North Atlantic operations began to contract, I went into the
Navy in a brief career which was just as unremarkable as the next
man’s, except that I was sent to the forward areas in the Philippines
after only three days of stateside training and duty.

I returned to Northeast briefly, went to Washington, wrote a
technical book on airlines costs, spent a riotous half-year lobbying
for the Sea-Air Committee — a group of shipping companies which
were interested in operating airline service — and became secretary
and treasurer of the National Federation of American Shipping, a
trade association which represented 93% of the ocean-going ton-
nage under the United States flag.

The bucolic call triumphed over the titles, and I wound up in
this small community practising law, largely trying cases for other

lawyers, representing certain shipping companies, and occasionally
acting as a member of staffs of the Business School.

Whatever Cole Porter says that raising an heir can never compare
to, my distinctive satisfaction of the moment is that my son grad-
uated from the College in 1960, was on the victorious lightweight
crew at Henley, and took the Hasty Pudding and Iroquois Clubs in
stride. He is now heading for the medical school, 1 hope. When

[ 452 ]

ne =. 1am annameniamasieinannalamnanieiantnagamianteindtesnatanineaiteesnaienininmnnnnuantin

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

four generations of an Irish family in America can boast three gen-
erations of Harvard graduates and a total of fourteen Harvard de-
rees so far, watch out, you Cabots and Lodges.

What I expect to be the first Class grandchild is on its way and
should be ready for presentation at the Reunion. We may add some
Harvard degrees by marriage by that time.

I raise a little money for the Harvard Club of New Hampshire
Scholarship Fund every year, but I am appalled at the smallness of
the free funds of the faculty of Arts and Sciences available annually
for scholarships, at the outrageous cost of sending an unaided boy
through the College (my daughter was able to live in the Ambas-
sador Hotel across the street from the Yard with kitchen, more
space, elevator, and doorman service for less than my boy could
live in a tax-free, depreciated, donated, and subsidized room in
Adams House), and by the absence during prosperity of the
Sybaritic trappings of Harvard during the depression which were
then thought to contribute to the intellectual image.

In another twenty-five years, on the basis of the same reasoning
which now is thought to justify entertaining at meals in the houses
on aluminum trays in a queue, books like this one will probably be
published no longer, and the robes of the graduates and faculty and
the tall hats of the overseers will probably be abolished at Com-
mencement —if there is a Commencement then. I hope the trend
changes.

RICHARD FORD

 

HOME Appress: 1go Moss Hill Rd., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard Afedical School, 25 Shattuck Se, Boston, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 31, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

[ 453 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 7#agna cum laude, 1936; M.D., 1940.

marrieD: Hope Cullinan, Jan. 23, 1942, Fort Dix, N.J. CHILDREN: Hope, Noy.
17, 1942; Faith, Aug. 11, 1946, Cathleen Charity, Oct. 26, 1948, Lucy Ann,
Feb. 24, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Ford, ’26.

occupation: Physician, educator.

OFFICES HELD: Intern in pathology, 1940-41, consultant in pathology, since 1953,
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital; intern in surgery, Boston City Hospital,
1941-42; first lieutenant to major, AUS, 1942-45; research fellow on legal
medicine and pathology, 1945-49, acting head, Dept. of Legal Medicine,
assistant professor of legal medicine, since 1949, Harvard Medical School;
lecturer on legal medicine, Yale, Tufts and Boston University Medical
Schools; associate medical examiner, 1946-50, medical examiner, since 1950,
Suffolk County (Boston); pathologist to State Police, Commonwealth of
Mass., since 1949; honorary lecturer on forensic medicine, University of
Southern California School of Medicine, 1953; Rockefeller traveling fel-
low, 1953; consultant in forensic pathology, Massachusetts General Hos-
pital, since 1959; certified in forensic pathology by American Board of
Pathology; awarded Legion of Merit.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Association of Patholo-
gists and Bacteriologists; American Academy of Forensic Scientists; Ameri-
can College of Pathology (fellow); Cons., Armed Forces Institute of
Pathology.

IN the light of current circumstance tact prohibits any comment.

* GIRARD FORDYCE

 

BORN: Sept. 30, 1913, St. Louis, Mo. Nise Will; 7
95, Chrisine Orrick. vanexts: William C

prepareb AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

piep: Nov. 19, 1933, Big Horn, Wyo,

hadwick Fordyee,

[454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GIRARD FORDYCE withdrew from Harvard during our fresh-
man year. He died suddenly at Big Horn, Wyoming, on November
19, 1933. He was survived by his parents.

HANS WALTER FORSTER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 932 Black Rock Rd., Gladwyne, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 37 5. 20th St., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BoRN: Dec. 31, 1914, Jenkintown, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Germantown High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: a.B., ct laude, 1936; M.D. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1940.

MarRRIED: Mary Lou Kane, June 22, 1946, Philadelphia, Pa. cuttpren: Barbara
K., Sept. 3, 1949; Thomas W., July 26, 1951; Keith W. May 27, 1055.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Hall Forster, °44; Richard Hall Forster, ’45; Robert
Wilbur Forster, ’50.

occuPaATION: Physician, ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of ophthalmology, Episcopal Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa.
since 1949; professor and chairman of Department of Ophrhalmology,
Woman’s Medical College of Pennsylvania, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Country Club; Philadelphia Skating Club, Humane
Society; American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology;
American Medical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on various phases of ophthalmology in professional
journals: Archives of Opbrhalmology; American Journal of Opbtbatmol-
ogy; Journal of American Medical Association; Medical Clinics of North
America.

_ THESE twenty-five years have been very happy and satisfving for
me. At the time the United States entered World War Il, I had
finished medical school and most of an internship. TE was at the
perfect stage in life for serv ice wach the troops, unencumbered by
entangling alliances and “cager.” [spent three vears in the Mediter-

C455]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ranean from the beginning to the end, as a flight surgeon in a fight-
ing group. As a “general specialist” I took care of whatever came
along which didn’t need hospitalization — athlete’s foot, social dis-
eases, malaria, acute anxiety states— anything at all. This included
being medical adviser, confidant, Dutch uncle and friend to a ka-
leidoscopic parade of fighter pilots who came and went on short
tours of duty and to enlisted men who were less transient. Having
been born under a “rabbit’s foot,” I came through four major in-
vasions without a scratch. The war was a tremendously vital ex-
perience for me and since I survived in good physical and mental
health I would not trade those years for anything.

It was hard to go back to being a student with an income of $90
per month, for the next three years, while I became an ophthalmolo-
gist, after having had a good rank and flight pay in the Air Force.
My newly-acquired wife, however, was much wealthier than I.
She had a job as a medical social worker and managed to keep me in
suitable style. After all, I had lived in holes and tents for three years
and wasn’t fussy about accommodations.

In 1948, I opened my own office for the practice of ophthalmol-
ogy and launched myself into the economic competition which we
call “life” in this country. Those were the days when any time the
telephone rang in my office it was a major event. Fortunately, in
Philadelphia where there are five medical schools, a young doctor
can always be busy doing clinic work, reasearch and teaching if he
wants to, although none of these activities directly help to pay the
rent.

The subsequent years have been rewarding in every way. I have a
happy family. Now and then, when I see my own weaknesses in the
next generation and can’t do much about them, it is rather frustrat-
ing, but J believe in taking a long view of most situations, particularly

frustrating ones. It is much easier on the nervous system. My office
is full of people who can’t do this. I have a professorship in my
chosen field, where I indulge myself in my favorite avocation —
teaching. I am not subject to being transferred around the country
like the “corporation man” and I have the many other blessings of
the self-employed. However, my overhead goes merrily on when
I am away and nobody contributes to any pension plan for me. My

family’s future is, in other words, a speculation on the state of my
coronary arteries, but I like it this way.

The problems which most of us face in the middle go's are chiefly
“where do I go from here and how much time have I left to do it?”

[ 456}

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

The main personal aims in life have been pretty well determined
and some have been accomplished. Now, how can one make a per-
sonal contribution to the welfare of the world in addition to tak-
ing care of his immediate family? The practice of any branch of
clinical medicine affords an unparalleled opportunity to do good on
an individual basis. This is a source of satisfaction which is not avail-
able to many business men who have to rely on extracurricular ac-
tivities to fulfill their need to be helpful 1 in the community at large.

What I enjoy most is the opportunity to teach a number of for-
eign students who come here for specialty training in ophthalmol-
ogy. They come from all over the free world, but particularly from
Latin America and Asia. If those of us whose responsibility it is to
train them do a good job, they are likely to be the best ambassadors
this country could possibly have in their home countries. These
students will return home to positions of responsibility and it is in
such people that it is so important to have a reservoir of good will
for the United States in the present state of the world.

ALBERT DOUGLAS FOSTER, JR.

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2520 Nottingham Ave. Hollywood 27, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 17, 1915, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~193§. DEGREES: A.B., 1936(35); M.D. 1939.

MARRIED: Marjorie Ann Christianson, March 22, 1957, Beverly Hills, Calif.
cHitp: Christian Dwight, June 20, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Tillinghast Foster, °45.

OCCUPATION: Physician, private practice of anesthesiology.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant and assistant resident physician, Rockefeller Ensticute
for Medical Research, 1944-45; professor and chairman, Department of
Ancsthesiology, Univ. of Oklahoma School of Medicine, 1y45-46; associate

[457]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

professor of general anesthesia, Univ. of Southern California Dental School,
1948-49.
MEMBER OF: Shriners; usual medical and medical specialty societies.
PUBLICATIONS: Four articles on investigation of circulatory physiology not of
general interest sufficient to make Time magazine.

AFTER graduation in 1935 I put in four years at Harvard Medical
School and graduated in the routine manner in 1939. Interned at
Hartford Hospital, and when the flags started flying I left in Febru-
ary, 1941, to enter the U.S. Army Medical Corps. My military
career was cut short by a back injury while with a rifle regiment
and I returned to civilian life in January, 1942. A short tour as
assistant resident in neurosurgery at the Neurological Institute of
New York was followed by a residency at Bellevue Hospital, New
York, in anesthesiology. Then to the Rockefeller Institute for
Medical Research to do some investigation in the effects of shock
and hemorrhage on the circulatory system. This seemed to lead to
a life of full-time medical school teaching. A desire for a climate
a bit warmer and drier than that on the banks of the East River of
New York led to the acceptance of the position of professor of an-
esthesiology at the University of Oklahoma School of Medicine.
All was lovely except for one slight detail — the Oklahoma legisla-
tors didn’t seem to feel that full-time medical teachers needed to
eat very much, so somewhat reluctantly I left the ivory towers
for a private practice in Hollywood. This has been satisfactory to
date but I still miss the academic environment.

In 1954 1 acquired a thousand-acre ranch in San Luis Obispo
County, California, and went into the side business of raising cattle,
hay, barley, and turkeys. Five years of this enterprise convinced
me that I was having to work too hard at the practice of medicine

to support the ranch, so I sold out a year ago before I lost my last
shirt. Life is now less exciting but much less of a strain.

[ 458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LINDSAY ARTHUR FOWLER

 

HOME appreEss: 15 Church St., Noank, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Electric Boat Division, General Dynamics Corp., Groton, Conn.

BorN: Oct. 28, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935, 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1936(37).

marRIED: Wilma Sargent Danforth, June 8, 1935, Bar Harbor, Maine. cuit-
DREN: Samuel Thomas, Feb. 11, 1938; Russell Auchincloss, Feb. 23, 1942.

occuPATION: Shipbuilding; purchasing agent; buying materials for naval con-
struction,

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Southeastern Connecticut Purchasing Association,

1959-

MEMBER OF: Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, Cruising Club
of America.

puBLicaTions: Miscellaneous articles in yachting magazines.

THOSE who build ships addict their lives to that striving for per-
fection demanded by the sea. The attraction is compounded of
beauty, danger, challenge and strategy of outwitting wind and water
in motion. Shipbuilders don’t suffer from ennui or self-doubts.
These characters are the boys who never grow up, whose creation
of complex structures betrays them into oblivion, whose handiwork
momentarily equates huge forces only to vanish into shipwreck, rot,
rust and obsolescence.

Despite the ephemeral nature of their product, this band of
cranks in every generation devotes its collective life toward figuring
out better ways to mount oars on triremes, to hang sails on masts, to
turn propellers by strange forms of energy conversion, to create
fighting machines with characteristics of fish . .. in essence to
move masses of material over, under and through the sea. Such
problems are endless because solution of each just generates another.
Ocean is an environment quite inimical to man unless converted to

[ 459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

his use by little portable worlds which can tool around under their
own power. Ocean is nature’s next to last laugh at man. Outer
space, of course, is her ultimate horse-laugh.

Back in 1935 I confusedly viewed myself as a tragic figure, born

too late to get into the clipper shipbuilding act. In a burst of re-
bellion I turned back the clock one hundred years and built a thirty-
ton wooden schooner in Maine with my own hands, cutting timber
out of the woods, hewing with broad axe and adze, showing in fact
an astonishing disregard for the century in which I happened to be
living. This regression unfitted me for any sensible trade and se-
cured me an eighteen-year-old bride at my then age of twenty-one.

In retrospect these were two strokes of luck because, twenty-five

years later, I am still blessed with the same partner and active in

even more fantastic shipbuilding projects. Today, homed in on the

POLARIS submarine building act, my victimization by history ap-

pears comic rather than tragic.

Nor can I venture to regret being born too late for outer space.
That might come next. Shipbuilders recently have lost some fet-
ters, no longer are they confined to the sea’s surface. We are em-
boldened by such developments as nuclear propulsion, sub-ice tran-
sits of the Arctic Ocean and missile ejection from deep submergence.
That initial venture into the past backfired badly and, by recoil,
projected me into the future.

Of course the above has not made for a placid life. Periodically I
yearn to return to the clam flats of Maine or to other symbolic
locales where simplicity is the watchword. Wife and offspring are
remarkable for their tolerance; they set no phony hoops for the
old man to jump through. Therefore we live in an unmanicured
seacost village of some 1200 population which has been sitting here

so long that the houses are non-uniform as the people. This permits
expenditure of all spare time in unregimented fashion and results
in exceptional mobility on the water. One hidden benefit of my
vocation is that it has forced me to live on salt water estuaries for
the past quarter-century, in Maine, Virginia, Florida and Connecti-

cut. A pleasanter fate can’t be contemplated by one who takes his
chief pleasure in voyaging on small boats.

Thus twenty-five years have passed swiftly in bursts of color,
comedy and enlightenment which were ample reward for all frus-
trations. A generation of fighting ships is my signature on the

times . . . the Essex class aircraft carriers, Hornet, the baby flat tops
of World War II, first nuclear submarines Nautilus, Seawolf and
| 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Skate, Triton the twin reactor giant, streamlined Skipyack and Scor-
pion, and now the ballistic missile launchers starting with George
Washington. Ultimate humbling thought is that my contribution to
each of these, though apparently calling out last reserves of stamina,
was minuscule in relation to the massed ingenuity and energy of the
group that built them. My initials on the times, therefore, are graven
in four sailing yachts, Achernar, Wanderer, Narwhal and Cormo-
rant, whose conception and manufacture as individualistic tours de
force reassured me periodically that within the corporation men
lingered a maverick. Most sobering is the realization that the earliest
vessels of this chain have hit the ocean bottom or scrap yard where
I, too, am heading.

It is not difficult to discover Harvard’s influence in this résumé.
Where else would a distaste for the meretricious have been so de-
veloped as to drive a liberal arts student first into archaistic, then into
futuristic strongholds of marine engineering? Why such preoccu-
pation with abstract values? Why not the comfortable and obvious
instead of the quixotic and obscure? The answer, of course, is book
learning, gulped in undigestible doses under Harvard’s shrewd guid-
ance, ruminated later under pressure and replenished daily during
twenty-five years of promiscuous reading, This search for truth is
a never-ending delight, is amusement for free and was Harvard's
gift. My gratitude is to those tutors and classmates who adjusted
my inertial navigation system for sorties into strange waters.

GERALD GLEASON FOX
Freeney

:
4
saa, :
:
:

  

HOME appress: 66 Colony Rd., Longmeadow 6, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: The Brigham Co, 1365 Main Se, Springficld, Mass.
BoRN: May 29, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

[ 461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

prepared at: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936.

Marriep: Alaria Nena Melendez, 1945, El Salvador. cHitpren:
December, 1946, George G., October, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Paul Fitzpatrick Fox, 36; M. Bernard Fox, ’38.

occupation: Partner, The Brigham Company.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club of Marblehead; Longmeadow Country Club;
Colony Club of Springfield; Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York,

G. Pauline,

OVER the years I have enjoyed an unusually close association with
my former roommate whom I came to know on friendly terms dur-
ing four undergraduate years at Harvard. In fact, six. years after
college, coincidentally, he and I were commissioned in Boston on
the same day (same promotion bracket) in the Navy which we
served so faithfully it is little wonder Hitler lost. My kiddies no
longer are forced to listen to favorite tales of my serving as port
director, Utah Beach, during the Normandy Invasion. It seems I’ve
quite exhausted that subject.

With victory behind us, my former Harvard roommate and I
again became partners, this time in a Springfield, Massachusetts,
department store, an endeavor in which we are currently concerned.
His name, of course, is Paul, and by the way we are brothers. In
these adventures of ours shared so closely so long, we may have
established some kind of 1936 class record of family unity, under-
standing, and friendship. Whatever it is, it has taken more than
thirty years in the growing and is still in blossom.

Whenever I turn to the international scene, I consult my wife,
Nena, a native (wears shoes) from Fl Salvador, Central America,
well versed in geography, language, politics, and sugar and coffee

(growing as well as eating) — her family’s historical business. Our

two children, who spend most of their summers in Central America,

now speak Spanish quite fluently. But that is understandable as I

took Latin B in college and recall quite vividly our instructor, Bill

Westgate, who complained to me on one of our ski trips, “Why is

it I always know best those pupils of mine who are shaky C-minus

Latin students?” If not brilliant, 1 was always a cautious student

at Harvard, my problem then as now: How to substitute an attitude

of know-it-all in lieu of know-how.
My close association with Latin America (at least El Salvador),
my wife, and our friends and neighbors south of the border exert

a tremendous influence on my family, on our finances, our travels

and sympathies, and on our politics. To me, this has been an alto-

[ 462 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gether enjoyable and broadening influence (those tamales are calo-
rie-laden).

We have some family hobbies that we share —a little summer
sailing, more tennis, and always a few annual ski trips. Only one of
our eight legs was broken within the past year. This togetherness
compensates somewhat for a selfish disease I’ve developed called
antique gun collecting, in which I’ve just completed my term of
office as president of the American Society of Arms Collectors, but
I’ve promised to be more considerate of the family in the future.

PAUL FITZPATRICK FOX

 

HOME ADDRESS: Suffield, Conn.

OFFicE apprEss: D. H. Brigham Co., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1912, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).

MARRIED: Harriott Cole, Jan. 25, 1947, Hamilton, Mass. CHILDREN: Paul Gleason,
May 21, 1949; Mary Sheafe, July 27, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Gerald Gleason Fox, ’36; M. Bernard Fox, 38.

OccuUPATION: Partner, D. H. Brigham Company, Springfield.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Springfield Better Business Bureau, 1955-60, Society
for Prevention of Cruelty to Children, 1955-58, Suffield Historical Society,
1956-59.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Eastern Yachr Club,
Marblehead; Myopia Hunt Club, Hamilton; Millwood Hunt Club, Fram-
ingham; University Club, Springfield, Sufticld Historical Society, Sutteld,
Conn.

AFTER graduation from college and a year at Harvard Business
School, I made a six months’ industrial cour of England which
acted as ficld work to supplement the Business Schoo! period. De-
partment stores, textile mills, and other heavy industry including

[ 463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

steel mills and shipyards were visited to study production and dis-
tribution controls and personnel relations. The trip was scheduled
through foreign subsidiaries of American firms and proved more
comprehensive than I could have anticipated. It also provided gen-
eral touring with some fox hunting with many of the famous hunts
in both England and Ireland. Some of the best industrial acquain-
tances originated in the hunting field and vice versa.

In 1940 I returned to the United States and started working at the
Brigham Company department store. However, this was short-
lived. In spite of those freedom-ringing days in Military Science
II of personal combat and riding runaway caissons over tennis courts
at Soldiers Field in Cambridge, I joined the Navy as ensign in 1942
and was ordered to duty with the supervisor of shipbuilding group
in command of shipyards in New York, New Jersey, and Connec-
ticut. I was assigned to allocation and delivery of steel, copper, and
aluminum for shipbuilding at these yards. After two years came
transfer to similar duty at the Norfolk Navy Yard, Virginia, on bat-
tle damage repair and some new construction of aircraft carriers
there and at Newport News, Virginia, as well as serving repair yards
. at Baltimore, Maryland.

After “winning the war,” I left active duty in 1946 as a lieutenant
with experience in some of the giant steps of shipbuilding. The Nor-
folk Navy Yard had a work force of eighty thousand, yet it all
made civilian work in a small enterprise attractive. I have been
with the Brigham Company department store ever since and operate
it in partnership with my brothers. In fact, Gerald and I have been
close partners in the game of living for just about all our lives.

Shortly after we were married Harriott and I acquired our old
1740 house in the country town of Suffield which is old New Eng-
Jand with easy commuting to Springfield and great contrast to time
spent on buying trips in New York. We’ve mixed country living
with small boat sailing in the summer at Marblehead, Massachusetts.
At other times we flounder in and out with the children, introducing
them to the activities we’ve continued, so it’s some riding, skiing, and
tennis. I wake up once in a while wondering what college exam
I’m heading for and find myself sometimes still thinking in terms of
“when I grow up.”

[ 464 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANKEVICZ

 

HOME ADDRESS: 684 Massachusetts Ave., North Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Oxford Paper Co., Box 1080, Lawrence, Mass.

BORN: June 24, 1913, Nashua, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Nashua High School, Nashua, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1936.

marriED: Nellie Ann Symosek, Jan. 4, 1941, North Andover, Mass. CHILDREN:

Paula, July 21, 1947; Joan, Sept. 13, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Technical assistant to mill manager, Oxford Paper Company, paper
manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Chemist, 1936-45, chief chemist, 1945-52, technical director,
1952-57, Champion International Company, Lawrence, Mass.; technical
assistant to mill manager, Lawrence Division, Oxford Paper Company,
since 1957.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Technical Association of the Pulp
and Paper Industry.

LIFE is rushing by much too fast for me. It feels as if 1 embarked
upon my life’s journey a few years ago and already much of it is
in the past. Harvard had prepared me well for mv technical furure
and I have tried hard to put my training to good stead for myself,
my employers and my community.

As we all know, 1936 was a year that provided most of us with
only a slow start, but the events of history soon took care of that.
Though I did not serve in the armed forces during World War Il,
I did help the effort indirectly. It scems that lessons of history de-
mand a frightful penalty, yet are forgotten with surprising sud-
denness. I do hope the events since our last World War have
brought us all to the brink where reason and understanding prevail.

Most of my life’s work has taken me into the chemical details
of paper making. T cannot help but admire the almost infinite depth
of almost any problem [tackle even in paper chemistry. This realiza-

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

tion is becoming a part of me and I love it. I note also that this
infinity seems to be all about us, stirring or demanding our atten-
tion constantly. My two hobbies of gardening and electronics are
good specific examples. In the demanding side I have my family.
My girls are growing up and they are not all “sugar and spice,”
but they do serve as little fleeting monuments of Nellie’s and my
life.

As for my future, I hope to remain in the technical area of the

paper business, attend the Twenty-fifth Reunion and set plans for
the Fiftieth.

GEORGE SMALL FRANKLIN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1220 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.’

OFFICE ADDRESS: 58 E. 68th St. New York 21, N.Y.

Born: March 23, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1936; LLB. (Yale
Univ.), 1939.

marrieD: Helena Edgell, June 24, 1950, Greenwich, Conn, cHiLpREN: Helena,
June 29, 1951; George, May 28, 1952; Cynthia, June 4, 1953; Sheila, March
23, 1955.

cocupaTion: Executive director, Council on Foreign Relations.

OFFicEs HELD: Law clerk, Davis Polk, 1939; assiscant to Nelson A. Rockefeller,
1940; member, Division of World Trade Intelligence, Department of
State, 1941-44; Council on Foreign Relations, since 1945; trustee, Inter-
national House, New York, Robert College, Istanbul, Turkey, American
Committee on United Europe, The Brearley School, New York, New
York Society Library; former trustee, Goddard Neighborhood Center,
New York, Boys Brotherhood Republic, New York, former member,
Harvard Visiting Committee for the Department of Economics. _

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Century Association; River Club;
Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; Cove Neck Tennis Club.

[ 466 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusLicarions: “Off the Record Talks with Soviet John Does,” New York
Times Magazine, Sunday, January 19, 1958; “Atomic Weapons and For-
eign Policy,” Aussenpolitik, December 5, 1955.

] AM told that a rolling stone gathers no moss. I’ve ceased to roll
and am certainly gathering no moss, at least on a spot which is
carefully concealed in the accompanying front photograph.

During my first six months out of law school, I had two different
jobs, and during my first two years, four. (No, I was not fired from
any of them.) However, I have now been working in one place for
the last fifteen years. In our first years of married life, we had four
children in less than four years — in our last six years, none. I used
to be an avid tenniser and an even more avid sailboat racer. I'm now
a day sailor and I won’t be back to tennis until the children are old
enough to play too.

Lest this sound like a biography for the fiftieth year class, how-
ever, let me add that during the commuting months my wife and
kids and I swim two or three times a day, with plenty of water
skiing thrown in. During the winter months, I try to make believe
we are still in the country by bicycling to work through Central
Park, to the acute and vocal embarrassment of my children, and the
even more acute, but fortunately silent, embarrassment of our apart-
ment’s doorman. Since the section of Central Park in which I mde
is out of bounds for bicycles, part of the sport is a game of hide and
seek with the police. I have now perfected the technique and have
only garnered one ticket in the last year.

‘The most interesting of the early jobs I listed above was that of a
very junior assistant to Nelson Rockefeller, first in New York and
then in Washington when he was Coordinator of Inter-Amencan
Affairs. His imagination and vigorous leadership made work for him
unusually vital, and I hope they will still take him even further than
the governorship of New Y ork. For the last fifteen years I have been
in New York with the Council on Foreign Relations, of which Iam
now executive director. The Council and its afhliated Committees
on Foreign Relations in twenty-nine cities throughout the country
arrange for their members several hundred off-the-record meenngs
each year with Americans and foreigners knowledgeable on foreign
policy questions. The Council’s principal work, however, is the
organization of study groups composed of men experienced in in-
ternational relations — educators, men of affairs, and present and
past government officials — to consider long-range problems of for-

( 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

eign policy. It also has a considerable program of publication, in-
cluding the quarterly review, Foreign Affairs,

I feel very fortunate to have landed in a job which gives me an
opportunity to think about and discuss some of the world’s most
vital problems with unusually interesting people. My work also
permits a good deal of foreign travel. My two most interesting re-
cent trips were five months in the Far East and South Asia in 1958-
59, and a month in Russia in 1957. The Russian trip was especially
worth while as I had an opportunity to get off without a guide and,
since I speak Russian, to talk quite freely to Soviet citizens in many
walks of life and in ten cities from Leningrad to the Black Sea and
from the Ukraine almost to the border of China.

I have confined my outside activities also largely to foreign af-
fairs — International House in New York, Robert College in Tur-
key, and the American Committee on United Europe — though I
am also a trustee of the Brearley School in New York and of the
New York Society Library —nothing to do with society. I am
aware that this report almost entirely omits the major joys and
satisfactions of my life—with my wife and children. But then
how can one write about that?

SYDNEY JOSEPH FREEDBERG

 

HOME AppREss: 5 Channing Pl., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fogg Art Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 11, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. sunima cum laude, 1936; A.M., 19393
PH.D., 1940.

magrigp: Anne Blake, Jan. 15, 1942, Boston, Mass, (divorced 1950); Susan

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Pulitzer, April 10, 1954, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: William Blake, Nc
“41, 1943; Kate Pulitzer, Jan. 29, 1958, Nathaniel Davis, Oct. 28, 1959.

HARVARD SON: William Blake Freedberg, '64.

occupation: Associate professor of Fine Arts, chairman, Department of Fir
Arts, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant and tutor, 1938-40, visiting lecturer, 1953-54, associa
professor, since 1954, acting chairman, 1958, chairman, since 1959, Depar
ment of Fine Arts, Harvard University; associate, Brandt Galleries, Ne
York City, 1941; US. Army, 1942-46, major, Field Artillery, attached 1
intelligence service; lecturer, Institute of Modern Art, Boston, 1947; assis
ant professor of art, 1948-50, faculty fellow, 1949-50, associate professo
1950-54, Wellesley College; Guggenheim Fellow, 1949-50, 1954-553 fe
low, American Council of Learned Societies, 1958-59; member, Order
the British Empire.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; College Art Association, Renaissance Society c
America.

PUBLICATIONS: Parmigianino, His Works in Painting, Harvard Universic
Press, 1950; Raphael, the Stanze della Segnatura in the Vatican, Metro
politan Museum of Art, 1953; Painting of the High Renaissance in Rom.
and Florence, Harvard University Press, 1961.

CLARK WOOD FREEMAN

Ge ge Dar Aare et a nag

   

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 89 S. Main St., Randolph, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1912, Wiscasset, Maine.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Helen Elizabeth McCarty, May 19, 1937, Randolph, Mass. cHupRen:
Claire Elizabeth, Nov. 19, 1939; Nancy Lee, April 6, 1944; Clark Wood,
Jr., Sept. 18, 1946; Cynthia Louise, July 28, 1954; Susan Ann, Aug. 14
1959

occupation: Sales engincer and assistant sales manager, automatic control
equipment for the process industries.

OFFICES HELD: President, P.T.A,, 1946, 1947; finance officer, American Legion,
1947-49; chairman, School Building and Planning Committee, 1947-54;

[ 469 ]

neces ANNA teeta eetetten ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

member, 1951-57, chairman, 1957, School Committee; Town Meeting
member, since 1948; member, since 1952, chairman, 1958-60, Republican
Town Committee; Cubmaster, 1954-58, finance chairman, Old Colony
Council, 1956-6o, Scoutmaster, since 1958, Boy Scouts of America; chair-
man, Scout Finance Drive in Randolph, 1957; commander, USNR Ret.

WHEN one is twenty-five years older than on graduation day, it
seems to be the custom to philosophize and give vent to knowl-
edge (?) garnered in twenty-five years toil in the vineyard. With
vineyards, one can take them or leave them— work in them or
enjoy the fruits thereof. 1 have tried to do both and it still seems
to me the very best way to have your cake and eat it too.
‘To turn serious for a moment, both my wife (Jackson 36) and
I feel that one’s years in college should be looked upon as an in-
vestment in whatever future you may choose, This investment
is best paid back by using your God- and Harvard-given talents to
help the community and state in which you live. It seems to us
that the fate of the world today may well depend upon the apathy
or interest of those men of university caliber who twenty-five
years after graduation have spread from alma mater to the four
corners of the earth. The talk today is of the coming generation;
the accent on science, brains, etc. and of the great conflict between -
east and west. We feel it is up to us of the older generation — Har-
vard °36—to get off our hands and start pitching with all the
know-how of twenty-five years, added to our academic back-
ground. This force would be hard to beat, indeed impossible, be-
cause it is unmatched anywhere in the world today.
I am doing my pitching at the moment in Boy Scouting. It is,
my wife says, an escape mechanism from four daughters, one night
a week. Our town, like most in suburban Boston, has suffered grow-
ing pains in which | have been intimately concerned, ministering
to its needs on the school building front. After all, with five students
in the family, it is the least I can do. Since my oldest child is a
daughter, she cannot be one of Harvard’s 10,000, but is about to
graduate from the University of Massachusetts. Second daughter
is a senior in high school. Son, at fourteen, is immersed in Scouting,
biology, rabbit-raising and football. He is a high school freshman.
Number three daughter is in grade one, while daughter number
four, still in diapers, keeps us too busy to give much thought to
classmates, reunions, etc. However, it is not every class member
who is raising his own grandchildren — that should count for some-
thing!

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

From the preceding, it is understandable how I became involved
in P.T.A., school committee, and teaching Sunday school at the
First Congregational Church. Vacations in Maine went by the
board, while going to Scout camp with the troop.

Our home is harmonious on the subject of politics, since we both
hold strong convictions for old-fashioned Republicanism — free
private enterprise and solid virtues of our independent forefathers.
We regret, in this instance, that we preferred a graduate of Whittier
College to Harvard’s own John Fitzgerald. You can’t fight City
Hall! There must be a few Republicans in the 10,000!

Presently, we are still residing in the same home as reported in
the Tenth Anniversary Report, but we are seriously contemplating
a change — hopefully to God’s country — the state of Maine. The

latchstring is always out for friends wandering through the hinter-
land.

ELLIS JORDAN FRENCH

 

HOME ApprEss: 1724 Corte Alegre, Alamogordo, N.Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chase & French, Attorneys at Law, Box 1igo, Alamogordo,
N.Mex.

BORN: March 12, 1914, Salem, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 194771949. DEGREES: A.B, 1936(49); LL.B. 10¢2.
MARRIED: Lorella M. O'Neill, Nov. 1, 1944, Quantico, Va. cumpren: William

Ellis, 2d, Sept. 19, 1945; Margarct Jordan, Aug. 6, 1947; Marcia Campbell,
Dec. 21, 1948; Constance Hamilton, Feb. 5, 1935.
OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER oF: Otero County and New Mexico Bar Associations,

AFTER leaving college in February, 1934, T worked for a major
oil company until enlisting in the Marine Corps in February, 1942.

[471 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

After my release in December, 1955, with the rank of captain, I
again worked for the oil company until 1947, when I returned to
Harvard and received an A.B. in 1949, and an LL.B. in 1952. I
again served with the Marine Corps for a year, with the rank of
major, during which time I also established residency in New Mex-
ico and was admitted to the practice of law in April, 1954.

I am presently practicing in Alamogordo, New Mexico, as a
member of the law firm of Chase & French.

DOMINIC RICHARD FRENI

 

HOME AbpRESS: 178 Locksley Rd., Lynnfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 71 Broad St., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1914, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.D. (Tufts Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Dorothy A. Hannon, June 20, 1943, Swampscott, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Hannon, June 4, 1944; Donna Ann, April 6, 1948; Edward Chris-
topher, Feb. 5, 1952; Dorothy Hannon, April 12, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon,

OFFICES HELD: Visiting surgeon, Lynn & Union Hospitals, Lynn, Mass., Veterans
Administration Hospital, Jamaica Plain, Mass.; consultant in surgery, Mary
Alley Hospital, Marblehead, Mass., Danvers State Hospital, Danvers, Mass.,
North Shore Babies Hospital, Salem, Mass.; councillor, Essex South Medi-
cal Society, 1958-60; vice-president, Union Hospital, Lynn, Mass., 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society, American Medical Association,
American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of Surgery
(diplomate); Boston Surgical Society; Essex Surgical Society, Massachu-
setts Socicty of Examining Physicians and Surgeons, St. Luke’s Guild of
Boston, Harvard Club of Boston, Corinthian Yacht Club and Tedesco
Country Club, Marblehead, Mass., Harvard Engineering Socicty.

PUBLICATIONS: “Late Reactions to Metallic Foreign Bodies,” New England
Journal of Medicine, March, tgq8; “End Results of Rehabilitation of War
Wounds of the Hand,” Archives of Surgery, December, 1951; “Metastatic

[472 ]

'25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Carcinoma of the Lung to the Thumb,” Azmerican Journal of Surgery,
January, 1952; “Swampscott Train Wreck Disaster,” New England Jour-
nal of Medicine, August, 1957.

THESE have been exciting and fruitful years with each day bring-
ing a new challenge and hopes for better accomplishments. They
have been gratifying years, for the satisfaction derived from helping
one’s fellow man truly outweighs the pressures and rigors of a busy
surgical practice. With the horizons in general surgery so expanded
by the advances scored in the past twenty years, ours is a profession

of constant provocative stimulus. We have been kept very busy,
but in spite of this have managed to sustain some semblance of
family life.

Our blessings and gains have been endless what with the addition
of Dorothy Hannon to round out our family to two boys and two
girls. Dick, a sophomore at Kimball Union Academy, is our “war
baby” caught in the competitive whirl of academic endeavor. Donna
and Edward are enjoying their new schools and friends in our new
home town, Lynnfield, Massachusetts. Dorothy is the best declama-
tion artist at nursery school. How my wife manages to keep up
with all this and the management of our home and the finances of
our practice I'll never know. But I thank God that He has arranged
it all this way.

More dim are the memories of the years spent in the Nav al Medi-
cal Corps in the Pacific in World War II and more pleasant duty
at Princeton University and Chelsea Naval Hospital. But the years
that followed with training in surgery made possible the happy
life we now enjoy. Deep in the background is my attachment to
music, and though the clarinet gathers more dust each year, my
love for it continues. With Donna and Edward showing more
prowess each day at the piano, this void is somewhat refilled.

As other physicians, we are caught in the web of struggle to
meet our obvious obligations to society and still maintain some sem-
blance as head of the family. We manage to keep in contact with
Dick at Kimball Union, marvel at the activities and accomplishments
of our elder daughter, Donna, support Fddie’s Little League and
football prowess and enjoy the antics of our younger daughter,
Dorothy. To insure our happiness together, my wife and children
and I spend a number of happy hours in our hideaway on Gov-
ernor’s Island, New Elampshire.

Our hopes and desires for the future are simple: ever to be privi-
leged with trust and faith in God, to continue to enjoy our present

(473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936 '

happiness and to provide for the development of the talents of our
children and the fulfillment of their productive desires.

** DONALD McKAY FROST, JR.

 

porn: April 27, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Donald McKay Frost, Mary
Ryerson.

PREPARED AT: Ot. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-193}.

piep: Drowned Dec. 29, 1932, off Nahant, Mass.

DONALD McKAY FROST, JR., was in the freshman year with
our Class when he met his death by drowning. He was riding as a
passenger in a plane piloted by Classmate Edward Mallinckrodt, 3d,

when it crashed into Massachusetts Bay. Frost was survived by his
parents and two sisters.

WINSTON FROST

 

HOME Abpress: Store Hill Road, Old Westbury, Long Island, N.Y.
orrice appress: Augenblick & Frost, 500 Fifth Ave, New York 36, N.Y

[ 474]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sorN: April 28, 1913, Middlebury, Va.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1941.
marriep: Margaret Lawrance, 1950, New York, N.Y. caitp: Dorothy Willing.

June 25, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

THE two years following graduation | spent in California — first
as a real estate salesman on the Monterey peninsula and finally as
a junior writer for Twentieth Century-Fox. When it became appar-
ent to me, and long since to my employers, that my contributions
would have been considerable to silent films, I entered the Uni-
versity of Virginia Law School in the fall of 1939. After graduating
in 1941, I came to New York as a law clerk. On December 7th I
learned of Pearl Harbor over the loud speakers at the Polo Grounds
while watching a pro-football game with one of our classmates.
Along with other classmates, I went to the first indoctrination school
at Quonset Point. Most of the next four years were spent in the Pa-
cific, and about half of that time on the carrier Enterprise. At the

end of the war I was in the Halmaheras as the naval liaison officer

with the Thirteenth Bomber Command. On leaving the Navy I re-

turned to New York and have been practising law here ever since,

having formed our firm some ten years ago.
_ During the past twenty-five years I have had an awfully good
time, due in no small part to members of our Class.

IRWIN RANDOLPH FRUMBERG

 

HOME Appress: 865 West End Ave, New York 25, N.Y,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.
BORN: April 8, 1915, New York, N.Y.

[475 ]

} —_— — =

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: McBurney School, New York, N.Y.; Worcester Academy,
Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., €2¢71 laude, 1936; LL.B., 1941.

Marrigp: Janet G. Brodsky, April 15, 1953, New York, N.Y. cuicp: Neil E.
Sherman, June 18, 1940.

occupation: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of law, New York Law School, 1954-58;
lecturer, University of Vermont (summer session in economics of capital
formation), 1954, 1955, 1956; former co-chairman, Committee on Securi-
ties and Corporation, Federal Bar Association of New York, New Jersey,
and Connecticut.

MEMBER OF: American and New York County Bar Associations; Federal Bar
Association of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut.

PUBLICATIONS: Research for Max Lerner in connection with his article “John
Marshall,” Colznzbia Law Review, March, 1939. -

WITHIN two months of graduation I was stricken with a blood-
stream infection and various complications which delayed entrance
into Harvard Law School until September, 1938. During the con-
valescent period I did research work for Professor Max Lerner in
various aspects of American constitutional law and history. I gradu-
ated from Harvard Law School in 1941 and was admitted to the
New York bar in December, 1941. Shortly thereafter, J sought em-
ployment in Washington and eventually became a member of the
staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission in Philadelphia.
After working for the SEC about a year, I suffered a relapse in
July, 1942, and subsequently underwent additional operations before
rejoining the SEC in its regional office in New York in September,
1944. I eventually resigned in February, 1954, from the post of
chief interpretative attorney to enter private practice in New York
specializing in the securities field.

After the last of my twelve operations, September, 1948, my
health improved considerably. Of course,-my time and energies
have been confined to my work, although I found time to get mar-
ried in 1953. My work and my family account for all my time and
energies. All through the years my favorite hobby has been music,
but I notice a diminishing of interest in the last few years as a result
of television. C'est la vie.

[ 476 ]

LLL

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL KUYKENDALL FRYER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1474 Alvarado Ave., Burlingame, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ernst & Ernst, 333 Montgomery, San Francisco, Calif.

BoRN: July 11, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB, 1936; AM. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1940. :

MARRIED: Elizabeth Vernon Hutson, Aug. 7, 1943, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Laurel Elizabeth, July 6, 1945, Stephen Lockhart, Oct. 8, 1948, Bruce
Whitaker, Jan. 11, 1953.

occupaTion: Management consultant, Ernst & Ernst, national public accounting
firm.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; Society for the Advancement
of Management; Harvard Club of San Francisco; Press and Union League
Club, San Francisco.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles on business management in journals and trade

papers.
THE task of summing up the twenty-five years since graduation is
like preparing an expense account, there is no w ay of remembering
how all the years were spent. As I stand off and look at myself, 1
see a man who is certainly a lot heavier than he used to be but who
seems a lot the same in other ways. There have been some changes,
however. I am now a resident of the San Francisco Bay area and
find that I have forgotten what New England winters look like. In
exchange, I have learned how an earthquake feels and how a land

can flood in the winter rains. On the whole, I prefer the latter.
As the vital statistics indicate, Iam the head of a family of four —
a wife, a daughter and two sons. We all seem to enjoy good health
and the major problem is the common one of how to provide for the
future while keeping up with the current living expenses. T have

[477 ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

LOUIS ALFONSE FUCCI, JR.

 

HOME apprESS: 69 S. Main St., White River Junction, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gates Block, White River Junction, Vt.

BORN: July 22, 1914, White River Junction, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Hartford High School, White River Junction, Vt. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Univ-), 1938.

MarrieD: Virginia Helen Bartel, Sept. 14, 1941, Fayetteville, N.C. (divorced
1946); Rose Marie Guarino, Sept. 30, 1955, West Lebanon, N.H. cu
DREN: Theresa Lynn, March 27, 1942; Sharron Ann, Aug. 16, 1943; Louis
Alfonse, 3d, Feb. 17, 1957; Bethany Rose, Jan. 12, 196r.

occupaTION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Lebanon Regional Airport Authority; president,

Windsor County Bar Association.
MEMBER OF: V.F.W.; American Legion; Elks.

AFTER one year at Harvard I transferred to Dartmouth College
and went there two years. In the fall of 1935, I entered Boston Uni-
versity School of Law and graduated in 1938 with an LL.B. Shortly
thereafter I passed the Vermont bar examinations and was admitted
to practice law in Vermont in October, 1938, and then entered into
a partnership with my brother, Frank R. Fucci.

On February 17, 1941, I entered the service as a private. In May,
1942, I graduated from Officers’ Training School as a second lieu-
tenant in the Field Artillery. I was assigned to the 79th Infantry
Division at Camp Pickett, Virginia, and remained with that divi-
sion throughout the war. We trained in Virginia, Florida, Alabama,
Tennessee, Arizona and Kansas. We embarked from Boston to Eng-
land in 1944. We entered France on D plus 6 and fought in France,
Belgium, Holland and Germany. The division received five battle
stars and the Belgian Croix de Guerre. I personally received the
Bronze Star and became a major before I was separated from the
service. After the war I did occupation duty in Germany and

[ 480 ]

=n aaa aaa naam macnn nas

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Czechoslovakia. I reached the U.S. in the fall of 1945 and was
relieved of duty on January 1, 1946.

In February, 1946, I got my divorce. In the fall of 1947 I was
admitted to practice law in the State of New Hampshire. In 1955
I married my secretary and we went to Europe on a honeymoon.
We crossed the Atlantic on the Andrea Dorta (the ship that sank
the following year), and we flew back from London. We visited
Italy, Switzerland, France and England. My oldest daughter is a
freshman at University of New Hampshire.

My brother and I have a general-type practice, as in the country
one can’t specialize very well.

+ ALFRED HOWARD FULLER

 

BorN: March 27, 1913, Hartford, Conn. parents: Alfred Carl Fuller, Evelyn
Ells.

PREPARED AT: Milford Academy, Milford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MARRIED: Dora Georgina Baker, June 24, 1936, Yarmouth, N.S. Canada (died
May 9, 1959). cHitpreN: Alfred Carl, zd; Cynthia; Daphne.

Diep: May 9, 1959, Hawthorne, Nev.

AFTER spending one year with our Class, Fuller studied economics
at Duke University and then joined his family’s firm, the Fuller
Brush Company of Hartford, Connecticut. He was well known as
a yachtsman, his sixty-foot cutter Gesture taking top honors in the
Bermuda ocean race in 1946. He was a member of the Connecticut
Manufacturers Association, the Young Presidents’ Club and many
yacht clubs. Fuller and his wife were killed in an automobile acci-
dent while traveling from Las Vegas to San Francisco. Ele was
survived by his three children.

[481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

BRUCE KRAMER FULLER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1424 Hamilton St., N.W., Washington, D.C,

HENRY MORRILL FULLER

 

AppRESS: Ram’s Head Farm, York, Maine.

Appress: Fuller, Flynn & Riordan, 244 State St., Portsmouth, N.H.

Dec. 5, 1914, Dover, Mass.

p at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

J COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B. 1939.

: Marion Ruth Thompson, April 5, 1939, Kansas City, Mo. CHILDREN:

candra, Mfay 14, 1940; Martha Moreau, March 14, 1942; Henry Weld,

. 14, 1946; Emily Anne, July 9, 1951.

BROTHERS: Horace Williams Fuller, ’30; Benjamin Apthorp Gould Ful-
d, A.M., '52.

ow: Lawyer and angler.

ELD: Director, Arcturus Shipping Company, Bader Sccurities Com-
Northwestern Telephone Company, Bucyrus Telephone Company,
Vert Telephone Company, Seaward Construction Company, Capitol
cts of New England, Inc, Shelby Telephone Company, Chadwick

[ 482 ]

pete + te ete ohare Ft

Nec ASRS COMMIT CIT, Fae SU TRL I RRR RA REI ARR ON Fe AD maa

enna enn ee ne

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

& Trefethen, Inc., Newcomen Publications, Granite Engineering Com-
pany, American Twine and Fabric Corporation, assessor, York Harbor,
1940-42; trustee, York Water District, 1940-42; member, School Board,
York, Maine, 1946-47; trustee, Harbor Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Narraguagus Salmon Association; Newcomen Society; York Har-
bor Reading Room; York Country Club, Volunteer Veterans Fire Asso-
ciation; Machias Valley Sportsman’s Association, Mayflower Descendants;
Husband’s Protective League; S.A.R.; Society of Colonial Wars, Agamen-
ticus Yacht Club; Harvard Club of New York; Pierce Pond Rogue's
Club; Warwick Club; Kora Temple, A.F. & A.M.; New England His-
torical and Genealogical Society; Navy League, Appalachian Mountain
Club; numerous professional and fraternal societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Sir Ferdinando Gorges, Military and Naval Connmander, “Father
of English Colonization in America,” Princeton University Press, 1952

IN September, 1939, I removed from the banks of the Charles to the
banks of the York River. September, 1960, finds me still here and
delighted to have lasted twenty-five years. Admitted to the Maine,
Massachusetts and New Hampshire bars, | was dubbed “lawyer” —
a wonderful cloak. No one asks if I have any clients or even prac-
tice! In 1955 I started suffering severe hallucinations about salzo
salar and ovananiche. Successlessly since, my winters are spent
studying how to, and my summers trying to, persuade them to take
a feathered barb or gob of worms. My third daughter acts as mv
keeper during such spells — some lengthy —~ from ice out to ice in.

Infrequently since graduation I have ‘sought fortune, status and
political office, all with no success. Occupations have included
printer, publisher, woodcutter, company director, sailor, paper con-
verter, sheepherder, farmer, barnman and aluminum fabricator. The
year 1960 saw funds come my way, courtesy of a late great-uncle,
which were promptly spent cruising with N. Bartlett, S. R. Miller
and F, A. Goodhue, ’37. I don’t know if they had a good time, as
1 brought three of my family along; however, we did. The war
years were spent in escort duty with the Navy, thanks to insight
gained at Camp Devens in 1940. These were three and a half years
of happy economic security and sacktime.

Harvard retains my respect and admiration. The Program I
favored and worked for. The new IBM approach to annual giving,
I dislike and doubt its efficacy. It is gratifving to see a Harvard man,
unaccompanied by Fli's, on cach presidential ticket. Fither way,
the country will be in good hands! Of polities: a citizen for Fisen-
hower and a Rockefeller Republican, Our national policy since
1945 has, | think, put into practice the best of Christian ethics, We
have given greatly to all the world, made up with erstwhile ene-

[ 483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

mies and neither asked, nor expected, nor received anything in
return. Of society: economic equalitarianism, which has nearly
come to pass in our country, and freedom to select friends and com-
panions, alas! of the latter, time has taken its toll. Of the fatuous,
1 am intolerant; of the arrogant, contemptuous; for the humble, |
have consideration, for the successful salmon angler, utter envy.
With my four children and wife, I am well satisfied; individually,
they are unusual, collectively staggering. Daughter number one is
at Sarah Lawrence; daughter number two, at Mills; son at Milton;
daughter number three takes care of father, while wife number one
is at Garden Club or political rally, sometimes both at once — but
then, she is unusual. Of classmates: I miss Jim Roberts; Gratwick
sends me cards from his international business trips, time permitting;
Win Lee keeps me in beer and lobsters each summer. Of recreation:
mountain climbing with Sam Worthen, ’42 — wondrous occasions.

Of ambitions: grandfatherhood, sixty-five, social security and the
Moisie River.

TIMOTHY FULLER

 

HOME appress: Main Street, Norwell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harold Cabot & Co., Inc. 136 Federal St., Boston, Mass.
porn: Nov. 22, 1914, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

marriep: Martha Jane Thomas, Jan. 6, 1940, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Susan, March 12, 1942; Mark, Dec. 26, 1943; Richard F., ad, May 22, 19463
Benjamin Peirce, Nov. 11, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peirce Fuller, ’35.

occupation: Advertising copywriter,

[ 484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusLicATIONS: Harvard Has a Homicide; Three-Thirds of a Ghost; Reunion
With Murder; This is Murder, Mr. Jones; Keep Cool, Mr. Jones; short

stories and articles in national magazines.

FOR twenty years after leaving college in my junior year I was
able to spend my time hunting, fishing, and writing — and, in those
occasional moments of splendid isolation, thinking Jong thoughts
on the follies of our business economy. Now, having completed five

ears as a working member of that economy, I can only report that
I had seriously underestimated the amount of ability, devotion, and
hard work wasted each day in nonsensical labor by the vast major-
ity of our employed population. People seem to be pretty happy
about this though, and I was never one really to preach.

J. ORTEN GADD, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Millbrook School, Millbrook, N.Y,

BORN: Jan, 24, 1915, Wallingford, Conn.

PREPARED aT: Lyman Hall High School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1944-1947, 1950-1951. DEGREE: A.B. 1936(51).

MarRiED: Patricia Palmer, Dec. 31, 1937, Wallingford, Conn.

OccUPATION: Chairman, Mathematics Department and varsity basketball coach,
Millbrook School.

OFFICES HELD: Reader of Advanced Placement Exams in Mathematics, College
Entrance Examination Board, since 1958.

PuBLIcATIONS: Mathematical Deternunation of Transient Temperatures in
Solids, Isaacson, Gadd and Singer; Double Refraction of Flow: Neemerical
Evaluation of Extinction Angle and Birefringence as a Function of Velocity
Gradient, Scheraga, Edsall and Gadd; many sets of mathematical tables
published under the auspices of the Harvard Computation Laboratory,
particularly Tables of the Function and of its First Eleven Derivatives.

AFTER eight years as a research associate in mathematics at the
Harvard Computation Laboratory, I decided to enter the teaching

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

field with the hope that I might possibly interest one or two boys in
the tremendously important field of applied mathematics. Here at
Millbrook I am supervising the mathematics — and the basketball.
I have succeeded in sending a couple of promising young mathema-
ticians to Harvard — but no basketballers, as yet. I have had two
excellent players, one of whom still has three years here, but, unfor-
tunately, their academic aptitude has not matched their athletic
prowess.

Teaching in a boys’ boarding school leaves little time for outside
activities during the school year. I should probably class as hobbies —
my recently-acquired lakeside summer home in Maine, my two
hi-fi sets (one in Millbrook, one in Maine) and my treasured little
Mercedes-Benz 190-SL. A fifteen- or twenty-mile drive each day
is just enough to keep the routine of school life from becoming
monotonous. Nine months of round-the-clock duty is not too
bad when I can look forward to the peacefulness of a summer in
Maine. And the music always helps.

I am just as conservative as ever in my political beliefs, but I am
taking no active part in politics— or, for that matter, in anything
else. This life in a boys’ school cuts one off from the outside world
in such a way that it resembles a complete withdrawal or retire-
ment. But I like it, and I can only hope that I can be of some slight
benefit to just three or four boys over a period of years. Only time
will tell.

JAMES CARLTON GAHAN, JR.

 

HOME appress: 91 Betts Rd., Belmont 78, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 State St., Boston 9, Mass.
BoRN: May 21, 1912, Boston, Mass.

[ 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936, LL.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Jane Replogle, Sept. 30, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN: Carolyn
Ann, Oct. 5, 1941; James Carlton, 3d, Aug. 20, 1944; Janet Louise, April
15, 1950; Barbara Jane, Oct. 16, 1951.

occUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Belmont School Committee, since 1948; assistant at-
torney general, Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 1953-55, general counsel,
Massachusetts Restaurant Association, Massachusetts Consumer Finance
Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Belmont; Oakley Country Club; Abenaqui
Country Club; Rye Beach Club.

SINCE the Class of 1936 was the tercentennial class, the University
sent us into the world with the greatest celebration ever witnessed
on the banks of the Charles. Thus were we launched into one of
the most hectic, exciting, awesome, and challenging periods of his-
tory. No wonder these last twenty-five years have passed so quickly.
After leaving college I entered Harvard Law School, and in the
months between June and September, 1940, I graduated from the
Law School, passed the Massachusetts bar examination, and got mar-
ried. Our oldest girl, Carolyn, was born on October 5, 1941, and
at the present time she is looking forward to her graduation from
Colby Junior College and expects to go to Forsyth Dental School
to study for a career as a dental hygienist. She has survived the
“ordeal” of going to school in the vicinity of Dartmouth much to
our great relief. Our son, James Carlton, 3d, was born on August
20, 1944, and is now a junior in Belmont High School and the vice-
president of his class.

In 1946 the government had no further need for my services in
the Navy and I returned to the practice of law. The year 1948 was
an active year for the Gahan family, for I was elected to the Bel-
mont School Committee and we moved into our new home where
we still reside. It was necessary, however, to subsequently build an
addition to provide for two new arrivals in the Gahan household,
Janet on April 15, 1950, and Barbara on October 16, 1951. In 1953
I established my own law office at 15 State Street and this office has
now expanded to the point that it employs the services of three
young, able, and conscientious attorneys, plus two hard-working sec-
retaries. In 1958 I became chairman of the Belmont School Com-
mittee and still serve in that capacity, T must truthfully sav that in

my opinion no community service is more rew arding than member-
ship on the School Comniittee.

[ 487 ]

La

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Since 1946, as an independent Republican, I have assisted in the
election campaigns of Governors Bradford, Herter, and Volpe, and
in addition I served as an assistant attorney general of the Com-
monwealth of Massachusetts for the years 1953 through 1955. In
the latter office 1 was in charge of the revision and modernization
of the entire procedure for the handling of land damage claims
against the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

1 do not know about others but as far as I am concerned I must
admit that twenty-five years ago my wildest dreams did not encom-
pass the wonderful and exciting things that have happened to me
since graduation. Certainly one has much to be thankful for when
he is engaged in the daily performance of work which he hikes,

when he is able to indulge in his hobbies of sailing and playing golf,

and when he has the companionship, understanding, and affection
of his children and of a wonderful wife.

a
ah 4
e
Age
4
3
ca
z

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1020 Cedar Lane, Falls Church, Va.

OFFICE ApprEssS: The Pentagon, Washington 25, D.C.

Born; April 27, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LLB. 1939.

marriep: Dorothy M. Hahn, Sept. 25, 1949, Wiesbaden, Germany. CHILDREN:
Gregory, Oct. 14, 1950; David L., Sept. 6, 1952; Theodore G, A. March
4, 1958.

occupation: Special consultant, Department of the Army.

THE ten years following my graduation from the Law School seem
to have rushed by, having only superficially touched me. A few ex-
periences claim distinct recollection, such as that when the promis-
ing young Boston lawyer stood in Newspaper Row nodding silent

[ 488 ]

a [

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

approval of the announcement that the Conscription Bill had been
enacted into law. It did not occur to me then that it might affect
me. Then there was the end of the war, which left me one of the
middling leaders of the early military occupation troops that started
Germany’s miraculous rehabilitation — or, at least, recovery.

This period enabled me to reopen the first postwar court in Ger-
many and to learn, as a military government court judge, that if
there is any measure of criminal guilt in terms of imprisonment, I do
not know it. Then there was the return to “real life” — after five
years of military service —and the resumption of the practice of
law.

I realized that, for me, the fight to reconstruct a practice which
had barely gotten off the ground five years earlier, somehow no
longer seemed worth waging. I prefer to think that, basically, it was
because, having witnessed real social disaster — poverty, hunger and
even death — on a vast scale, I could no longer become enthusiastic
about a career, the object of which was to make money for other
individual persons, be it by legal action or employment or advice.
I recognized that the redress of private wrongs was still important —
but not important enough to me. So in late 1946, after less than a
year of reapprenticeship in Boston, I returned to Germany as a
civilian employee in the legal division of the military government
of the State of Hesse. There, I served as chief prosecutor, legal
advisor, deputy division chief and, finally, division chief. I took
a busman’s holiday in 1948 to defend a notorious murder case in-
volving nice jurisdictional questions which afforded a gratifying
professional experience.

In 1949, I proved that I had acquired wisdom by marrying Dottie,
who, though the daughter of a three-time Olympic Gold Medal
track champion, could not, or did not choose to, run quite fast
enough to evade capture. Our three sons, ages ten, eight, and two
and a half, appear to us, of course, to have ev ery thing — except a
Harvard education, which we hope they will have, too, in due
course.

For the last twelve years T have remained with the government,
continuing to concern myself with our foreign relations, particularly
as they impinge on our military interests. My work has never lost
its fascination, my colleagues are first rate, my cup runneth over.
My principal hobby is my family, bue T swim enough, play ¢ enough
tennis and golf, and do enough gardening and house re pair to keep
myself in reasonably good physical shape and in fairly good humor,

[ 489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILLIAM WITHINGTON GALLAGHER, JR.

 

HOME ADpREsS: 10 Pigeon Hill Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

oFFiceE abprEss: Buff & Buff Manufacturing Co., 329 Lamartine St., Jamaica
Plain 30, Mass.

porN: Aug. 18, 1912, Braintree, Mass.

prepareD aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.; Browne and Nichols
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. .

MARRIED: Joan Sears, Jan. 30, 1937, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cHmpren: William
Withington, 3d, Oct. 15, 1939; Richard Sears, Oct. 16, 1941; Christopher
Crocker, March 6, 1947.

HARVARD SON: William Withington Gallagher, 3d, ’61.

occupaTion: Manufacturer, vice-president.

MILLARD L. GALLOP

 

HOME Appress: Foreign Service Mail Room, Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

OFFICE Appress: American Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand, APO 146, San Fran-
cisco, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1914, Monroe, La,

[ 490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935; 1937-1938. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude,
1936(38).

MARRIED: Renée Lubin, Sept. 22, 1946, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: David
Howard, Aug. 6, 1950; Diane Helen, Dec. 10, 1951.

occuPATION: Foreign service officer, second secretary, political officer.

MEMBER OF: Society for International Development, Royal Bangkok Sports
Club.

IT’S that “trip to the photographer at the Class’s expense” that in-
trigues me (I refer to the offer made in the September 2oth appeal
from the Class Report chairman) — particularly since I happen to
be domiciled in Bangkok, and the Class Report Committee was good
enough to suggest that I use a San Francisco photographer (appar-
ently onthe basis of my APO address). Faute de mieux, I am en-
closing a photograph, the duplicate of which graces the identifica-
tion papers required by the Thai police.

I have been at our embassy in Bangkok since early 1957, as one
of a sizeable contingent of second secretaries. For two years I per-
formed a variety of economic reporting assignments. Over the past
year I have served as deputy to the embassy officer, charged with
liaison with the South-East Asia Treaty Organization. While ac-
tively engaged in the minutiae of muitilateral diplomacy, I have
had the not always reassuring privilege of watching history being
made in this turbulent corner of the world.

Family life in Bangkok is pleasant enough with most of the
amenities available, although not always functioning. There is still
enough of the exotic to add a bit of spice to daily living. We count
as our major blessing that we are in a country w here Americans
are still generally liked and respected.

Travel opportunities have been one of the principal attractions
of overseas living. We have enjoyed visits to Akor Wat and Avud-
hya, a raft trip from Chiengmai down jungle rivers, leisurely
freighter voyages to other Southeast Asian countries, and also the
more hectic business of seeing as much of the world as possible, on
trips between Bangkok and the States. For chapters of my earlier
career I refer interested classmates to previous volumes of the
Class Report.

[491 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HOMER PHILBROOK GAMMONS

 

HOME abpReEss: 1046 Granville Rd., Westfield, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Westfield High School, Westfield, Mass.

BORN: May 26, 1914, Lewiston, Maine.
PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; ED.M. (Tufts Univ.), 1960.

MarRIED: Barbara Frost Eames, Dec. 26, 1943, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Holly Thayer, Nov. 25, 1944; Wendy Frost and Betsy Parker (twins),
June 30, 1953; Christopher Hall, Oct. 30, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Sherman Gammons, ’33.

OccUPATION: Guidance counselor.

THE idea that I am writing a report for a twenty-fifth anniversary
makes the old brain reel, but apparently it is happening. I suppose
this means I am approaching maturity. A brief glance backwards
reveals that I have been teaching since ’36, except for five unin-
spiring years in the Army during the Conflict. 1 like to think that
these years have been worthwhile, but in my field — Guidance —
you never can be sure. I am convinced of two things, however: (1)
You can do too much for the little monsters, and (2) Guidance has
definite limitations that professional educators apparently haven't
discovered. I worry about the Guidance movement, which can
easily become a wasteland of educational window dressing.

My domestic life has been unusually happy. The menage includes
a still beautiful and patient wife, an impatient teen-ager, twin mop-
pets, a good-natured baby boy (Class of ’75), three cats and a
golden retriever. Fishing, hunting, skiing and painting fill the Icisure
hours. I am active in the Westfield River Watershed Association, a
local conservation organization. This summer marked my fifteenth

season as a counsclor at Tabor Academy’s summer program which

has provided our summer home all these sunny years.

[ 492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In truth, I have been singularly blessed in every department

which I thank a generous Lord and Harvard College (in orde
importance).

JOHN ARTHUR GARBER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Starboard St., Beachwood, N.J.

OFFICE appress: Allied Stores, 401 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.
BoRN: April 1, 1914, Pittsburgh, Pa.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MARRIED: Eleanore Constance Mackey, July 13, 1940, Beachwood, N.J. cre
DREN: Eleanore Mackey, Feb. 5, 1942; John Arthur, Jr, May 2, !94
Richard Bubb, Nov. 7, 1946.

occuPaATION: Advertising executive.

OFFICES HELD: Director, advertising and marketing, Revlon, Inc, New Yor!
director, American Red Cross, Jackson County, Kansas City, Mo.; vice
president and director, Macy's, Kansas City; vice-president, Lefron Adver
tising Company, New York, D'Arcy Advertising Company, New York
member, Naval Reserve Board, Kansas City, Mo.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Philadelphia, Delmonico, New York; Sigma
Delta Chi; Beachwood Yacht Club; Military Order of Foreign Wars,
PUBLICATIONS: “Broadcast Advertising,” and “Merchandise Facts,” Univ. of

Pitesburgh.

IF, when I left the College, after three years, to enter the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin Law School in those depression days of yore,
I could have believed that my lot in life would be to spread the
gospel of lipstick, hemline, labor-saving clectrical magic, and the

rest of our wonderful-awful bag of trade to American womanhood,
Il wonder. . .

l€ 1 had known that TE would commute seventy-five miles each
way, each day, over a good part of those years, PE wonder.

oo TEE
[ 493 ]

——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

had known that all of this would be interrupted by a war (how dis-
tant now), including the sinking of a certain attack transport off
Normandy, I wonder. . . . But how lucky can you be?

I have lived on a finger of Barnegat Bay in New Jersey, for almost
all of my married life. I have a girl (we were married twenty years
ago last July) who is just that. She has just enough exquisitely, un-
expected, Irish backlash in her system to keep me at parade rest —
and, thank God, she can spell. There are three not-so-small Garbers
who fight, swim, sail, fish, water-ski, shoot and do all the other
things that the young and beautiful can do in this salt-sown shore
country. One lovely blonde female is a freshman at Oberlin; one
boy (our middle child) wants to be an electronics engineer; his
younger brother, who has built and sold two boats at thirteen,
dreams of being a naval architect. As to conformity, I can only say
that they were baptized and confirmed, and in varying degrees
have attended services in the same Episcopal parish where their
mother and J took our vows two decades ago.

I have been successful financially in the way of the day: have
been an officer and director of a major department store group, an
officer of a well-known manufacturing company and two large
national advertising agencies, On the other side of the cuff, 1 once
spent a couple of unhurried, if financially harried, years as a mem-
ber of the graduate school faculty of one of our better universi-
ties.

Yes—JI, too, have been a director of an American Red Cross
Chapter, a member of Sigma Delta Chi, a member of a Naval Re-
serve Board, the Navy League, the this, the that — with work, con-
siderable satisfaction and a grain of salt.

As of today — we have a good and considered library, but I find
it harder and harder to read without glasses. Work I enjoy, but
find it harder and harder to get up in the morning. And harder too,
to stomach the news, to hold in my stomach, to work on a boat, to

pay taxes, to understand local politics, to stay late at cocktail parties.
As of tomorrow, | wonder. . . . But, how lucky can you be!

[ 494 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES EDWIN GARDNER, JR.

 

HOME ADpREsS: Chicken Valley Road, Oyster Bay, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Union Carbide Corp., 270 Park Ave. New York, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1913, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1940.

MaRRIED: Florence Harris King, June 24, 1939, Irvington, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Wendy, Nov. 3, 1940; Susan, Feb. 10, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club; Ekwanok Club; Harvard Club of New York.

I AM a terrible correspondent, as my wife, mother and two daugh-
ters will readily testify. This space will therefore be used as an
open letter to those classmates to whom I should have been writing.

Since our last Report and the following Twentieth Reunion (the
best of all to date), my basic setup and routine have not changed
substantially. My office is now forty-seven floors above Park
Avenue looking to the north over the Waldorf Towers and Central
Park as far as the Catskills. If only I wasn’t so darned nearsighted
I could follow the comings and goings of the great and the near-
great down below.

I had to let my belt out a little more last winter but the fear of
losing my Twenty-fifth Reunion waistline bet made in college with
T. Brown helped me get back to normal. [ still get in some skiing
but the bumps are getting harder and [ can’t hold my breath as
long as I used to. The distaff side of the family is leading me to cer-
tain destruction by having me learn (at my age) to waltz them
around on ice skates. My high-tension golf swing has led me to gee
interested in fly fishing and 1 had a chance to follow borh chese pur-

suits of happiness for a brief period in Scotland last summer — with
notably poor results.

My six-year term on the board of trustees of Friends Academy

[ 495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

has ended leaving me with the conviction that in order to have our
youngsters achieve quantity and quality of education by age eight-
een comparable or superior to their counterparts’ in Europe and
Russia, they should have a considerably longer school year coupled
with the programmed mechanical aids now becoming available. |
would expect that the teacher salary problem would be substantially
lessened if fewer teachers had a longer work year doing less routine
mechanics of teaching. I also think that the Harvard admissions
policy might be amended to serve the future of the University
better if the desires of the faculty for the most brilliant students
were more balanced against the desires of alumni to have educable
sons of at least average academic ability admitted. (No axe-grinding
here, since I have no sons.) .
All of us are looking forward to June.

GUY GARLAND

 

HOME ApprEss: 95 Rolling Lane, Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE aDpREss: John Nuveen & Co., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 31, 1912, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936, M.B.A., 1938.

Marriep: Ruth Loveland Hale, June 3, 1939, Wallingford, Conn. cup: Guy
Frederick, May 11, 1943.

occupaTion: New England regional manager, John Nuveen & Company, munic-
ipal bond underwriter company.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Zoning Board, Weston, Massachusetts, since 19515
president, Municipal Bond Club of Boston, since 1961,

MEMBER oF: Chamber Music Society of Lower Newton Street,

AS I write this, on a Sunday in November, the memory of our first
official pre-T wenty-fifth Reunion activity is very fresh, Yesterday

[ 496 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was the Yale game, known to my wife (a Yale girl) as the “Harvard”

ame. Carey Cage was full of “portly classmates and their families,
The food and the refreshments were plentiful and excellent, the
hubbub enormous. Nobody mentioned the score of the game,
except a few visitors from Yale, ’36, whose team had already bitten
the hand that was feeding them. It all portended well for June, 1941.
And thank God for those name tags!

In a résumé such as this, I do not intend to telescope twenty-
five years of active life into a couple of paragraphs. Nor do I w ish
to follow the lead of some classmates who will undoubtedly start
off by saying “nothing much has happened since the last Report,
but...” Instead I shall follow the advice of a writer friend, who
said to me, “Your material is not overly interesting in the first place,
and since you can’t be witty, be brief!”

So I shall be brief, and anyway nothing much has happened since
the last Report. But just in case you don’t recall what the last Re-
port said, I shall repeat the essentials. These include such vital
statistics as: after graduation, two years at the Harvard Business
School; a couple of prewar sales jobs; four vears in the Navy Supply
Corps, emerging as a lieutenant commander; seven Vears in a Boston
bank, which is better known for its conservative loaning policies
than for its generosity to its officers; and subsequently, New England
manager for a large dealer in municipal bonds.

Our small family contains one offspring. A six-foot son who will
have graduated from Middlesex, and we hope be accepted by a fine
college by the time he attends our 25th. Neither he nor his father
could get into Harvard today, or so I am told, so a long family
tradition must be broken at the fourth generation. Many classmates
seem to be in the same boat. It would be dishonest not to admit to
some regret that the Old School Ties must soon thus be weakened;
but Harvard today is a highly competitive college, increasingly
oriented toward the research-minded. There is really no place for
the casual student in an institution where fifty-two per cent of the
undergraduate body is on the honor roll. My son doesn’t seem to
mind. He says philosophic: ally that he prefers a small college; and
points out that Harvard doesn’t seem to have a ski team, anyway,

We live in a small Boston suburb which has nevertheless nearly
tripled its population since we moved here fifteen vears ayo; and
has gone from rural to suburban. TP sall take an active part in town
affairs, chiefly as chairman of our Zoning Board of Appeals We
play a litele golf, the quality of which seems to de preciate slightly

[ 497 ]

et

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

each year. We thoroughly enjoy suburban life, an occasional club

dance, our musical group and amateur theatricals now and then.

We spend a good part of the summer on Cape Cod, and usually a

week or two in Florida or the Islands in the winter.

Three years ago we built a lovely contemporary home not far

from Route 128 and the Massachusetts turnpike. This 1s still giving

us the joy of accomplishment, as we constantly try to refine its

living qualities. At one point I was bitten by the sports car bug and

have owned several. This is a sort of disease one never entirely

gets over. I warn classmates against it. __

Being personally well satisfied, not only with life at home but

also with my business life, I should be a reasonably serene man. My
job is a good one, a constructive one. I like it. My town is a nice
one. I like living here. But I must admit to being basically uneasy
about this cold war world. I distrust the status quo. Our govern-
ment is spending forty billion annually, or about one-half the budget,
on defense against Communism. And apparently the Communists
are spending an even higher percentage as defense against Capitalism.
Something seems illogical to me about such a vast waste. I can only
hope that by the time Jack Kennedy comes back to Cambridge for
his own 25th, he will have had time to straighten out this situation
to the satisfaction of all concerned.

VINCENT GARRO, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 123 Babcock St., Brookline 46, Mass.

SAMUEL MELVIN GARTE

   
   

AEN TE AE SAS

 

HOME appreEss: 319 E. Third St. Brooklyn'18, N.Y,
[ 498 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Anton Electronic Labs., Inc., Flushing Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1914, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935, 1936-1937. DEGREE: AB. 1936(37).

MARRIED: Esther Goober, June 30, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Edna Janet,
May 5, 1939; Seymour Jay, Oct. 31, 1947.

occupaTION: Chief chemist, Anton Electronic Laboratories.

MEMBER OF: American Electroplaters Society.

IT seems intensely improbable that anyone could possibly be inter-
ested in the story of my life, until I stop to remember my own
curiosity about some of the fellows I haven’t seen for so many
years. Nothing so unusual to tell about, however, except that after
all this time I have enrolled (seriously) for graduate study at New
York University and there is even an outside chance that I might
hoodwink them into granting me the Ph.D. before senility sets in.
So you see, you are dealing here with a severe case of arrested de-
velopment.

I view with mixed emotions the positively parental concern that
my children take in my grades. In all other respects they are a
delightful pair of beings and much smarter than I could ever hope
to be. As for my wife, I have had a good and beloved companion
for all these years, and this is as much as any man deserves.

In these twenty-five years I] have worked hard always, acquired
a small modicum of material comforts, traveled a little and enjoyed
to the full the true happiness which has come my way. I have only
one brag to make: I have never yet said to myself, “I have nothing
more to learn!”

CHARLES MEREDITH GARTH

 

MAILING ApprESS: 876 Old England Ave., Winter Park, Fla.

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ARTHUR JOSEPH GARTLAND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 180 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 141 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarriED: Katherine E. Brown, Oct. 3, 1943, Winthrop, Mass. CHILDREN: Jude
Thaddeus, Aug. 11, 1944; Arthur Joseph, Jr., July 22, 1946, Richard Nev-
ille, Aug. 27, 1948.

occuPATION: Insurance broker.

MEMBER OF: Hatherly Country Club, North Scituate, Mass.

A PATHOLOGICAL disposition to be late, rather than reluctance
to engage in agonizing appraisal, accounts for my getting this biog-
raphy to the Class Reports office by January 16. To the editors I
offer apologies for tardiness; to my classmates I offer apologies for
bare punctuality.

Except for two years teaching economics at Notre Dame, and
four years of World War II im the Naval Reserve, I have been
engaged in insurance brokerage in Boston. At the present time I
have a partnership with a lifelong friend — firm name being Cronin
Gartland & Company. Like Walter Mitty, I sometimes secretly
wish I were a surgeon, trustee, politician, priest (eastern rite where
marriage is permitted) or successful insurance broker. The last role
you all can help me to achieve most readily by addressing your
orders to me at 141 Milk Street, Boston 9, Massachusetts, Matter
of fact, if Dave comes through, I won't need the rest of you.

Dearest to me are my wife and children. So far I have been able
to feed and clothe them to a degree of comfort. They earn it by
having to put up with cranky moods and my application of high
standards of performance — their performance — established by an

[ 500 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

imaginary perfection of my own character. Actually, I am a free
man, only because of wife Kay’s seeing to my bank account's being
balanced and my federal income tax being paid. I do the little
things quite well, but she takes care of the vital affairs.

The boys are good, big husky lads, They have excellent minds
and character. I will gladly hear someone say a few years from
now, “Are you the physicist’s father?” etc. They attend Boston
Latin School as I did, over thirty years ago. Whereas about eighty
of my classmates entered Harvard, perhaps only about twenty-five
of theirs will. Despite the obstacles in the way, I shall be pleased
to see them follow me to Harvard. Furthermore, they can do it, 'm
sure.

Our home, in school season, is in Boston —an apartment con-
venient to Latin School, my business, and sources of entertainment.
In summer, weekends and school vacations, we live in Scituate,
Massachusetts, close to the shore. When the weather’s warm and
fair I sail and occasionally capsize along North Scituate beach, the
Glades and Cohasset; swim and do a little lobstering. Otherwise
I have no yen for athletics. I’m so ashamed of my golf game that
I only play out of season and never for eighteen holes. It’s too
discouraging.

Politically, we are a family of Democrats. Kay is a registrar of
voters in Scituate and I try to work in various ways for Democratic

victory. The most sensible contribution is an occasional donation of
money. As for candidates, I’m a notoriously bad picker and the
causes I espouse are often losers. I should add that occasionally, on
principle, I split my ticket. During the recent presidential campaign
it was interesting to see the boys spontaneously rooting for Ken-
nedy. “As the twig is bent. . . .”

An interest in civic affairs takes my mind off insurance a good
part of each day. It’s fortunate that office associates keep the ball
rolling so that we can eat. First, it was the Scituate P.T.A. and
school and public building committee. After serving as P.T.A.
president I was presented with a Harvard chair, which I find well
suited to my amplitude. Naturally, I took nothing for my service on
a public committee, except satisfaction for a job well done.

In Boston, my forum for exercise of civic virtue is the Chamber
of Commerce. [ve been privileged to be a vice- -president and mem-
ber of the executive committee. It’s a great organization composed

of a fine staff and membership, with whom [am pleased to be asso-
ciated. From time to time, I've had a share in its etforts to revitalize

[ 501 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Boston and the metropolitan area. Conflicting purposes and opinions
among Bostonians and their political, civic, social and corporate
organizations make unity an elusive goal, yet one worth seeking.

In sum, I am forced to admit small accomplishment over twenty-
five vears, but I have received inexhaustible abundance of blessings
in wife, children and friends, adequate earnings, and good friends.

PAUL ESSELBORN GEIER

 

HOME AppRESS: Piazza Madama 9, Rome.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1914, Cincinnati, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1936; LLB., 1939-

MARRIED: Gabriele Solms-Roedelheim (née Brougier), Nov. 28, 1949, Ziirich,
Switzerland.

OFFIcES HELD: Foreign Service Officer, 1941-53, stationed at Tangier, Ceuta,
Jidda, Vienna, Casablanca and Rome: Medal of Freedom; latterly First
Secretary at Embassy in Rome, assigned to Italian-U.S. Conciliation Com-
mission and then to USIS, in the office of the Cultural Attaché; associate
director, China Institute in America, New York, 1954-57; trustee, Vergilian
Society, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Phi Beta Kappa; Century Associa-
tion; University Club, Washington, Queen City and Camargo Clubs,
Cincinnati; Circolo del Golf, Rome; Foreign Service Association; Coun-
cil on Foreign Relations, New York Zoological Society,

THIS warm, sunny, Roman day is more conducive to grateful
reminiscence than to probing self-revelation or philosophizing. The
wondrous college years, in particular, which I at least quite un-
thinkingly rather took for granted, retain their bright glow as the
interval between them and the present inexorably widens, Although
most of the score of years since leaving Cambridge have been spent

[ 502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in far places, what I have felt on each return there has convinced
me of the permanence of the old ties.

Both in consequence of my jobs and apart therefrom, I have been
fortunate in seeing a great deal of the world. Lam still convinced that
it is wide and beautiful, and travel is my most passionate avocation.
My Austrian-born wife is lovely and talented. We have chosen to
come back to live in what we consider the most beautiful of all
cities, at the very spot where we commenced life together, in 1949,
when I was serving at the Embassy.

Drawing a very incomplete balance sheet of this quarter-century,
I believe that 1 have gained widely in experience, if not in wisdom.
I continue to cherish the interest in the humanities and the attach-
ment to the principles of liberalism and tolerance nurtured at Har-
vard, albeit their counterpart of optimism has been chilled by the
ever grimmer unfolding of the Atomic Age.

BERNARD GERMAN

 

HOME AppRESS: 436 Page Terr., South Orange, N_J.

OFFICE AppREss: 70 S. Munn Ave., East Orange, NJ.

BORN: July 31, 1914, Newark, N.J.

PREPARED AT: South Side High School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B, stevoma ciom laude, 1936, Mo, Cum
laude, 1940.

MarrieD: Charlotte M. Kimberg, Aug. 19, 1951, New York, N.Y. cuitpaen:
Steven M., Oct. 21, 1952; Amy R., March 13, 1935; Susan B. Dee. 3a, 198.

OccUPATION: Physician; psychiatrist and psychoanalyst.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in pediatrics, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: New Jerscy Psychoanalytic Society (charter member, since 1908);
Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine; American Psychiatric Assovia-
tion; American Medical Association; Essex County and New Jersey Seate

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FDWARD HARRIMAN GERRY

 

HOME appress: Wheatley Road, Westbury, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 41 EF. 62d St., New York 21, N.Y.

BorN: April 7, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: 8.B., 1936.

marrieD: Martha Botts Farish, April 22, 1939, New York, N.Y. cHILprEn:
Libbie Farish, May 17, 1941; Cornelia Harriman, March 29, 1943; Edward
Harriman, Jr. July 17, 1947 (died 1947); Martha Rice, Oct. 31, 1950;
William Farish, July 18, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Elbridge Thomas Gerry, °31; Henry Averell Gerry, °36
(twin).

OCCUPATION: General partner, Gerry Brothers & Company, general investments.

oFFicEs HELD: Director, Delta Airlines, since 1946; trustee, 1949-56, president,
1953-56, Green Vale School, Long Island, N.Y.; president, Anchor In-

vestment Corporation, Florida, since 1953, Family Service Association,
since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club (board of governors, since 1946); Meadow
Brook Club, Racquet & Tennis Club; Links Club; The Jockey Club.

HAVING ascertained from the Yellow Pages that there are no
ghost writers to cover this sort of thing, I am resigned to the as-
sassination of my own character. Which is too bad, as my twin
brother whose life report is also published somewheres hereabout
could do a better job by far — and all because we both took Military
Science I during freshman year and he drilled for two hours but I
got the credit for it.

Anyway, after making the grades through the courtesy of the
Dean’s office, I faced the world with an S.B. degree (I did not
qualify for an A.B. because of some Latin course that I took when
I was fifteen and which seemed to have bestowed on me the learned
status of a scientist).

Having majored in government, mostly concerning types now

[ 506 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nonexistent, it was natural that I should benefit by my education,
so I went to Wall Street and entered upon a banking career at
ninety dollars a month. (My school-age daughter got her first job
last summer at fifty dollars a week.) Four years later, 1 reached a
position of an assistant secretary and simultaneously the conclusion
that the banking profession was not for me. Being a junior execu-
tive, I had to see the bank president about it and I stull remember
his comment: “My boy, I’m glad we don’t all have the same in-
terests. Wouldn’t it be awful if we were all bankers?” Which
seemed to nail down all the angles pretty well; so I left.

Meanwhile, wedding bells had rung out their message rather

clearly and I had gone down the aisle in keeping with the best
traditions, surrounded by a gang of Harvard ushers and a covey of
Vassar bridesmaids. We were honeymooning in Bermuda when
the war broke out in Europe; everyone was congratulating them-
selves over the Maginot Line and no one had ever heard of Pearl
Harbor. Nevertheless, I decided to do something that might help
to put me on the preferred “cannon-fodder” list at least, so I signed
up for a course and learned to fly on the side. One year later, how-
ever, when the dreadful day came, I was declared too old (at twenty-
seven!) for the cadet programs and too inexperienced for the air
transport jobs. Once again, my career was up in smoke. A chance
meeting with an air force officer resulted in my entering the early
air raid warning effort and I became involved in the Information
Center located in Philadelphia. Rapid development of defense equip-
ment soon readied us for overseas duties and I ultimately contributed
to the war effort in North Africa, England, Normandy and Ger-
many. I graduated back to civilian life with the rank of major and
without plans.

But the uniform was not shed long before the business suit came
out again — this time appearing in the family’s own office where
responsibilities were growing as the senior generation started retir-
ing. We right away committed ourselves to a policy of investing
soundly in anything, and indeed some exciting schemes “sounded”
real loud as they blew up. There is a familiar pattern running
through the whole operation, too, which traces itself, of all things,
back to the banking business. Now I'm not sure whether we're not
all bankers in some form or other.

After office hours of a summer's day, I am pretty apt to be
found on, or try ing to stay on, the golf course and [ am even re-
ferred to at times as a “pigeon.” Much of vacation time is taken

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

in the fall and winter in pursuit of upland game and water fow
which affords an opportunity, at least, to get back at the pigeon
Otherwise, 1 still enjoy good health, good books, good cigars.

don’t like backgammon, opera, the Yankees. I don’t agree wit:

cucumbers, Goren, Democrats, Being somewhat subtly influencec
by the thought that “it’s later than you think,” I intend to visit
Las Vegas, to read Hawaii, to build a bomb shelter.

By way of a few notes about the family, I can pridefully confess
that we are a happy and united bunch. My wife is a good golfer,
loves the racehorses and shoots an accurate 410 at quail. She works
conscientiously in the philanthropic field and is reputed to be a
good money-raiser. She puts up with me. We have three daughters
preceding one little boy and in descending order they rate as quite
a musician, quite an athlete, quite a card and the little fellow, of
course, cannot help but be quite a girl-chaser. With about ninety-
nine exceptions, 1 wouldn’t change any part of the ordeals that are
commonly described as teen-age problems. Those who have been
through it will agree with me that they are well worth the tribula-
tions; but, don’t look now! Those grandchildren will be coming

soon, And they, gentlemen, will give us plenty of material to write
about for our Fiftieth!!

HENRY AVERELL GERRY .

  

Home appress: Greenvale, Long Island, N.Y,

OFFICE appress: Gerry Brothers & Co, qr E, 62d St, New York 21, N.Y.
BoRN: April 8, 1914, New York, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1939-
MaRRIED: Nancy Whitney, May 35 1940, New York, N.Y. cuipren: Henry
Averell, Jr, Oct. 1, 1941 (died April 17, 1960); Gertrude Sheldon, July

[ 508 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

28, 1943; Angelica Livingston, June 3, 1946, Nancy W., Dec. 29, 1948;
Richard F., Dec. 26, 1957.
HARVARD SON: Henry Averell Gerry, Jr., 63 (deceased).
HARVARD BROTHERS: Elbridge Thomas Gerry, ’31; Edward Harriman Gerry, "36.
occuPATION: Partner, Gerry Brothers & Company, general investment.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Gerry Estates, Inc., 1947-52; trustee, St. James Church,
Delhi, N.Y., since 1947, Community Hospital, Glen Cove, 1949-58; secre-
tary and director, Tourinns, Inc., 1949-60; treasurer and trustee, Foxcroft
School, since 1952; vice-president and director, Anchor Investment Com-

pany, since 1953.
MEMBER OF: American Bar Association, Racquet and Tennis Club, Piping

Rock Club; Fishers Island Country Club; New York Jockey Club.

WHEN I first sat down seriously to write this thing, I was firmly
convinced that I had not been out of college twenty-five years.
Like the proverbial “yellow,” I wondered where all those years
went.

The first part is easily accounted for; three years at Columbia Law
School; two more years getting acquainted with the practice of law,
the next four overseas on Air Force business. This leaves only fifteen
years to go, and Father Time certainly has flown.

Whether I left the law or vice versa, I have never really decided.
I do remember. that the affairs of Richard Roe and John Doe no
longer seemed overwhelmingly important after the war— not
nearly so much, that is, as my own. I found a place in my family’s
office, therefore, and for the next few years concerned my self
primarily with the tax consequences of doing business. This led
to investment opportunities and experiences outside the practice of
law, and I never returned.

As to the family, my lovely better-half is still delightful, charm-
ing and putting up with me. Our children arrived in the form of a
son, three daughters and another son. The oldest, I sadly report,
was killed in an accident during his freshman year at Harvard.
Number One daughter, who hopes someday to beat the old man
at golf (no chance of this as I hereby serve notice I shall quit first),
is hoping to go to college next fall. Number Two daughter, who
is good at tennis and quite skilled at art and presenting bills for new
clothes, is in her first year at boarding school. Number Three, still
at home, rides and plays tennis well, hopes also to murder me at
golf some day (same chance of success) and is discovering the
opposite sex. Number Two son, not quite three years old, has at the
moment fixed determinations to eat us out of house and home and
to make like Popeye with his fists.

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

My outside activities include being treasurer and trustee of my
wife’s alma mater —with three daughters, this was a stroke of
genius. I also seem to have become involved with the direction of
a country club, as a board member and officer. I have also served as
trustee for a hospital. My major sports interest is golf, at which
I am successful only if I get a good partner or have been unusually
persuasive on the first tee, with respect to handicaps.

Thus the years have rolled along. They have been very happy,
and for this [ am indebted and grateful to Nancy and the kids.

FREDERICK CONRAD GEVALT, JR.

    

HOME apprEss: Wells Hill Road, Lakeville, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sharon Clinic, Sharon, Conn.

BoRN: Aug. 27, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.p. (Columbia Univ.), 1940.
marriED: Sally Wallits Young, Nov. 10, 1945, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:

Frederick Conrad, 3d, Sept. 19, 1946; Peter Young, Oct. 27, 1948; Geof-
frey Willits, Sept. 22, 1951.

occupation: Physician; internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Founding partner and director, Sharon Clinic, since 1947; attend-
ind physician, Sharon Hospital, since 1947; instructor in medicine, Massa-
chusetts General Hospital, 1946-47, Presbyterian Hospital, 1947-49; mem-
ber, since 1956, council, 1956-57, Connecticut Society American Board of
Internists; member, editorial board, Connecticut Medicine, 1957-59; mem-

ber of council, Connecticut State Medical Society, since 1959; president,
Sharon Research Institute, Inc., since 1958,

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Litchfield County Medical So-
ciety, Connecticut State Medical Society; Connecticut Society of Ameri-
can Board of Internists, American College of Physicians,

THE fall of 1936 found me all bright-eyed and bushy-tailed, un-
[ sto ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

packing at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center with the avowed
intention of becoming a doctor. Somehow I made it, and before
I could catch a breath, let alone indulge a notion a couple of friends
and I had had of taking a three-month junket with somebody’s re-
mittance-man uncle in Sumatra, I found myself starting a two-year
appointment at the Boston City Hospital in internal medicine.
From there to the Massachusetts General Hospital, as assistant resi-
dent on East Medical, thence, for a period of three and a half years,
the U.S. Navy and finally back to the M.G.H. Somewhere in there,
I ran across a small, nut-brown item from New York who has been
wife of my bosom, elfin companion, and enthusiastic antagonist in
the care and feeding of the young, for lo these fifteen years.
Thirteen years ago, a dream conceived in medical school with
three old friends and classmates began to materialize, and the four
of us wound our separate ways to rural northwest Connecticut, in
the foothills of the Berkshires, where we bought, revised and
equipped an old house in Sharon and embarked upon group practice.
At the beginning, owing largely to our own diplomatic ineptitude,
the going was a little sticky and we had plenty of time to keep up
to date on the medical journals, teach in group clinic at Presbyterian
Hospital and wreak moderate havoc among the local pheasants,
migratory water fowl and trout. Gradually, however, we found
ourselves fully occupied on a seven-days-a-week basis, with a tech-
nique of practice that has turned out to be fully as stimulating and
gratifying as we had hoped. We are now grown to six members,
with two more proposed, and have long since had to abandon, except
for rare occasions, our sporting equipment. To anyone interested
in the country, in the role of kindly Dr. Kindly, family friend and
adviser, yet still anxious for the stimulation of the highly vocal
criticisms of one’s peers, I can recommend this system unreservedly.
At home, Sally and I find the years full and passing quickly. Our
three boys have reached a level of awareness and a capacity for
the apt comment that threatens the old man’s tendency to wax sen-
tentious at Sunday lunch, and when they gang up with their mother
on some issue of higher domestic policy, I find I may pack the
weight, but I lack the speed of earlier days. On those occasions
when the bags under the parental eve scem less deeply etched, we
find ourselves being dragged, and not too reluctantly, to the Elousa-
tonic River at daybreak for a go at the ducks, to Indian Mountain
football field to cheer our right half-back, or to Hlotehkiss co watch
the oldest carrying one of “The Seven Keys to Baldpate.”

[sit]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

In retrospect, I have been around the world some, seen a lot
of grief and a lot of joy, been bright on occasion and a damned
fool all too frequently, learned a good deal about the infinite capacity
of the human soul and noticed that its two greatest tests are peace
and prosperity. I have sired three boys in whose favor I am strongly
prejudiced and remained enamored of the very nice girl who bore
them. I have become a passable wing shot, developed a deep affec-
tion for the area in which we live and the people who dwell here,
and had a hand in the development of a first-class medical com-
munity. I have come no closer to the solution of the ultimate pur-
pose than I ever was, but I am learning to be content with the
concept that a man who manages to leave behind him a little more
than he found fulfills his destiny. I like to think that the next
twenty-five years will be even more eventful than the last, but

in any event I plan to be around to see.

BRAMAN GIBBS

 

MAILING AbpRESS: Sugar Road, Bolton, Mass.

[512]

yh am

aaa

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD DARLEY GIERASCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2347 Park Ave., Cincinnati 6, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B,, cu laude, 1936.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Gierasch, ’28.

OFFICES HELD: Cincinnati Community Chest and Council volunteer.

THE twenty-five years which have elapsed since my graduation
from Harvard have left me a confirmed bachelor and pretty much
of a “rolling stone.”

It all began with a prolonged year of subsidized wandering around
the globe at minimum rates. My travels took me on foot along the
west coast of Ireland, through little visited parts of central France
by bicycle, across North Africa by bus and rail, through India with
the natives in fourth-class rail accommodation, down the coast of
Burma and Malaya by coastal freighter, to Bali and home by way of
China and Japan.

There followed some years of reasonably settled existence in
New York where I worked in the market research business and
sampled the life of the Village and the upper West Side. This period
came to an end when I was called from a fairly promising posinon in
the research department of Columbia Broadcasting to report. to
Fort Dix, early in 1942.

My military carcer led me from basic training in the Armored
Infantry in Louisiana to basic training in the Medical Department of
the army at various camps in Virginia, from there to Texas and
Medical Administrative OCS. As an officer PE returned to Louisiana
in the capacity of adjutane for a large station hospital, Next move
was to Washington for training in intelligence and SCCUTITY W ork

[53]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

which resulted ultimately in assignment to a security outfit under
the Air Transport Command. Most of my duty was stateside until
after V-J Day when my organization moved to Manila and later to
Tokyo.

The war period left me with a distaste for the confinement of
office work and after a brief time with the Red Cross, as a veterans’
claims representative, I accepted an appointment as a diplomatic
courier with the State Department. My travels began again with
assignment to Shanghai for travel throughout the Far East: into
the remote interior of China on war-weary transport planes; around
the countries of southeast Asia in the comfortable care of BOAC;
as far south as New Zealand and as far north as Vladivostok, the
latter point being reached by Russian ships.

Toward the end of 1948 I was transferred to Paris for courier
travel to all countries of Europe, North Africa and some of the
Near East. After the continual flying involved in the Far East it
was a relief to alternate rail travel for short runs with air travel for
the longer trips.

By 1951 I had had enough travel to satisfy my “wanderlust” for
awhile and returned to my home state of Massachusetts and settled
at Wellesley. Barring a few months spent in Cincinnati and a good
many more spent in Washington, D.C., during my first year in
home territory, Wellesley remained my base for the next eight
years, during which I led the life of a commuter and was connected
with the accounting department of the Boston & Maine Railroad.
Railroads having run into progressively harder times, I am now in
Cincinnati to be near members of my close family and am currently
in the process of relocating.

Such a roving life as I have led is a lot of fun if you can take it,
but there are times when I could wish I had devoted more effort
to building on the excellent foundations of learning given to me by
Harvard.

[ 514 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HENRY GILBERT

  

HOME ADDRESS: 69 Ward Ave., Rumson, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Monmouth College, West Long Branch, N.J.

BorN: Dec. 4, 1914, Milwaukee, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; A.M. (Univ. of Wisconsin),
1950; PH.D. (ibid.), 1955.

mMarRIED: Eleanor Lafore, Aug. 30, 1941, Cleveland, Ohio. cumprex: John
Henry, 3d, July 18, 1945; Priscilla, Oct. 30, 1946, Deborah, Aug. 21, 1950;
Cornelia, Feb. 16, 1952.

occupation: Teacher and chairman, Department of Teacher Education, Mon-
mouth College. an

OFFICES HELD: Occasional minor roles in local civic, cultural, or professional
activities, particularly in: scouting, church government, singing groups,
and various state and regional conferences on educational problems.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors, Phi Delta Kappa
(education); National Society for the Study of Education, National Edu-
cation Association (various of its branches at state and national level).

HEADING home to Milwaukee for a brief brush with the business
world twenty-five years ago, I did not realize I was beginning a
slow swing around the eastern half of the United States that would
lead me back east at last. Nor could I have imagined the familial
company that would materialize to journey back with me.

My grand tour was slow to gain momentum — much slower than
my family, it turned out. Eventual matriculation at the University
of Wisconsin, in Madison, was surely no indication of peregrination
to come. Subsequent service in the adjutant general's corps of the
Army brought travel, assuredly, but it was to Furope, with con-
siderable stays in Paris and Zurich — a bit off the path the fates had
marked for me. Married to my Radcliffe swectheart just before the
war, and beginning to sprout children like anv G.L, T was finally

[515]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

free to resume studying and sprouting at the University of Wiscon-
sin. I also put in my first stint at teaching in Beloit, Wisconsin.

My great meander began to take shape in 1952 when, with my
complete family and incomplete Ph.D., I headed for Southwestern
College in south-central Kansas. A year later I moved to West
Liberty State College, near Wheeling. My teaching of education
and psychology expanded there, to include history and the produc-
tion of weekly radio and television broadcasts for the college. In
1956 I polished my recently completed Ph.D. with two years of
practical experience in the Catskills, where I was a high school
principal in the small town of Grahamsville.

My travels came almost full circle, in 1958, when I joined the
newly-created department of teacher education at Monmouth Col-
lege, twenty-five miles by water from New York City. As chair-
man of this mushrooming department, already over half as large as
our tercentenary class, I find my time more occupied than a father
would often like.

‘The size and nature of my family have increasingly highlighted
the modest proportions of my income, as well as the undue pro-
portion of time I spend earning it. Fortunately, the other founder
of my voracious, strident, explosive brood has always found it in
her heart to stand up and be counted. While the children were
small, this meant smiling and somehow making do on a meager
scale, Now it means that she is also teaching high school history.
Between us we contrive to manage a family that seems increasingly
geared for perpetual motion. Our current concern is so to control

this hot, atomic pile as to get it to the Twenty-fifth. We all hope
we can manage, somehow, to make this last leg of my quarter-
century tour on schedule.

[516]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ RICHARD WATSON GILDER

 

BORN: Jan. 15, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: Rodman Gilder, ’99, Comfort
Tiffany.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1936.

MaRRIED: Anne Spring Denny Alsop, Sept. 24, 1938, Tyringham, Mass. cHiL-
DREN: George Franklin, Nov. 29, 1939; Comfort Tiffany, Oct. 4, 1941.

DIED: June 28, 1943, over the Aclantic Ocean.

AFTER graduation Gilder spent a year at the Graduate School and
then joined Tiffany & Company in New York City. While an un-
dergraduate he was a member of the Harvard Squash team, Har-
vard Political Union and Phi Beta Kappa and was editorial chair-
man of the Crimson. In January, 1942, he joined the Army Air
Corps, received his wings and commission as a first lieutenant and
in the spring of 1943 was promoted to flight captain. He was lost
at sea over the Atlantic Ocean. He was survived by his wife and
two children. "

[517]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILFRED VERNON GILL

i ° pty of Bitsy j

G
&
e
ee

 

HOME ApprEss: 8618 Hackney Lane, Dallas 18, Texas,
OFFICE ApprEss: U.S. Civil Service Commission, 1114 Commerce, Dallas 2,

Texas.
BoRN: June 8, 1915, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936. .
MarRIED: Mary Jane Miller, July 17, 1948, Harrisburg, Pa. cuitp: Craig Rich-

ardson, Jan. 31, 1953.

occupation: Regional director, U.S. Civil Service Commission.

OFFICES HELD: President, Dallas Federal Business Association, past president,
North Texas Chapter, American Society of Public Administration, mem-
ber, State Advisory Committee, Texas Personnel and Management Associa-
tion; member, Governor’s Committee on Employment of the Physically
Handicapped; co-chairman, Public Services Division, Dallas County Com-
munity Chest; past chairman, Public Services Division, Dallas County
Red Cross; secretary, Dallas Coordinating Committee, President's Com-
mittee on Fund-Raising in the Federal Service.

MEMBER OF; American Society of Public Administration.

A CAREER in government service has offered me the kind of chal-
lenge that I think all of us were looking for—the challenge to
use our vital powers along lines of excellence in a life-affording
scope. The rise through the ranks was unspectacular. But a steady
accretion of training and experience in the Executive Branch and
in assignments to the Congress and to private consulting management
engineers has provided, now, a solid background for responsibilities
at the career executive level. With the role of government as it is
in the world today, I conceive no different nor more rewarding life
ahead than to use whatever talents I may have in the interests of
the nation. In this respect 1 am proud that so many classmates and
other Harvard men have a similar inclination, At this writing, it

[ 518 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

looks like President-elect Kennedy intends to accelerate the trend.

My family, social and civic life has been all that I could wish,
but not, I think, of any special interest to the Class. Perhaps some
have missed or do not recognize the contribution to the good life
of a talented wife and a happy child. To whatever extent 1 am
neither misanthropic, heathenish, barbaric, stuffy nor stingy, the
credit is theirs.

JOSEPH KEVIN GILLIGAN

  

7] hen x

HOME ApprEss: Middle Neck Road, Sands Point, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Western Electric Co., 195 Broadway, New York 7, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 10, 1914, Salem, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum? laude, 1936.3; LL.B. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1940.

MARRIED: Virginia Lee Klotts, 1942, Columbus, Ohio. cHitpren: Mary Mc-
Culloch, May 3, 1947; John French, Nov. 3, 1952.

occupation: Lawyer; tax attorney, Western Electric Company.

AFTER law school I worked for a few years in the bull pen of a
New York law firm. During World War II, I was a ritleman in
the 31st Infantry Division and wound up the war years as a con-
tracting and legal officer with the Army Transportation Corps in
San Francisco.

After the war, because of a liking for warm weather, we moved to
Jacksonville, Florida, where I spent a couple of vears in appeals
work with a Jacksonville law firm. One of the firm’s clients, a
pioneer in the frozen orange juice business, lost its president and
I was asked to take this job until a replacement could be found.
This job turned out to be more than temporary and TE was in the
frozen orange juice business for three years of nerve-racking

[519]

OO

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

activity in an industry where no company was breaking even.
Finally we were able to get the stockholders off the hook by selling

out to a larger company.

Since 1950 I have been with Western Electric Company in New
York. My work with Western involves a good deal of travel,
which I like, but doesn’t leave time for much bar association work.
The only substantial legal extracurricular activity I have been able
to do in recent vears was membership on a subcommittee of the
Hoover Commission engaged in recommending changes in the laws
of defense contracting.

I like my wife and children, and I guess I have been happy much
more often than unhappy over the years.

CHARLES STEPHENSON GILLISPIE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Windrow Farm, Blacklick, Ohio.

MORRIS GILLMAN

  

_ome appress: 105 Lynn Ave., Hull, Mass.

[ 520 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE AppRESS: Crowell Associates, 84 State St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: July 7, 1914, East Bridgewater, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 1936-1937. DEGREE: LL.B. (Northeastern Univ),
1941.

MARRIED: Jeanne Ann Potter, June 21, 1945, Boston, Mass. cHitores: Arthur
Wayne, May 3, 1948, Dorothy Marsha, Jan. 8, 1957.

occuPATION: Lawyer; real estate, insurance claims adjustment.

OFFICES HELD: President, Brinsley Realty Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Knights of Pythias.

SHORTLY after 1 graduated from law school and obtained my
degree, I was invited by the President to join the armed forces. I
served with distinction on continental United States in the Air
Force, as meteorologist, air transportation officer and air force in-
telligence, for all of which services I received the Good Conduct
Medal. I left the service in 1945 with a couple of too tght uni-
forms and “high hopes.”

From 1946 to 1949, I was engaged in the trading of real estate
as a broker. From 1949 to 1959, 1 was employed by: an outstanding
major insurance company, handling automobile claims, and I was
also engaged in the practice of law. From 1959 to date, I am
handling a law practice and an independent insurance claims busi-
ness with moderate success.

Currently, I am living comfortably with a wonderful wife. two

gorgeous children, a home at the beach, a car and a jalopy (the
wife’s) ard a tankful of tropical fish.

ROGER HOWE GILMAN

  

HOME appress: 950 Hillside Ave., Plainfield, NJ.
OFFICE aAppREss: Port of New York Authority, ton Fighth Ave, New Vark
N.Y.

[521 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

porn: Aug. 13, 1914, Plainfield, N_J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B. magna cut laude, 1936.

UN MARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Karl] Gilman, ’32.

occuparion: Director of Port Development, Port of New York Authority.

orFices HELD: Afember, board of governors, Harvard Engineering Society,
1939-40; president, Plainfield Area Safety Council, 1941; director, vice-
president, president, Metropolitan Section, 1953-58, chairman, Waterways
and Harbors Division, 1957-58, director, 1960, American Society of Civil
Engineers; chairman, Committee on Ship Channels and Harbors, Ameri-
can Association of Port Authorities, since 1955; member, Civil Engineer-
ing Advisory Committee to board of trustees, Newark College of Engi-
neers, since 1957; member, board of deacons, Crescent Avenue Presby-
terian Church, since 1958; member, Advisory Committee to New Jersey
Economic Ambassadors; board member, Maritime Cargo Transportation
Conference, National Academy of Sciences.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers, Institute of Traffic Engi-
neers; American Society of Military Engineers; Harvard Engineering So-
ciety; American Association of Port Authorities; Permanent International
Association of Navigation Congresses; New York Chamber of Commerce;
Newark Association of Commerce and Industry; chapter honor member,
Newark College of Engineering, Chi Epsilon, 1960.

Pustications: Editor, Annual Report, Institute of Traffic Engineers, 1940,
articles in professional engineering publications.

FOLLOWING graduation, I spent a year at the Harvard Bureau of
Street Traffic Research (which later departed from Cambridge to
become the Yale Bureau of Highway Traffic), where a small group
from all parts of the country learned the principles and funda-
mentals of the then relatively new profession of traffic engineering
and administration. Upon completion of the Bureau course, I joined
the staff of the Port of New York Authority as a statistician-econo-
mist and have remained with the Authority since — interrupted by
three and a half years of battleship Arkansas duty in the Atlantic,
Mediterranean and Pacific operations.

Created in 1921 by the States of New York and New Jersey, the
Port Authority is their joint public agency responsible for the de-
velopment and operation of self-supporting public transportation
and terminal facilities in the New York-northern New Jersey port
area. These include the region’s interstate tunnels and bridges, its
major commercial airports and heliports, many of the Port's marine
terminals and inland terminals for trucks, railroads and buses. The
states also directed the Port Authority to promote the Port and its
commerce.

[ 522]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As director of Port Development for the past seven years, I find
myself engaged in a wide variety of activities concerned with plan-
ning many of the Port’s new facilities and promoting and protecting
the trade of the Port. Much time is devoted to meetings and com-
mittee activities with public officials, business groups, civic associa-
tions and others, as well as occasional trips to various parts of the
country and overseas. These have included Port promotion tours
in Europe, South America and the Caribbean where our trade de-
velopment offices are located. Summing up twenty-four years with
the Port Authority: sometimes hectic, always exciting and never
dull. I’ve also been fairly active in committee work and as an officer

of various professional engineering societies and with Port and
maritime associations.

GERALD FLANDERS GILMORE

 

HOME ApprEss: 31 Edgehill Rd., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: St. Paul’s Church, Chapel & Olive Streets, New Haven, Conn

BORN: June 7, 1914, Wayland, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1936; BD, (Virginia
Theological Seminary), 1948.

MarRiED: Ann Johnstone Smith, Sept. 9, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jonathan Brett, Feb. 6, 1941; Jeremy Flanders, April 15, 1943; Peter John-
stone, Aug. 4, 1947.

occupATION: Clergyman; rector, St. Paul’s Church, New Haven, Connecticut.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, New Haven Council of Churches; member, Li-
brary Board and CAC, City of New Haven; chairman, Subcommittee on
Christian Marriage and Family Life, Diocese of Connecticut.

MEMBER OF: Graduates’ Club, New Haven.

A STRONG conviction that there was room for improvement in

[ 523 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

interpersonal relationships, born of political and social experience in
the thirties and out of four and a half years of service in World
War II, led me, with the gracious consent of my wife, into theologi-
cal studies and the parish ministry. In spite of inevitable frustrations,
I am totally satisfied that this was a sound decision. The life has
been satisfying in every way with “sufficient success” to produce a
very happy set of memories and a growing love of the work.

Undergraduate studies in literature have been caught up in the
promotion of religious drama—from medieval revival to Alan
Paton —and graduate work in art history has been always a re-
source in the frequent student work and university-related programs.
Here in New Haven, we have a parish Arts Committee which is
planning concerts for the residential section of the city now being
extensively “redeveloped.” So I hope the investments Harvard
made in my intellectual development were justified.

Family life can best be described by saying that I have put great
emphasis on developing conferences in Christian marriage, and have
the responsibility for this in Connecticut as a result of my interest.
In my definition, this is a state in which one is best conditioned
(not the only route but the quickest) for that mellow and creative
participation which is the good life. Let me add that we have been
greatly blessed by three healthy lads who join us now and then
from their schools and who made the crew for us these past two
summers on deep sea cruises. Ideal family vacation! Ambitions to
write are probably past —but the zest for life was never higher.
God bless you all!

JOHN GILROY

  

HOME Abpress: 115 W. 59th St., Hinsdale, HL.
orFice appress: Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Ill.

[ 524]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: Nov. 7, 1915, Hamilton, Ont., Canada.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; A.M., 1939; PH.D. 1942.

marRIED: Ruth Hussey, June 27, 1937, Quincy, Mass. (divorced 1955); Lillian
Lorraine Handeland, June 18, 1956, McFarland, Wis. cHitpren: Jean
Mason, May 19, 1939 (7m. Marvin Bassan, March, 1958); Gay, May 9, 1942.
GRANDCHILDREN: Bonnie Jean Bassan, Nov. 22, 1958, Brian Bassan, March

5, 1960.
occupaTION: Research, acting director, Electronics Division, Argonne National
Laboratory.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, etc., Harvard University, 1937-42; physicist, Air Re-
duction Company, 1942-46; manager, Research and Development, 1946-
53, director of research, 1953-56, Ohio Chemical Division of Air Reduc-
tion.

MEMBER OF: Instrument Society of America, Crescent Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Thesis: “Absorption of Air in Extreme Ultraviolet”; miscel-
Janeous U.S. patents on oxygen breathing regulators, various medical
equipment; safety in hospitals.

I WAS ridiculously proud or independent in June, 1936, so wouldn’t

accept Dad’s offer of help for graduate school abroad. I hoped to

teach high school in the fall, so to Harvard Summer School in Edu-
cation. But in August got job as Professor Lyman’s research assist-
ant, and started for Ph.D. in optics, under him. This, with miscel-

laneous odd jobs, teaching and consulting, kept me busy until 1942,

except for collecting a Radcliffe wife and two baby girls.

Then to New York on a “golden opportunity,” but the company
failed in three months. On to New Jersey, where I nursed the pro-
duction and development of oxygen breathing regulators for high
altitude flying, until 1946. This led me to Madison, Wisconsin, on
research and development of anesthesia machines, operating room
tables and lights, etc., until 1956. These were rough years, particu-
larly since my younger daughter got polio badly InN 1949, Spent
many months at Kenney Institute in Minneapolis, ‘and had to have
a series of corrective operations, including spinal fusion in 1953. (She
now walks quite well and all muscles, but those of legs, have re-
covered excellently.)

Both my family life and the company I was working for gradu-
ally deteriorated, and by 1955 were beyond hope. Just past the
darkest hours came a new friend, so in 1956 I started a whole new
life. Instead of coming to the 2oth Reunion, I went honeymooning;
then to Argonne National Laboratory where I've worked on a
variety of developments and recently took charge of electronics
division.

[525 ]

a —___

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Still not all beer and skittles, e.g., large bone tumor in 1958 but
non-malignant, and I’m now nearly limpless and able to run again —
and my hair is starting to turn gray for the third time. (I’m not
kidding. It started twice before and changed its mind, so maybe
this will give you hope in years to come!) But two fine daughters
with good starts (elder on graduate scholarship, in linguistics, at
University of Chicago), two wonderful grandchildren, a super-
wife, a honey of an invention (if I can find time to develop it), and
I think I’ve learned enough now, so that the remaining years may
be more worth-while than the past twenty-five.

Strong convictions: That much greater social integrity (e.g.
obedience to traffic laws) is essential in the U.S.; that education in
science here will continue to become relatively worse as long as
school boards, trustee groups, etc., are 99.44 per cent composed
of “educated” men who will never learn as much science as a

typical, bright, twelve-year-old knows now; that the National
Laboratories are among America’s chief assets.

HERBERT THOMAS GINMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 825 Tostenabe Lane, North Muskegon, Mich.

BorN: Feb. 24, 1913, Muskegon, Mich.

preparep at: Muskegon High School, Muskegon, Mich,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MarRIED: Doris Welton, Aug. 11, 1933, LaPorte, Ind. cumpren: William 1941;
Lynn and Mary (twins), 1946, Nancy, 1952. ,

occupation: Owner and operator of retail and wholesale auto tire store
Muskegon, Mich. ’

REPUBLICAN and Congregationalist.

[ 526]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM HENRY MONROE GLAZIER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 36 High St., Peterborough, N.H.

JUSTIN GLICKSON

 

HOME apprEss: Ponus Avenue, Norwalk, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: M. Shapiro & Son, Inc., 180 South Broadway, White Plains,
N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 19, 1915, Norwalk, Conn.

PREPARED aT: Norwalk High School, Norwalk, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 177 laude, 1936; Lt.e. (Vale Univ.),
1939.

MarRigeD: Marion Miller Shapiro, Dec. 27, 1946, New York, N.Y. ciutoars:
Andrew Asher, Feb. 18, 1949; Nina Miller, Aug. rt, 19gt.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, secretary and general legal counsel, director,
member executive committee, M. Shapiro & Son, Ine. construction,
ownership and operation of large garden-type aparement developments
and office buildings.

orFices HELD: Member, Connecticut bar, 1939, New York bar, tog, Board of
Education, City of Norwalk, January, 1960, to January, 194,

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: Rockrimmon Country Club, Stamford, Conn.
PUBLICATIONS: Participated in writing of Moore’s 14th edition of Collier on
Bankruptcy, Vol. 2.

IN June, 1936, I was a college graduate and a native resident of
Norwalk, Connecticut. I still am. But in 1961, I find (happily) that
I am also a law school graduate (Yale 1939); a member of the bar
of two states (New York and Connecticut); an appreciative hus-
band (Marion); a proud father (Nina and Andy); a home owner,
and consequent tree-pruner and gardener; a country club member
and golfer; a politician (member of Norwalk’s Ward D Democratic
Committee); a public official (elected in November, 1959, with a
considerably larger number of votes than any other Democratic
candidate for any city office, to a six-year term on Norwalk’s Board
of Education, and elected secretary of the Board a year later); for
the last fourteen years, an officer and director of a business enter-
prise which has a net worth in low seven figures and which is now
completing its transition from private to public ownership; a prac-
tising attorney when corporate duties and personal inclination per-
mit; a veteran of four active years (private through captain) and
seven inactive reservist years with the U.S. Army Air Forces; a
contributing, believing, but non-participating member of a reformed
Hebrew religious congregation; a cousin, uncle, nephew, friend and
son-in-law; and an interested member of the Harvard Class of 1936.

I wonder what the sociology department’s reaction would be to
this growing complexity and proliferation of the ties that bind.
Perhaps they would dismiss me with a single word: “Stable.” What
will be the reaction (if any) of my Harvard classmates: “Medium
Competence”?

And what of the future? Well, I expect to go right on doing more
of the same; even (if I can) better and bigger. I expect to be gov-
erned by the same “old-fashioned” attitudes by which J have been
guided in the past: love of home and country; the necessity for
work; the golden rule, et cetera.

But a couple of other attitudes — always present — are looming
ever larger in my thinking: wariness coupled with the importance of
individual effort and responsibility. Things don’t always happen
just because it is moral and proper that they will happen, and
especially not just because it is written in the stars that they will
happen. Right should, but not necessarily will, prevail. Harvard
will not remain great and America will not endure just because
these conditions are inevitable. I do not believe that something will

[ 528 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

always turn up, and that everything will turn out all right in the
end. So let’s strive for a just and lasting peace; let’s work for dis-
armament; but let’s also design a practical family-type bomb shelter.

GERMAIN GREEN GLIDDEN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 148 Seir Hill, Norwalk, Conn.

BoRN: Dec. 5, 1913, Binghamton, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Anna Louise Escher, July 15, 1939, Englewood, N.J. camupreN:
Pamela Rae, June 11, 1941; Christine Dale, Dec. 30, 1943; Dale, 1950 (de-
ceased 1950); Dianne, April 2, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Nathaniel Frank Glidden, Jr. ’31; John Cheney Glidden,
"4 I. .

OCCUPATION: Creative arts — portraits; museum president.

OFFICES HELD: President, National Art Museum of Sport; co-founder, The 300
Club; president, Silvermine Volunteer Fire Co. No. 1, 1955-56; secre-
tary, Grand Slam Vulnerable Club; treasurer and director, New Canaan
Water Company; vice-president and director, Ridgefield Water Supply
Company.

MEMBER OF: International Lawn Tennis Club, Harvard Club of New York
(chairman, Art Committee, 1954); Harvard Club of Fairfield County:
Country Club of New Canaan; Jesters Club of England; Lotes Club
(life); Harvard Varsity Club; Art Students League of New York (life);
Racquet and Tennis Club; Naval Order of United States (licurenant jg.
USNR).

AFTER twenty-five years, perhaps the most significant thing about
this career is that it still IS!) With‘varying degrees of speed the list
of distinguished persons (and just plain good people) who have sat
for me increases along with an ability to understand human nature.
Such success as I have had is due largely to my wife, my secretary,
my model and closest friend — named Nancy — although more re-

[ 529 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN CHAPMAN GOCHENOUR

  

HOME ADDRESS: 721 Stevenson Lane, Towson, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Adjutant General, Pentagon, Washington 25, D.C.

BorN: March 24, 1914, Warsaw, Ind.

preparep aT: Warsaw High School, Warsaw, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marrieD: Gladys Whitehead May, June 11, 1938, Bel Air, Md. cHitpren: Jane
Whitehead, July 20, 1939; John Chapman, Jr., Dec. 8, 1942.

occupation: Major, U.S. Army.

TWENTY-FIVE years — impossible, my white hair notwithstand-
ing! Among the handful of die-hards who liked the military well
enough to stay on after the war, at times it seemed an error of judg-
ment until during the Korean fracas 1 encountered old friends called
back involuntarily to active duty— wishing they had known the
difference between the active and inactive Reserve.

Peacetime military service has had its compensations, mostly be-
cause of our peregrinations from Japan to Europe. Gladys and the
siblings will ever have pleasant memories of our three years among
the Japanese in Morioka, lwate Prefecture (Northern Honshu), and
another three years based in Salzburg, Austria, and Stuttgart, Ger-
many. We have covered Europe rather thoroughly, tourist attrac-
tions as well as the hinterland. Professionally, the experience has
been a cyclic process of teaching and being taught.

With Jane a senior at Westhampton and John, Jr., in his last year
at Towson High, Gladys and I are again about to depart for another
duty tour in Europe — this time alone together for the first time
in Over twenty-one years, Jane, now a confirmed army brat, threat-
ens, however, to be on the same continent as a postgraduate at the
Sorbonne.

At this juncture, I am impressed that the most serious limitation

[ 532 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to military service is that our Twenty-fifth Reunion will find me
somewhere in Europe instead of with my spirit — in Cambridge.

LANGDON SARGENT GODDARD

' * ~ - ~ “4

   

HOME ADDRESS: 456 FE. 17th St., Brooklyn 26, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Todd Shipyards Corp., 1 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.

BORN: July 25, 1914, Plymouth, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnical Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriED: Marjorie Clarke, April 22, 1939, Brooklyn, N.Y. cHitpreN: Thomas
A., Feb. 11, 1942; Elizabeth A., Sept. 17, 1944; Allen C, June 17, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Oliver Eldridge Goddard, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to president, Todd Shipyards Corporation, shipbuilding
and ship repair.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Atlantic & Gulf Coasts Drydock Association.

’ MEMBER OF: Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers; American So-

ciety of Naval Engineers, Downtown Athletic Club; Hyannis Yacht Club;

Diners’ Club.

[ 533 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARRY McCLURE GODDEN, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 45 Sunset Rock Rd., Andover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Bay State Merchants National Bank, 238 Essex St., Lawrence,

Mass.
BORN: July 16, 1912, Boston, Mass.
prepareD AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.
marrigp: Ruth C. Titus, June 17, 1939, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: William T,

and Judith C. (twins), Aug. 24, 1940; Susan T., July 7, 1944; Louise F.,
Jan. 22, 1949.

occupaTioN: Banking; vice-president, administrative.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, P.T.A., 1955-56, member, Wellesley High School

Advisory Committee, 1957-58; director and treasurer, Back Bay Asso-
ciation, Inc. (Boston), 1957-60, director, Maugus Club, Wellesley, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Maugus Club.

RICHARD XAVIER GOGGIN

 

AST KNOWN ADDRESS: 2228 Union St., San Francisco, Calif,

[534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GOGGIN has been carried as a “Lost” man on our records since
1959-

HYMAN HOWARD GOLDIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 305 Belton Rd., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Aug. 28, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1036. DEGREES: A.B. aga cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1946;
PH.D. 1951.

MARRIED: Lillian Kantrovitz, Sept. 3, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHitpreEN: Barbara
Holly, May 21, 1946; Stephen Paul, Aug. 28, 1938; Jonathan Gabriel, Feb.
26, 1951; Nancy Ruth, Sept. 12, 1953.

occupation: Chief, Economic Division, Federal Communications Conmnission.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Temple Emanuel. ¥.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; Agricultural History Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in communications. .

I WONDER if I’ve not been the least rolling member of the entire
Class of 1936. For twenty-three of the twenty-five years, I've
worked for the government, and for seventeen, in the same division.
Pve lived in Washington for almost twenty-one years, and have
not traveled farther west than Chicago or farther south than Cape
Hatteras.

And all that I’ve learned is what should have been obvious to me
in the beginning: that being stationary may be a necessary but is
not a sufficient condition for collecting ‘moss’ — or fame, of
worldly goods, or peace of mind, or w hatever “moss” is.

I’ve also had some second thoughts about Harvard. It was fine
as a high- grade trade school, It equipped me to arrange abstract
symbols into patterns differing from the purely random, and ax a

[ 535 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

consequence it assisted me to hold a reasonably responsible and re-
warding position. For this I am duly grateful.

But in the more fundamental areas of education, which I can de-
scribe only imperfectly as understanding self, building character,
fashioning moral values, finding meaning, Harvard left me un-
touched. And I couldn’t help wondering as I read the glowing re-
ports of the Class of 1960 as to how well Harvard had prepared
them to play out their roles as sons, husbands, fathers, citizens, and
human beings. Are they honor students by the measuring rod of a
Tillich or a Buber? Is Harvard really interested in educating the
whole man?

Withal, 1 am hopeful that a second Goldin generation will seek
and find the education I missed at Harvard.

HARRY PRICE GOLDSMITH

 

HOME appreEss: 22 Bradford Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hess, Goldsmith & Co, Inc., Division of Burlington Industries,
1400 Broadway, New York 18, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1915, New York, N-Y.

PREPARED aT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—-1934-

marriep: Mary Dryfoos, Nov. 19, 1947, New York, N.Y. crpren: Ellen

Alice, June 3, 1949; Stephen Price, March 13, 1951; Barbara Jane, Dec.

31, 1952.

occuPaTION: President, Hess, Goldsmith & Company, Inc., fiber glass textiles.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Hamilton-Madison House, New York.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Century Country Club, Purchase,
N.Y. (president).

‘

AT the completion of my sophomore year, it was decided that I
would not continue my education and I started to work for Hess,

L 536 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Goldsmith & Company, in the textile business. Except for the war
period, from April, 1941, through December, 1945, I have been with
the same company, which is now a division of Burlington Industries.
My military service was routine, ranging from company clerk to
first sergeant — to OCS — to staff jobs and eventually to company
commander, separated as captain, Signal Corps, with no overseas
service.

I was married in November, 1947, and have a wonderful wife and
three fine offspring. We live in Scarsdale, New York, and I am a
typical suburban commuter, weekend golfer and infrequent traveler.
I work for several charitable fund-raising efforts as do most others,
and have been a trustee of a settlement house in New York for fif-
teen years. My political convictions are still basically Republican.
My religion continues to be Jewish and my children attend Sunday
School. My principal interest, other than family and business, is the
Century Country Club, of which I am president for the third and
final year. When I complete this term I shall take a sabbatical before
incurring any additional obligations. I am happy with my work
and enjoy being part of the largest company in the textile field. I

hope the next twenty-five years will be as pleasant as the past forty-
five.

MILTON JAY GOLDWASSER

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 9000 Kittyhawk Ave., Los Angeles 45, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Los Angeles Times, 202 W. First St., Los Angeles 53, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.By 1936.

MarrigD: Dorothy Rudene Wiles, Feb. 9, 1944, Pine Bluff, Ark. crtpaeN:
Milton Jay, Jr.. Nov. 22, 1944; Susan Diane, March 29, 1957.

[ 537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARVARD BROTHER: Saul Goldwasser, 30 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Supervisor of accounts receivable, Los Angeles Times; responsible
for organization, administration and coordination of work of accounts
receivable department.
OFFICES HELD: Commander, General Harrison Gray Otis Post 566, American
Legion, 1948-49; Cub Scout master, 1953-54; YMCA group leader, 1954-
59; member, executive board, P.T.A., 1954-58; member, Westchester Co-
ordinating Council, 1956-57; YMCA coordinator, Westchester Christian
Church, 1957-59; coach, Pony League baseball, 1958-59.

Headlines by Date-Line

February, 1937: Los Angeles, California; Arrived to establish new
residence.

April, 1937: Los Angeles, California; Started working at Los An-
geles Times.

May, 1942: Camp Callan, California; Inducted into Army of the
United States.

March, 1943: Edgewood, Maryland; Emerged from Chemical Corps,
O.C.S. as second lieutenant.

February 9, 1944: Pine Bluff Arsenal, Arkansas; Married Dorothy
Rudene Wiles.

February, 1944: Frederick, Maryland; Transferred to Camp Detrick,
Biological Research Center.

November 22, 1944: Frederick, Maryland; Son, Milton J. Gold-
wasser, Jr. born.

June, 1946: Frederick, Maryland; Separated from military service.

September, 1946: Los Angeles, California, Purchased home at gooo
Kittyhawk Avenue, and rejoined Los Angeles Times.

October, 1948: Los Angeles, California; Transferred from Account-
ing Department to Display Advertising Department, Los An-
geles Times.

October, 1948: Los Angeles, California; Elected Commander, Gen-
eral Harrison Gray Otis Post.

August, 1950: Ozark, Alabama; Recalled to active duty from Re-
serves and sent to Camp Rucker.

April, 1951: Ozark, Alabama, Appointed Post Chemical Officer,
Camp Rucker.

June, 1952: Los Angeles, California; Separated from service and re-
turned to Los Angeles Times.

October, 1953: Westchester, California; Elected Cub Scout Master.

September, 1954: Westchester, California; Appointed as leader of
YMCA group, Westchester Christian Church.

[ 538 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

September, 1954: Westchester, California, Appointed to PTA Ex-
ecutive Board.

August, 1956: Los Angeles, California, Transferred from Display
Advertising Department to Accounting as Supervisor, Accounts
Receivable.

September, 1956: Westchester, California, Appointed to Westches-
ter, California, Coordinating Council.

March 27, 1957: Inglewood, California, Daughter, Susan Diane
Goldwasser, born.

September, 1957: Westchester, California; Elected YMCA coordi-
nator, Westchester Christian Church.

April, 1958: Westchester, California; Appointed Pony League base-
ball coach.

October, 1960: Los Angeles, California, Appointed Supervisor, Ac-
counts Receivable for both Los Angeles Times and Los Angeles
Mirror.

IRVING ISRAEL GOODOF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 56 Pleasant St., Waterville, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Thayer Hospital, Waterville, Maine.
BORN: Oct. 10, 1915, Columbus, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1940.
MARRIED: Mary H. Maguire, May 29, 1941, Boston, Mass. critpren: Carl
Loran, March 8, 1945, David A., Sept. 20, 1947; Paul S. May 18, 1949.

occupation: Physician, specializing in pathology.

OFFICES HELD: President, Maine Cancer Society, 1955-59; various minor ofhces
in state and county medical societies.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Maine Medical Society; Maine Medicolegal Society;
American College of Physicians; College of American Pathologists; Ameri-

[ 539]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

can Society of Clinical Pathologists; New England Cancer Society; Inter-
national Academy of Pathology; American Association of Pathologists
and Bacteriologists; New York Academy of Sciences; American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science, Sigma Xi; Maine Society of
Pathologists; Association of Clinical Scientists,

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on pathology and medicine, published in national
and local journals.

MANY of the twenty-five years, since my days at the “Yard,” have
been devoted to additional training, in the hope that the push ac-
quired in Cambridge could provide momentum enough to carry
me through four years at Boston University School of Medicine and
postgraduate work in a specialty. Accordingly, following a year
of internship at Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, I spent three
years at Washington University and Barnes Hospital in St. Louis,
as resident and instructor in pathology. A year and a half as assistant
pathologist at Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals and instructor at
Boston University added experience and confidence, so was fol-
lowed by five years as pathologist at the Central Maine General
Hospital in Lewiston, Maine. Certification in pathologic anatomy
and clinical pathology was acquired in 1945, along with son number
one. Sons two and three arrived in Lewiston in 1947 and 1949.

A chance to pioneer in development of a Department of Pathology
at Thayer Hospital, in Waterville, Maine, attracted me to this city
in 1950, and here I have become as close to being a “native” as one
can be, without having been born here. The freedom of action here
has resulted in the development of additional interests, such as
cancer research, use of radioisotopes in diagnosis of disease, and
forensic pathology, in which field certification was attained in 1959.

During all this time, a long-standing interest in music has persisted,

with continued tortured study of piano, as well as occasional ses-
sions with the reeds and woodwinds, that were so helpful during
college and medical school years. The interest in music is shared by
the boys, who, occasionally under protest, liven the air with piano
and wind instrumental activity. These first twenty-five years, though
sometimes difficult, have been generally rewarding. The practice
of medicine is a most satisfying field of endeavor, especially in an
area of relatively sparse medical population, where the results of
effort are more readily recognized. The practice of pathology also
provides opportunity for maintenance of a continued program of
education, both public and professional, which adds spice to the
routine of life.

[ 540 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I shall always be grateful to Dr. George Hitchings, my tu

Harvard, who originally aroused my interest in the specialty *
[have made my life’s work.

CLIFFORD IRWIN GOODRICH

 

HOME apprEss: 910 Cleermont Drive, S.E., Huntsville, Ala.

OFFICE appRESS: Missile and Rocket Inventory Control Center, Redstone +
senal, Huntsville, Ala.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1914, West Bridgewater, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MarRieD: Evelyn Louise. Davis, 1937, Rockville, Md. cHitpren: Barbara Su
Jan. 26, 1942; Jo Anne, Oct. 24, 1943-

occupation: Government service; supply cataloging administrator; chief, Fec
eral Cataloging Division.

MEMBER OF: Huntsville Lions Club.

I HAVE often wondered whether I would have been more suc-
cessful if I had not been forced to leave college. On the other hand,
L am now just one grade away from requiring Congressional ap-
proval for a government position. Things looked bad during the
depression of 1932 and 1933, but in 1937 I started work with che
government. I spent four years with the Post Office Department.
one year at the Naval Torpedo Station in Alexandria, Virginia,
fifteen years with the Quartermaster Corps, and now almost ewo
years with the Ordnance Corps here at Redstone Arsenal.

1 did not see any service with the armed forces because che re-
cruiting examination revealed some abnormal glands in my chest.
However, I am still kicking alchough I need more rest chan when
1 was younger. Of course, my figure has increased co a size 44 suit.

(541 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

My hobbies now are shrubbery and rose bushes, patio cooking
and swimming in the Gulf of Mexico.

ROBERT STEPHEN GOODYEAR

  

HOME AbpRESS: 45 Nixon Rd., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fenwal Electronics, Inc., 51 Mellen St., Framingham, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 14, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1936.

marrieD: Anne M. Loeffler, April 21, 1938, Waterbury, Conn. CHILD: Carolyn
Scott, April 19, 1942.

OccuPATION: President, Fenwal Electronics, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Lions Club, Fanwood, N.J., 1947-49; member, Ther-
mistor Standards Committee, Electronic Industries Association, since 1959;
director, since September, 1960, chairman, Committee on Government
Procurement, Smaller Business Association of New England,

MEMBER OF: American Society for the Advancement of Science; Harvard En-
gineering Society; Silver Grays; Rotary Club of Framingham; Smaller
Business Association of New England.

PuBLicaTions: Several short magazine articles on thermistors and their appli-
cations in industry and instrumentation.

AFTER graduating (during the depression) in 1936, I decided to
take the first available job and became an industrial engineer with
U.S. Rubber Company in Naugatuck, Connecticut. My broad
scientific background made it fairly easy for me to become a good
industrial engineer in a very short time. I continued this job for
five years and then decided that I would much rather make use of
my physics training. The next step was a job as a product engineer
at Western Flectric Company in New York City.

While at Western, I had the opportunity of working very closely
with engincers at Bell Telephone Laboratories and had the problem

[ 542 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of taking thermistors out of the laboratories and putting them int
large-scale production at Western Electric. During the war, ther.
mistors were a critical product required in the development anc
operation of radar equipment. By the end of five years, I had buil:
the first large-scale thermistor manufacturing plant in the country

Just before the end of the war, I left Western Electric to spenc
full time as president and owner of North American Research
Laboratories, Inc., which company was primarily interested in con-
tinuous plating of strip metal and wire. I started this company with
a chemist friend and found it very interesting to become an expert

electroplater although it still did not fit in with my greatest knowl-
edge and training.

In 1950, I joined Victory Engineering Corporation in Springfield,
New Jersey, as vice-president and chief engineer. By 1955, I had
built this company into the leading precision thermistor manufac-
turer in the country.

In 1955, I came back to Massachusetts to join the owners of
Fenwal, Inc., in forming a new company called Fenwal Electronics,
Inc., of which I am president, general manager and part owner. |
am now well on the way toward making this company the leading
precision thermistor manufacturer in the country. Because of my
greater interest in thermistors, I finally closed North American Re-
search Laboratories in 1958 and now am concentrating entirely on
trying to increase the use of thermistors throughout the world.

In 1938, I married Anne Loeffler from W. aterbury, Connecticut.
At least I can say that all the letters ] wrote her w hen I should have
been studying at Harvard were not in vain. Her Latin and Fnglish
teaching experience makes us a great team at crossword puzzles.

Our only child, Carolyn, is now eighteen and is majoring in reli-
gion at Mount Holyoke College where she says she loves every
minute of it. I certainly didn’t do my share of producing future
Harvard men but then I suppose the other colleges have to survive,
too. Perhaps I can catch up in the next generation!

My hobbies are color photography and tape recording but there
are never enough hours in a day to do as much of these as I would
like to do. Anne’s spare time is spent mainly in tole decorating,
ceramic underglazing and the making of porcelain lace figurines.

We have traveled rather extensively around the United States and

Canada and now have a library of several thousand beautiful colored

slides. At least we shall have a lot to look back on in our old age!

{ 543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Together, with a personable collie and a nondescript cat, we are

: ; . . . hap-
pily calling thirty-six acres of Framingham Centre home. P

HUGH WINFIELD GORE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3693 S. Hudson St., Denver 22, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Air Lines Weather Center, Stapleton Airficld, Denver
7, Colo.

BORN: July 25, 1915, Englewood, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Ticonderoga High School, Ticonderoga, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 1936-1939, 1946. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(46).

marrigp: Mildred Virginia Schubel, July 23, 1944, Cranford, N_J.

OCCUPATION: Transportation, meteorologist.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and council chairman, Society of Air Line Meteorol-
ogists, 1953-55; treasurer and chairman, Fellowship Fund, St. Matthew’s
Church, San Mateo, Calif., 1953-56; trustee, United Air Lines Employees’
Community Fund, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: American Meteorological Society; Society of Air Line Meteor-
ologists; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; Christ Church Men’s Club;
Denver Posse of the Westerners, American Philatelic Society; London
Royal Philatelic Society, Western Cover Society, Philatelic Research So-

ciety; Postal History Society.
DURING the war, following a course of naval officer indoctrina-
tion at Dartmouth and meteorological studics at New York Uni-
versity, I served as aerological officer at the Navy Weather Cen-
ter, Kodiak, Alaska, in the Pacific on escort carriers, mainly the
USS Sangamon, participating in the Philippines, Borneo and Oki-
nawa campaigns, and at the Anacostia Naval Air Station, Washing-
ton, D.C. The Navy Commendation Medal was awarded me by
the commander of the Seventh Flect for my service as acrologist
in the Battle of Leyte Gulf. During my terminal leave I returned
to Harvard for the summer of 1946 and received an A.B. degree.

[ 544]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since October, 1946, I have been a meteorologist with United
Air Lines, successively in New York, Chicago, San Francisco and
Denver. I find challenging and stimulating my work of upper air
forecasting and planning United’s transcontinental jet flights and
those of United and Japan Air Lines between California and Hawaii.
United’s Weather Center in Denver has a staff of fifty, including
thirty-six meteorologists, is equipped with radar, electronic com-
puters and extensive facsimile and teletype circuits, and is steadily
kept up-to-date with training, planning and research. Denver and
its environs are growing in importance as a center for meteorological
study and practice. The newly-instituted National Center for At-
mospheric Research will be established in nearby Boulder. Monthly
branch meetings of the American Meteorological Society, held at
United Air Lines Operating Base, attract prominent speakers and
a large attendance, and national meetings here are increasing in
frequency.

When United established its Weather Center in Denver in Sep-
tember, 1956, my wife and I left our very pleasant home in San
Mateo, California, overlooking San Francisco Bay, and acquired
a new home in southeast Denver with a lovely view of the Rocky
Mountains, My wife’s activities include flower gardening and play-
ing the violin in the Community Arts Symphony. I enjoy the svm-
phony concerts and look forward to the next one, to be held at
the U.S, Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs when the Acad-
emy choir and that of Colorado Women’s College will join the svm-
phony in presenting Brahms’ “Requiem.” My library of historical
western Americana and philatelic research continues to grow. My
wife and I have visited many interesting historic places throughout
the western states. We attended the centennial celebrations of the
Butterfield Overland Mail, the Colorado Rush to the Rockies, and
the Pony Express. I have attended a dozen national and international
postage stamp exhibitions in the United States, Canada and Europe
and visited many postal museums here and abroad. My main collect-
ing interests are California and Colorado gold rush ‘postal history,

Wells Fargo express letters and pioneer classic postal stamps of all
countries.

Our travels have included a motor trip through the Canadian
Rockies, two vacations in Bermuda, and two island-hopping trips
in the Caribbean. In 1955, we went on an extensive tour of Furope.
and in 1959, we returned and drove through England to Oxford,
Stratford, and quaint Clovelly on the Devon Coast, and flew from

C 545 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

London to Hamburg, Berlin, Munich, Vienna, Istanbul, Tel Aviv,
Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Beirut, Athens, Rome and Paris.

I returned to Cambridge in June, 1958, for the Harvard Glee
Club Centennial dinner and thrilling concert, and again in May,
1960, for the Associated Harvard Clubs meetings, when I saw some
of the products of the Program for Harvard College and heard an-
other wonderful concert presented by the Glee Club. I am de-
lighted that the Glee Club will make a Far Eastern Tour during the
summer of 1961. My wife and I plan another trip abroad in May
and June, returning not later than Class Day for the Class Reunion.

GEORGE VICTOR GOULDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2701 Eaton Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio.

oFFice ApprEss: Brookpark, Inc., 11701 Shaker Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; M.B.A., 1938.

MARRIED: Joan Luntz, Feb. 10, 1945, Shaker Heights, Ohio. CHILDREN: Cynthia,
Sept. 17, 1946; Patricia, Feb. 29, 1948; Lawrence, May 23, 19513 Lisa,
April 8, 1955; Diane, Oct. 26, 1957; Susan, July 12, 1960.

OCCUPATION: President, Brookpark, Inc., manufacturers of dinnerware.

OFFICES HELD: President, Jewish Community Center of Cleveland.

[ 546]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES HERMAN GOULDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 104 Fox Meadow Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goulder Co., Inc., 1270 Broadway, New York 1, N.Y.

BoRN: May 13, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Shaw High School, East Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

MaRRIED: Alice S. Iseman, May 19, 1945, Washington, D.C. cHitpren: James
Herman, Jr., March 12, 1950; Alison P., Oct. 11, 1951; John E.. Nov. 11,
1954.

OccuPATION: President, Goulder Company, Inc., knitwear designer and manu-
facturer.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Knit Outerwear Section, Textile Bureau, War Produc-
tion Board, 1944-45; trustee, Westchester Reform Temple, 1953-60, Na-
tional Knitted Outerwear Association Insurance Trust, since 1957; direc-
tor, Eastern District, Knitted Outerwear Manufacturers Association, 1956-
57; member, Arbitration Panel, NKOA, since 1960; member, Citizens’
Nominating Committee, Scarsdale School District No. 1, 1961.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in trade journals.

IN July, 1936, I began traveling and selling knitwear in New York,
New England and the South. In 1961, paunch and polished pate
added, I am still traveling and selling knitwear in New York, New
England, the South and the West. A year on the hard floor of a
retail chain store warehouse and a brief interlude in the insurance
field were the only departures, besides the war, from an otherwise
uninterrupted career in the knitwear business.

Even the two years of priorities, production planning and war-
time bureaucracy with the WPB in Washington, following mv
army discharge, were in the knit goods division. Incidentally, the
only tangible and lasting result of that capital episode was meering
and marrying Alice Iseman (sister of Joseph S. Iseman, °37)-

Our factory in Allentown, Pennsylvania, was established in 1y47

[ 547 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

and life has since consisted of commuting to New York office,
spending time at the factory and flying around the country calling
on customers. Our firm has experienced steady growth in a limited
and specialized branch of the knitted apparel field, and has attained
substantial sales volume and employee rolls, with a fine corps of
capable and conscientious associates.

Our family now boasts a budding scientist of eleven, a would-be
Mary Martin, just slightly younger, and an effervescent first-grader.
Time at home, being so precious, is spent as much as possible with
the children. Hobbies are likewise children-oriented: music, sports,
photography.

My wonderful wife, with a boundless store of energy, enthusi-
asm and understanding, provides the intellectual content and in-
structional spark of our family life. Hers is a wide range of reading
and interests (in contrast to my being constantly hard put to it
just to keep up with periodicals and trade papers).

My community activities have been somewhat limited and cir-
cumscribed by lack of continuity. I have managed to play a small
part in the establishment of a new congregation in our village and
have served on a committee which, having studied the teachers’
salary structure in our public schools, was instrumental in improv-
ing our teachers’ salary levels with, I hope, concomitant benefits to
the quality of our public education.

Lest the foregoing of happy home and family and successful
business give the impression of complacency, I conclude by saying
that my great regret of the last quarter-century is having been un-
able, sufficiently, to observe President Lowell’s advice to us as in-
coming freshmen —to live speedily and cram every moment with
learning and accomplishment.

[ 548 ]

™,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES GILMAN GRADY

  
  

  
  

HOME AppRESS: 41 Golf Lane, Margaret Hill, Huntington, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 342 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., 1936; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Margaret V. L. Kelly, July 4, 1952, Forest Hills, N.Y.

occuPATION: Attorney; associate, New York City Legal Department, Kemper
Insurance Group.

LAWRENCE KILLOREN GRADY

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: 18 Summer St., Beverly, Mass.

BORN: June 17, 1910, Beverly, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Pond School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B, (Boston Univ.), 1041;
A.M, Cibid:), 1942.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Secondary school social science teacher.

OFFICES HELD: First secretary, Massachusetts State High School Student Coun-
cils, 1926-27.

[ $49]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: YMCA.

puBLicaTIONs: “History of the U.S.A.F. over the Hump” (report of our Air
Force in India, China and Burma, during World War II).

JUST prior to my matriculation at Harvard I chanced to find myself
among a congregation of other young people about to launch their
college careers. I was, I must confess, somewhat taken aback when
the preacher in his entreaty said that he dared to wish adversity
upon us in order that our characters might soon be forged on the
anvil of distress as it were. The strong would be grateful for their
strength and the weak would, it was prayed, seek to strengthen
themselves. I can see now that I have spent much of these ensuing
twenty-five years unconsciously realizing this solemn invocation.

] know that I do not have to portray for you the dark days of
the great depression following our Commencement. For me, at
least, they formed the iron of the anvil referred to above. As, I
suppose, was the lot of many of you, I held a variety of jobs, some
of which were as follows: employee in the manufacturing section
of a large machinery plant, hotel desk clerk and assistant to my
father in his construction business. I have also taught the social
sciences in both public and private secondary schools.

I must say that I am a deep believer in the “youth movement”
just so long as one may have a good deal of privacy and be in a
position to live his own life. This longing can be fulfilled in the
public school, but not, I assure you, in the private boarding school.
Teaching junior in six, fifty-minute class periods throughout the
week, sitting down to table with him three times a day, taking him
out on the field of play every afternoon, supervising his two-hour
study period each evening, and finally tucking him into bed at
night ts certainly not my notion of the ideal job. It is an experience
something like that of being a camp counsellor only about five
times more concentrated.

During war days I served in the Air Force, spending much of
the time in the southland and in the Middle West. I found the
South to be even more beautiful than has been recounted in poem
and song. The soft air, eternal sunshine and blossoms scenting the
atmosphere at all times and flourishing during the very months that
are so frigid and desolate here in New England were to me a revela-
tion. In Mobile, Alabama, the usual florescence is augmented by the
blooming azaleas in February and March. These flowers grow

everywhere, not just in private, well-cared-for gardens behind high
fences where passersby can barely glimpse them.

[550 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I found the reports of southern hospitality and friendliness to be
quite true. I became very fond of the people in that section of the
country and seemed to get along with them better than did most
northerners. Of course, the war and uniform may have had some-
thing to do with this situation.

St. Joseph, Missouri, also holds memories which for me only
become more poignant with the passing of the years. This old
frontier town was, as you know, the home of the famous James
family. In fact, one can still visit the house and even the very
room wherein Jesse was murdered by one he thought to be a friend.
The spirit of the Pony Express still lives in a picturesque likeness
which stands in one of the public squares. The doughty rider bends
low in the saddle of his fiery mount which fairly flies over the prairie
against wind and rain as if startled by the lurking savage. The clat-
ter of galloping horses seems to rise above the din of modern traffic.
This statue is for me more meaningful than is our fisherman at
Gloucester.

During this period of my life I met several well-known and varied
personalities: Marie Bankhead Owen, sister of the Alabama senator
and aunt of Tallulah, the ill-fated Glen Miller of dance band renown,
singer John Charles Thomas, and the one and only Jack Dempsey.

I am convinced that the omnipotence of a kindly God has seen
me through not only depression and war, but everyday vagaries as

well, so that I might record this my Class life a quarter of a century
after graduation.

ALEXANDER GALT GRANT, JR.

  

HOME aporEss: Banksville Rd., Bedford, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Y% Swissair, 10 W. goth St., New York, N.Y.

[551]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Born: March 17, 1914, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Margaret Helen Mackintosh, May 28, 1944, New York, N.Y. cnitp:
Sara Delano, Nov. 7, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederic Delano Grant, '39; John Grant, ’41; Patrick Grant,
*45; Christopher Grant, ’51.
occupation: Airline sales representative.

HAPPILY married and the father of a nine-year-old daughter who
came to brighten our life after we had almost given up hope, I have
seen many of my ambitions come true and learned that life is happier
with others left unaccomplished.

Ours is the oldest house in Bedford Village, New York (built
circa 1693 when the area was a part of Connecticut). When we
moved in, it had no heat and you could see through the cracks in
the walls, but now it’s all fixed up. I still ski, shoot rapids, chop trees
and drink without qualms, I am still a liberal Democrat and have yet
to vote for a Republican national candidate. I still get into the same
political arguments with almost all my friends.

I cannot classify myself as one for whom each hour at Harvard
has brought both wealth and fame, but slowly, bit by bit we have
observed that life can be at least as happy without them. If my
travels, adventures, friends and family are as pleasant for the next
twenty-five years as the last, I shall be well-satisfied.

Up to 1941, my career was railroading, first with the Pennsy
and then the Union Pacific, under whose auspices I gave nearly 1000
illustrated talks in three years and spent 500 nights in sleeping cars.
Inspired by the mountain torrents that burst forth from the Saw-
tooth Mountains north of Sun Valley, I became interested in shoot-
ing rapids in foldboats (folding kayaks) and made several “firsts”
in this type of craft, including the Salmon or “River of No Return”
and the Colorado River through the Grand Canyon. These voyages
were written up in Appalachia, Outdoor Life and the Post and I
have been lecturing on the subject ever since.

In August, 1941, 1 was commissioned as an ensign in the Naval
Reserve, but my hope for sea duty got me no further than the

mighty desk-craft carrier in Washington, D.C. Four of us did,

however, manage to buy and set up housekeeping on the fifty-
year-old, steam-heated, seventy-five-foot yacht Amorita, whence

we walked to the Navy building on weekdays and sailed riotously
down the Potomac on Sundays.

Near the end of the war I married an attractive Bennington, Ver-

[ 552]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mont, Democrat who is still my constant companion. Soon after,
I secured a job selling Mack trucks in Westchester and we moved to
Bedford, where we have lived ever since. Besides Macks, I sold
calculators, air conditioners and life insurance before returning to
transportation.

Working now for Swissair, I range through Westchester and
Connecticut, promoting skiing and other European travel. I like it
as I seldom have to sit for long at a desk, I get home almost every
night, and we all get a skiing vacation in the Alps, plus occasional
trips to Portugal or Greece or almost anywhere.

HOWARD ALEXANDER GRANT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 82 Kings Hwy., South Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Midge Grant, Inc., 1384 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Brooklyn Law School),
1939.

MmarriED: Marjorie Kolmer, June 29, 1939, New York, N.Y. critpreN: Susan
Mary, Feb. 23, 1942; David Alexander, Jan. 27, 1945; Deborah Ann, May
26, 1948; Daniel Howard, Sept. 5, 1954.

occupaTion: Manufacturer of women’s sportswear.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Cedar Point Yacht Club, Westport,
Conn.

PUBLICATIONS: Various trade publications,

I SUPPOSE that I spent a good portion of the first fifteen years
after graduation overcoming a large part of the financial security
drive, inescapably resulting from the cconomic situation of our
school and college years.

Tt was natural then, that [ found a job ina New York bank, main-

[553]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

tained it while going to law school at night and stayed there after
being admitted to the New York bar. Marriage, our first child, a
title and a desk on the platform, and a commission in the Navy; a
second child, the long periods of nothing in the Philippines, and
with it the first personal objectivity of many years, and a gradual
but firming need for self-reliance and self-support. More years of
market training, running a factory, all in order to learn a new
trade, and finally our own sadly under-capitalized start in business.
When I thought the time had come — Svengali-ish —I told Midge
she was a designer, and to her amazement she proved the point.

We're still under-capitalized, but we’ve been supported for seven
years now by what most people thought would be, at best, an
aesthetic success, and it seems that we will survive — that is, if
the current poor payments by our customers don’t kill us. We
are nationally advertised, and while one can’t eat that, it feels good
and represents at least a gold star for our attempts at a limited form
of self-expression. In a sense, this approximates the feeling of the
artist in having his works looked at or read; and by the indicia of
acceptance, finding a meeting with and understanding by the public.

Our eldest is attending Barnard College; the others, the Westport
public schools. In our present economy, the irrepressible force is,
obviously, the accelerated pace of making small business obsolete.
I sometimes feel like one of the last of the not very rugged indi-
vidualists. Our big business is increasingly the equivalent of Russia’s
big government and, I would guess, brings with it the narrowing
of the areas of individual activity in all fields. I hope that, at worst,
we are trading our children’s possibility of self-expression for a
greater leisure and security for them. This presupposes survival,
doesn’t it? It is survival I wish fervently to all of us.

[554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER MORTON GRANT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Pierrepont Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 243 Charles St., Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: July 12, 1915, Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1936; M.D., 1940.

MARRIED: Jeanette Marie Poirier, Sept. 16, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: David
William, Oct. 2, 1942; Jeanne Marie and Jeffrey Morton (twins), May 6,
1945.

occuPATION: Associate professor of opthalmology, Harvard University and
Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant surgeon, Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary, Massachu-
setts General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Ophthalmological Society; American Medical Associa-
tion; American Chemical Society; New England Ophthalmological Society;
Massachusetts Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Sixty-seven publications in ophthalmology, principally concerning
glaucoma and toxicology of the eye.

[555]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

DAVIES GRATWICK

 

HOME apprEss: 44 Lyman Rd., Buffalo 26, N.Y.
BORN: Jan. 22, 1912, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MARRIED: Rita Williams, 1938, Washington, D.C.

SITTING here contemplating my report to our chairman, I won-
der idly if there are any two of us Class brothers who approach
this matter with like emotion. I suppose there are. There must be.
But possibly not for the reasons we would normally expect there
might be. On the other hand, there may not be, and accordingly
possibly not for the reasons we would not normally expect that
there might not be.

Look at my own life for example. “Of course,” some of you will
say to yourselves, “how could he miss? Right time, right place.
Wow, what luck!” etc, etc. Granted, the breaks have come my
way more often than not, but I have had ample opportunity to
stumble into the blind alleys as well. And I might add, I’ve gained
rather than lost from these experiences. However, let’s get to the
point.

Starting back in the summer of 1936 as a “cub” in Washington,
D.C., I covered a number of the games. Did I say, cover? Well,
sort of, as understudy to “Bunny” Mac Farlain then on his way to
a brilliant sportscasting career on the national circuit. It was during
these salad days, “Bunny” and I were in the press section on the
field. It was the second game with the Pirates. “Lanky” Flynn up.
Flynn swung low on a wide one and the ball went right out of sight
straight up! “Lanky” held up on third as the ball returned to vision
directly overhead, It grew in split seconds from the size of a pea
to a pingpong ball to a then the unbclievable happened, Utter

[ 556 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

darkness. I was in the hospital a week under observation and it was
there that I met a still more stunning fate. Her name? Rita Wil-
liams, junior at Applefield and daughter of the late Senator from
the same state. The rest is history or soon will be. At present for
reasons of professional secrecy and state security, 1 am not at liberty
to divulge the ups and downs, the lateral and tangent flights of my
career. Let it suffice to say that my success and personal aggrandiz
. . . success. Success, there’s a word! Easy enough to define, but
what does it mean, to you, to me? There are so many variables in
the measurement of this word that it becomes inappropriate as a
medium of comparison or as a basis of self-appraisal between any
two individuals.

Herein lies the crux of my query at the outset and the answer
is obvious. Emphatically, yes! There are within our ranks at this
very hour of writing men who through no parallel of achievement
other than as related to respective potential, regardless of adapted
skill or natural endowment, must experience a more or less mutual
satisfaction depending upon the degree of fulfillment of their com-
mon ambition.

Well, we’ve wandered a little here but not aimlessly, I trust.
Somehow I feel as though I had reintroduced myself after a long
absence. So now, in the warmth of a more personal atmosphere, let
me commence this biography. Not as a record of material gain but
rather as a study of my development toward spiritual, moral and
emotional maturity. But first I would like to point out . . . oh, oh,
here comes Miss Connelly back with a final draft of my recom-
mendations to the Commission, so I guess that’s it for now, boys.

Let’s figure on getting together over a Reunion highball in June.

[557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOE GRATZ

  

HOME apprESs: 7701 Pierce St., Omaha 2q, Nebr.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radio Station KBON, World Insurance Bldg., Omaha 2, Nebr.

BORN: July 18, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1936.

Marriep: Ann Kincaid, Jan. 31, 1959, Denver, Colo.

OCCUPATION: President, Goldenrod Broadcasters, Inc., owners and operators of
Radio Station KBON (50% owner of corporation).

MEMBER OF: Lions Club.

1 DO not favor undue government regulation of our private lives,
but I feel strongly that there should be a federal law prohibiting
such ordeals as our esteemed Report Chairman has just put me
through. He has caused me to examine in detail the last twenty-
five years of my life. The appraisal is agonizing and, in my opinion,
constitutes cruel and unusual punishment.

Oddly enough, the most important events in my life since gradua-
tion seem to have occurred during the last two years. In 1958 I
bought (with the aid of a friendly and unsuspecting local bank) a
radio station in Omaha, and moved here permanently from New
York City. In 1959 I decided I was old enough to get married and
did.

Radio, for those of you who may not remember, is television
without cowboys. Radio is financially healthicr than ever before,
but revenues depend largely on size of audience as determined by
various surveys. At first our audience was apparently composed
largely of officials of the bank, protecting their investment by
making sure we didn’t take off in the night with the broadcasting
equipment. However, we have been constantly improving and the
future looks bright.

[ 558]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Before leaving New York, spent six years as assistant head of the
television and radio department at Warwick and Legler, an adver-
tising agency. For a period of four years, produced and directed the
radio and television broadcasts of the fights, over CBS and later on
ABC. Each week these programs originated in a different city, and
during this time I averaged some 100,000 miles annually by air. My
acquaintances were limited to airline hostesses(!!), fighters, mana-
gers, and some members of the netherworld currently under con-
gressional investigation. Then followed two years producing the
radio broadcasts and telecasts of the then New York Giants. Best
feature: two seasons spent in Phoenix for spring training. This,
boys, I heartily recommend! .

A four-year hitch with the Signal Corps, during the war, involved
two duty tours in the South Pacific, and return to civilian life as
a captain. Best feature: running a radio station for the Armed Forces
Radio Service on an isolated, dazzling white beach, on the South
China Sea.

I have learned: booze is real cheap in Omaha; I don’t miss New
York; it doesn’t make me nervous to owe the bank a lot of money;
I enjoy being married and living like a human being, instead of a
bum; owning your own business is one helluva lot tougher than
working for someone else; booze is real cheap in Omaha.

These days I morosely refuse to give my correct age, but I'll be
honest with you fellows. All I know is that when the Lord said,
“Let there be light,” I threw the switch. I have never consulted a
psychiatrist — I consider myself perfectly normal. Of course, everv
now and then, and for a period of several days, everybody looks like
H. V. Kaltenborn. But I suppose that happens to you too.

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT BAXTER GRAVES

 

3533 N. Wilton St. Chicago, Ill.

WENDELL IRVING GRAY

 

wos S. Seeley Ave., Chicago, Ill.

| 560 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ WILLIAM GRAY

 

BORN: Jan. 10, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward Gray, ’oo, Effie Grindley.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936} LL.B., 1939.

DIED: June 2, 1952, Milton, Mass.

AFTER graduating from the Law School, Gray spent a short time
with the Old Colony Trust Company in Boston. In 1940 he joined
the U.S. Army and was assigned to the 180th Field Artillery in the
Yankee Division. He participated in the Guadalcanal, Northern
Solomons and Philippines campaigns and was discharged with the
rank of major after five years’ service. He remained active in the
Reserves and commanded a Field Artillery battalion. Since the war
he had been practising law with the firm of Powers & Hall in Boston,
engaged mostly in trial work throughout the state.

He was a member of the Milton Planning Board, the legislative
committee and a Town Meeting member and had served on the
Milton Warrant Committee. He was survived by his mother.

[ 561 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

SAMUEL SEWALL GREELEY

eens

  

HOME AppRESS: 800 Tower Rd., Winnetka, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Masonite Corp., 111 W. Washington St., Chicago 2, III.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1914, Winnetka, Ill.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Irene E, Mares, Oct. 28, 1945, Winnetka, Il]. corpren: Peter Arnold,
July 22, 1946 (died Sept. 14, 1946); Sara Sewall, Dec. 15, 1947; Samuel
Sewall, Jr., Aug. 2, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Greeley, ’41.

occupaTioN: Lawyer, general counsel and secretary, Masonite Corporation;
director and assistant secretary, Marsh Wall Products, Inc.; director and
secretary, Norjac Trading Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Republican Precinct Captain, Northfield Township, 1948-51;
secretary, 1955-57, Vice-president, 1959-60, president, 1960-61, Chicago
Group, American Society of Corporate Secretaries; director, North Shore
Country Day School Alumni Association, 1957-60; district chairman, Win-
netka Community Chest and Red Cross campaigns.

MEMBER OF: American, Federal, Illinois and Chicago Bar Associations; Legal
Club of Chicago, Harvard Club of Chicago (vice-president, 1950-52,
president, 1952-54); Country Tennis Club (librarian, 1954-55, 1958-60);
Wipigaki Yacht Club.

HAVING nothing extraordinary to report and having made a New
Year’s resolution to report it today, I shall be brief and factual.
Twenty-five years have slipped by with the following results:

Family: One good wife and two fine children — a thirteen-year-
old girl and a ten-year-old quarterback-catcher.

Occupation: Three years at the Law School, four years in the
Navy, eight years in the general practice of law in Chicago, and
nearly ten years trying to be a corporation’s legal department coun-
sel and secretary. I have enjoyed the variety of legal work, which
for me has ranged from representing a trainer in a law suit against

[ 562 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a racing stable owner (with a minister on the jury), to research on
the Australian Companies Act. I find that legal work takes all the
time and effort one is willing to give, plus a little more.

Recreation: | have worked hard at developing the cultural and
intellectual abilities I acquired in college — smoking, drinking, poker,
and numerous sports as participant and spectator. I also pursue the
Muskellunge and lesser fish in northern Wisconsin at every oppor-
tunity,

Travel: A bicycle tour of Scotland and Ireland; a trip to Mexico,
and cruises from the eastern Mediterranean to the South Pacific,
on a baby flat-top, have all been enjoyed. In recent years, business
has taken me frequently to the East Coast, Ohio, Mississippi and
California.

Other: From my New England ancestors I seem to have inherited
the conviction that most of the satisfactions in life result from en-
thusiasm, hard work and self-reliance. I have difficulty believing
that more and more economic dependence on government is the
cure for whatever ails our complicated world, but perhaps the new
Harvard administration in Washington will demonstrate that it is.

The last twenty-five years have been reasonably good to me,
and by the time of our Fiftieth Reunion, I’m sure the next twenty-

five will seem like the good old days — especially if I catch that
fifty-pound Muskie.

MILTON GABRIEL GREEN

 

HOME appress: 41 Chestnut Hill Rd., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Green Development Corp., 1330 Beacon St, Brookline 46, Alass
BORN: Oct. 31, 1913, Lowell, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

[ 563 ]

- a seimtnssitiaatiiai . wm a a )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MarrieD: Ruth Pinanski, June 9, 1940, Beverly Farms, Mass. cHILpren: Patricia
Ellen, Oct. 19, 1953; Kathy Lee, Oct. 20, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan Joseph Green, 48.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

OFFicEs HELD: Member, executive board, Boston Council and National Council
representative, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Real Estate Boards; Urban Land Institute;

International Council of Shopping Centers, Inc.; National Association of
Home Builders.

AFTER graduation I attended the Harvard Business School and a
special course in real estate at Chicago University. In 1938 I en-
tered the real estate business, specializing in property management
and chain store leasing and commercial building.

Two years after my marriage in 1940 to Ruth Pinanski, I re-
ceived a commission as lieutenant (j.g.) in Naval Aviation and was
assigned to Scouting Squadron VS-31 as air combat intelligence
officer. In 1945 1 was discharged as lieutenant commander and am
now on the retired list.

Since the war I have been engaged in all phases of real estate,
including shopping centers, housing developments, land develop-
ments and management. My major interest is business with enthusi-
asm for the great opportunities in real estate over the next ten years,
with special emphasis on the tremendous changes taking place in this
industry. I am particularly intrigued with land development in con-
nection with recreation, camping and leisure time. My own recrea-
tion has run the gamut from gardening, motorcycling (Harley-
Davidson), sports car driving (Jaguar XK120), to my latest interest
in golf (ten handicap and wonderful aggravation). However, it
does interfere with business, my wife and my two daughters (Kathy
and Patricia).

Regarding the future, 1 am very optimistic that great opportunities
exist but that tremendous changes are taking place and will continue
at even greater pace in almost all fields. We shall not have another

World War. Capitalism and Democracy in the form of creeping :
Socialism will win out over Communism.

ra aN Ae SERN TH

ater we

[ 564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ RICHARD ALAN GREEN

 

BORN: March 30, 1914, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Vivian Green, Irma E. Jel-
lenik.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933:

HARVARD BROTHER: John Waldo Green, ’28.

piep: Dec. 20, 1943, in South Atlantic area.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Green was an assistant director with the
RKO Studios and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios and later was
associated with the Nat Goldstone Agency in Hollywood, Cali-
fornia. In March, 1941, he was inducted into the Army and after
basic training at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, was transferred to Fort Mon-
mouth, New Jersey, where he was commissioned a second heu-
tenant in February, 1942, and promoted to first lieutenant the fol-
lowing September. He was assigned to the Astoria Training Film
Production Laboratory and later took a course at the Army Special
Services School in Lexington, Virginia. He went overseas in Julv,
1943, and died in an accident while on active service with the Signal

Corps in the South Atlantic area. He was survived by his mother
and a brother.

[ 565 ]

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD STEDMAN GREEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9209 EF. Parkhill Drive, Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE appREss: U.S. Public Health Service, Washington, D.C.

BorN: March 2, 1914, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., Cu772 laude, 1936; S.M., 1937.

MARRIED: Verona Cassandra Herman, Oct. 18, 1943, Juneau, Alaska. cHmpren:
John Crowninshield, June 16, 1945; Anne Stedman, Sept. 27, 1947; Judith

Parker, Aug. 11, 1952.
OccuUPATION: Sanitary engineer, U.S, Public Health Service; chief, Basic Data

Branch, division of Water Supply and Pollution Control.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers; American Public Health
Association; American Water Works Association; Water Pollution Control
Federation; Conference of State Sanitary Engineers; Conference of Federal

Sanitary Engineers.
PUBLICATIONS: Various papers in technical journals.
HOW many ways are there to describe the passage of twenty-five
years? Certainly no mere listing of career activities, copied from
reports to technical societies, or from outlines prepared for security
clearance, will do, at least not for a Harvard 25th Report. Besides,
these have all been told to the Class before, five times, in fact, since
1936. And yet, as I dwell on it further, my career in government
service has gobbled up so huge a proportion of the total amount
of time in this quarter-century — far more than a better sense of
values would have permitted — that no other matrix can be used on
which to build this account.

Except for a few months in 1940, my entire career since receiving
the professional degree has been as an engineer in government, suc-
cessively with the State of Massachusetts, the Panama Canal, and
the U.S. Public Health Service. As a commissioned officer for the
past twenty years in the Public Health Service, I have held assign-

[ 566 ]

he A PY RTP OT re

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ments in many parts of the United States, in Alaska during the war
years, and in Japan. All this has been wonderfully stimulating and
satisfying. While there have been times when the frustrations of
public service were severe, I’ve never really felt any other career
would have suited me as well as that in public health.

And what then, beyond the deep sense of personal gratification
which all public health workers everywhere share, do I have to
show for my effort? Materially, not so much as I should like, or
need. But then, the 1954 model cars are much more comfortable
than the newer ones, and our present house is a big improvement
over some places we've lived. The girl I met in Panama and mar-
ried in Alaska seems reasonably well satisfied with our lot. We
couldn’t take another shipwreck, though, like the one which cost
us virtually all our belongings while transferring back home from
Alaska after the war. I still shudder at the thought of “general aver-
age” charges, a term of maritime law that our colleagues from
Langdell Hall will quickly appreciate.

Perhaps the most disturbing reflection of the past years is that
there never has seemed to be time enough to participate in the activi-
ties which develop in and out of the family and community. Resolu-
tions to “do something about it” have all too frequently run afoul
of a briefcase swollen with papers. However, several times a year
the products of our basement woodworking shop, crafted to the
accompaniment of kit-built hi-fi music, make “store-bought” items
seem a bit crude. And I have picked up a job dropped thirty years

ago in Massachusetts, that of assistant Scoutmaster in a very active
local junior high school troop.

I went to Harvard College, after passing the entrance examinations
for our sister institution downstream on the Charles, because it was,
in 1932, one of the very few places I could afford to attend. Hun-
dreds of times since then, I have been grateful to George Hosmer,
the high school teacher of German and mathematics, himself a grad-
uate of Harvard, who suggested I apply at Harvard, and who loaned

me the ten dollars I needed to take that second set of college entrance
board examinations.

[ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ABRAHAM GREENBERG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1s1 Truman Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 126 Massachusetts Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

Born: May 13, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

marRieD: Bertha Rosenberg, Aug. 24, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Lester,
July 1, 1943; Harold, Dec. 17, 1946; Fred, May 19, 1951.

occupation: Certified public accountant; self employed.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants; Massachusetts
Society of Certified Public Accountants.

IT has been a long time since I last walked through the halls of
Harvard and yet it seems like only yesterday that we were meet-
ing in the various classrooms. Twenty-five years is a long time and
yet it seems so short.

After leaving Harvard, it took some few years— back in those
depression days — before I decided what I wanted to do with my
life. It was not until 1936 that I entered the Bentley School of Ac-
counting and Finance, graduating in 1939. In 1940 I married Bertha
Rosenberg of Cambridge and in that year began my civil service
position with the U.S. Government. In July, 1943, the stork visited
us with a son whom we call Lester. It was also in 1943 that I passed
the Certified Public Accountant’s examination but the next two years
were spent in the service of the Navy — and of all things they made
a radar technician out of me. (This education was not entirely
wasted because since leaving the Navy I have been able to tinker
and fix my television set which conks out now and then.) Released
in January, 1946, I once again took up my civilian duties with the
Army Department, later transferring to the Housing Administra-
tion, December, 1946, the stork again made its rounds and dropped

[ 568 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

another bundle on us and we named him Harold. In 1947 I
trained my sights on the field of public accounting, left the govern-
ment service and worked through my apprenticeship — approxi-
mately three years—for a firm of certified public accountants in
Boston, receiving my C.P.A. certificate in September, 1949. In
January, 1951, | was made a partner in a firm of public account-
ants in Boston and in December of this same year we were blessed
with a third son whom we named Fred. For nine years I remained
an active partner in Greenberg-Tanenholtz & Company and on Janu-
ary 1, 1960, severed my connections with that firm and am now in
business for myself as a principal in the practice of public account-
ing.

‘My oldest, Lester, now seventeen, has been quite a help to his dad
and seems interested in the profession. When he graduates from
Newton South High School in June, 1961, I shall endeavor to give
him an education along these lines and of course that will be done

for his brothers if they so desire, so that they may continue where
I shall leave off.

IRVING GREENBLATT

 

HOME appress: P.O. Box 1305, Miami Beach 39, Fla.

BORN: April 29, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932—1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MarrIED: Anne Grossman, 1936.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Junior Executives of the Chamber of Commerce, Bos-
ton, 1941, Managers Association of Life Underwriters, Boston, 1941-46;
member, executive board, chairman of public relations and public educa-
tion, Exceptional Children’s Opportunity School, Los Angeles, Calif,

[ 569 ]

a ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

1954-56; co-chairman of parent education, member of executive board
B'nai B'rith Greater Miami Youth Organization, since 1958.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami.

LIKE most of my classmates I feel that the years since graduation
have flown by — the number “twenty-five” is indefinable and with-
out size or definable measure. We just know that many years have
passed, realized more by what we see in the mirror each morning
than by trying to give comprehension to a mathematical significance.

For myself, I can look back on many happy years, some most
thrilling and wonderful experiences (such as my first sight of the
Grand Canyon as the sun was setting and Hoover Dam just as the
light was cracking the dark velvety sky above at 5 a.m.), and a few
difficult times that we all experience at one time or another. For the
most part it has been rather wonderful and I seem to have come a
full circle, for I find myself with an intense desire to go back to
school for a Master’s in social work. Two years ago I tried my
hand again in the graduate school of the University of Miami, just
a taste, mind you, and found I had some academic acumen remaining
in spite of the passage of time,

IT have become intensely interested in the field of intergroup and
human relations and am hoping to find a place for myself in this
field. Any classmate who can lend a helping hand can feel free to let
me hear from him. Making like a social worker for Los Angeles
County and working with mentally-retarded children of various
races and religious origins several years ago gave me an insight into
that personality that once went to Harvard with the thought he
would become a doctor. Today one of my deepest regrets is that
I partook what is really so little of what was offered me during the
four years in Harvard Square.

In reviewing the past years, my wife and I agree that one of the
most impressive and memorable events we experienced is our pleas-
ure trip through the United States by auto in 1951, and the several
auto trips made back to New England and then back to the West
and South, each time by a different route, since then. It is beyond
my ability to describe the beauty and freedom of movement one
experiences under such circumstances, At least one such trip should

be included in the plans of anyone who can possibly accomplish it
even in a limited way.

To date, we have lived in New York, Boston, Phoenix, Los An-
geles and, for the last four years, Miami Beach. One of the most
beautiful places we have not lived in is the city of San Francisco,

[570 ]

ae pe me WOME AAA AERO ACY SOD ENTE MEI AOE REIT HATTA

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

although we have visited there, as well as experiencing the Granc
Canyon, the Carlsbad Caverns, the Painted Desert, the Petrifiec
Forest, the New Orleans Mardi-Gras and French Quarter, the Wil
Rogers Memorial, the Fronton in Tijuana, Mexico, etc., etc. I sa\
“experiencing” instead of “visiting” because one “experiences” these
places or has wasted his time.

To those of my classmates who read this, and would like to cor-
respond in the future, I would be only too glad to hear from them
Since I don’t know if it will be possible to attend the Reunion, ]
want to wish that all who do will have a wonderful time and reve.
in the glory that is Harvard’s.

Hobbies: Travel, reading, fishing, youth work. Interests: Life's
panorama, human relations and a thirst for knowledge.

DAVID HERBERT GREENE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Oakwood Ave., Upper Montclair, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York University, New York 3, N.Y.

Born: Nov. q, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; A.M., 1939; PH.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Catherine J. Healy, June 24, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHitprReEN: Judith
Marie, Nov. 26, 1942; Catherine J.. Feb. 13, 1946; Gail Ellen and David G.
(twins), Dec. 30, 1949; Helen, Oct. 5, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Professor of English, New York University.

PusLications: J. M. Synge, 1871-1909, New York, Macmillan, 1959; edited sev-
eral anthologies —- An Anthology of Irish Literature, in the Modern Library

and zo00 Years of Irish Prose, with Vivian Mercier; articles and book
reviews.

AFTER graduation from college I remained in Cambridge for three
more years to get an A.M. and a Ph.D. in English. The last thing

[571]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

that Harvard did for me was grant me a Charles Dexter ‘Traveling
Fellowship so that I might, as the terms of the fellowship stipulated,
“visit the cathedral towns and universities of England.” I did just
that and in style because I got married and took my wife along with
me. Ostensibly I was also writing my doctoral dissertation. That
summer of 1939 was the last peaceful one. Toward the end of it
Hitler signed his non-aggression pact with Stalin and then attacked
Poland. Two days later Britain and France declared war on Ger-
many.

Getting out of London was a nightmare for us and for 16,000
other American tourists because most of the trans-Atlantic liners
had cancelled sailings. We held reservations on the N ormandie, but
she was in New York and did not sail until her burned hulk was
towed away to Staten Island considerably later. We finally squeezed
aboard the Manhattan along with James M. Farley, Gene Autry,
Professor F. N. Robinson and about 1600 other people.

When I saw the UK again three years later I was in the U.S.
Navy. I had six months of duty at Londonderry, Northern Ireland,
where our base-secretary was Classmate Paul Connolly. Then it
was six months in Plymouth, Devon, and about six months in London
on Admiral Stark’s staff. I never tasted gunpowder or got my feet
wet, and except for the buzz bombs which made life miserable I had
what one might describe as cushy duty. Not everyone was s0
fortunate.

After the war I went back to Annapolis and my job as professor
of English. But after one year I resigned and went to New York
University. I am still there. I teach in the liberal arts undergradu-
ate division and in the Graduate School of Arts and Science. My
field is modern British literature but most of my writing has been
about Irish literature.

I have been back to the United Kingdom twice since the war.
In 1955 and again in 1956, 1 went to Ireland on a sabbatical leave,
with a Rockefeller grant and a commission to write the official life
of the Irish dramatist, J. M. Synge, author of the incomparable
Playboy of the Western World. The biography was published by
Macmillan in the spring of 1959 and has been doing nicely.

During 1958-59 I left my classroom for a television studio and
taught a regular college course for credit on CBS’s Sunrise Semester
program. I am quite happy with my profession, Like everyone else
in it, I wouldn’t mind being paid more, but you can’t beat the hours,

[572]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and spending your life with young people is supposed to be good
for you. I hope I’m good for them.

WILLIAM ALLAN GREENE, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 48 Eastland Ave., Rochester 18, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Rochester School of Medicine, Rochester z0, N.Y.
BORN: June 15, 1915, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.D., 1940.

MARRIED: Kay M. Sanborn, Oct. 2, 1945, Marburg, Germany. CHILDREN: Hilary,
Oct. 25, 1952; Steven, Sept. 3, 1955-

OccUPATION: Medicine; teaching, research, University of Rochester School of
Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor of medicine and psychiatry, University of
Rochester Medical School.

MEMBER oF: American Psychosomatic Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Various published papers on psychosomatic relations, psychologi-
cal factors in neoplastic disease and adaptation to object loss.

AFTER graduation I went over the river and through the Fenway
to the Medical School. Still bent on becoming a family physician,
I went further west in 1940 to Cooperstown, New York. There I
spent a delightful and valuable two years as intern in an excellent
rural hospital. Fortunately, I was able to complete two years of
training before going into the Army in 1942. Again I was lucky in
being assigned to an evacuation hospital which provided a war ex-
perience which was a good compromise between the too hazardous
and the too mundane. Best of all, I met Kay Sanborn and married
her in Marburg, Germany, in 1945. We returned to go way out
west to Rochester, New York, in 1946, for a year or two of further
training before practice, arriving at a time when the medical school

[573]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

was developing a new interest and department pertaining to psy-
chological factors and general medicine.

Now, fourteen years later, I have become increasingly involved
in teaching, research and service in the development of this new
program here in Rochester. By now I am settled here in a full-time
position on the faculty of both the Departments of Medicine and
Psychiatry. I suppose that my work in some way involves teaching,
research and service in reference to the needs that are often assumed
to have been fulfilled by the traditional family physician by our
modern culture which confronts the physician with questions re-
garding his omnipotence and patients with quests for immortality.
The pleasures of a home, with a beautiful daughter and a quizzical

son, thanks to my wife, more than provide compensation for the
increasing strain put on some collegiate illusions.

ELMER LOUIS GRIMES

 

HOME AppreEss: 567 Warwick Rd., Haddonfield, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 414 Cooper St., Camden 2, N.J.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1914, Winthrop, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1940.

MarRiep: Julie Gambal, Nov. 4, 1950, Chelsea, Mass. cHmpren; Anne, July 10,
1952; Peter, Jan. 4, 1954; Paul, Nov. 4, 1956; Thomas, Jan. 19, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wendell Francis Grimes, 38, LL.B., 41.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MeMpeR oF: American College of Surgeons; Philadelphia Academy of Surgery;
American Medical Association.

puprications: “Ectodermal Dysplasias,” American Journal of Diseases of Chil-
dren, Vol. 63, 3575 1942; “Carcinoma of Nasopharynx,” Asnerican Journal
of Medical Science, 207, 342, March, 1944; “Treatment of Human Bites of
the Hand,” American Journal of Surgery, 78, 793, November, 1949; “Adcno-

L574]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

myosis of the Stomach,” Journal of the Medical Society of New Jersey,
July, 19573; “Pseudocysts of the Pancreas,” accepted for publication, Ameri-
can Journal of Surgery, July, 1960.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1936, I spent the next four years at
Tufts Medical School, where, I feel, 1 obtained an excellent general
medical background. In 1940, I moved on to Philadelphia to intern
at the Philadelphia General Hospital. This institution, still bathing
in the tradition of Sir William Osler, attracted many interns from
all parts of the country and I formed many pleasant friendships
during the two years of internship. I then went into a pathology
residency during 1942-43. I entered the Navy Medical Corps in
1943, and spent most of my time with a Seabee battalion in New
Guinea and in the Philippines. This gave me an excellent field trip to
complete my Anthropology I. My trip to the South Seas whetted
my appetite for travel, but the closest I have come to returning to
the South Seas was Honolulu in 1957, for a medical meeting.

Following my release from the Navy, in 1946, I returned to
Philadelphia General and a surgical residency. In 1949, I finished
my residency with a special fellowship at Memorial Hospital for
Cancer in New York. I returned once again to Philadelphia and
have been very happy in my chosen field on the surgical staffs at
Philadelphia General Hospital, the hospital of the University of
Pennsylvania and Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital in Camden, New
Jersey.

Being able to participate in the teaching of third-year medical
students keeps one in constant contact with youth. Need I suggest
that this is essential! From the political standpoint I am afraid that
I cannot agree with the total give-away, together with cradle-to-the-
grave crutch, as offered by the Democratic party.

[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT GRINNELL

  

HOME ADDRESS: West Wind Farm, Lyme, N.H.

oFFicE ADDRESS: World Affairs Bookshop, Inc., 1518 Connecticut Ave., N.W,,
Washington 6, D.C.

porn: Oct. 14, 1913, Dover, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Semi-retired.

THE above record of no hits, no runs, no errors, is about what
would be expected from the unclouded “phiz” in the photograph.
However, the photo owes more to art than photography; and
while the years have been kind, classmates will not recognize me,
I fear, if looking for a reasonable facsimile of the portrait. The
lack of accumulated honors and affiliations is, in part, accounted
for by the fact that I was in the U.S. Foreign Service from 1938 to
1953. During those years, I served in Mexico City, Singapore, Dar-
win, Sydney, Brisbane, New Guinea, the Fiji Islands, Dakar, Paris
and Washington. This bare recital gives only a hint of the interest
and even excitement those years held for me, but any amplification
is fortunately precluded by lack of space. In 1953, a new-found
appreciation of home and the reluctance again to pull up roots
prompted my resignation. The following year, with a partner, I
purchased the World Affairs Bookshop in Washington. This enter-
prise over the years has grown and prospered to the extent that
last year, in more or less a fit of absence of mind, we purchased a
165-acre “non operational” farm in New Hampshire. A state of
semi-retirement has come about much sooner than we anticipated
since, thanks to a part owner-manager and excellent staff, we find
that we can live here with only occasional trips to Washington.

[576]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The most frequent question we are asked is, “But what are you
going to do there?” An answer, in part, can be found in the fact
that it has taken me several hours to concoct this essay, thanks to the
view from my desk. Across the lake and beyond the near hills is
the Connecticut River Valley, then the Vermont Hills, and in the
distance the Green Mountains, fifty-five miles away, near Rutland.
This constantly changing panorama is a never-ending temptation;
but the gain of fifteen pounds without an increase in girth is wit-
ness to the benefits of constant outdoor occupation. We barely
start the things we want to do before the changing seasons bring a
variety of new projects. Yes, it isa good life.

RUSSELL GRINNELL, JR.

 

MAILING appREsS: Ledge Road, Gloucester, Mass.

FRANK TRACY GRISWOLD, JR.

 

MAILING Appress: Radnor, Pa.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT BROWN GRODIN

FE TE
: oR :

1 RN ¥e:

  

HOME ADDRESS: 18431 Lynton Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio.

OFFICE AbpREss: River Smelting & Refining Co., Box 5755, Cleveland 1, Ohio.

BoRN: July 8, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Pauline Federman, July 30, 1939, Cleveland, Ohio. cHm_preNn: Jo Ann,
Aug. 15, 1941; Barbara, Feb. 28, 1943; James A., Jan. 11, 1946; Robert D.,
July 14, 1948.

occupation: Executive vice-president, River Smelting & Refining Company.

MEMBER OF: American Foundrymen’s Society; Non-Ferrous Founders Asso-
ciation; The Racquet Club.

SINCE graduation my business career has been spent with the same
company, my marriage with the same woman, and both associations
have produced satisfactory results. I started with the company in a
sales capacity, then in a technical capacity prior to and during the
war years, and at present am in charge of operations. My family at
this point is quite grown up. My two daughters will both be away
at college this year, but the boys will be very much in evidence and
going through the do-it-yourself (with the old man’s help) stage.
Fishing — anytime, any place, and for anything — is my chief avo-
cation, and I am looking forward still to the day when I’m in the
right place at the right time — as are most fishermen.

[ 578 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE GULIAN

  

: . wi a
eet ay i
HOME appress: 10 Payson Terr., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Post Engineer, U.S. Army Garrison (1), IGMR, Annville, Pa.

BORN: May 29, 1913, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MarRRIED: Lucy Atamian, Aug. 12, 1943, Summerville, S.C. cumLpreN: George,
Jr., March 8, 1949; Lily Pamela, Dec. 13, 1953.

occupaTiIon: Engineer; colonel, U.S. Army (Ret.).

OFFICES HELD: President, local chapter, Society of American Military Engineers;
post commander, Camp Edwards, Massachusetts, 1953-56; president, vari-
ous officers clubs, U.S. Army.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Military Engineers, Association of the United
States Army; Pennsylvania Society of Professional Engineers (A fhhiate) ;
Officers Club; Indiantown Gap Milicary Reservation (Pennsylvania); Par-
ent-Teachers Association, Poitiers, France, 1957-58.

REFLECTING on the passage of a quarter-century brings to mind
memories of many things lost and gained, lessons learned, happiness
and sorrow.

For the four years from graduation to 1940, my times and ef-
forts were concerned with construction and engineering projects,
located along the east coast and in Texas. My service during the
war was in the Army Corps of Engineers. Happy with service life
and friends, we remained to complete twenty years, retiring during
the fall of 1960.

We have had the good fortune to live in or travel through nu-
merous countries including Okinawa, France, Italy, Germany Spain,
Austria, Luxemburg, Monaco, Switzerland, Belgium, Holland, Libya,
Greece and Turkey. By the time these observations are published,

it is very probable that we shall be settled in Southern California
in the Long Beach area.

[579 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Our wandering type of life has furnished opportunities to develop
and enjoy hobbies such as shell-collecting, photography, etc., as
well as to participate in out-door sporting activities. Hunting and
fishing in the Yukon was a rewarding experience to those of us
who had been searching the brush and flailing streams for years with
negligible results.

Reliving the days of childhood with our six-year-old Pam and
eleven-year-old George keeps my lovely wife and myself from laps-
ing into too routine an existence. Sharing their pleasures and prob-
lems certainly can only be described as a solid and ever-growing
source of satisfaction.

After twenty-five years, my weight is about the same, although
distributed differently. I can’t say the same for my hair, however.

Somehow I never found the pot of gold at rainbow’s end, but
had a lot of fun and spent a lot of time looking for it anyhow.
Maybe I'll find it yet. Our religion is Presbyterian and we have
grown tolerant with the passing years, now believing that there is
more good than evil in most people.

JOHN JARDINE GUNN

 

MAILING AbpREss: 805 Walnut St. Clarks Summit, Pa.

[ 580 |

ee A fr te

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLIFFORD RAYMOND GUPTILL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 257 Moreland St., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 36 Pleasant St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1912, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: MD. (Tufts Coll.), 1937.

MARRIED: Thelma L. Davis, June 14, 1937, Arlington, Mass. cHiLpReN: Gail

Louise, June 6, 1940; Deborah, Jan. 11, 1942; Carol Ann, Feb. 20, 1943.
OccUPATION: Pediatrician.

OFFICES HELD: Pediatrician, Memorial Hospital, Worcester, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society, New
England Pediatrics Society; Worcester Club; Worcester Country Club;
Children’s Hospital Alumni Club of Boston; Argonauts; Harvard Clubs of
Boston and Worcester; Athelstan Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

HAVING to leave my Class at Harvard, and not graduate with its
members, has proved to be one of the saddest moments of my life.
It was necessary for me to “push” my educacon along and I en-
rolled at Tufts Medical School, from which I was graduated in
1937. Following this I interned for three years and then went into
practice in Worcester, Massachusetts. In June, 1937, I married
Thelma L. Davis, and we now have three daughters. In rg42, [ en-
listed in the Medical Corps of the Army until 1945. Following my
discharge from the Army, I spent some time at Boston Children’s
Hospital and returned to the practice of pediatrics in Worcester.
During the past fourteen years, this endeavor has kept us extremely
busy. We have found time to vacation during the winters at dif-
ferent places in the South and in Maine during the summer. My
daughters are grow ing up rapidly. The oldest graduated from Lavell
and is now training at the Massachusetts Memorial Elospitals as a
laboratory tee hnician. The other two are finishing their secondary
school education at Bancroft School and will soon be in college.

[ 581]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

My wife and I play weekend golf and bridge. Otherwise, most
of my time is devoted to my practice. Recently, I have taken in an
associate, which T hope will lighten the load and allow me to par-

ticipate in a few extracurricular activities such as attending school
reunions, etc.

ALBERT GREENLEAF HALE

 

HOME apprEss: 41 Woodcliffe Rd., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: North Avenue Savings Bank, 1960 Massachusetts Ave., Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 27, 1913, Winchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Constance Yvonne Lowe, Dec. 18, 1935, Hollis, N.H. cHILpreN:
Richard Lowe, Tufts ’58, Oct. 10, 1936 (7. Joan Marie Dexter, July 26,

1958); Thomas Albert, Tufts 64, Jan. 5, 1942; David Greenleaf, March 21,
1950. GRANDCHILD: Susan Marie Hale, July 13, 1959.
OCCUPATION: Savings banking.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, First Parish (Unitarian), Medford, 1947-52.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Audubon Society; American Institute of Banking;
Savings Bank Forum.

AFTER working for some years in a family business, I entered the
banking field and have been with the North Avenue Savings Bank
in Cambridge since 1954, where | have the opportunity to do work
in both the savings and mortgage end of the bank. [also am con-

nected with an organization handling the quarterly and semi-annual
dividends of many banks in this area,

After fifteen years in West Medford we moved to |

i951. My two older sons have had the privilege
algebra class of John Adzigian, 36, at Lexing

xington in
of being in the

ton High ie
was on his baseball team for three years as well, Bhy and Dick

| 582 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My principal hobby always has been photography, with a special
emphasis on railroad subjects, now sad to relate, diminishing rapidly,
but having three sons of varying interests has stimulated my own in
many other hobbies. About six years ago we became interested in
mountain climbing and have all enjoyed the fine trails throughout
the White Mountains. My youngest son had climbed all the high
peaks of the Presidential Range with me before he entered the first
grade. We have had our share of hot rodders but at present the
driveway holds two Volkswagens, the older and larger cars having
gone when my son Tom went to Tufts this year.

Living and working near Harvard has made it possible for me
to attend many Commencements and I hope I can maintain closer
contacts in the years to come.

BLAN WALTER HALE

 

HOME apprEss: 12 Beverly Rd., Madison, N_J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Jersey Zine Co., 160 Front St., New York, N.Y.
BorN: March 22, 1915, Osceola, Ark.

PREPARED AT: Beverly Hills High School, Beverly Hills, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: 8.B., Cut laude, 1936; LL.B. 1939.

MARRIED: Wilna Jones, Jan. 25, 1941, Albany, N.Y. cattpren: Blan Wilham,
March 27, 1944; Douglas King, July 1, 1947; Keith Bennett, Nov. 13, 1950.

occupation: Manager, Employee Relations Department, New Jersey Zinc Com-
pany.

ATTENDED Harvard Law School after graduation from college

and received an LL.B. degree in 1939. Took a position in a smiall

Wall Street law firm as law clerk, upon graduating from the Law

School, and was fortunately able to pass the New York bar examina-

tions and be admitted to the New York bar. In March, ipg:, I

[583]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

volunteered as a private in the Infantry “to get my year over with.”
Nearly five years later, | received my honorable discharge as captain
in the Army of the United States.

] immediately went to work for my present company as a mem-
ber of the legal staff and have held a number of positions, including
the present one as manager of Employee Relations Department.

HOWARD PICKERING HALL

 

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Robert College, Bebek, Istanbul, Turkey.

BORN: July 8, 1915, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1936; S.M., 19373
S.D., 1951.

MarRIED: Ellen Ide, June 25, 1945, Creston, lowa. cumpren: Charlotte McCallum,
July 19, 1950; Stephanie Wilson, July 12, 19513; Lindsey Louise, April 8,
1954; Gretchen Elizabeth, Jan. 26, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Rice Hall, ’39.

OccUPATION: Dean of faculty, Robert College.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, U.S. National Committee on Soil Mechanics, 1948;
chairman, Committee on Foundations and Soil Mechanics, ASEE, 1950;
editor, Soil Mechanics and Foundations Division, Newsletter, ASCE, 1954-
56, chairman, Robert College Community School Board, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: ASEF; ASCE, AAUP, Harvard Engineering Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Historical Review of the Analysis of Flow toward Wells,”
Journal of the Boston Society of Civil Engineers, July, 1954; “An Investiga-
tion of Steady Flow toward a Gravity Well,” La Houille Blanche, Gre-

noble, France, Vol. 10, No. 1, 1955; “Basic Science and Design in Soil
Mechanics,” Journal of the ASEE, Vol. 95, No. 4, 1954.

AS an undergraduate I swore that 1 wouldn't be found dead in the

teaching profession; and I’ve been as good as my word: I've sur-
vived every appointment to date,

[ 584 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I tried both teaching and practice, in the field of engineering, be-
fore the war (I presume it’s still the war to most of us), settled on
the former and went back to Harvard with a doctorate as my
objective shortly before Pearl Harbor. Poor timing. A vague feeling
of unrest and uneasiness, rather than anything so simple as patriouc
zeal, led me to volunteer whatever it was I thought I had. If the
Army had had the common sense to tell me I could be more useful
as a civilian — or even if they had simply told me they could not
accept me because I was mentally deficient — the matter would have
ended there. But they were not to be satisfied with such measures.
Instead, a doctor who I have no reason to believe was any less
capable of lacing his own shoes in the morning than I was, told me
I was physically unfit. This, ] now think, was a turning point in my
life. From that moment it was Hall vs. the United States Govern-
ment, and Hall finally won. It took me until August, 1942, to get
in, and [’ve never found that doctor again to tell him that I ulumately
participated as a paratrooper in the Rhine crossing shortly before
the end in Europe. In fact, ve had precious little opportunity to
tell anybody about this since that time, so I thought I'd put ic all
down here.

Toward the end of the war, I married Ellen Ide, of Creston, Iowa.
Very intelligent of me. Since I was a rather stuffy type, I found it
necessary to reform her, and accomplished this with such subtlety
that today my friends scarcely recognize me as the same person.

For the next ten years I vacillated once again between an academic
life and, as some would distinguish it, a practical one. As a member
of the civil engineering faculty at Northwestern University in
Evanston, Illinois, I managed to get back to Harvard to finish my
doctoral efforts, to get to Europe for a technical society conference
in Holland, to French Morocco for about two years of airport con-
struction, and to England for several months on airport pavement

_ consulting for the USAF. Occasionally, I would reappear at North-
western to teach,

Finally, in 1956, I came out here tg Istanbul to be dean of the
School of Engineering at Robert College in a program of major
redevelopment just getting under way at that time. And this
year I’ve been appointed dean of the faculty here, with my first task

being the schizophrenic one of finding a replacement for mysclf as
engineering dean.

We have four small daughters, so one bequest I shall noe make to
posterity is my name. A very satisfactory bargain, I should think.

[ 585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I'm learning a great many things from the girls, of course. One is
that the beautiful, unusual, comparatively remote, subtly challenging
spot where we now live will never excite them as it does me. To
me it’s a place full of interest, fascination, even mystery, so different
from anything I’ve ever known; to them, a commonplace, the place
where they live. The Bosporus? Oh yes, that’s it down there —
just look out any window — it’s always there. The Ottoman fortress
that dates back to the conquest of Constantinople in 1453? You
probably mean the tower where we play after school. Are there
any cookies, Mom?

The only trouble with twenty-five years is that they make up a
quarter of a century. This makes one think of glaciers and things,
and of the possibility that there is really not much more that we can
be expected to do. I reject these notions, and trust that we all shall
have made some progress by our Fiftieth.

ROBERT CARLTON HALL

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 130 EF. 67th St., New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Bache & Co., 36 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.
BorN: March 3, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: aB. summa cum laude, 1936; DIPL
IN Economics (Oxford Univ.), 1937.

mMagpriep: Emma Gene Tucker, Nov. 23, 1946, Indianapolis, Ind.

occupATION: General partner, Bache & Company, brokers and investment bank-
ers,

OFFICES HELD: Governor, New York Young Republican Club, 1939-41; lieutenant
commander, U.S. Navy, 1941-46; treasurer, Royal Arch Lodge of Masons,
1948-50; director, A. D. Walker & Company, Bache and Company, Ltd.
(Hong Kong); chairman, executive committee, finance committce and
trustee, Knickerbocker Hospital; treasurer and director, Bache Foundation,

[ 586 ]

_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

130 East 67th Street Corporation, member, Commodity Exchange Inc.;
member, Chicago Board of Trade; member, Public Relations and Educa-
tion Committee, Association of Stock Exchange Firms, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Japan Society, Asia Society; Achilles Club (London), River Club;
Broad Street Club; Masonic Lodge.

AFTER one year of sherry, beagling and economics at Oxford, I
went to work for the Guaranty Trust Company of New York, and
was a district representative when Uncle “sent me greetings.” I
fought the Battle of Bermuda as port director and the Battle of
White River as commanding officer of a radioman’s training school
at Indianapolis, losing teeth and hair in the process, but finding a
wife. Joining the investment firm of Bache & Company, I worked
in every sector of our business, became a partner in 1952, was for
several years partner in charge of the foreign department, and am
now partner in charge of the Sales Development Division. By neces-
sity and choice, with our ninety-odd branches scattered all over the
world, I have been in the Orient seven times, around the world,
and for a while commuted to Europe.

Outside of business, I am particularly interested in all phases of
Asiatic affairs. I am active in hospital work as well as outside asso-
ciations connected with the security and commodity business. Ten-
nis during the winter and boating during the summer combine to
keep my weight and disposition within reasonable bounds.

BENJAMIN HARDING HALLOWELL

  

HOME appreEss: Wianno, Cape Cod, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: P.O. Box 116 A, R.F.D. 2, Adams Pond Road, Derry, NLH.
BORN: Jan. 19, 1914, Newton, Mass. °
PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B, Cte latade, 1936.

{587 ]

tn

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MarRIED: Dorothy McKey, June 26, 1936, Chatham, Mass. (divorced 1955).

CHILDREN: Benjamin Harding, Jr., Sept. 10, 1938; John McKey, Feb. 12, 1942;
Edward McKey, Dec. 2, 1949.

HARVARD SON: John McKey Hallowell, ’63.
HARVARD BROTHER: James Mott Hallowell, ’28.
OCCUPATION: Teacher.

MEMBER OF: Fox Club.

TWENTY-THREE of the last twenty-five years have been spent in
finding the proper vocation for me, namely the teaching profession.
I teach boys and girls of the fifth- and sixth-grade level. At present,
while switching schools, I am engaged in the roofing business in
Manchester, New Hampshire.

Chronologically, I spent three years in the textile business, five
years in the banking business interrupted by four years in the Navy,
mostly convoy duty, and then in 1948 embarked on a series of serv-
ice-connected mental breakdowns. Thanks to the Veterans Ad-
ministration I was quickly straightened out, with each successive
breakdown consuming less time.

During this thirteen-year stretch I have held a variety of jobs —
salt salesman, cotton yarn salesman, mill-hand in a paper mill,
“brushee” for a landscaping outfit, mill-hand in a plastic mill — and
three summers as a sailing instructor. The latter steered me into
teaching, the profession I hope to continue.

Family-wise, I have been privileged to help raise three boys. My
wife understandably could not take the pressure of raising three
boys and coping with my varied breakdowns. We finally were di-
vorced in 1955, she marrying Noble A. Cathcart the next year. Our
oldest boy is USN — Naval Air at Pensacola. The next is a sopho-

more at Harvard. The youngest attends Fessenden School in West
Newton.

[ 588 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WINCHESTER DANA HARDWICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: Cluster Dock Road, Alpine, N.J.

BORN: May 27, 1914, Weston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1935-

MARRIED: Elizabeth Townsend Johnson, May 21, 1960, Alpine, N.J.
OCCUPATION: Actor.

MEMBER OF: Fly Club; Hasty Pudding; Glen Coin Club, Alpine, New Jersey.

APPROACHING the relatively august state of our Twenty-Fifth,
it seems almost frivolous to discuss my somewhat gypsy existence
in light of the many achievements and accomplishments of so many
members of the Class. Suffice it to say that, aside from one very
vivid period (1941-46) of duty with the Marine Corps, I have spent
the years since June of 1935 in and out of show business. This has
ranged from the frustrating to the exhilarating, which, I imagine,
places me in the same category as the rest of us. The best of it ful-
fills my particular needs and desires; the worst of it, I have learned
to live with.

After too many years of an overwrought bachelorhood, I very
fortunately married “Bebe” Johnson last spring, and the four of
us (she, two small children by a prior marriage, and I) are happily
living in Alpine, New Jersey — eight miles, U.S. Route 9W, after
you cross the George Washington Bridge, if you happen to be
around.

[ 589 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN HENRY HARING

 
 

mepress: Wall & Herchell St. La Jolla, Calif.

—s been carried as a “Lost” man on ou

 

HENRY HERMAN HARJES

_——411 E. sqth St, New York 22, N.Y.

| 590 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN LINCOLN HARMAN

  

Bad 2.

HOME appRESS: Eden Mills, Vt. (summer); 437 Magie Ave., Elizabeth, N.J.
(winter).

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Jersey State Employment Service, Englewood, N.J.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1914, Grand Junction, Colo.

PREPARED AT: Plainfield High School, Plainfield, N.J.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N-H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; B.D. (Union Seminary), 1939;
A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1942; Certificate completion toward s.m. (Rutgers
Univ.), 1959.

MaRRiED: Eleonora Patterson, Dec. 21, 1939, Durham, N.C. cuipren: Richard
Low, Aug. 16, 1946; Carol Ann, Dec. 22, 1950.

occupation: Employment interviewing; interviewer, candidate for vocational
counselor.

OFFICES HELD: Former chairman, Vermont Teachers UNESCO Committee.

MEMEER OF: FoR (Wider Quaker Fellowship); NJLA; NEA; Vermont Poetry
Society.

puBLications: A few poems in Little Magazines and travel articles in Calcutta,
India, Reviews.

HaArRVARD-SLANTED AUTOBIOGRAPHY
By the shores of south Long Island
(After birth in Colorado)
there I grew with younger siblings
playing in the crashing breakers,
catching crabs in quict inlets,
feeding birds and raising puppies,
climbing trees and whisthng often —
only singing hymns on Sunday —
ina family where my mother
knew Japan and all its beauty
while the father studied Nature,

[sor]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ciably since college days. I was conservative then, and I still am. I
have never voted for anything but a Republican candidate for
President, and probably never shall. Of Scotch descent, I was raised
a Presbyterian, and [ still am. So are the other two members of
the family. As the world shrinks, it appears that, although my views
have not changed much, I find my convictions more intense. Per-
haps the stubbornness of age is more apparent. If I have any “social”
convictions, I’d guess laissez faire would describe everything. Re-
reading short self-appraisals such as this is a bit deflating. I should
stop writing now while ] enjoy the memories of those days when
I was happy, slow-thinking, irresponsible, fun-loving — and I still
am.

GEORGE WILFRED HARRIS

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 15 Monmouth Ct. Brookline 46, Mass.

MURRY HARRIS

  

HOME appress: 30 E. Ninth St., New York 3, N.Y,
orricé appress: IBM Corp., 112 E. Post Rd., White Plains, N.Y,

[ 596 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: June 25, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Woodmere High School, Woodmere, N.Y.; Fieldston School, New
York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cu77 laude, 1936.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Advertising research manager, Data Processing Division, IBM.

OFFICES HELD: Advertising and promotion director, Stations WNBC and WNBT,
New York, 1948-51; public relations director, A. C, Nielsen Company,
1951-56, advertising manager, Data Processing Division, IBM, 1957-59;
lecturer on advertising research, Columbia, New York, Rutgers and Ford-
ham Universities; lieutenant, USNR (retired).

MEMBER OF: Business Papers Committee, Association of National Advertisers;
Steering Committee, Young Audiences, Inc., Art Committee, Fieldston-
Ethical Alumni Association; American-Scandinavian Foundation, Museum
of Modern Art; Danish-American Society; Radio-TV Executives Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on audience measurement in Broadcasting, Sponsor,
Variety and other trade publications.

AT Class Day, 1936, on beholding the rather elderly members of
the Class of 1911, I was appalled. “Will we look like that at our
Twenty-fifth?”

My own answer comes a quarter-century late, and I think all
the pictures in this volume will provide supporting evidence. My
36 friends and I may have gained a few tons collectively; yet despite
war and other crises they seem very far removed from decrepitude.

As another phase of the continuum, my business chronology
began more or less in a social psy ch course, under Professor All-
port, which stirred my interest in advertising and broadcasting. It
proceeded through a senior thesis on advertising psychology, fol-
lowed later by a $15-a-week job showing tourists Major Bowes’
studio and other NBC wonders. Ever since, I've managed to remain
in one phase or another of advertising and its related fields: radio,
television, publishing and market research.

And for the past few years, there's been the extra stimulation of
working in an exciting, ever-expanding industry — electronic data
processing equipment — where almost every week my company,
IBM, unveils some new wonder to speed data handling i in business,
science or Cape Canaveral. I like to call these computer systems
“machine tools of the mind.” It’s gratifying to be plaving a small
part in this second industrial revolution, where machines relieve
mental drudgery just as a drill press relieves the physical.

In the getting-awav-from-it-all department, I've succeeded in
doing a good deal of foreign travel. P've found relaxation and ‘or
stimulation in a lively cosmopolis like Copenhagen and a picturesque

[ 597 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILLIAM RANDOLPH HARRIS, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 5703 Swiss Ave., Dallas, Texas.

WALTER CHARLTON HARTRIDGE

 

MAILING appress: De Renne Apts. Savannah, Ga.

JOHN MELVIN HARTWELL, JR.

 

HOME appress: Old Church Road, Greenwich, Conn,

OFFICE apprEss: de Vegh & Co., 26 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.
Born: March 28, 1916, Everett, Mass.

prerarep at: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cuz laude, 1936; M.B.A., CU? Jaude,
1938.

margien: Betty Hawk, Oct. 17, 1942, New York, N.Y. cumprew: Robert Ma
Jan. 25, 19473 John Melvin, 3d, May 5, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Scott Hartwell, '41, aca.” 47°
occurATIon: Investment counsel.

{ 600 |

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Piedmont Life Insurance Company, 1956-57, president
and director, Piedmont Advisory Group, 1957-59; director, Universal In-
surance Company, since 1958, de Vegh International, Inc., since 1960; vice-
president, de Vegh Mutual Fund, Inc., and de Vegh Investing Company,
Inc., since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Finance Association, New York Society of Security
Analysts; Harvard Club of New York.

I THINK a fair, and rather sobering, statement of my goals of
twenty-five years ago would reveal a close resemblance to those of
a Hollywood-bound teen-ager — fame and fortune. And if going
to Harvard (and the Business School) would not assure those goals,
at least it was a good start. The terminal date for reaching one’s
goals was certainly not later than one’s Twenty-fifth Reunion,
because I had attended my father’s Twenty --fifth and knew how old
those men were.

In twenty-five years the goals have changed, as do most unrealized
objectives. And the “terminal date” has become a starting point,
as 1 look forward to the next twenty-five. But the last twenty-five
have not passed without seeking and exploring. Since 1936, I have
worked for fourteen different companies or institutions in nine dif-
ferent kinds of business, from education and auditing, through soap,
chemicals, automobiles and electronics, to investment management.
All this without counting three years of navy dutv, appropriately
unrelated to anything I had done before, and prophetically unrelated
to anything I was to do later.

While I accumulated this wealth of experience, my patient wife
and sons have occupied ten different homes, just since the war.
And my elder son, now in eight grade, has attended nine different
schools, with only his father to blame for this indicated delinquency.
The plain facts are the rest of the family has the talent. My wife
sings in a variety of community activities, to the extent her family
responsibilities permit. And she has contributed her time, and some-
times mine, to a number of organizations, including League of Wo-
men Voters, Woman’s Club, PTA, and the Christian Science Church.
The elder boy, at thirteen, has outgrown his dad in size, is much
more adept at telling a joke or story, and last summer won a regatta
pennant in his first summer of sailing. The younger bey is sur-
prisingly proficient at athletics, at the sixth grade level, disproving

heredity, and talks about going to Harvard. We think he might
make it, even considering the tremendous difference between seek-
ing to enter Harvard in 1967, and applving as we did in 1932,

[ 601 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

- ? ? . ,
The economic difference between the 730’s and the "So's, a
hopefully the ‘60's also, has given us a remarkable opportunj
assess the quarter-century from the vantage point of a mountain top

: L lessings. _ 6)
erhaps a very high one, of material b gs. My own busines,

reer is evidence of the change in conditions from our College da 5
the end of my first year at the Business School in 1937, a Professo,
mmended me to an investment counsel firm, the kind of POSition
ited above anything else. When I arrived for the interview the
-uestions asked related to my family financial resources, Since
esources were proving too meager to get me through the
School without the full gamut of student aid, they were
» limited to get me that job. That ended my honeymoon
stment counseling. But twenty years later, a wealthy
le me their investment adviser, even though my invest.
nce had all been peripheral. Two years later, I joined an
punsel firm, and not long thereafter, became a partner,
full circle in career direction has made me wonder
hat might have been had I followed a straighter
the most useful answer is that I might now be less
+ my work and less certain that it is ideal, because
most of the others.

e been enriched with a number of new activities
Europe and hopes of many more; a full round
rch my wife introduced me to, including Sun-
nd membership on the board; visiting art gal-
d amateurish, but eager, skung. After three

- 100 at the Greenwich Country Club, I f-
ckly resigned, I endeavored unsuccessfully

vate school, and raised too little for the

ersaty summary does not read exactly
anticipated at graduation in 1936. But,
1 same hope and expectation and re-
0. And I shall be fascinated to see

muversary biogra ph y.

oad Lae yT vorme

ty to

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR RAYMOND HARTWIG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 130 San Buenaventura Way, San Francisco 27, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Suite 1430, 490 Post St., San ¥ rancisco 2, Calif.

poRN: July 2, 1914, Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-193]. DEGREES: AB., 1936437) MD, WGA.
marrieD: Dorothea Eloise Hagerty, May 16, 1943, Cambridge, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHER: Carl Hermann Hartwig, "28, Mo. 32.

occupation; Orthopaedic surgeon. |

OFFICES BELD: Assistant clinical professor of orthopaedic surgery, since 1955,
member, Admissions Committee, since 1960, University af Calforma
School of Medicine, delegate from San Francisco County, Califora
Medical Association, since 1957, secretary-treasurer, Northern Caltoma
Chapter, Western Orthopaedic Association, Since \qbo, stat Present,
French Hospital, San Francisco, 1960-61, Member attending stati ar ¥ Tench,
Franklin, Children’s, St. Mary's, San Francisco General and UC. Medea

Center Hospitals, San Francisco. . _
MEMBER oF: American Medical Association, Calitorma Medical Association,

San Francisco County Medical Society; Western Orthopaedic ASOCLMON,
American Academy of Orthopacdic Surgeons, Ame»ncan Yoard al Unho-
pacdic Surgery (diplomate), Bohemian Qub of San t TANEASCD, Lonny
Club of San Francisco, American Orchid Society, Ore Sociery of

California,
OF the twenty-five years which have so SW pased ANCe 1936,
I spent the early half acquiring the basic knowledge of medicine and
4 surgical specialty and the Larter twelve Yeats ty to WL WS
learning Wisely to work, an endless educational proces, KML,
rewarding, sometimes frustrating, Speeiheally, this course has tun
from four years at Harvard Medical School wo three Vets WAN
Ing in Rochester, New York, to two yeats as a naval medical odticet,
CO two and one-half years at the Boston Chitdren’s Medical Center

Ind the Massachusetts General Vogpital ant tially wo acting WA

\ boy \

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

tice in San Francisco. As of now, I am happily absorbed in ortho-
paedics, with part-time teaching at the University of California
School of Medicine and the activities of professional societies and
hospitals. With all this, my associate and I manage to salvage for
each other some free time to enjoy home life and hobbies. Unfor-
tunately, this “free time,” with the number of my hobbies, gets
spread very thin. I’m lucky enough to have been able to extend
my Glee Club interests to two singing societies here in San Fran-
cisco. Again, I have my earliest hobby, gardening, and am acquiring
a collection of orchids: a test of patience and perseverance. And
when I’m really “bogged down,” I try landscape painting — not
with great success but with abandon.

My experiences during World War II were brief (two years),
fraught with no great danger, professionally interesting (at least
sporadically). This hero’s greatest hardship was a tedious, seasickful,
six-knot, thirty-five-day voyage aboard a flotilla of tank landing
craft in the Central Pacific.

Since 1943 I have been happily engaged in a delightfully profitable
continuing venture with an indulgent and understanding idolator
of peace and quiet. Just how a good wife manages to create the
good life on a doctor’s unpredictable schedule is a day-to-day
miracle which I humbly accept.

CHARLES PATRICK HASELTINE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 120 EF. Sunset Drive, Redlands, Calif,
OFFICE appress: Beaver Medical Clinic, 2 W. Fern Ave. Red]

. 9 an i
BORN: Feb. 28, 1914, Chicago, Ill. ds, Calif
PREPARED AT: Ripon High School, Ripon, Wis,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: 3.8. 1936; M,p,, 1940,

[ 604 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarrieD: Jane Brooks, Nov. 15, 1952, Ripon, Wis. cuttoren: Mary Jane, Jan.
24, 1954, Margaret Elizabeth, June 6, 1957; Richard Brooks, March 29,
1960.

OCCUPATION: Physician, specialist in ophthalmology.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; San Bernardino County Medical
Society; California State Medical Society, Tri-County Ophthalmology
Society; American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology,
American Board of Ophthalmology (diplomate).

THE thought that this Report is on the occasion of our Twenty-
_ fifth Anniversary of graduation with the Tercentenary Class of
Harvard College strikes home with considerable force. In this
rushing and often turbulent stream of life, one seems endlessly
occupied with the details of day-to-day living and with plans for
the future, with seemingly little time for pause and contemplative
reflection on the past. This, however, would appear (out of neces-
sity) to be one of those rare, golden (?) moments. There un-
doubtedly should be more of them.

I find myself somewhat appalled to face the realization that I
am now in the ranks of that venerable group entitled to bear the
standard “Twenty-fifth Reunion” on the march across the Charles
to Soldiers Field, come Class Day 1961. How well I recall my own
amusement (liberally spiced with pity, I'm afraid) at the sight of
all the “old duffers” lining up under their standards near the corner
of Eliot House for the traditional march!

But back to reflection about, and appraisal of, the vears that
have intervened since that balmy spring day in 1936. In panoramic
view I find that they have been zestful and richly rewarding ones.
To be sure, there have been fleeting moments of pause and wonder
about the “whys and wherefores” “of life, especially when the sad
news of the passing of some dear friend has reached me. But the
realization that these things are all within the Master Plan has given
comfort and re-emphasized the urgency of “giving to” as well as
“getting out of” life.

The kaleidoscopic picture of these years has included such ran-
dom fragments as the pursuit of an M.D. degree from our alma
mater (1936-1940); eighteen months of internship training at the
teaching hospitals of the University of Hlinois in Chicago, a four-
year leapfrogging odyssey with the U.S. Navy and Marine C orps
as a medical officer and flight surgeon in World War Il — from the

bleak Aleutians in the North to the steamy tropical jungles of the
Southwest Pacific, from the tradewind-kissed coral atolls of the
Central Pacific to Xanadu and the historic palaces of Kubla Khan,

[ 605 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

on the windswept plains of northern China, then once again a
return to the never-ending pursuit of knowledge with more gradu-
ate work at Harvard Medical School in my now chosen field of
medical specialization, and an additional three years of specialty
training in New York City. A few months’ interlude involved three
trips to our neighboring continent to the south as ship’s surgeon
on a passenger liner sailing out of New York; then into the mael-
strom of private practice, marriage to a beautiful “home town” girl
of boyhood acquaintance and the joyous, postponed dividends of
three lively, healthy offspring to date, and the enjoyment of hard
work and the year-round, outdoor living possible in the spot we
finally chose to locate — Southern California. .

Yes, the years since leaving the Yard and the Halls of Ivy have
been full, yet kind ones, and have passed with incredible swiftness.
It seems but yesterday that, with considerable temerity, I entered
the Harvard Yard and found my way to Matthews 2, the Union,
Widener Library, new faces and friends, and a new approach to
life. As the years have passed, however, so also has a growing appre-
ciation become manifest, like the slow mellowing of a good meer-
schaum pipe, of what the privilege of attending an institution like
Harvard really means. The academic freedoms, the scope of ma-
terial available, and the unexcelled excellence of instruction and
basic research at Harvard are quite generally recognized. But of
equal importance, in my opinion, are the many subtle intangibles
which, like the bouquet of a rare wine, may be hard to capture
and define, but nonetheless form a vital part of the warp and woof
of life itself and which, perhaps, likened to an old friend and
revered teacher give rise to the thought, “Without one such as this,
with whom shall I make my journey?”

[ 606 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE DOTSON HASKELL, JR.

 

HOME AppREsS: Penthouse A, 168 E. 74th St., New York, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Le Moyne College, Syracuse, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; A.M., 1937; PH.D. (Fordham
Univ.), 1960.

UN MARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Alden Valentine Haskell, ’40; William Hartmen Haskell, ’43,
M.B.A., '47.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of English.
MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; New York State Enghsh Council;
Shakespeare Society of America.

SINCE college days my chief interest has been the history and lit-
erature of the theatre. I have received an A.M. from Harvard and
a Ph.D. from Fordham, the subject of my dissertation being
“Literary Activities of English Actresses in the 18th Century.” I
taught at two prep schools and, while doing my graduate work, at
Fordham University. At present, I am an assistant professor at Le-
Moyne College.

During World War IJ, I did a four-year hitch in the Army Signal
Corps and in the CIC, and am now a first lieutenant in the "Retired
Reserve. I took a trip abroad under the auspices of the military,
and two, much more agreeable ones, at an earlier period. Most of
my summers have been spent sailing at Marblehead.

[ 607 ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILLIAM PECKHAM HASKELI,

 

HOME apprEss: Butternut Hollow Road, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Moore-McCormack Lines, Inc., 2 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y,
BorN: May 14, 1913, Scarsdale, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).
MarrieD: Helen Beaumont Park, May 12, 1945, Seattle, Wash. cuitpren: William
Beaumont, May 14, 1948; Halford Whittier, June 25, 1950; Helen Hilton,

June 22, 1953.
occupation: Steamship business; assistant passenger traffic manager, Moore-

McCormack Lines, Inc.

CHARLES ALLEN HASKINS

 

HOME ApbrESS: 3343 Dent Pl, N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE AbpRESS; National Security Council, The White House, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1916, Cambridge, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; M.B.A,, 1941; LL.B, (Northeast-
ern Univ.), 1949.

[ 608 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
HARVARD BROTHER: George Lee Haskins, ’35, 11.B., 42.
UNMARRIED.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: American, Boston and Maine Bar Associations; American Law In.
sutate; Harvard Club of Boston; Society of Mayflower Descendants,

1 WAS duly graduated in Sever Quadrangle, as were all the rest of
you, on a sunny June morning in 1936. At that time, ] was endowed
with a working knowledge of French, German, Italian, Spanish, Rus-
sian and Rumanian. Since then, my linguistic efforts have been
principally devoted to expressing my own and others’ thoughts in
the English tongue. My duties have included writing clear exposi-
tions for the President to understand; drafting language for the
President himself to use; drawing deeds, wills, replevin writs and
judgments; and even, at dawn yesterday morning, writing the ac-
ceptance speech for a newly-elected Maine Congressman.

But in 1936, at nineteen, and too young to vote for Landon or
anyone else, I crossed the river to the Business School in an attempt
to learn something about how the dollars, which would then buy
so much, were generated. The process included an interruption to
sell automobiles in Maine and to study the business cycle at the
Graduate School. Having received an M.B.A., I repaired to the
National Shawmut Bank to become a banker.

My interest in broader areas of the world than those bounded by
State and Devonshire Streets, however, were soon given an oppor-
tunity for expression with the advent of Pearl Harbor. I enlisted as
a private in the Army, was subsequently commissioned, and in due
course became a captain in Military Intelligence, assigned to the
General Staff in Washington, but on duty in the European Theatre.
After V-E Day, I was sent to the Pacific and ended up in Tokyo,
exchanging salutes with General MacArthur at lunchtime in front
of the Daichi Building.

World War II was over and it was time to write a contribution
to the 1946 Class Report. Of the ten years elapsed, I had spent three
in postgraduate education, three in business and four in the Army.
In addition to an understanding of corporate balance sheets and
Operating statements, my principal assets included a detailed knowl-
edge of the order of battle of the recently defeated German and
Japanese Air Forces. I went to Law School.

Emerging once more into the market place with a magna cum
laude LL.B. degree from Northeastern University and having been
admitted to the Maine and Massachusetts bar, I then became law

[ 609 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN FRAZEE HASTINGS

  

EOC ESR GOTT OT SR

 
   

iis ag ale Sad ott: Sai ah cl

HELE DYNA

 

HOME ApprEsS: 657 Burke St., Westwood, N J.

oFFicE apprEss: National Health & Welfare Retirement Association, Inc., 800
Second Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BoRN: June 1, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1936(40); M.B.A, (New
York Univ.), 1951.

Marrigp: Evelyn Peyser, Dec 6, 1941, Sacramento, Calif.

occupation: Employee Benefits Plan consultant and acting public relations
manager, National Health & Welfare Retirement Association.

OFFICES HELD: Captain, USAFR, 1947-57, including captain, USAF, 1951-52,
records and management officer, r300th Training Wing, ARCS; interna-
tional personnel manager, Colgate-Palmolive, Inc. (Int'l), 1950-51; editorial
and research assistant, Worldmark Encyclopedia of the United Nations.

PUBLICATIONS: Managing editor, International Energy Reports, Worldmark
Economic Publications, New York City (part-time).

UNLIKE most of my ’36 classmates, I did not appear for gradua-
tion exercises in June, 1936. As an out-of-course student, having
had to drop out of college for nearly four years in order to earn a
few more pennies, the early summer of 1936 found me working in
a liquor distillery, as assistant to the production manager. It was not
until 1940 that I completed the degree requirements and headed for
the “wild blue yonder” instead of the diplomatic service, as origi-
nally planned when I decided on my major.

Having decided in my own mind that further diplomatic efforts
would be fruitless and that nothing but grim, dark clouds were
gathering over the Pacific as well, it seemed to me that it would be
better all around if 1 could pick my own branch of military duty
and earn a commission. Military flying would take me to many
places in the world without joining the Navy, and it always appeared

[612 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to be the most efficacious activity connected with the waging of
modern war. After entering the U.S. Army Air Corps in October,
1940, I was carried along in a swift move of events that did not end
until December, 1945. By that time I had been overseas in the North
African and European Theatres for over eighteen months, serving
as a navigator on VIP flights between Africa and Britain. During
this latter, temporary duty tour, I was fortunate enough to view
the only lights that still burned nightly in Europe without the usual
blackout precautions—the glow of Lisbon’s myriad lights and
coastal signal beacons which stretched northward to our right as we
flew along the tenth meridian in the turbulent darkness. This was
the best way for a stripped, unarmed plane to avoid the JU-88 radar-
equipped prowlers.

Separated in 1945 from the Air Force on Long Island, I was soon
a part of the turnout of returnees combing New York and other
cities and towns for a civilian job. Knowing something about navi-
gational systems, cruise control, and other aspects of flight operations
that I had learned as a navigation school supervisor before going
overseas, I became technical planning assistant to the Atlantic divi-
sion manager of a large overseas airline (TWA), which was engaged
in the initial phases of its route extension to Paris, Rome and Cairo.
Part of the interest in the job arose from its connection with the
restoration of a war-torn world and its network of communications.
Rapid and frequent overseas flights played a large part in the efforts
to revitalize Europe’s economy during the immediate postwar
period.

In 1948 I turned to a more prosaic occupation, and when recalled
to active duty during the Korean mess, I had become foreign per-
sonnel manager with one of the larger international soap makers. 1
had also acquired an M.B.A. degree, thanks to the G.I. Bill, con-
siderable night work, and a patient wife. ‘

After another twenty months of active service in the Air Force,
I donned my civies in the early fall of 1952 and started all over again,
it seemed, as an economic analyst and research assistant to my last
employer’s foreign finance manager. Concurrently, I found myself
assisting the incumbent of my previous position whenever dithcul-
ties were encountered in foreign subsidiary personnel problems.
Part of my work as an economic analyst involved writing a monthly
letter on financial developments in some thirty-two countries in
which the concern operated. This experience has led to a “spare-
time” job as writer and managing editor for a monthly review of

[ 613]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

international developments in the field of energy. “Full-time,” I

work as a pension plan consultant and gradually am working into
the public relations manager's spot with a well-known retirement
income planning company, which specializes in plans for the per-
sonnel of non-profit organizations.

Yes, 1 am married, but no offspring. My wife, whom I met while
an instructor in the Air Corps Navigation School in California, has
decided to become a teacher. She is soon to receive a degree from
Columbia — a prospect which we both look forward to with eager-

ness, since we reside many leagues away from the campus and the

required library.

MILTON HAUSMAN

 

HOME apprEss: 37 Charlesbank Rd., Newton 58, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 29 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.
BORN: June 10, 1915, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; D.M.D., 1940.
marnigp: Leslie Irene Burt, Jan. 19, 1945, San Francisco, Calif. (divorced 195 8);
Marilyn Tilton, Aug. 13, 1960, Boston, Mass. cutupReN: Franklin Thomas,
May 22, 1947; Laura, Jan. 31, 1949.
occupation: Dentist.
orrices HELD: Assistant editor, Harvard Dental School Mirror, 1940; resident
oral surgeon, Albany (N.Y.) Hospital, 1940-41; treasurer, Americans For
Democratic Action, Newton, 1954-55.
MEMBER OF: Americans For Democratic Action; Massachusetts Dental Society;
American Dental Association, Greater Boston Dental Society; Harvard
Odontological Society.

THIS piece, if it will serve no other purpose, will ar least reassure
my parent that when he laughed me out of a career in journalism in
1936 and into a “steady profession” instead, he was doing the right

[ 514 ]

“f

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thing after all. I never gave it another thought, once the decision
was made. Now that I have this to do, it suddenly strikes me how
many decisions of this kind are dumped in our laps, as though
brought in sealed envelopes by a postman. How little we have to
do with it!

Internship at the Albany Hospital; service in the Navy for five
years, marriage in San Francisco in 1945 and divorce thirteen years
later — most of us have to suspect some degree of astral direction,
and many of us may question the purpose of it. I occasionally do
when on Monday mornings driving into the office along the sun-
bright Charles the temptation just to keep on driving is very strong.
But it’s the things you will not drive away from that make you
realize that by that very device of the postman you accumulated
some wonderful possessions in the past twenty-five years— like a
magnificent boy of thirteen and a beautiful blond daughter of eleven
and an undeserved second chance with a lovely wife.

Strangely enough, the same thing applies to my feeling for Har-
vard. All I needed from Harvard College to be a dentist were a
few hours spent at chemistry, math and physics. What I did not
need but, in spite of myself, picked up was a love of the beautiful —
whether in books, on canvas or wherever. I think I got this from
Harvard and might not have from other places, and I’m grateful
enough to put this on the same plane with wife and children. Har-
vard has been my postman, too.

JOHN BROOKS HAWKINS

 

HOME appress: Main Street, Fast Haddam, Conn.
OFFICE ADpREss: United Aircraft, Fast Hartford, Conn,
BORN: Jan. 20, 1914, Worcester, Mass.

[615 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B. cur laude, 1936; B.D, (Episcopal
Theological School), 1939.

MaRRIED: Jane Frothingham, Aug. 28, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced 1940);
een Eastman, Oct. 17, 1942, Litchfield, Conn. (died 1953); Elizabeth
Whorf, May 7, 1954, Marion, Mass, cuttpren: Millicent, February, 1940;
Oliver, May, 1943 (stepson); Rebecca, June, 1943; William P., June, 1947;

Elizabeth, March, 1949 (stepdaughter); Rosamond, December, 1950 (step-
daughter).

OCCUPATION: Personnel adviser.

THIS isn’t easy, is it? The first draft read like a dirge, filled with
frustration, failure and despair. he second draft, in an effort to
correct this impression, sounded like a musical comedy. This will
have to be an effort to reconcile the two. Children and war seem
to be the leading characters in the drama. The two are not neces-
sarily synonymous though there are times when they may seem so.
One of my first memories as a freshman was a poll taken in the
Union asking whether or not we would fight in a future war. I
guess most of us said we would, despite the pacifist sentiment of
that distant day, and most of us did. In my case this included four
years in World War II as a naval chief electronic technician, fol-
lowed by another year in the same capacity during the Korean War.
After graduation I went to Episcopal Theological School for three
years, followed by two years as a minister in New York. At the
same time I married Jane Frothingham of Cambridge and had a
daughter, Millie, now a junior in Russell Sage College. Domestic
troubles and a growing conviction that the ministry did not repre-
sent for me the business of life led to a divorce and resignation from
the ministry.

During the war I married Teen Eastman of Litchfield, Connecti-
cut, and had two children, Becky and Bill, both now in high school.
After the war we thought that life would be most attractive in a
small town, where one might not make much money, but life would
be simple and easy. We tried it by buying a small variety store in
Marion, Massachusetts. From 1946 to 1950, we led a very happy
existence, supplementing the store income with commercial photog-
raphy and racing Yankees on weekends. The Korean War ended

that in a hurry. While | was away, Ileen ran the store until failing
health required its sale. After the war, Ieen died of cancer, and I

was hired in the Personnel Department of Pratt & Whitney Air-
craft.

In 1954 1 married Betty Whorf of Winchester, Massachusetts.
[ 616 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

She had three children by her previous marriage, so we added
and two to get the present five who live with us. Andy is at.
while Boo and Rose go to elementary school in East Haddam,
necticut. We have recently bought an old federal colonial,
looking the Connecticut River, and have it fairly well restore
its original beauty. Two years ago we bought an old lobster
hull in Maine, which I rebuilt in the backyard. To the amaze:
of the neighbors, as weil as myself, she eventually floated in
river. Every weekend during the summer will find us cruising d
the river and into the Sound, two or more kids trailing a line.
the side. So far, no fish has ever defiled the decks, but they kee]
trying. ‘

Personnel work is fascinating, particularly in its labor relat
Every once in a while, however, it occurs to me that the real b
ness of the company is to continue the war, which has never re
ended. I often watch our engines out of the shop in their m
containers, addressed to Naval and Air Force stations all over
world, and wonder if we shall live to see the end. Perhaps histe

will look favorably on our generation, if we hand on to our child:
a country sull secure from Nazi or Communist domination.

RICHARD CARTER HAYES

 

HOME AppREss; Lancaster Avenue, Lunenburg, Mass

OFFICE ADDRESS: Atkins Saw Division, Borg Warner Corp., Indianapolis, Ind

BORN: Jan. 3, 1915, Leominster, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936

MarRiep: Nancy Hardy, June 22, 19q0, Fitchburg, Mass. caupren: William
Hardy, Jan. 12, 1949; Carolyn Carter, June 1, 1951,

OccuPatioN: Salesman, Atkins Saw Division, Borg Warner Corporation

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICES HELD: Member of council, Northeast Bird-Banding Association; member,
Town Forest Committee, Lunenburg, Mass., executive committee, Stage
Harbor Yacht Club, Chatham, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Fay Club, Fitchburg, Mass.; Massachusetts Audubon Society.

AFTER reading the sample biographies, my first impulse was to toss
this in the round file, but having told Win Lee that I would help get
in these reports, I suppose I should write something.

Reflection, at this time, could perhaps lead to chagrin or sorrow
for lack of accomplishment, but I have been happily married to the
same wife, enjoyed reasonably good health and stayed out of jail —
so far. While shaving each morning I am not overly impressed by
what I see in the mirror, but neither am I] ashamed to look myself
in the eye.

Somewhere I have read that all great men suffer in reaching the
pinnacle of success, which may explain my situation because [ am
and have been very happy pursuing my rather uneventful career.

My work selling Atkins saws brings me in contact with about
every conceivable industry and with a complete cross-section of
humanity ranging from executives to saw filers. The relative level
or position in life of these people seems to have very little if any
bearing on what type of people they are. There are fully as many
bums in plush offices as there are noble gentlemen in overalls and
vice versa.

Aside from work, my interests are largely in the natural sciences
with emphasis on bird-watching and banding. A ridiculously large
back yard vegetable operation has now been reduced to rhubarb,
asparagus and raspberries, due to the fact that we have been spend-
ing our summers in Chatham where our children are ardent sailors
and we are interested and often anguished spectators.

{ 618]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARL ALBERT HAYWARD

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 180 Troy Ave., Apt. 7E, Brooklyn, N.Y.

GRISWOLD SARGEANT HAYWARD, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: P.O. Box 194, Windsor, Vt.

BoRN: December 11, 1912, Cornish, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1933.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Evans Supply Company, steam specialties.

ENTERED the Navy, Mav, 1940. Advanced to full cor
Served in the Navy fourteen years, until 195g. Am now
Naval Reserve.

[ 619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HOWARD HEAD

  

HOME apprEss: Cockeysville, Md.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Head Ski Co., Inc., Timonium, Md.

BORN: July 31, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarrieD: Anne Christensen, Feb. 26, 1939, Beaufort, S.C. (divorced 1945);
Dorothy Goddard, July 30, 1960, Philadelphia, Pa. curpReN: Nancy Strat-
ton, Aug. 7, 1941; Richard W. Couch, Jr., Oct. 22, 1942 (stepson); Deborah
Couch, Sept. 18, 1944 (stepdaughter).

occuPATION: President, Head Ski Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Ski Industries of America, 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: Baltimore Country Club; Baltimore Ski Club; Baltimore Chess Club.

MY fractious nature manifested itself immediately after graduation,
when having received a degree in engineering I spent four years
trying to be a writer. Failure to advance beyond a $20-a-week job
as a copy boy, combined with the responsibility of supporting a
wife, led me to put aside my great American novel and take a job as
a riveter at the Glenn L. Martin Company in Baltimore. While
this wasn’t exactly the work that Harvard had tried to prepare me
for, at least it was in the area of building things. Apparently, it was
also better suited to my abilities, for I was soon promoted to drafts-
man and was well on the way to an administrative position when,
once again, a willful streak set me on quite a different path.

I had taken up skiing and suffered the usual prattfalls — sore mus-
cles, bumps, and bruises — that inflict those who try to master this
noble sport. Unlike other beginners, however, | arrogantly refused
to believe it was all the fault of the skier — in this case, me. Coming
back from Stowe one weckend in January, 1947, I attempted to
convince a fellow novice that if only the skics weren't so con-

[ 620]

pene mee cong ice a OO A “nw Reamer
ps ERIE tmp Re REE

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

founded heavy we'd both be F.LS. team candidates in no time at all.
He, a more humble person, remained unconvinced, but the more |
argued the more certain I became. Mv work in aircraft engineering
at Martin put the problem of designing a lightweight ski nghe up
my alley. So, with a need for distraction in the aftermath of divorce

I rented space in a garage in downtown Baltuumore, bought S00
worth of machinery, and went to work. The difficulties turned out
to be so great that only a mule-like obstinacy kept me from giving
up the whole idea. How ever, after about three vears, I] man: aged to
produce a ski that didn’t break, freeze up, get dull edges, or do any
of the other hundred and one dreadful things the early skis did.
Furthermore, it skied pretty well. Ironically “cnough, light weight
didn’t do the trick —I lost that argument. My ski ended up being
just about as heavy as a wood ski, but because of its metal sandwich
construction it had torsional rigidity which gave it a lovely casyv
skung quality. So, after quite a "few false starts, I ended up with a
job I like — making skis.

I fumbled around even more getting set in my personal life than I
did in my work, but I think I've finally solved that onc, too. T have
a lovely daughter by my first marriage and recently acquired an
equally lovely stepdaughter, as well as a fine stepson, by the simple
expedient of marrying their mother, a charming woman who, among
other remarkable qualities, is good-natured enough to put up with
me and even appear to enjoy it. Looking back over the past twenty-
five years, I can’t see much of a moral to be drawn from them.
Whatever success I've achieved seems as much a result of circum-
stance as of careful foresight and planning. However, I feel quite
a satisfaction in having avoided an “organization man” tvpe of life.
I believe I’m something of a maverick who would never have fitted
into the structure of a big corporation. Fm glad To was stubborn

enough to persist in trying to prove a crazy idea and lucky cnough
to have an interesting, although hectic, vocation grow out of it.
I only wish it left me more time to go skiing.

[628 ]

aa

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GEORGE ALBERT HEALD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 56 Summer St., St. Johnsbury, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Andrew’s Church, St. Johnsbury, Vt.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1913, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936, s.t.B. (General

Theological Seminary).

UN MARRIED.

occupaTion: Clergyman.
OFFICES HELD: Member, executive council, examining chaplain, Diocese of Ver-

mont; director, Vermont Association for Mental Health; president, Ver-

mont Clericus.
MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; The Sphinx Club of St. Johnsbury.

CARL ARTHUR HEDBLOM

 

HOME appress: 1235 Astor St., Chicago, Ill,

OFFICE apprEss: 679 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IIL.

BORN: June 16, 1914, Shanghai, China.

PREPARED AT; Lakeview High School, Chicago, IIL

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936 DEGREES: A.B. 1936, Mun, 1940,

[ 622 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

maraieD: Betty Ward Vilas, March 4, 1950, Chicago, Ill. cHmpaex: Ann Vilas
and Carol Ward (twins), April 1, 1951; Lawrence James, Nov. 21, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Gordon Hedblom, '39; Richard Peter Hedblom, ‘39.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Saddle and Cycle Club, Chicago, American College of Physicians
(associate); American Therapeutic Society; Institute of Medicine, Chicago
Society of Internal Medicine.

FOLLOWING four good years at the Harvard Medical School, I
spent a wonderful year and a half at the Pennsylvania Hospital as
an intern and with the outbreak of war joined their unit which
was stationed overseas for forty-plus months in the Southwest Pa-
cific. A pleasant terminal interlude was spent in the office of the
surgeon general during Washington’s hottest days. It seemed very
important to get out of the Army and into a residency, for everyone
who had been out of the country felt years behind. I returned to
Chicago to St. Luke’s Hospital for a residency i in internal medicine.
The early years of private practice were shared by my spouse and
the twins who kept everything in a turmoil, and their place was
later taken by Lawrence who is now a little more than half their
age. Study during vacations, weekends, and at night finally pushed
me over the last American Board hurdle, and I hope I have taken
my last examination of any kind.

At present, I am busy and happy in the practice of internal medi-
cine in a large city. When the weather is good and when my asso-
ciate is on call, we all go off to Michigan to an old house which
is big enough for the five of us and our guests.

+ RUDOLPH OTTO HEIN

 

BORN: Aug. 23 1913s Washington, D.C. parents: Rudolph Gustave Bean,
Mathilda Zettler.

[ 623 ]

er

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

married: Karen Luise Hein, Jan, 24, 1943. CHILDREN: Rudolph Otto, Jr, May
7, 1944, William Davis, June 10, 1947.
piep: Oct. 25, 1954, Doylestown, Pa.

RUDOLPH OTTO HEIN spent the freshman year with our Class,

After leaving college he was not heard from until the time of our
Fifteenth Anniversary Report when he wrote that he was owner

and manager of the Doylestown Inn, a hotel and restaurant in
Doylestown, Pennsylvania.

®

peo, ‘
»

JOHN NELSON HELLMUTH |

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1353 Live Oak Lane, Jacksonville, Fla.

oFFice apprEss: Culligan Soft Water, 615 Dellwood Ave., Jacksonville, Fla.

BORN; June 24, 1915, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: New Trier Township High School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).

Mmargiep: Vera Willis, Sept. 24, 1949, Atlanta, Ga. cHi=prEN: Theodore, Sept. 12,
19515 Nelson, April 24, 1953; Thomas, Feb, 14, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Owner and operator, water conditioning company.

oFFices HELD: Director, National Association of Water Conditioning Dealers,
1951-533 president, Southeastern Water Conditioning Association, 195 7-585

chairman, Water Conditioning Seminar, University of Florida, 1958-59.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Jacksonville; Revellers Club of Jacksonville.

IF a prophet had told me in 1936 that twenty-five years later I
would have a happy and healthy family, that we would enjoy 2
comfortable home, that 1 would be blessed with four or five good
friends, that my delight in fishing and hunting in bountiful Florida
would be awakened occasionally, 1 would have bowed low and
said “enough.” Back in those days 1 was not sensitive, however, to

[ 624 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

such items as integration, Khrushchev and company, federal vs. state
government, etc. So the search for content still persists.

The summer of 1936 found me working with the farmers of Wis-
consin who reacted with small enthusiasm to this particular specimen
from Harvard; likewise did a public utility in northern Indiana.
World War II was a major break in my experience. Living and
working with Americans and others under sometimes difficult con-
ditions, I came out of it with more understanding of people, and an
increased faith in men and democracy. Ever since the war I have
been an active partner in a small local business, made interesting by
the fact that we deal constantly with hundreds of people.

My previous remark about the continuing search for contentment
is emphasized by the recent national election, to put it mildly. If
I could confine my worries to those of a small businessman, a senior
warden of his church and a citizen of a growing city, my problems
would be small ones. But all of us, consciously or ‘subconsciously,
carry a burden that our fathers did not — world problems of war
and peace, freedom vs. dictatorship, racial integration, etc. To me
the solutions are either lost in a fog of misunderstanding and preju-
dice, or they are costly in human sacrifice. Our next twenty-five
years are liable to test us harder than the last twenty-five.

AUGUST CARL HELMHOLZ

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 28 Crest Rd., Lafayette, Calif.

OFFICE appREsS: Dept. of Physics, University of California, Berkeley 4, Calif.

BORN: May 24, 1915, Evanston, Ill.

PREPARED aT: Shatruck School, Faribault, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREES: A.B, Stra cum laude, 1936;
Pip. (Univ. of California), roqo.

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

marrieD: Elizabeth Jane Little, July 30, 1938, Winona, Minn. cumpren: Char-

lotte Ann, June 13, 1940; George Lindsay, Oct. 15, 1942; Frederic Vogel,
March 15, 1946; Edith Little, Sept. 27, 1948,

occupation: Professor of physics and chairman, Department of Physics, Univer-
sity of California.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Laird Norton Company, Seattle, Washington, Boise
Cascade Corporation, Boise, Idaho, director and secretary, Scientific En-
gineering Laboratories, Berkeley, California.

MEMBER oF: American Physical Society, American Association of Physics
Teachers; American Association of University Professors, American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science; University of California Faculty
Club; Berkeley Tennis Club; Orinda Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Energy and Multipole Order of Nuclear Gamma Rays”; “Nu-
clear Isomerism.”

AFTER graduation I spent a year at Cambridge, England, as a
Henry Fellow and then came to Berkeley, California, as a graduate
student in physics. I got a Ph.D. in 1940 and have been on the
faculty at the University of California ever since. My special field is
nuclear physics, at present high energy nuclear physics. During
the war I participated in the Manhattan Project, trying to separate
uranium isotopes. For the past five years I have been chairman of
the Physics Department and so have spent most of my time on ad-
ministration and not nearly enough on research. I continue teaching
classes and enjoy it very much. The last few summers I have taught
in institutes for high school teachers, which is rewarding, but there
is a long way to go. My present views are that we have to teach a
lot more in high schools (and in colleges too); that the trend toward
graduate work for more people is not an unmixed blessing; that
the average man needs to know more science more than the scien-
tist needs to know more humanities.

I have been very happily married since 1938 to Betty Little H.,
who also comes from Minnesota. We have four children, the oldest
of whom is a girl who is twenty and will graduate in 1961 from
Scripps College; the second, a boy eighteen, a freshman at Wes-
leyan, the third, a boy fourteen, at Thacher School, and the fourth,
a girl twelve, in the local seventh grade. We are justifiably, we
think, proud of them all and enjoy them very much.

I play tennis some but not nearly enough. My game is sliding
slowly down hill though Betty and I are still a fairly good mixed
doubles team. Tennis brings me into contact once a year with Har-
vard when I play in the annual match against Yale. We usually
win the tennis but often don’t fare so well in baseball, etc. My
daughter got us started skiing, and although all the children now

[ 626 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ski better than we do, we enjoy it and go quite often (nothing
east of Alta as yet).

I have taken a fair share of faculty administrative duties. The
only thing I am really proud of was the improvement of the uni-
versity’s retirement system in which I had some hand. For a time
I was an expert on academic retirement systems.

Politically, 1 am an independent, rather conservative, with a tend-
ency to vote Republican since I like a balanced budget, smaller
national debt and government out of business as much as possible.
] am prepared for and think we must expect a very long cold war.
I don’t see a great deal of Harvard people although I did take a
small part in the fund-raising. In spite of being in a state university,
I am still very much in favor of the continuance and growth of
private educational institutions.

DAVID WILCOX HENGERER

 
   

Ao Dye gata pot ssomecyanen

Pe ters

 

HOME ApbRESS: 4419 Lewiston Rd., Niagara Falls, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kem-E-Quip Corp., 4419 Lewiston Rd., Niagara Falls, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 30, 1914, Louisville, Ky.

PREPARED AT: Ridgefield High School, Ridgefield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MARRIED: Barbara Thompson, June 6, 1942, Buffalo, N.Y.

occupation: Manufacturers’ agent for chemical equipment and corrosion proof
materials; president, engaged primarily in salcs.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1956, lieutenant commander, 1957, commander, 195%
staff captain, District 6, 1939, now commander, District 6, Niagara Squad-
ron, U.S. Power Squadrons,

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Chemical Engineers; Technical Association
of the Pulp and Paper Industries; National Association of Corrosion Fn-
gineers; Harvard Fngincering Society; Association of Harvard Chemists;
LaSalle Yacht Club; Royal Port Holcombe Yacht Club.

[ 627 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

overweight. I don’t fit between the cradle and the bottom. “T”
does.

We have a fair-sized house in Niagara Falls which is surrounded
with quite a bit of land for a city location. Inside are antiques which
we and my parents have collected over the years. Both of us enjoy
refinishing these relics of the past. I do most of the repair work and
from time to time make pseudo-reproductions. Working with wood
and getting to know the various kinds of wood and the tricks that
the old cabinet makers used in construction is a fascinating hobby
for a couple. I haven’t seen many of my classmates in years, which
I regret, but should you be reliving your honeymoon in Niagara
Falls, look us up. The latch string or the bow line welcomes you.

+ ARTHUR GILMAN HENRY

 

BORN: Nov. 17, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: James McClure Henry, Nata-
lie Brown.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; A.M., 1938.

DIED: Sept. 28, 1955, Venice, Fla.

HAVING spent his early years in China with his father who was

-a Presbyterian missionary, Henry returned to the Orient after
graduation and taught school in Japan for five years. In 1942 he
joined the U.S. Army in Japan and was connected with Army In-
telligence as a captain for five years. He was discharged from the
Army in 1949. Since 1951 he had been living in Venice, Florida,
where he operated a lychee grove. He was a charter member of the
Osprey Lions Club and active in the Venice Little Theatre. He was
survived by his parents, two brothers and two sisters,

| 630 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ PHINEAS McCRAY HENRY, JR.

 

BORN: Dec, 19, 1914, Des Moines, Iowa, parents: Phineas McCray Henry, ‘og,
Mildred Hippee.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B., 1939.
piep: Killed in action, July 30, 1944, in France.

AFTER graduating from the Law School, Henry practised law
with his father in Des Moines. In March, 1941, he enlisted as a
private in the Infantry and on the completion of basic training at
Camp Roberts, California, was assigned to the 16oth Infantry at
Camp San Luis Obispo, California. He was promoted to corporal
and after Pearl Harbor served on guard duty on the docks at San
Pedro. In May, 1942, he graduated from Infantry Officers Candi-
date School at Fort Benning, Georgia, was commissioned a second
lieutenant of Infantry and assigned to Infantry Replacement Train-
ing Center at Fort McClellan, Alabama. In October, 1942, he was
promoted to first lieutenant and later sent to Battalion Commanders
School at Fort Benning and promoted to captain. As commanding
officer of Headquarters Company in the 345th Infantry at Camp
McCain, Mississippi, he served with them through maneuvers in
Tennessee. In April, 1944, he went overseas as a replacement officer
and on June 17th took command of Company F, 12th Infantry,
Fourth Division, then in combat in Normandy. He took part in
the capture of Cherbourg and the hedgerow fighting which fol-
lowed and was killed in action in France. He was awarded che
Bronze Star and received the Silver Star posthumously, He was
survived by his father.

[ 631 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PAUL CARRINGTON HENSHAW

 

HOME appreEss: 875 Arlington Ave., Berkeley 7, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Homestake Mining Co., 100 Bush St., San Francisco 4, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 15, 1913, Rye, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., “agna cum laude, 1936; s.mM. (Cali-
fornia Inst. of Technology), 1938; pu. (ibid.), 1940.

marriep: Helen Elizabeth Runals, May 25, 1939, Pomona, Calif. cympren:
Sydney Parker, June 30, 1942; Guy Runals, Sept. 27, 1946; Paul Carrington,
Jr., Nov. 1, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Handy Henshaw, 2d,’ 31.

occupation: Chief geologist, Homestake Mining Company.

OFFICES HELD: Examiner, Engineers Council for Professional Development.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science; Geological Society of America; American Institute of
Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers.

pupLications: “A Tertiary Mammalian Fauna from the Avawatz Mountains,
California,” Carnegie Inst. Wash. Pub. 514, 1939; “A Tertiary Mammalian
Fauna from the San Antonio Mountains near Tonopah, Nevada,” Carnegie
Inst. Wash. Pub. 530, 1942; “Geology and Mineral Deposits of the Cargo
Muchacho Mountains, Imperial County, California,” California Journal of
Mines and Geology, Report XXXVIII of the State Mineralogist, April, 1942.

IN the fall of 1936 I traded in my patch-sleeve coat and grey flan-
nels for T-shirt and cords with a log duplex slide rule slung care-
lessly from my belt. So disguised for four years without detection,
I mingled freely with Caltech’s scientific types. My time was
divided equally between buckets of merychippus teeth and desert
gold mines; at least it was until the spring of 1939 when my fancy
took a turn. My wife came on stage just in time to spend a solid
year at thesis typing.

In the summer of 1940 we sailed for Peru. Three years of living
high in the Andes like its counterpart at lesser altitudes is ex-

[ 632 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hilarating, but wearing. Next we spent two years as the only
Americans in an isolated mining camp in the desert of southern
Peru. There we proved again the adage that the second best way
to learn Spanish is to live it.

After a couple of quick moves we settled into the lovely little
college town of Moscow, Idaho, for what we thought would be a
permanent shift into teaching, but one year later we jumped again.
Once more Latin America had beckoned. The next six years in a
remote Mexican mining camp brought us much joy, some sorrow,
tremendous proficiency in mule riding, and finally a yen to re-
turn to the States. By then our collection of three needed training
and taming by their contemporaries.

In the last seven years I have run the wild and exciting cycle of
America’s great uranium boom. Ninety days as an AMP reinfused
me with the pride and spirit of Harvard, though I have learned that
in our own backyard Cal with its legion of Nobel men gives the
Crimson a hot fight for academic honors.

My greatest joy came by way of marriage. Without my wife’s
understanding, adaptability and zest for change, our wandering life
could never have been so rich. We zigzagged all over the Western
Hemisphere; nevertheless the stork still managed to catch us in
Lima, in Moscow, and in Tayoltita. You need an atlas to read our
family bible.

Even in my principal outside activity I roam. As an examiner
for the Engineers Council for Professional Development, I have
helped in nudging post-Sputnik college curricula in mining and
geologic engineering away from the trade school approach and
toward a broader foundation in basic and engineering science.

I have the Conscience of a Conservative (Goldw ater). I believe
in A Humane Economy (Roepke) and the Constitution of Liberty
(Hayek). I have been encouraged by the spreading recognition of
The Failure of the “New Economics” (Hazlitt), Mv cup will run
over when ‘ ‘progressive’ ’ education eventually shall be relegated to
a properly minor role in our educational system. Hats off to
Conant! In religion, I am still a dyed-in-the-wool F piscopalian.

[ 633]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARRY HERBERT HERSHMAN

 

HOME ADprEss: Afaxine Road, Bristol, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 122 Maple St., Bristol, Conn.

BORN: June 10, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (Univ. of Western On-
tario), 1941.

MARRIED: Beverly Marie Cohen, Jan. 10, 1943, Bridgeport, Conn. CHILDREN:
Maxine Nan, Dec. 9, 1943; Elaine Mae, March 9, 1946, Murray John, May 1,

1952.
OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, U.J.A. of Bristol, 1956; president, Beth Israel Synagogue,
1958-60; senior attending physician, Bristol Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Board of Internal Medicine; College of Chest Physicians (fellow);
Franklin Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Century Stock Club; Bristol Lodge No. toro,
B.P.O.E.; Bristol Felloweraft Club; American Society of Internal Medicine,
American Medical Association, Connecticut State Medical Association.

IT seems so very long ago that I emerged from the scholastic en-
virons of the Yard and the commuters’ haven of Dudley Hall.
Then followed five additional years of moulding so that when I
set out to heal the world my staff bore an M.D. World War Il
gave me my first opportunity to travel and learn and forget. My
sojourn of two years in South America contributed an insight into
the culture and squalor of our friends to the south even if Air
Force medicine constituted a blind spot for the period. When the
Great White Father settled our foreign affairs, I returned to a resi-
dency to refresh the mind and spirit.

The practice of medicine has lent the light touch to the stream
of life. The gods have smiled and life has been full. I settled down
in a wonderful community of 45,000 people, where my medicine
engulfs most of the hours of the day, and where I've found adequate

[ 634 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rest and relaxation in politics. Masonry, synagogue and stock
market.

My biology lectures have served me well, and after eightcen years
Beverly and I have three fine youngsters. Manine is preparing for
college and prays every night that she'll matriculate in the school
of her choice. In the interim, I find myself abashed and totally in
adequate to cope with the mathematics and physics of the present-
day high school senior. Elaine the Fair is a blonde freshman just
awakening to the social and biological urges of the teen-ager. She
merits and demands constant observation. Murray John, the heir
apparent, taxes our patience and ingenuity. He was obviously born
two hundred years too late. He would have been an exceptional
wild Indian.

At this milestone, I find myself a little hesitant to be more retro-
spective. I still consider my ‘self too young to bask in the happy
reflections of a well- -spent life. Perhaps, by the time the Fiftieth
Anniversary Report goes to press, my aspirations and philosophies
will be more clearly delineated. At present, suffice to say, ve mel-
lowed, possess a little religion, acquired a more conservative liberal-

ism, and am slowi ing down a bic so that Fl be around to write my
next Anniversary Report.

JOHN BAMBER HICKAM

 

HOME apprEss: 7050 N. Pennsylvania Se, Indianapolis 20, Ind.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Lro0 WW. Michigan Sc, Indhanapolis 9, Ind,
BoRN: Aug. to, 19t4, Manila, Philippine Islands.

PREPARED aT: Western Eligh School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1932-18934. DPGRPES ALB semi cum hand e, HIS, NED. chee
laude, 1g4o.

[ 636 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

marrieD: Mary Margaret Kennedy, May 12, 1945, Dayton, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Helen Kennedy, Nov. 21, 1950; Thomas Bamber, July 1, 1954. ;

OCCUPATION: Professor of medicine, chairman, Department of Medicine, Indiana
University School of Medicine. ;

MEMBER OF: Aesculapian Club; Phi Beta Kappa, AOA; NSN; Association of
American Physicians, American Society for Clinical Investigation; Ameri-
can Physiological Society; Central and Southern Societies for Clinical Re-
search; American Federation for Clinical Research; American Clinical and
Climatological Association; American College of Physicians; American
Medical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Fifty-odd medical and physiological papers, primarily concerned
with respiration and circulation.

AFTER college I went on to medical school at Harvard, and then
on to intern and resident training in internal medicine at the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital, in Boston, and Grady Hospital, in Atlanta.
My military time from 1943 to 1946 was spent mostly at the Aero
Medical Laboratory in Dayton. After the war, I had a research
fellowship in medicine at Emory University for a year, and then
got a job in the Department of Medicine at Duke University, in
Durham, where I spent twelve years in teaching, research and the
practice of internal medicine. In 1958, I became chairman of the
Department of Medicine at Indiana University, where J am con-
tinuing the same activities. My family and J are having a good time.

WILLIAM FRANCIS HICKEY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 350 Highland Ave., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Dix St., Winchester, Mass.

BoRN: May 8, 1915, Watertown, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; M.D., 1940,

[ 636 ]

——er

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Alice Mahern, April 25, 1942, Dedham, Mass. crtpren: Margery M,
April 3, 1947; Virginia K., Sept. 15, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon, private practice, general surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Formerly, assistant to visiting surgeons, Boston City Hospital,
chief medical consultant, Massachusetts Division of Vocational Rehabilita-
tion; secretary, Middlesex East District Medical Society, 1948-59; consultant
in medicine, American Mutual Insurance Company; member, Medical Ad-
visory Council, Massachusetts Industrial Nurses Association, member, sur-
gical staff, New England Sanitarium, Winchester, Winthrop Community,
Whidden Memorial, Chelsea Memorial, Sancta Maria, Brooks, Choate Me-
morial, Revere Memorial, Symmes-Arlington and Grover Manor Hospitals,

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha; Harvard Club of Boston; Massachusetts
Medical Society; Corinthian (Marblehead) and Cottage Park (Allens Har-
bor) Yacht Clubs; American Medical Association, American College of
Surgeons; American Orchid Society; St. Luke’s Guild; Peabody Museum,

Salem; Bluewater Sailing Club; Alumni Sodality; Charitable Irish Society,
Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers in medical journals on ovarian tumors and on
vocational rehabilitation.

THE Lord has given me good health.

My parents gave me a fine start.

Harvard College gave me an appetite for learning and good friends.

Harvard Medical School gave me basic knowledge.

Older doctors, teaching for love of medicine, gave me their tech-
niques.

My colleagues have given me a professional environment of high
caliber.

My community gives me its trust and respect.

My wife and children give me the fullest measure of love and en-
joyment that any man could know.

Our home is happy and cordially open to all.

Friends overwhelm me with their kindnesses.

I work with avid pleasure in the relief of human suffering.

My reward, spiritually and materially, is beyond my worth.

My sole enemy is time.

My cup runneth over with blessings and joy.

My gratitude to God and the thousands of my benefactors is un-
bounded.

What more cana happy man say?

[ 637 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

LEWIS JOHN HIGBY

  

HOME apprEss: Apt. 2, 437 Hyde St., San Francisco, Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 1, 1914, Ripon, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Ripon High School, Ripon, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Wisconsin), 1938.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Accounting.

HIGBY sent his story by telegram as follows:
BA University of Wisconsin no money for medical school. World
War 2. Medill School of Journalism. New York Times. Long
siege of tuberculosis ended newspaper plans accounting Golden
Gate College now swamped with bookkeeping forever expanding
auto parts company. Haven't seen or done everything, but haven’t
missed much — except marriage and home. But semi-adopted son
-----~ getting married this summer, so eventually expect some semi-grand-

children.

SIBLEY HIGGINBOTHAM

 

HOME AppRESS: 93 S. Central Ave,, Wollaston, Mass.

[ 638 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orFice appress: The Church Home Society, 5 Walnut St., Boston, Mass,

BoRN: July 22, 1914, Jefferson, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B. 1936; S.M. IN $8. (Boston Uniy.),
1940.

MARRIED: Ruth Keown, June 29, 1940, Worcester, Mass. cuitp: Anne Elizabeth,
April 7, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Social work administration; executive director, The Church Home
Society.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Episcopal Service For Youth, New
York, since 1954; president, Boston University School of Social Work
Alumni Association, 1955-56; chairman, Child Care Council, United
Community Services, Boston, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Social Workers, Nuttall Ornithological

Club; Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard; Philatelic Group of
Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: “Behavior Checks on the Rorschach Method,” American Jour-
nal of Orthopsychiatry, January, 1941.

LOOKING back, as we are now asked to do, recalls some of the
mixed feelings of those last months of undergraduate life at Har-
vard for those of us whose first steps into the great depression were
not entirely planned and predictable. A year of graduate study in
the Department of Psychology left me unchanged in my interest
in people, but quite sure that to exploit it might require something
more than my copy of Boring’s Physical Dimensions of Conscious-
ness. A year of sales experience in unemploved Worcester pro-
vided, in addition to its struggle for survival benefits, ume to re-
arrange thoughts for the future. The decision leading to a profes-
sional degree in social work and a subsequent career in this field
has never been regretted; I would do it again— fairly persuasive
though not scientifically constructed vocational test, I think.

My career has been largely in the child welfare field and largely
also, through various positions — caseworker, supervisor of case-
work, interim director and finally executive director — in the child
care program with which I am presently associated. A change of
scene to New York in the ’4o’s, a hitch in the Army as a psychiatric
caseworker at a neuropsychiatric hospital, a year of part-time teach-
ing at the Boston University School of Social Work — these fill in
most of the crevices. Present days are more than comfortably filled
with the problems of administering a growing child care program
supported by the United Fund and the Episcopal Diocese of Massa-
chusetts, and with all the usual facets of social diagnosis, casework

[ 639 ]

—ssctnshteentessnssstnttsseneapesaseenassmsmmnnenenmmmneeenmannnaseneneen

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

service, foster care and adoption that constitute the daily life of
such an agency.

By this time we all wear at least a second hat; mine for the
past three years has been the chairmanship of the Child Care Council
at United Community Services of Greater Boston. Infinitely per-
plexing and stimulating are the problems of inter-agency communi-
cation and planning in a city as structurally complicated as Boston
in its pattern of health and welfare services. ‘This part of my work
has been of increasing fascination for me.

A final look back is hardly necessary to remind me that if I had
not in 1936 extended the boundaries of the Harvard Yard and the
nearby river to that beautiful campus in Wellesley, I might not
have met my wife. (A gentle voice from across the room informs
me again that this June offers more than one 25th Reunion!) When,
after eleven years of marriage, a baby girl demanded notice, the

sensation though new was most welcome. Compensations for work
that is not outstanding in its financial rewards include a monthly
sojourn for all three of us in a late 18th-century farmhouse on
sixty-five acres of land by a lake in Maine —all of which is very
close to me, having been born there. Our response to these pleasant
scenes has been an intense and lasting interest in natural history with
an especial feeling for the study of birds. In this and in other ways
we find the balances in life that provide the piquancies and lessen
some of the pressures.

WILLIAM MADISON HIGGINS, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Caiger & Gramkow, 73 Cornhill, Boston 8, Mass.

[ 640 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLINTON PERRY HILL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 218 Middlesex Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 45 Milk St., Boston g, Mass.
BORN: Feb. 19, 1914, Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass., Newton Country Day
School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: AB. 1936; cP.M. (Inst. of Real Estate
Management), 1951.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Melvin Francis Hill, °36.

OCCUPATION: Real estate and insurance; president and treasurer, Hill Manage-
ment Corporation, Hill Construction & Engineering Corporation, Cleaning
Maintenance, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1953, president, 1958-59, Rental Housing Associa-
tion; director, Greater Boston Real Estate Board, since 1959; president,
New England Chapter, Institute of Real Estate Management, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Norwell Rod and Gun Club, Norwell, Mass.

AN attempt to write about the most recent twenty-five years of
one’s existence seems to be somewhat futile in the absence of any-
thing of real significance to report. However, for the enlightenment
of those who might have some interest or curiosity concerning my
activities during this period, the following brief résumé is sub-
mitted.

From the vantage point of twenty-five years later (and twenty-
five pounds heavier), I must indeed have been a callow, unsophisti-
cated youth upon my graduation i in 1936. I held many quaint and
naive views concerning man’s mission in life. He should work hard,
play not quite so hard, marry, raise a family, fultill his obligations
to his country and his church. He should be thrifty and industrious
and raise his children in a like manner. He should save for his old
age and pay his own medical expenses, He should pay for his own

[ 641 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

shelter, and if his parents should run into economic misfortune he
should assist in their support. He could not expect to be supported
in idleness, nor could he expect payment for services not rendered,
commodities not produced, or goods and commodities not sold.
The function of government was to assist him to live in this man-
ner, insuring his freedom, his right to own and control his own
property, and in short to preserve to him the benefit and rights
guaranteed in the Constitution of the United States. These were
but a few of my naivetés. In the words of the current crop of
adolescents, how “square” must I have been — and still am.

In June of 1936, I entered into the general real estate field. At

the beginning the going was quite rough, but after about five years
I began to sense some progress. Incidentally, I started at $15.00 per
week plus 40% of whatever commissions I might earn. Needless
to say, Commissions were few and far between in those days of learn-
ing the trade, as was expected. It was not too long after that I re-
ceived my invitation from the federal government, and in October
of 1942, at the age of twenty-eight I found myself a buck private
in an Infantry company of the U.S. Army. From that time until
February of 1946, I enjoyed a tour of the United States, the South
Pacific, and finally Japan as a guest of the taxpayer. My rank was
battalion intelligence sergeant and my function to produce military
intelligence in the field through scouting and patrolling activities,
setting up and manning of observation posts, etc. In retrospect, it
wasn’t too bad —at the time, I couldn’t imagine anything worse.
When you don the uniform of an enlisted man, you are no longer
an individual — you are a soldier, a serial number, a statistic, period.
You are ABLE Company on the right flank, BAKER Company on
the left flank, and CHARLIE Company in reserve, and you are
moved and manipulated as in a game of chess. This, in time of war
or national emergency, is essential. In time of peace, this type of
regimentation goes against the very nature of man, and I think in
the end this fact will provide the world’s salvation against Commu-
nism and galloping Socialism.

In the last fifteen years, my career has again embraced the general
field of real estate. Through several small corporations, I provide
property management, physical maintenance, cleaning maintenance,
and property protection services. As an individual, I do real estate
and insurance brokerage, appraisals, auctioneering, mortgage financ-

ing, and real estate investment analysis, I have been fairly active in
the affairs of the Greater Boston Real Estate Board and its various

[ 642 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

divisions. The last time I counted J was serving on twelve co
mittees and was chairman of three of them in connection with :

Board’s various activities. As can be noted from the personal stat
tics above, I am single but still hopeful.

GEORGE ALVIN HILL

 

LAST KNOWN Appress: General Delivery, Phoenix, Ariz.

GEORGE HILL has been carreid as a “Lost” man on our record
SINCE 1955.

GLADWIN ARTHUR HILL

 

HOME ApprRESS; 7874 Fareholm Drive, Hollywood 46, Calif,

BORN: June 16, 1914, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: SB, ct latide, 1936.

[ 643 ]

OFFICE AppREss: New York Times Bureau, 201 W. First Sr, Los Angeles, Calif.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MaRRIED: Elisita Stuntz, Aug. 19, 1942, New York, N.Y. cxupren: David,
May 10, 1943; Lisa, Oct. 20, 1945.

occupaTION: Newspaper correspondent; free-lance writer; head of New York
Times Los Angeles Bureau.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Los Angeles Chapter, Ingrid Bergman Fans Club,
Lena Horne Fans Club, Marlene Dietrich Fans Club, Disneyland Chapter,
Wally Boag Fans Club.

puBLicaTIoNs: “The Boll Weevil—Friend or Foe?”, Western Rural Monthly;
“Our Kleenex-Strewn Highways,” Reader’s Digest, “Hurricanes Can Help
You,” California Spectator; “Steel—Servant of Man,” Iron Age; “Let’s
Make New Year’s Unanimous,” Optimasts Quarterly.

A MEMBER of a prior twenty-five-year Class recounted having
written, amidst many other pursuits, 500 magazine articles. This
is a rate of nearly one every two weeks, year in and year out, since
graduation —a pace calculated to fell even such titans as Alva
Johnston and Stanley Walker, not to mention the Dumases and
Balzac.

On this scale of exaggeration, I should report that I am now the
publisher of the New York Times. On the plane of reality, how-
ever, I am only the head of the Times’ Los Angeles Bureau. No-
menclaturally this falls slightly into the realm of understatement.
Normally the Bureau maintains surveillance over the didoes and
vicissitudes of some 20 million souls scattered from southern Cali-
fornia to Texas. But on occasion its operations have extended from
Wheeling, West Virginia (remember the tearful Ike-Nixon em-
brace? ), to Alaska (the case of the half million abandoned cans of
beer) to Hawaii (Army-Navy maneuvers, political campaigns, etc.).

I have broken more luncheon dates with old Harvardians than
any other member of the Class of 1936, because I seldom know as a
day dawns whether nightfall may find me out on the Nevada
desert waiting for an atomic bomb to go off, down on the Rio
Grande chasing wetbacks, or just hunched over a hot typewriter
in Los Angeles, trying to convince the Times’ vast readership that
California is here to stay, but that the Indians, buffalo and Aimee
Semple McPherson are gone.

You meet a lot of interesting people, etc. You also meet in-
teresting World Series, murderers, airplane crashes, Rose Bowl
games, movie stars, political conventions, Winter Olympics, nuclear
physicists and eggheads who want to know why the New York
Times doesn’t publish a west coast edition. (Answer: We have our
hands rather full getting one out every day in New York and an-
other one in Paris.)

[ 644 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

This all resulted from a bad habit acquired in Cambridge of
sleuthing for campus news on behalf of Drew Pearson, Henry
Luce and other media, notably the late lamented Boston Transcript.
Soon after graduation I went to work for the Associated Press in
New York, as a reporter and editor. I fought the first half of
World War II in Europe with a typewriter for the AP; the second
half for the New York Times, chronicling exploits of the 8th and
oth Air Forces, First Army and SHAEF. No matter what you read
in Louella Parsons, it was I, not she, who filed the first eye-witness
report of the Normandy invasion — gleaned from an uncomfort-
able balcony seat in an H-hour B-26 bomber. I also was the first
correspondent to fly into Germany on a U.S. bombing raid — a fact
which has caused Walter Cronkhite, who was a mile or so behind,
to toy with his hari-kari knife ever since, although not very seri-
ously.

I covered post V-E Day shenanigans in Germany and Poland; on
the latter score was denounced over Moscow Radio as a “journalistic
gangster.” Told the Russians flattery might get them somewhere,
but they’d have to raise the ante.

In 1946, leap-frogged from Europe to Los Angeles, the best
foreign-correspondent post in the business. Oscillate between domi-
ciles in Hollywood and Malibu, to keep the bill collectors on their
toes.

My major conclusion from twenty-five years of newspapering
is that, while I can’t think of anything I’d rather do, the business
in its present form is not something sacrosanct and immutable whose
perpetuation is guaranteed by the Constitution. Unless it modernizes
its presentation of information, it will go the way of the New
Haven Railroad.

Have no intention to write a novel. It’s much easier to buy one —
on the drugstore remainder counter. Have written some magazine
articles — Atlantic Monthly, Collier's, Saturday Review, etc. — but
nowhere near 500.

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN MOORE HILL, I

 

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Paul Revere Rd., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFicE ApprEsS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston 17, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1913, Milton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1940.

MarrigeD: Carolyn Bassett, July 30, 1949, Newton, Mass. cuttp: Edwin Robert
LaCrosse, Jr., May 27, 1937 (stepson).

HARVARD SON: Edwin Robert LaCrosse, Jr., 59 (stepson).

occupaTion: Lawyer; group counsel, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Captain, Infantry, U.S. Army, November, 1942, to June, 1946;
Town Meeting Member, Needham, Mass. since 1957; lawyer-member,
Pension Research Council, Wharton School of Finance & Commerce,
Univ. of Pennsylvania, since 1958; Needham chairman, United Cerebral
Palsy Drive, 1960; fellow, Tufts University seminar on “Tasks of Public
Leadership,” 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Illinois bars; Boston and Chicago Bar Associa-
tions, American Political Science Association; Legal Section, American
Life Convention, Association of Life Insurance Counsel, United States
Power Squadron; Menauhant Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Editorial staff of Harper’s Encyclopedia on Wills and Admin-
istration of Estates, 1940-41; “Life Insurance and Consumer Installment
Credit,” Association of Life Insurance Counsel, May 7, 1957; “Meeting the
Requirements of the State Disclosure Laws,” American Management Asso-
ciation, February 27, 1959; “Legal Status of Employee Benefic Rights
Under Private Pension Plans,” written by task force study group of
which T was the lawyer-member, Pension Research Council, Wharton
School of Finance & Commerce, University of Pennsylvania, 1961.

FOR twenty-five years I have shamelessly avoided this unseemly
business of class reporting. Somewhat belatedly, however, T must

[ 646 |

$$$ TB cg 2 NM EIEN A NEE AE AGE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

confess to a natural curiosity as to my classmates and for the record
offer this, as quid pro quo.

Following graduation I went on to the Law School and then to
general practice in Chicago. For the last fourteen years I have en-
joyed the challenge of working for a large, constantly growing life
insurance company. Though at times frustrating, the experience
has proved ever stimulating and rewarding. Aside from lifting a
lawyer’s horizon, it has resulted in gaining a wealth of friends as
well as professional and business acquaintances including, inciden-
tally, Classmates Mort Claflin and Campbell DeMallie in the general
agency end of the company.

In 1942, the Army strangely enough felt my horse-drawn field
artillery training in Harvard ROTC qualified me as an anti-aircraft
officer. One year’s successful participation in readying a go-mm
anti-aircraft battalion for overseas proved my dow nfall, The bat-
talion was sent to Hawaii with a regular army officer cadre, and
I transferred to the Infantry. Shortly thereafter I found myself in
the Pacific in the Red-Arrow Division. After the Philippines, I
closed out my army career as an Infantry captain with a vear in
Japan in the Occupation Army.

In 1949 I married the girl I had known back in prep school days
and acquired a stepson. After Weld Hall, he chose my old House
— Adams. Although the dining hall and the suites have changed
for the worse, the caliber of the students and faculty have not, and
1 am proud of his honors, his six months’ Reserve officer active duty
and current non-teaching fellowship for a Ph.D. in the University
of North Carolina.

Apart from many business trips throughout the States and Can-
ada, my travel consists mostly of summer weekend commuting to
my cottage in Menauhant on Cape Cod and cruising in my boat in
Vineyard Sound, looking for bluefish, Although never before or
since a tool-lifter (or so Carolyn claims), I managed to build, with
the help of Chris-Craft, a 22’ cabin cruiser kit boat — completed
ten days before Hurricane Carol — named Carolyn — and the last
boat to leave her mooring in Menauhant on that fateful day in 1954.

After boat yard repairs, she is now mv hobby — she being a good
fisher. She, my family, golf and people are mv relaxation,

[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MELVIN FRANCIS HILL, JR.

        
 
 

noe Teper oN “
a
Kepue Sey ;
; 4
3
“ ; q 4
ae FS

 

HOME appress: 14 Liberty Pole Rd., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Aviation Agency, Logan International Airport, East
Boston, Mass.; Hill Management Corp., 45 Milk St., Boston, Mass,

BORN: Aug, 28, 1912, Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Suffolk Law School).

MarRIED: Valerie Brodeur, Aug. 24, 1949, Brookline, Mass. cHitprEN: Suzanne
M,, May 31, 1950; Alison V., May 15, 1951; Patricia E., March 5, 1954;
Melanie A., Nov. 7, 1955; Melvin Francis, 3d, Sept. 3, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clinton Perry Hill, ’36.

occupaTION: Real estate and insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Hill Management Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club, Harvard Club of Hingham; Air Traffic

Control Association.

I HAVE nothing spectacular or even particularly interesting to re-
port. I have written no books, held no elective offices, and certainly
haven’t startled the financial world. However, I have acquired a
wife in the person of a beautiful, intelligent and talented ex-Ameri-
can Airlines stewardess, four equally beautiful and talented daugh-
ters and a rough tough three-year-old son who I hope will one day
be captain and fullback of a winning Harvard football team.

[ 648 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLARD TYLER HILL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5003 Lockwood Ave., North Perry, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lake County Memorial Hospital, Painesville, Ohio.

BORN: July 27, 1914, Ashtabula, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Ashtabula High School, Ashtabula, Ohio; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D., 1940.

MARRIED: Sara Elizabeth Stockton, June 19, 1950, Winston-Salem, N.C. cHit-
DREN: Willard Stockton, Aug. 21, 1951; Frederick Tyler, June 1, 1953;
Lawrence Logan, Oct. 12, 1955; Sara Bernard, Jan. 16, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Physician; pathologist to Lake County Memorial Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, member, executive board, Northeastern Ohio Coun-
cil, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: American Association for Cancer Research; American Society for
Experimental Pathology; American Association of Pathologists and Bac-
teriologists,; American Society of Clinical Pathologists; College of Ameri-
can Pathologists; American Medical Association; Cleveland Medical Li-

brary Association; Painesville Rotary Club, Madison Golf and Country
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various subjects in human and experimental pathology.

REQUEST for Class Life last fall induced palsy of pen as feared.
Recovery slow. October: would write only, “Class Life phooey.”
No good. November: improved but tendency to ramble, Not up
to it yet. Set-back in December: post cards caused jitters. Old
Parker still nervous this morning, January 16th, deadline of Life.
Wants to wait until Fiftieth, Told nothing doing. Wants to take
English A first. Told probably don’t teach it any more. Says o.k.,
but like I said, Class Life --.---.

After college, the Medical School. Two years training internal
medicine. Four years army medicine: Puerto Rico and Ciermany,
States between. Switch in P.R. from teaching Borriquenos surgical
technique (no experience, no Spanish) to doing pathology (no ex-

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

perience, no jargon), Civilian again. Three plus years training
pathology. Vacation North Carolina where met The Girl. Ten
years faculty of a medical school. Pathol ogy into hundreds of
medical students, Great satisfaction. Tumors in thousands of mice.
Great puzzle. Year ago revived interest human patients, family
ties, earning living. Back to home area Lake Erie. Pathology prac-
tice small hospital, part-time teaching medical school, old house,
stretch of beach, joy-filling wife, lively youngsters, books, music,

golf. Hobbies: no time. Social and other convictions: pen says,
“Boss, L just gotta lie down.”

GEORGE WRIGHT HINCKLEY, JR.

  

s

  

SPST EST ETE SEY PE

 

HOME AppRESS: 253 Hillrurn Lane, Roslyn Heights, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE appRESs: The Reporter, 660 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
Born: April 26, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED at: Pelham Memorial High School, Pelham, N.Y.; Loomis School,
Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1936.
Marien: Gertrude Arvidsson, Smith °39, Oct. 7, 1942, Pelham, N.Y. CHIL-

pren: George Robert, Jan. 14, 1944; Anne Pettigrew, April 19, 1947-
occupation: Circulation manager, The Reporter Magazine,

OFFICES HELD: President, School Board, Herricks School District, Long Island,
N.Y.

Memeer oF: Magazine Publishers Association, Hundred Million Club; Direct
Mail Advertising Association,

Business Life: Time, Inc., twelve years (manager of the college
bureau).
Own enterprise, one year (unsuccessful),
Wall Street Journal, one year (salesman).
The Reporter Magazine, ten years.

[ 650 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Army Life: Drafted March, 1942.
Commissioned second lieutenant, October, 1942; final rank,
captain.
Overseas (CBI Theatre), Airborne Anti-aircraft and OSS.
Outside Activity: School problems on Long Island.

JOSEPH ANTHONY HINDLE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 421 Spring Green Rd., Warwick, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 382 Broad St., Providence, R.I.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1914, Providence, R.I.

PREPARED AT: Providence Classical High School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D., 1940.

MaRRIED: Eileen Reynolds, Sept. 25, 1943, Providence, R.I. cHipreN: Joseph,
Nov. 12, 1944; Eileen, Nov. 27, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Francis Hindle, ’40, L1.B., ’43; William Vineent
Hindle, M.D., 737.

occuPATION: Physician; internal medicine; cardiologist.

OFFICES HELD: Director of medical education, St. Joseph’s and Fatima Hospitals,
Providence, R.L., since 1955; chief of medicine, St. Joseph's Hospital, since
1951.

MEMBER OF: Metacomet Country Club; various medical societies, including
Rhode Medical Society, Providence Medical Association.

[ 651]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

G. MALCOLM HIXON

 

HOME AppREsS: 37 Parkside Circle, Braintree 84, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hixon Electric Co., 22 Elkins St., Boston 27, Mass.
BORN: June 18, 1912, Braintree, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

marRiED: Virginia Greenleaf Abercrombie, Sept. 18, 1937, Braintree, Mass. cui-
DREN: Judith Ann, July 20, 1943; Joanne Kellogg, May 5, 1950; M. David,
Aug. 28, 1951.

occupaTIon: President, treasurer, Hixon Electric Company, Trego, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive board, Harvard Club of Quincy; president,
Electrical Contractors Association of Greater Boston.

MEMBER OF: Illuminating Engineering Society; Harvard Clubs of Boston and

Quincy. .
IT is said that one is only as old as he feels. True, except when I
find myself trying to keep up with my nine-year-old son playing
football or baseball. Then I sincerely am convinced that my
Twenty-fifth Reunion has really arrived.

Most of the past twenty-five years I have spent as an electrical
contractor. When the United States entered the war, our company
converted to the manufacture of torpedo parts for the Naval
Torpedo Station at Newport, Rhode Island. In March of 1943,
while pursuing this work, I met with an industrial accident which
nearly cost me my left arm. Fortunately, with expert surgery and
therapy, after about a year, my arm was as good as new. This acci-
dent, and the work we were doing, did however prevent me from
serving during World War II.

After the war, we still continued in the contracting business but
I also had a secret ambition to be in manufacturing. Finally, in
1954, I organized a corporation to manufacture electrical cable con-
nectors and fittings for which I held various patents. Although this

[ 652 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

business is young and small, I have high hopes that some day it will
prove to be as profitable as the contracting business.

My hobbies are varied and many— mostly centering around
working with my hands— photography, woodworking, working
with my son on his HO layout. I have always had a great fondness
for the woods; consequently I go hunting occasionally and when-
ever I can entice other members of my family, we go walking in
the nearby Blue Hills.

Although I have not traveled far and wide, my wife and I took
a trip to San Francisco and Hawaii in 1956, and later to Dallas,
Texas, and to Mexico. Just recently we returned from Los Angeles
and Las Vegas. If things go right we hope to travel more extensively
in the future.

Our summers are spent on Cape Cod, bathing, boating, water-
skiing, golfing or just plain loafing. Jinny and I are loyal Harvard
rooters. We have attended most of the football games for the past
twenty-five years and still know we shall live to see the day when

Harvard will be the undefeated Ivy League champions. May that
day come real soon!

JOHN NEAL HODGES, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: Atlee Ranch, Encinal, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: County Courthouse, Cotulla, Texas.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1912, San Antonio, Texas,

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: LL.B. (St. Mary’s Univ.), rgs0.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Attorney-at-law; county attorney, La Salle County, Texas.

OFFICES HELD: County attorney, La Salle County; member, Draft Board No. 48
Veterans Service Officer, County Committee, Veterans Land Board.

[ 653]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: Spee Club; Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770; Encinal Lions Club;
Post 409, American Legion, Texas and La Salle County Bar Associations.

THE passage of five years since the last Report finds me in about
the same situation as then, normal wear and tear excepted. I have
served as county attorney off and on for the past ten years and was
elected to a four-year term at the election of November 8. The
reversal of roles from prosecution to defense, and vice versa, has
presented certain difficulties in mental processes, but no more so
than seeing, on one hand, a sovereign state invaded by federal para-
troopers ostensibly for the purpose of enforcing a federal court
order protecting the “rights” of Negroes and to observe, on the
other, complete inertia when a similar court order is violated by
unionized strikers. Politically and morally, the nation seems to
have retrogressed.

Well, gentlemen, if I sound morose, do not blame it on my en-
vironment. I live on what appears to be the Last Frontier and shall
give to any interested parties, without reservation, all my right and
interest, in and to, the New Frontier. My nearest neighbor is five
miles away. The game is still plentiful. We are not menaced by the
population explosion; in fact, I can report happily that in the last
ten years our population has decreased by some 1500 polls through
migration. The video reception is so poor most of the time that
we rarely hear a tenth of the gawp that is broadcast from the centers
of culture, Hollywood and New York. (Thank heaven, I could
not see the Harvard-Yale game.) The air is unpolluted by smoke,
soot or smog, and a beautiful stillness prevails.

Should it be my misfortune to miss seeing you in June, “Salud y
pesetas y tiempo para gozarlos.”

[ $54]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD ALLEN HOFFMAN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 266 Carroll St., New Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 Eighth St., New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (New York Medical
Coll.), 1940.

MarRIED: Diana Coleman, June 29, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Robert
Steven, Oct. 19, 1946; Kenneth Taylor, Sept. 19, 1952-

OCCUPATION: Physician, private practice of urology.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in anatomy and genito-urinary surgery, Harvard Medi-
cal School, 1943-47; tutor, division of biochemical science, Harvard College,
1946-47; impartial examiner, Industrial Accident Commission, Common-
wealth of Mass., since 1950; urologist-in-chief, St. Luke’s Hospital, New
Bedford, Mass. since 1950; consultant to Surgeon General, First Corps
Area, U.S, Army, since 1951; senior consultant urologist, Tobey Hospital
(Wareham, Mass.), St. Luke’s Hospital (Midd.), Sassaquin Hospital (New
Bedford, Mass.); secretary of staff, St. Luke’s Hospital, New Bedford,
Mass., since 1953; president, New Bedford Medical Society, 1936; member,
board of directors, Harvard Club of New Bedford, 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Urology; American College of Surgeons, In-
ternational College of Surgeons; American Urological Association; New
England Urological Association; American Medical Association, Pan Amer-
ican Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society; New Bedford Medi-
cal Society; Harvard Club of New Bedford.

PUBLICATIONS: “Coagulum Pyelolithotomy,” Azmzerican Journal of Surgery.
April, 1950; “Digital Extraction of Bladder Calculi in a Female Paraplegic,”
Journal of Urology, May, 1953. “Primary Sterile Pyuria,” Surgical Clinics
of North America, June, 1953; “Sodium Diatrizoate for Intravenous Pyelog-
raphy,” New England Journal of Medicine, Oct. 20, 1955; “Urologic Ex-
amination with the New Radiopaques, Diatrizoate, Acetizoate and Diprotr-
zoate: A Clinical Comparison,” New England Journal of Medicine, Aug. 23,
1956, “Arteriovenous Aneurysm of the Kidney,” Journal of the Interna-
tional College of Surgeons, June, 1958; “Observations on Retrograde Pye-
lography and the Use of Contrast Media Containing Neomycin,” Journal

[ 655 ]

ALERT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

of the American Medical Association, January, 1960; “A Modification of
the Weyrauch Valve of the Doss Percolator,” Journal of U: rology, January,
1960; “Stress Incontinence of Urine in Women and Its Treatment by

Urethrovesicopexy,” Journal of the International College of Surgeons,
October, 1960.

ON first thought a biographical expansion of the vital statistics
above seems superfluous. The friends with whom we have kept
contact through the years know the facts, the men we didn’t know
as undergraduates are not apt to care now. Yet there exists a large
third group, whose paths crossed often in those days, but have since
diverged. Since I enjoy reading of their accomplishments in these
periodic Reports, fair play demands a contribution on my part.
Ten years after graduation I was sufficiently trained in urology
to begin the private practice of my specialty. After starting in
Boston, an offer of a department chiefship at St. Luke’s Hospital
brought me to New Bedford where I have since remained and tried
to contribute something to the education of younger physicians.
Professional life here has been pre-eminently gratifying. My baili-
wick has been large enough to support first-rate facilities, and smal]
enough to allow some measure of recognition sooner than in a
metropolis. Socially, our city of 100,000 has lent itself to enjoying
a variety of stimulating friends in different fields, while avoiding
the encroachment on personal life so characteristic of the smaller
town.

Diana and I will celebrate our zoth wedding anniversary during
Reunion Week. Our life together has been happy beyond measure.
Our early struggles, mutually faced, enhanced the enjoyment of our
later rewards — not merely in the area of economic comfort, but
more so in the shared appreciation of professional and cultural activi-
ties, and the joint evolution of the philosophic values which guide
our way of life. Diana’s endless intellectual curiosity prompted her
to complete nurses’ training at an age beyond retirement for many,
and to go on to obtain her baccalaureate at a commencement at-
tended by our children.

We have two sons. Robert is at Deerfield, and looks to Harvard.
Kenneth has a longer way to go, but the same destination. They
are as different as two Harvard students should be, thus providing
a built-in “concentration” and “distribution” system for our family.

Our life this quarter-century has been marked by conventionalism
without dullness, comfort without wealth, and some social service
with satisfaction, if without eminence. In health we have fared not

[ 656 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

so well as most, but perhaps better than many. We have had the t
usual privilege of counting among our friends many Brazilians.
a result of this good fortune, born of chance associations and ni
tured for years by the opportunity to train young Brazilian uro
gists, we have come to love the people, the culture and the counts
Our visit to Brazil three years ago was by all odds the most memo!
ble of our peripatetic meanderings. The hope of a repeat perfor
ance keeps our noses ever close to the proverbial grindstone.

SIDNEY DAVID HOFFMAN

 

HOME AppREsS: 35 Heath St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Gilchrist Co., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1914, Revere, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: a.B., cut laude, 1936.

MarrigpD: Charlotte Annette Seigel, April 30, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

Donald Leonard, Sept. 22, 1942; Rica Helene, Aug. 6, 1945.
occuparion: Merchant — dresses.

ARMED with no specific preparation by college except an un-
quenchable thirst for magnificent sound and fine music, I ventured
into the fascinating world of department store retailing. My first
experiences were in executive training at Jordan Marsh Company,
then via varied channels to other fine stores in the country.

Here, I am happy in this world of retailing — a world that, in the
main, has successfully avoided the advances of technology, a world
that is found to be filled alternately with genius and stupidity —

with unforgettable personality and mediocrity — with brilliant tact-
cians and fakers of the first water.

IT daily enjoy the challenges inherent in plotting the anticipared

[ 657 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

needs of our customers, in plotting the widening of our markets,
in fulfilling the never-ending demands for better and better per-
formance, with bare survival coupled with our historical slim profit
margins as a tempting and vital reward.

I enjoy, above all, the day-to-day encounters with prime resources
and the fringe — with the slick and the sly, with the sharp and the
shy, with the polished and the crass, with the pompous and the
humble.

As I wax mellow with age, as my family matures to adult stature,

I often recount my many blessings—a fine son, Don, a business
major at Boston University, a beautiful daughter, Rita, in high

school, and a loving partner in life, my understanding and beautiful
wife, Charlotte.

GERALD V. HOLLINS

 

HOME apprEss: Old School Road, Libertyville, Ill.

OFFICE appREss: Harris, Upham & Co., 135 S. La Salle St., Chicago 3, IIL
BoRN: Sept. 17, 1912, East Islip, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

marrieD: Elizabeth Armour, June 3, 1939, Lake Forest, Ill. cxipren: Peter

Armour, Jan. 18, 1941; Gerald Danforth, Sept. 17, 1942; Michael, March
25, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Partner, investment securities firm.
oFFIcES HELD: Director, Infant Welfare Society of Chicago, since 1946, Hospital

Association of Lake Forest, since 1954; member, board of governors, Mid-
west Stock Exchange, 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Club, Onwentsia, Shoreacres, Lake Forest, Il.

AFTER spending five years with United States Lines, in which I]
attained the position of manager of their freight department in Cleve-

[ 658 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jand, Ohio, I left them to join Rathborne, Hair & Ridgway Company,
a container manufacturing firm in Chicago. My principal work con-
sisted of performing special details for the president. In 1942, I
joined the U.S. Navy and was discharged in 1945, with the rank of
lieutenant commander. In late 1945, I joined the investment securi-
ties firm of Harris, Upham & Company in Chicago and in Septem-
ber, 1948, was made a general partner.

THOMAS MELVIN HORAN

ce Solin te a

4

3 we a
* Napa é

ok {re é

4 % a

Be

 

HOME apprEss: 19 Mary’s Lane, Egypt, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESs: Meredith & Grew, Inc., 125 High St., Boston ro, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 10, 1913, Revere, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarrieD: Florence J. Christopher, June 21, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Cynthia Louise, Dec. 17, 1946; Thomas Christopher, June 14, 1949; Ste-
phen Maurice, March 31, 1951.

occuPaATioN: President, Meredith & Grew, Inc., real estate firm, specializing
in the brokerage, appraisal and management of commercial and industrial
properties.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Meredith & Grew, Inc.; trustee, Boston
Floating Hospital, Charlestown Savings Bank; vice-president, Everert
Mill Properties, Inc.; director, Quincy Market Cold Storage & Ware-
house Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Episcopalian Club of Massachusetts;
numerous real estate organizations.

TWENTY-FIVE years later finds me in the same business which
I entered in June, 1936, that of commercial and industrial real
estate. During that time I have covered fairly extensively the vari-
ous phases of real estate — condemnation appraising, brokerage,
consulting and property management, this last taking on more

[ 659]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

importance with the passing of years, I have been with Meredith
& Grew, Inc., since 1939, and was recently elected president of that
fine eighty-five-year-old firm.

The Class Reunion in 1961 will mark my twentieth wedding an-
niversary, all twenty years of which have been most happy, due
mostly to my good-natured wife. We have three fine children —
Cynthia aged fourteen (becoming a lady rapidly), and the boys,
Tommy and Steve, ages twelve and ten. Our traveling has been
limited mostly to summer vacations at Sebago Lake, Maine, where

we now own a waterfront cottage — all of which has brought us
into the boating and by-products type of existence.

I spent three years in the Army Engineers during World War II,
as a sergeant, twenty-seven months of which was in the ETO, to
which | hope to return soon. Religious-wise, I expend considerable

time in behalf of my Episcopal Church, of which I am the warden.
Politically, 1 have maintained a Republican status.

DAVID IRWIN HOSMER

 

HOME appREss: 93 Parkside Ave., Hamburg, N.Y.

orrice appress; South Buffalo Railway Co, 2558 Hamburg Turnpike, Lacka-
wanna 18, N.Y.

porn: April 14, 1915, Ithaca, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE! S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Jcan Natalie Jenkins, Aug. 20, 1939, Brooklyn, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Kendall Jenkins, Nov. 5, 1947; Penelope Sheldon, Jan. 16, 1953; Richard
Pearce, Oct. 8, 1954. |

occupation; Assistant supervisor of maintenance of way, South Buffalo Rail-
way Company, terminal and shortline railroad.

oFFices HELD: Trustee and secretary, board of trustees, First Unitarian Church,
Buffalo, N-Y., 1946-48; president, Hamburg Unitarian Fellowship, 1yst-

{ 660 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

54; vice-president, Hamburg Civic League, 1954-55; secretary, Hamburg
Civic League Recreation Committee, 1955-56, Boy Scout Troop 509 Com-
mittee, 1959-6o; trustee, program chairman, Hamburg Unitarian-Univer-
salist Church, 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Buffalo; Central Railway Club of Buffalo;
Buffalo Chapter, National Railway Historical Society.

FOR a concise but comprehensive summary of the twenty-five
years since moving on from Harvard, events and experiences fall
into four categories. The space taken by each in this review is not
necessarily in proportion to its importance in life.

Vocation. I started as a trainee with Bethlehem Steel Company
and, after two months’ orientation in their steel plants, was trans-
ferred to a subsidiary company — the South Buffalo Railway. My
first position was as machinist helper in the locomotive repair shop,
repairing and maintaining locomotives. The two years I spent there
were the start of the transition from steam to Diesel locomotives.
Next I moved into the Engineering Department to handle a re-
organization project concerned with maps, drawings and valuation
records. This had been scheduled for a month or so, but additional
related activities landed on me, so that I stayed two years.

A change in company procedure required the establishment of a
separate Employment Office, and this was my next assignment. I
continued with it until 1943, doing battle w ith problems of man-
power shortage caused by the war.

The war also brought problems in obtaining materials and supplies
needed to operate the railroad. I was given the responsibility of
coordinating the purchasing, storing and disbursing of all such
items. Eventually, this also included preparing and processing com-
plicated reports to the government to secure the required priority
authorizations for purchasing materials. The company told my draft
board that this was important essential work. I continued in the

purchase and stores position until 1955, when I was transferred into
the Car Service section of the Operating Department. Further
variety came a year or so later when I was named Assistant Super-
visor in the Maintenance of Way Department. Mv present duties
there require considerable liaison with engineering and valuation, so
that my previous experience in the Fngineering Department has
been most useful.

Procreation, Although married in 1939, it was several years be-
fore our family had increased to its present final size, which is
somewhere near the average production race for college graduates

[ 661 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

My wife Jean has managed time for Red Cross blood bank work,
P.T.A., Cub Scout den mother, and home-maker. Kendall is trav-
eling the Scout trail as Patrol Leader and Star Scout, while finding
continual new interests in Junior High School. Penelope is ad-
vancing into a larger sphere of activity as a Bluebird, and develop-
ing girlish grace from interpretive dancing. Richard is happy in
first grade and, although the youngest, is no longer the baby.

Stimulation, This area has been comfortably filled with partici-
pation in church, civic, school and Scout affairs. In Buffalo, I held
several positions in the Unitarian Church; and in Hamburg have
been closely associated with the formation and development of the
Unitarian-Universalist Church.

I have worked on civic committees which secured a centralized
school district and obtained. voters’ approval of bond issues for a
new grade school and a new high school. The present Hamburg
Village Recreation Program is the result of the study and recom-
mendations of a committee on which I served as secretary.

I have followed my elder son along in Scouting, first as Den
Father and Assistant Cubmaster, and currently as secretary of the
Scout Troop Committee. In another couple of years the cycle may
be repeated with my younger boy.

Recreation. 1 have always been interested in railroads, so it is
natural that one of my avocations is similar to my vocation. This
is evidenced by involvement in rail-fan trips and railroad photogra-
phy. Hiking, picnics, and family outdoor jaunts round out the
available time in this department.

In retrospect, these twenty-five years have been reasonably full
and generally satisfying, even though some desired accomplish-

ments were not achieved. This provides more goals and incentives
for the next twenty-five. With their fulfillment, I hope we shall
also see a more peaceful and cooperative world where all men will

practise greater tolerance toward their neighbors and develop deeper
understanding for the solution of the world’s problems.

{ 662 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MICHAEL SIMON HOVENANIAN

 

HOME ApprRESS: 1675 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 575 Mt. Auburn St., Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: May 8, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.D, cut laude (Boston
Univ.), 1940.

MarRIED: Doris Vachon, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Urological surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of
Urology (diplomate); American Urological Association (fellow), Boston
Surgical Society; University Club, Boston.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard I entered Boston Uni-
versity Medical School and graduated cua laude in 1940. I entered
the U.S. Army i in 1941 and spent four and a half vears in the mili-
tary service, three and a half years overseas during World War IL,
in the SWPA. Following return from military service I went to
Yale Medical School for graduate training in surgery and urologi-
cal surgery. (Eight years.)

In 1952 [ returned to Cambridge to private practice in urology.
I am now in that area. Having first satisfied and passed all require-
ments for the specialty of surgery and urology, I can now be
reached at 575 Mt. Auburn Street, Cambridge, “Massachusetts, any

time, day or night. j

[ 663 ]

ete eee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

+ JOHN LAWRENCE HOWARD, III

 

Born: May 11, 1913, Oakland, Calif. parents: John Lawrence Howard, Jr.,
Edith Steele Norcross. St

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).

DIED: Sept. 17, 1936, Oakland, Calif.

JOHN LAWRENCE HOWARD, III, spent four years with our
Class and was a resident of Leverett House. He was fatally stricken
while undergoing anesthesia at a dentist’s office. He was awarded.an
A.B. degree posthumously..

LEAVITT HOWARD

 

HOME aApprEss: 45 Middle St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co,, 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston 17, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 26, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Derby Academy, Hingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1936.

[ 664 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Edith Pratt, Aug. 24, 1946, Williamstown, Mass. cHmpren: Catherine
Pratt, Jan. 9, 1950; Amy Rand, Feb. 17, 1952; Edward Rand, May 16, 1954.
occupation: Director of advertising, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
Company.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, board of trustees, Hingham Public Library, since 1952,
IF I had more faith in the accuracy of my memory, I might now
be able to examine what it was I wanted and expected from life a
quarter of a century ago. I suspect that today I have all I might
ever have wanted in the way of creature comforts and the badges
of suburbia: a new station wagon, an automatic dryer, a power
mower.

But time cannot be bought. As the days fuzz by, I find myself
less and less inclined to be concerned with a know ledge of man as
a political animal and more and more interested in the individual
arts of the piano and chess and tennis. Unless a man has first met
his own needs, he cannot be an honest leader of others. Life must
be lived with’others and we must learn and follow the rules — most
of the time. Still, the starting point is the self.

It is, I suppose, a matter of balance. The caring for kids and the
cutting of the lawn and the absorption in community affairs are
pleasant, worthwhile ventures. But they had better not be all a
man does. It is too easy to let the beautiful machinery of social
welfare mesh with wheel after wheel until everything is going
around and there is no central shaft giving direction to the drive.

My belief is that I am only middle-aged once and I had better
enjoy it. I love my wife and my children and my dog and I am
blessed with friendly associates at work. Collectively they absorb

99 44/100% of my pure life. It is the other 56/100 of 1% that I
have to worry about.

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN STROTHER HOWE

 

HOME AbpREsS: 92 Mt. Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 36 Temple Pi., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 9, 1914, Milton, Mass.

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MaRRIED: Frances F. Hovey, Nov. 18, 1939, Cohasset, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter
Fairfax, July 29, 1953; Emily Dexter, Dec. 21, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Carleton Howe, Jr., °31, M.B.A., °33; Henry Salton-
stall Howe, ’33.

OCCUPATION: President and trustee, Provident Institution for Savings, Boston.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Rockland-Atlas National Bank, Robert Breck Brigham
Hospital, Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children,

Travelers Aid Society; trustee, Massachusetts Foundation, New England
Conservatory of Music.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club of Boston; The Country Club, Brookline.

TWENTY-FIVE happy years, mostly in the Boston area, seem to
have fled by, because of the activities and interests of a perfect wife
and two fine children, a satisfying and interesting business career
in several fields of banking, almost four years on Uncle Sam’s pay-
roll in World War II, quite a lot of time and effort with civic and
charitable organizations, and still a bit of time for pleasure and
recreation with family, friends and acquaintances.

After college, I started in investment banking with E. B. Smith
& Company, later Smith, Barney & Company, first in New York
City and then in Boston. Marriage and settling in Milton, with
plans to build a house in Dover, were soon interrupted by World
War II, in which I served as a Coast Artillery officer and a train-
ing officer, mostly in the New York harbor area and in Puerto Rico.
After the war we lived in Prides Crossing, Massachusetts, and I
switched business fields, slightly, to commercial banking with the

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Webster and Atlas National Bank, in Boston. This subsequently
merged and became part of the Rockland-Atlas National Bank.

During the next few years our activities and interests became
more closely associated with Boston, so we rented and then pur-
chased a house on Beacon Hill. We have continued to live in Prides
Crossing in summers and vacations. Births of our children added
new zest to our lives. Although we are older than most parents
of small children, I am sure we stay younger and enjoy them more,
because of this. They are both now at Shady Hill School in Cam-
bridge, having graduated from the Beacon Hill Nursery School, of
which my wife has been president and director since its start six
years ago.

Another change in my business career came in 1956, when I moved
to the Provident Institution for Savings, in the city of Boston,
where I am now, and which I enjoy immensely. My associates and
I, in this vigorous and fast-growing organization, find it exciting
to strive to be the best in the industry in personnel practices, cus-
tomer service and operational systems. We are delighted with living
in Boston, because of its proximity to many outstanding educational,
scientific, cultural and financial institutions, and the stimulating
people connected with them. In addition, we also make frequent
use of and enjoy New England’s oceans, mountains, “country,”
and the advantages of a large urban area which we hope is now
beginning a “rebirth.”

Looking back over the many changes and developments, and the
joys and the sorrows of the last twenty-five years, I am convinced
that the years ahead will be active and exciting also. I believe the
wisdom and knowledge of our age group will continue to grow,
to enable us to cope with the continuing and complex problems,
and I hope more unselfishness, service, and maturity from us will
enable us to improve the world for future generations.

Regarding all the things | wish I had, or were doing, or could
do, I try to remember that satisfaction comes not from being per-
fect but from making progress, and that happiness comes not from
what one has, but what one does with what one has,

| 667 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WALLACE EGBERT HOWELL

 

HOME ApprEsS: 35 Moon Hill Rd., Lexington 73, Mass..

OFFICE appREss: W. E. Howell Associates, Inc., Box 163, Lexington 73, Mass,

BORN: Sept. 14, 1914, Central Valley, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936(37); s.m. (Massachusetts Inst,
of Technology), 1941; s.p. (ibid.), 1948.

MarRIED: Christine Gallagher, Dec. 30, 1942, Bolling Field, Washington, D.C.
CHILDREN: Stephen Barnard, Sept. 29, 1944, Jeremy, Oct. 4, 1946; Holly
Catherine, Jan. 31, 1949; Jane Christine, March 6, 1951; James Jessup,

March 24, 1953.

occuPaTioN: Meteorologist; president, W. E. Howell Associates, Inc., Mount
Washington Observatory, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Meteorological Society; American Geophysical Union;
New Hampshire Academy of Science; Lexington Choral Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to a few meteorological periodicals and compendia,
mostly in the field of cloud-physics and weather control.

WEATHER control as a profession is perhaps a rather unlikely
calling; how it got to be mine 1s not entirely clear to me. I do re-
member thinking that meteorology would be a splendid way of
combining a scientific bent with love of the outdoors, and there-
after spending several years bent over various desks at ungodly
hours plotting symbols and drawing lines, and only looking out-
doors as a final check on the forecast. War did not change this
greatly, although draft call, active duty orders, and overseas orders
all managed to catch up with me atop Mount Washington at various
times; but after five years I thankfully shucked the uniform and
turned to research, studying at M.LT. and later on a Harvard re-
search fellowship, which at last got me outdoors at least part of the
time directing a field project of cloud-physics research at Mount
Washington.

[ 668 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

One day about ten years ago, Vince Schaefer (then of General
Electric Research Laboratory), with whom the Mount Washington
staff had collaborated on some of his early cloud-modification ex-
periments, asked if I would accept recommendation to the City of
New York as director of an experimental program to try rainfall
stimulation as a means of filling the City’s then greatly depleted
reservoirs. My assent made me briefly headline copy in all the
New York papers until I finally convinced the reporters that I
really couldn’t tell if I made it rain until all the rain-gauge reports
had been collected and subjected to long and careful analysis. When
this was finally done, the city’s legal department promptly locked
up the report and hasn’t released it since. Nevertheless, I was by
then launched as a rainmaker, a career that has led to fascinating, if
somewhat devious, travels, problems and associations. Suffice it to
say that the nerve pathways and ganglia of society have not yet
developed the means of integrating the startling but rather unre-
liable potentialities of weather control into a useful pattern of
behavior. It is both rewarding and frustrating to watch develop-
ments emerging and try to help them along.

A thousand repetitions of the story of family life are surely
enough for one volume. Mine, for being typical, has been not the
less filled with personal revelations and obfuscations, victories and
defeats, and endless unfoldings and tendernesses.

HENRY SHERMAN HOWES, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 321 Summer Sr., Boston, Mass.

[ 669 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN ANDREW HOYE

RFI QRS SN RED Ye SS RN Ser gene, a
: : “3

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1528 E. Rockwood Blvd., Spokane, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jones & Mitchell Co., 520 Hutton Bldg., Spokane, Wash.

BorN: Feb. 8, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Beulah Wheeler, Nov. 21, 1945, Seattle, Wash, cHitprEN: John An-
drew, Jr., Oct. 13, 1946; Mary Ann, Feb. 20, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Golden Hoye, ’39; Francis Wallace Hoye, s.M., '49.

OccuPATION: Insurance broker; president, Jones & Mitchell Company, general
insurance and bonding firm.

MEMBER OF: Spokane Club; Manito Golf Club; University Club, American
Legion; Elks; Harvard Club of Spokane; Spokane Taxpayers Association
(director).

FROM June, 1936, to December, 1941, I was employed by two in-
surance companies as underwriter and field production man in New
York City, Philadelphia, Scranton, Pennsylvania, and Boston. From
January, 1942, to January, 1946, I was employed by the U.S. Navy
in capacities varying from ensign to lieutenant commander. Most
of this latter employment consisted in voyaging on destroyers and
light cruisers in Mediterranean and South Pacific waters. In Octo-
ber, 1943, while serving as damage control officer of the USS Buck,
a 1600-ton destroyer, the ship was so badly damaged by an enemy
torpedo that it sank in four minutes, and I got no experience in
controlling such damage. However, ‘since only 84 out of 320 men
survived the torpedoing, I have never regretted this lack of experi-
ence, In August, 1945, I was in charge of the first naval occupation
party on the homeland of Japan, at Yokusuka naval base.

In November, 1945, 1 returned to the United States and was matr-
ried in Seattle, Washington. I resumed my employment with the
General Accident Fire & Life Assurance Company, as branch mana-

[ 670 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ger in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. In late 1947, I decided to leave
the company aspect of the business and go into the brokerage busi-
ness. I spent a year with a large firm in Portland, Oregon, and in
October, 1948, bought a small agency in Spokane, Washington. In
1954 1 merged with a larger firm in Spokane, and in 1960 became
president and owner of fifty percent of the stock.

In retrospect, the past twenty-five years have been good ones. I
find that I am still working for the government, although now I
pay it for the privilege. I still retain an interest in golf, bridge,
whiskey and trying to make money. | have even tried this last at
Las Vegas, Nevada, several times. Because of our interests in ranch
properties, my wife and I follow cattle and wheat prices and gov-
ernment interference in the same rather closely. The years have
solved hair-combing problems for me. Politically, 1 am a conserva-
tive and believe more positively than ever that as central govern-
ment becomes stronger, socialism comes nearer.

I feel that Harvard offered us all the best in education and I
hope that they will find some method of advising future graduates
that a republic can endure only if the citizenry put their efforts

into doing what they can for their country rather than taking what
they can from their country.

HENRY MARTYN HOYT

 

HOME AppRESS: 44 Colles Ave., Morristown, NJ.

OFFICE apprEss: 24 DeHart St., Morristown, N_J.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1914, West Orange, N.J.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1936; ue. (Yale Univ.),
1940.

[671]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MaRRIED: Helen Iselin Hall, Sept. 13, 1941, Morristown, N.J. carpren: Henry
Martyn, Jr., July 30, 1942; Elizabeth W., Nov. 5, 1943; Louis Phillips, Oct.
24, 1946; Frances Iselin, Aug. 13, 1948; Paul Shurtleff, Oct. 12, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: John L. Shurtleff, ’46 (half-brother).

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

oFrFicEs HELD: Alderman, Morristown, N.J., 1953-58; trustee and secretary,
Morristown Library, since 1953; trustee, 1956-59, vice-president of board,
1958-59, The Peck School; trustee, 1957-60, vice-president, 1958-59, presi-
dent, 1959-60, Legal Aid Society of Morris County; trustee, Mental Health
Association of Morris County, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Morristown Club; Morris County and New Jersey State Bar
Associations; Morristown Squash Racquets Club; Morristown Field Club;
Snowchasers of Morristown.

AFTER graduation I worked for a half year on the now-defunct
Forum magazine, and attended Columbia Graduate School for a
semester, studying American history. I entered Yale Law School
in the fall of 1937 and received an LL.B. from that institution in
1940.

Before and after war service I was an associate of the Newark
law firm of Riker, Emery & Danzig and predecessor firms until
1951.

In 1941 1 was married to Helen Iselin Hall of Morristown, New
Jersey, and we have lived in Morristown ever since, except for a
short sojourn in the neighboring Morris Township.

After a period in the Enlisted Reserve Corps of the A.U.S., I
entered active service as a private in July, 1943. Most of my service
was in Canada, with the Signal Corps at Edmonton, Alberta, and the
Transportation Corps at Port Edward, British Columbia, staging
area. My work was largely clerical, particularly legal. I was dis-
charged as a technician third grade in November, 1943.

In 1951 I transferred from city to “small town” law practice,
joining the Morristown firm of Long and Oram, as a partner. This
firm dissolved in early 1960 by reason of the death of one of my
partners and the appointment of the other as a judge. I then joined
my present partners, William H. Corbin and Harold W. Watson,
to form the firm of Corbin, Hoyt & Watson, with offices at Maple

Avenue and DeHart Street in Morristown.

My “civic” activities have included a six-year period (three two-
year terms) as a Republican member of the Morristown Board of
Aldermen, presidency of the Legal Aid Society of Morris County
and membership of various boards of trustees, such as the Morris-
town Library and The Peck School, also of Morristown. My hob-

[ 672 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bies include motor camping (to the Rocky Mountain States and
back in 1956, Great Smokies and Cape Hatteras more recently),
surf-casting and language study (presently Russian and Italian).
My five children have attended various private and public
schools, and are presently studying in five different institutions of
learning. The two older are planning on entering college next
year, but as yet are not definite as to which ones. If all five make
and finish college and yours truly isn’t bankrupted in the process,

Ill be most satisfied even if none attends Harvard. However, I'll
be more pleased if at least one does.

SHERMAN HOYT

 

entails, shi

MAILING ADDRESS: % Robert Durham Associates, Ine. 59 E. 54th Sc, New
York, N.Y.

FREDERIC PHILIP HUBERT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: % American Embassy, Beirut, Lebanon.
[673]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RANKLIN CARRICK HUMBERT

 

Franklin Park Drive, East Syracuse, N.Y.

—HN HEYWARD HUMPHREY

 

Sborough Rd., Roslindale 31, Mass.

L674]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH EDWARD DOZIER HUMPHRIES

   

nr

HOME ADDRESS: 78 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.; “Bowerbrook,” Har-
vard, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Boston Naval Shipyard, Charlestown, Mass.

BORN: Noy. 30, 1914, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: AB., 1936; MD. (Tufts Coll.), 1940.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth A. Grinkis, Oct. 9, 1943, Sterling, Mass. crimp: Thomas
Joel, March 1, 1945.

occupaTion: Captain, U.S. Naval Medical Corps.

AFTER graduation, spent the summer as instructor-guide on the
Appalachian Trail. Entered Tufts College Medical School that
fall and graduated Doctor of Medicine in June, 1940. Interned
at the Memorial Hospital, Worcester, Massachusetts, for a two-vear
period, terminated early by the Pearl Harbor attack. Volunteered
for service as naval medical officer and was first commissioned on
January 17, 1942. Have been on continuous active duty in the
Navy regulars since that time. Have seen duty in the Pacific and
Atlantic theatres during World War IE and the Korean Campaign.
Present duty station is Boston Naval Shipyard. Commissioned Cap-
tain, Medical Corps, U.S. Navy, on July 1, 1955.

Plans for the future? The private practice of medicine. When?
All depends upon the activity of the Russian Bear. Where? Har-
vard, Massachusetts.

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MILLARD HUMSTONE

 

HOME apprEss: 14 Richmond Rd., Douglaston, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: City Planning Commission, 2 Lafayette St.. New York, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cw? laude, 1936; M.R.P., 1941.

marriED: Helen Lippitt, May 11, 1943, Washington, D.C, cHipren: Carol
Fontaine, Dee. 11, 1945; Elizabeth, April 13, 1948; Mary Millard, Nov. 2,
1951; Thomas Dickerman, July 20, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Coutant Humstone, ’35, L1.B., °38.

occupation: City planning; senior planner, New York City Department of City
Planning.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Planners, American Society of Planning
Officials, Regional Science Association; Douglaston Club.

AFTER graduating from college, I continued with four years of
graduate study, also at Harvard. The four college years with a
major in Romance languages and my one unsuccessful year at Har-
vard Law School were topped off by three years at the Harvard
School of Regional Planning (Graduate School of Design). This was
a rather unusual sequence of studies and was obviously not planned
in advance.

Another drastic switch was brought about by World War II, after
about a year’s work in planning. I served in the Navy, first behind
a desk in Washington and later as an armed guard officer aboard
merchant vessels. Aside from the duty aspects of serving in the
military, I can be very thankful that the war took me to Washing-
ton. Here I met Helen Lippitt, whom I married in 1943.

Since the war and my marriage, life has been considerably more
settled. I have stuck to city planning and to my wife and family;
in fact, I have been very fortunate in both. However, we’ve moved
from one city to another fairly often, as my jobs took us to differ-

[ 676 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ent places. I suppose we miss something by not establishing roots
anywhere. We have never become pillars of any sort in any com-
munity. My wife has held a few offices in community organizations,
but my record on this score is blank and it’s not likely to grow much.
On the other hand, moving around has enabled us to see and know
a number of different communities, and so if we haven’t given
much, we’ve certainly gained something.

Our children are four delightfully individual characters, ranging
from five to fourteen years of age. They all come from different
sections — Carol from Washington, D.C., Beth from Montclair,
New Jersey, Mary from New Orleans and Tommy from Barring-
ton, Rhode Island. One thing they have in common: all are for
Kennedy. I don’t know whether this shows clannishness, independ-
ence or an absolutely unprecedented influence on my part surmount-
ing that of their solidly Republican schoolmates.

Except in New Orleans, we have lived in suburban communities
with enough yard space to allow fairly loose rein for the children’s
animal spirits and to provide opportunities for fairly extensive gar-
dening. I was an enthusiastic gardener in Montclair and Barrington,
but have lately gone to the opposite extreme and allowed our yard
in Douglaston to become a weed patch. Maybe this is a passing
phase the middle-aged male goes through. Some of the other aspects
of suburban life such as joining clubs and civic organizations have
never interested me very much, but Helen enjoys taking part in
some community activities, such as amateur theatricals.

I am presently working for the City of New York at the Depart-
ment of City Planning and have recently participated in the massive
job of preparing a new zoning ordinance for the city. As of the
moment, it is awaiting final approval by the Board of Estimate. 1
have found planning work quite fascinating on the whole. It is
usually very absorbing, at times rather frustrating and often ex-
tremely demanding. In spite of low salaries, the field attracts many
able and intelligent people with whom ict is a real pleasure to work.
It is a field in which the practitioner can take satisfaction in render-

ing a worthwhile service to his fellow-man.

[ 677 ]

pt LC ttm

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILLIAM MORRIS HUNT, I

ee

    

HOME AppRESS: 539 Brush Hill Rd., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cambridge Drama Festival, Box 17, Cambridge 38, Mass.

Born: Dec. 11, 1912, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Rosamond Pier, June 15, 1939, Milton, Mass. cuiLpren: Elise Riche,
Aug. 24, 1941; Charlotte Dumeresq, Sept. 2, 1942; William Morris, 3d,
Dec. 2, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Theatre, ;

OFFICES HELD: President, Milton Historical Society, 1953-56, Cambridge Drama
Festival, 1956-6o; treasurer, Poets Theatre, 1955-58.

puBLicaTions; Award: First annual Rodgers & Hammerstein Award for Con-
tributions to New England Theatre, 1959.

THE general and glowing prosperity of the last few years has
shined warmly on my hope to slip back into the theatre once again
after starting off with it for some time right after 1936. In the
intervening period, with three little mouths regularly and expec-
tantly opening for pablum and strained prunes, determined resolu-
tion prevailed and I toiled in the vineyard of design, engineering
and construction, first putting in four years during the war at Pratt
Whitny Aircraft, eventually in charge of the design of their In-
stallation Engineering Laboratory with its world’s largest rectangu-
lar altitude chamber, and then returning to my own firm and much
interesting work. Of it all, the greatest satisfaction came from the
restoration of the 1774 Suffolk Resolves House in Milton, saved
from the wrecker’s axe, and safely moved and re-assembled onto
a permanent resting place to become a landmark for hungry his-
torians.

My return to the theatre really started after our Twentieth Re-
union, during the summer of 1956, when the University allowed me

| 678 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to use Sanders Theatre to develop a new and major theatre Festival
in this, our happy academic vale, presenting the great masterworks
of theatre literature at the highest professional level. Happily, the
last two of those three productions, which included “Henry V,”
“The Beggar’s Opera,” and “St. Joan,” went on to New York. The
point was proved, but Sanders was too small a bottle for this heady
wine. There were no other larger theatres available.

That spot where the old trotting track stood at the river’s edge
at the bend of the Charles near the Stadium always reminded me
(among a few other things) of the site where the Stratford Memorial
Theatre lies on the Avon. Tyrone Guthrie, of Old Vic and Strat-
ford, Ontario, fame, clambering over the tin cans and old rubber
boots at the water’s edge, agreed; and that was how the Art Center
Theatre on the Charles started. This first state theatre in the coun-
try was built as a recreational facility by the Metropolitan District
Commission, headed by Charles W. Greenough, ’19, with the ener-
getic support of a dedicated and civic-minded Art Center group.

We opened gloriously amid an armada of boats, beef-eaters with
trumpets, spluttering cannon, and under the blown-up nylon roof,
but with temporary canvas raced over the road from New York
State the same day flapping pennant-like at the side walls, and sur-
rounded by a moat without even one scrawny swan, and in con-
siderable dampness to one of the rainiest summers since the deluge.
Indeed, I have emphatically denied that Sir John Gielgud and Mar-
garet Leighton ever found their slippers floating across the dressing
room floor during “Much Ado About Nothing.” I have also firmly
denied that the engine from Station Thirteen successfully pumped
water under the moat to the toilets when the water line broke be-
fore the matinee.

An asterisked footnote to the problems of State Theatre. As if
things have not been already just dandy enough in getting a major

international theatre Festival ignited, one must bite the hp and
through the wan smile recognize that it is but sheer, sheer coinci-
dence that after forty-odd years of the carefree and go-lucky life,
the Metropolitan District Commission last summer must be plunged
into its first earth-shuddering Senate investigation complete with
Attorney General, indictments ricocheting off the subpoenas, and.
like hinged rabbits at the shooting gallery, two of the five Commis-
sioners (not including Charles W. Greenough, 19!) knocked over
when the smoke clears. If one cares with zealot’s eagerness to play
out a few sets of State Theatre, I am available at any convenient

[ 679 ]

sssueneneeesaeneeeintSesttneieanenitntinienenceansnteiaa

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

time to whack back the shuttledore for seven or eight hours, per-
haps not totally seer-like, but certainly with a racquet full of that
old ageless wonder.

Come deluge or the dawn, a steady parade of the world’s great
players and companies of international reputation has continued to
beat a path to the stage door of the Drama Festival, including the
Comédie Frangaise, Teatro Piccolo di Milano, Théatre National
Populaire, Vieux Colombier, Emlyn Williams, Marcel Marceau,
Hal Holbrook, Siobhan McKenna, Sir John Gielgud and others —
often in their premier performances.

Meanwhile (as the flickering dim titles of the silent pictures so
thought-provokingly put it) when Mimsie and I turn around, we
find the once little family practically flown. The two blondes,
Flise and Demi, have cumulatively piled up a staggering twenty-
four years at Milton Academy, and have danced themselves out in
the last two.

Mimsie, in addition to being the gyroscopic stabilizer to the little
convoy, has not only kept up with her art, she has gone on coura-
geously beyond it as an unsatisfied and searching rebel, switching
from the traditional onto a wholly new threshold of creative ab-
straction. She did a tremendous job in California two summers ago
working with the two dynamic Sisters Maria Corrita and Magdalene
Mary in mosaics and seriographs. She has passed on the brush to
Demi, eighteen, who returned this last summer from painting a
forty by thirty-foot mural on a church in Guanojuato, to enter
Rhode Island School of Design. Following her father, Elise looks
back after nineteen years to three good hard seasons of summer
stock and forward to winding up at the Drama Department at
Carnegie Tech. The humorist of the family, young William at
twelve, finds it difficult at Rivers to choose between hockey, base-
ball, archery or bar bells.

[ 680 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HUGH JAMES HUNTER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 20 Sumner Ave., South Braintree 85, Mass.

ROBERT CHARLES HUNTER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 106, William Beaumont General Hospital, E]
Paso, Texas. *

BORN: June 26, 1914, Utica, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, Cum laude, 1936; M.D. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1939.

MarrigD: Lois June Kelsey, Dec. 31, 1940, Chicago, Ill. (died Jan. z9 1948);
Ophelia Manus, July 10, 1949. cHiILDREN: Robert Charles, March 3, 1043;
Catherine V., March 1, 1944, Paul T., March 21, 1947; Reginald W., Oct.
22, 1951.

occupation: Colonel, Army Medical Corps; chief, Department of Medicine,
William Beaumont General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha; American Medical Association, Texas Medi-
cal Association; El Paso County Medical Society, American College of
Physicians (fellow).

[ 68r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

puBLications: T’en articles on a variety of medical topics in several professional
journals.

INTERNED as a civilian at Walter Reed General Hospital, Wash-
ington, D.C., in 1940. Came on active duty in January, 1941, with
the U.S. Army. Was an instructor at the Medical Field Service
School, Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, during the early part of
World War II. Combat service as assistant surgeon, XVI Corps,
in Europe. Served three years as surgeon, 82d Airborne Division,
Fort Bragg, North Carolina, immediately after the war. Resident
in internal medicine, Letterman General Hospital, San Francisco,
California, 1949-51. Chief, Gastroenterology Service, Tripler Gen-
eral Hospital, Hawaii, 1952-55. Chief, Department of Medicine,
William Beaumont General Hospital, El Paso, Texas, since 1955.
I like teaching, medicine and the Army, as the record shows. My

current job fills these needs. I like money too, but, come to think
of it, who doesn’t?

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 435 Warwick Ave., West Englewood, N_J.
BORN: July 27, 1913, Oakland, N_J.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: 8.B., 1936, M.p. (Columbia Univ.), 1940.

Marriep: Virginia N. Dowell, July 7, 1942, Paterson, N.J. carpren: John R.,
April 18, 1947; Edward A,, June 30, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Physician, general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Intern, Hackensack Hospital, New Jersey, 1940-42; associate
attending physician, Department of Medicine, Hackensack, Englewood and
Pascack Valley Hospitals.

MEMBER OF: Bergen County and New Jersey State Medical Societies.
ARMY Medical Corps, August, 1942, to March, 1946; first lieutenant
{ 682 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to captain; Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, Fort Robinson, Nebraska,
European Theatre with 298th General Hospital and battalion sur-

geon with 39th Infantry Regiment, Ninth Infantry Division (Ar-
dennes through V-E Day).

EDWARD DANIEL HURLEY

 

HOME ApDpRESs: 984 Canton Ave., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc., 68 Devonshire St. Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 18, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1945.

MARRIED: Joan Corboy Strahan, Oct. 19, 1937, New York, N.Y. (died 1958).
CHILDREN: Edward Daniel, Jr., Oct. 17, 1939; Peter Honeyman, Aug. 16,
1941; Joan Dagmar, Aug. 4, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Vincent Anthony Hurley, 41.

OccUPATION: Marketing director.

OFFICES HELD: Watertown Town Meeting Member, 1941-44; member, board
of directors and trustee, Manchester Historical Association, 1951-56;
member, board of directors, Calumet Club, 1953-56, member, executive
board, NH-VT Blood Bank, 1952-55, American Marketing Association,
1960-61; chairman, NH-VT Red Cross Disaster Committee, 1053-553
president, Harvard Club of New Hampshire, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Advertising Club of Boston, American
Marketing Association, Public Relations Club of Boston; Sales Fxecutive

Club of Boston, Harvard Mountaineering Club; Appalachian Mountain
Club; Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce.
PuBLIcATIONS: Editor and contributor to Appalachia, 1941-52.

AFTER selling my business several years ago, our family moved
back to suburban Boston — this was quite a change after spending
ten years in the foothills of New Hampshire. With both beys in
college now (one graduating this June), studving harder than Fever
did and accomplishing far more on various levels of activity. and a

[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

delightfully promising daughter in junior high, they weathered the
transition from country living quite well and seem to enjoy the
opportunities afforded by urban life.

Twenty-five years in the sales and advertising aspect of business
find me in a stimulating job in an international organization which
provides all the challenge I could ever hope to handle. I am finding
it increasingly easier of course to switch from skiing to fishing,
from climbing to painting, from physical activity to more contem-
plative interests. Add to this a slight but hopeful trend in the direc-
tion of a general mellowing, loss of more prejudices, a small growth
in discrimination and taste in the art of living, a greater preoccupa-
tion with things of the mind (as well as comfort), a somewhat less
tentative approach in coping with the problems of life; nothing
unique, as you can see, as I am sure all share these as a natural heri-
tage of our group at this time in our lives.

In compiling a note of this nature, it would be nice to come up
with a bit'of memorable prose to sum up the years since college.
About all that occurs to write is that in retrospect much of the last
twenty-five years seems to have been spent in experiencing a great
deal without any particular success in working out any design from
the experiences. This should probably not be a basis for any par-
ticular disappointment in the light of the shattering changes many
of our basic concepts have undergone during this period. We live

in a disturbing and unsettled era and I don’t suppose we’ll have
much of any serenity until we settle our real conflict which is one
of values — until the significance of human existence and the possi-
bilities of individuality are appreciated, until we recognize that we
are expecting and wanting too much out of a future which cannot
really be satisfactorily managed no matter how much effort is made.

About the only predictable pattern which emerges for any of us
seems to be one of alternating happiness and sorrow, both arising
often from the most unlikely sources. So far I guess I’ve had my
share of happiness and if the same quota holds for the years ahead,
Pll have no complaint.

Tl always be grateful for the window Harvard opened for me
on the world of ideas and for the friendships established there —
both have made the years far more enjoyable. If a part of the func-
tion of education is to help free us from the intellectual and emo-
tional limitations of our own times, I am sure Harvard comes closer
than most to imparting this particular escape velocity.

[ 684 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANDREW HUTCHINSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1234 Wentworth Ave., Pasadena 5, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Loomis, Sayles & Co., Inc., 3350 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5,
Calif.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1913, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Mary Esther Cooper, Aug. 27, 1942, West Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Maynard, Jan. 5, 1944; Elisabeth Cooper, Sept. 14, 1946, James Story,
March 3, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsellor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Harvard Business School
Club of Southern California; Town Hall of Los Angeles; California Club,
Los Angeles; Valley Hunt Club, Pasadena, Calif.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent a year at the Business School
and then took a crack at merchandising and consumer research with
Lever Bros. This was interrupted by World War II which took me
to the Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Florida, with several class-
mates for a year. The next year was spent on the Attack Transport,
USS Florence Nightingale as gunnery officer during the North
African and Sicilian Invasions—also several crossings in general
transport duty. Hospitalization in the fall of 1943 resulted in my
being surveyed to limited shore duty — the roughest of all, shore
patrol officer at Newport, Rhode Island. My fourth and final year
of duty was quieter than the third, although it included the in-
vasion of Okinawa as executive officer of the APA 170, USS Gosper.
The last two months the Skipper was hospitalized and as temporary
C.O. it was my pleasure to take the ship from San Francisco to
Manila and return on Operation Magic Carpet. Passengers included
survivors, among them Captain Oliver Gordon, of HMS Exeter,
sunk in the Java Sea in March, 1942.

[ 685 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Terminal leave was a belated honeymoon to Bermuda in the fall
of 1945. I retired with the rank of commander, U.S.N.R. After a
brief tour with Lever Bros. I joined the investment counsel firm of
Loomis, Sayles & Company, in Boston, in July, 1946. In the fall of
1948, we were transferred to the new counseling office in Los An-
geles and have had a most stimulating experience providing a sound
and prudent, but at the same time imaginative, balance to the finan-
cial thinking and planning of clients in the Southern California area.
The results of hard work and recognition of basic fundamentals
despite fads, etc., have been rewarding and gratifying. All facets
of economic, social, international, political and spatial developments
are significant to the investor and his counsel, which makes this a
most interesting profession.

Sports have been in the background for your classmate, but the
next generation is taking hold in good fashion. Weekend garden-
ing is fun; particularly when it is free of leaf-raking and snow-
shovelling. Mary Esther shares this interest with me, and we have
enjoyed developing three interesting (to us, at least) but different
southern California gardens. With three children to educate, it

isn’t easy to budget for a Twenty-fifth Reunion, but we shall be
there if possible.

EDWARD STOTESBURY HUTCHINSON

 

HOME appress: 777 Riven Rock Rd., Santa Barbara, Calif.

BorN: May 25, 1911, Beverly Farms, Mass.

PREPARED aT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936 (37).

marrigep: Nancy Holdsworth, 1940, Brookline, Mass. (divorced 1954). CHILD:
Shaun, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Investments.

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UPON graduating from college, I spent about two years traveling
in Europe and England, doing free-lance newspaper work. On re-
turning to the United States, I took up residence in New York
City, where I studied the technical side of the commodity and stock
markets.

In 1940, I married Nancy Holdsworth of Brookline. We have a
twelve-year-old son, Shaun, a sweet little boy to whom I am devoted
and love more than anyone else. I was divorced in 1954.

In 1941, I moved east to Santa Barbara, California, where I have
lived intermittently since that ume. For some years, have been
operating, with an eastern partner, an investment advisory service
in Santa Barbara. Our clients are predominantly in the East. Am
withdrawing from this field at the conclusion of the present year

in order to devote myself exclusively businesswise to managing my
own investments. .

JOHN SPENCER HUXTABLE

 

MAILING AppREss: Newport, N.Y.

[ 687 ]

SEI Le I Atte neste crersrereemree atest ee eH

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD ABELES ILLOWAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5729 29th Ave., West Hyattsville, Md.

OFFICE AppREsS: G4 Section, Hq., Second U.S. Army, Fort George G. Meade,
Md.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Chestnut Hill Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrieD: Doris Golde, 1943, Elkton, Md. (divorced 1945); Mary India Weller,
1952, Holbrook, Ariz, cuitp: Sharon Curtis, Aug. 27, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Bernard Illoway, ’33.

occupation: Plans officer (civilian), G4 Section Headquarters Second Army,
Department of the Army.

FOR a generation that was born during World War I, grew up in
the “Roaring Twenties,” matriculated during the “Great Depres-
sion,” became embroiled in World War II, returned to civilian
pursuits, followed by a tour in the Korean “police action,” it must
be admitted that the period 1936-61 has been an eventful, exciting
and interrupted era, which forcibly changed the perspective and
aspirations of the callow youths who poured forth hopefully,
twenty-five years ago, to grab the world by the ears, expecting to
make an early killing, retiring to a pale life of leisure and bragging
about it at their 25th Reunion. (This sentence would have guaran-
teed an automatic “E” in English “A”.)

Early efforts included the usual positions proffered to bright
young college graduates by large corporations, where the duties
were concerned with delivering inter-office correspondence, run-
ning stamp machines, delivering parcel post packages to the post
office, and learning the vagaries of the office manager from the
trustworthy secretary. Deciding that individual enterprise could
produce more material comfort, my next venture was a career in life

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

insurance which was rudely interrupted by the advent of World
War Il.

Not having chosen ROTC as an integral part of my undergradu-
ate curriculum, this was a strange and wonderful world. Served in
the Asiatic-Pacific Theatre during the war, occupation duty in the
Mediterranean and European Theatres after the war, and a stint
in the Korean War. The opportunity of traveling and seeing for
oneself the conditions, characteristics, and philosophies of other na-
tions has certainly given me a keener insight into some of the prob-
lems abounding in the world today.

DANIEL HENRY HOLMES INGALLS

 

HOME AppRESS: 24 Coolidge Hill Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE AppRrEss: Widener 273, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: May 4, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Adirondack-Florida School, Onchiota, N.Y., and Coconut Grove,
Fla,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1938.

Marrigp: Phyllis Sarah Day, June 27, 1936, Hot Springs, Va. cHitpreN: Sarah
Day, July 4, 1938 (m. Gary Daughn, Jan. 2, 1959); Rachel Holmes, May
13, 1940; Daniel Henry Holmes, Jr, Oct. 12, 1944. GRANDCHILD: Jessica
Daughn, Oct. 4, 1959.

occupation: Wales Professor of Sanskrit, Harvard University; editor, Harvard
Oriental Series; president, Virginia Hot Springs Corporation.

OFFICE AppRESS: Member, Society of Fellows, Harvard University, 1938-41,
1946-49; president, American Oriental Society, 1959-60; director, Associa-
tion of Asian Studies, since 1959; trustee, Harvard-Yenching Institute.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club; American Oriental Society; Association of Asian
Studies; Virginia State Chamber of Commerce.

PUBLICATIONS: “Materials for the Study of NAVYA-NYAYA Logic,” Harvard
University Press, 1951; articles on Sanskrit philosophy, literature and Indian
history; editor of volumes in Harvard Oriental Series,

[ 689 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

AFTER graduation [ entered the Graduate School of Harvard,
studying Sanskrit, Chinese and Japanese; took an A.M., and was
elected to the Society of Fellows in 1939. In 1941 I persuaded the
Senior Fellows to send me to India, where I worked on Indian logic
at the Sanskrit Research Institute in Calcutta. After Pearl Harbor
1 returned and entered the OSS, under which I spent a year and a
half in Afghanistan. I came home by way of North Africa and was
commissioned into the Army in 1944, spending the rest of the war
in Military Intelligence. After the war I was appointed to a second
term as a Junior Fellow (1946-49). This was followed by appoint-
ment to the faculty at Harvard, where, except for brief absences,
1 have been ever since. In 1952 I spent a half-year in India, making
a survey of colleges for the Harvard-Yenching Institute and doing
research on Indian philosophy.

In 1958, on my father’s death, | was elected president of Virginia
Hot Springs, Inc., which operates the Homestead Hotel and related
businesses in Bath County, Virginia. After a half-year of com-
muting every week between Cambridge and Hot Springs, I took a
sabbatical to devote my full time for eight months to hotel-kecping,
farming, forestry and real estate. 1 have managed to reduce this

business life now to the summer months and winter vacation and
am busy the rest of the year teaching and writing at Harvard.

NORMAN STODDARD INGALLS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 56 W. Main St., Merrimac, Mass.

orrice Appress: Malden District Court, 89 Summer St, Malden 48, Mass.
porn: March 21, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

[ S90 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Doris G. Landberg, June 24, 1939, Dorchester, Mass.  cHioren:
Robert Ernest, Nov. 17, 1952; Gail Susan, Sept. 17, 1954.

occuPaATION: Assistant chief probation officer, Malden District Court.

MEMBER OF: State and Federal Probation Associations.

A FEW years after graduation from college I entered the Federal
Prison Service and was assigned to the Atlanta Penitentiary for
training. One experience, in particular, seems appropriate to relate
at this time. A certain prisoner serving a long sentence approached
me one day and inquired whether it was true, as he had heard, that
I was a Harvard alumnus. When I informed him this was so, he
then identified himself also as a Harvard man and expressed regret
that he would be unable to attend his Twenty-fifth Reunion the
following June since he would still be incarcerated. There will
doubtless be some of our classmates who will be unable to join us
at Cambridge next June, but I hope none will miss out by reason
of incarceration.

On. leaving the service after World War II, I didn’t return to the
Federal Prison Service but left it, and the deep South, to return
to New England. Except for an additional two years in the service
in the Korean War, I have remained here the past thirteen vears
employed as a probation officer at the Malden District Court
(along with Classmate Edward J. Burke).

In twenty-five years I have acquired one fine wife, two fine chil-
dren, a car, some excess poundage and a small equity in my home.
Fortunately, during the same period, I have lost httle more than
some hair and teeth.

LEWIS ISELIN

 

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESs: 432 E, 84th St. New York 28, NY,

[ 691 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

BORN: June 22, 1913, New Rochelle, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.
MARRIED: Sally Cary Curtis, June 14, 1935, Norfolk, Mass. cumpren: Edith,

July 14, 1937; Sarah Cary, July 4, 1941.
HARVARD BROTHER: Columbus O’Donnell Iselin, zd, ’26; a.m., ’28.

occuPaTION: Sculptor.

MEMBER OF: Century Association; Architectural League.

I LEFT Harvard at the end of my sophomore year to go to art
school—a very wise decision, as I was learning nothing. I spent
five years at the Art Student League studying principally under
Mahorni Young. I went on active duty with the Navy in February,
1941, and was finally discharged in March, 1946. I was command-
ing officer of the PC-563 and DE-169 for most of this time. After
the war, I went back to sculpture and have had a modest success
doing principally portraits and architectural commissions, My style
is in that limbo between “modern” and “classical.” In 1951, I was
awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship, and as I was working on sculp-
ture for the Battle Monuments Commission, we spent almost all of
that year abroad and have made almost annual visits since then. My
family consists of two girls—one graduated with honors from
Radcliffe in 1959, and the other is a sophomore there now. Politi-
cally I am a Democrat, religiously an agnostic and my hobby is
sailing and I hope my social outlook is liberal.

DONALD ELDREDGE JACKSON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 99 President Ave., Providence 6, R.I.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 57 Eddy St., Providence, RI.
BORN: Feb. 5, 1914, Providence, R.L.

preparen aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

[ 692 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

marriep: Mary Hilliard, July 4, 1938, Pittsburgh, Pa. cumpren: Donald El-
dredge, 3d, May 21, 1940; Maryanna Hilliard, March 17, 1943; Holiday,
Dec. 28, 1949.

occupaTION: Real estate and industrial supply business.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Smith Estates, Inc.; vice-president,
treasurer and director, Allen & Reed Company; member, board of trus-
tees, Providence Lying-In Hospital; director, Rhode Island Heart Asso-
ciation.

MEMBER OF: Hope Club; Agawam Hunt.

THE thought of twenty-five years since leaving Harvard is fright-
ening enough without having to sit down and write about those
years!

Upon leaving Harvard, the first three years were spent in Wall
Street working for a Yale-studded brokerage house, thanks to the
father of one of our classmates, Sheldon Prentice. During those
three years a marriage took place, and also it became apparent
that I was not to be a stockbroker, so I went to work in the pur-
chasing field for the construction division of the American Cyana-
mid Company. During the first two years of World War II, my
job was liaison between the Ordnance Department and American
Cyanamid, as the company was in the process of building plants
for chemical warfare. In 1944, I left Cyanamid and went overseas
with an Air Force unit which was flying supplies over the “Hump”
to China for future operations which, fortunately, never took place.
The end of 1945 brought us back to the United States and specifi-
cally, to Providence, Rhode Island, which became home once again.
Here I became associated with a friend in the industrial supply
business. The two of us took over a one-time top-notch supply
house, which had practically gone into bankruptcy due to senility,
and refinanced and rejuvenated it to a point where the company is
one of the largest supply houses in New England. Now it sounds
simple, but there were many headaches along the wav, including
hurricane Carol which nearly washed us out of business, in more
ways than one.

In 1955, my father died and from that time to the present I have
divided my time between the family business (commercial real
estate) with my brother and the industrial supply house.

During recent years I have taken a great interest in the Rhode
Island Heart Association, both as a director and chairman of fund-
raising, and have also taken an active part as a member of the board
of trustees of the Providence Lying-In Hospital.

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Sports of interest are golf, tennis and skiing. The last has become
a real challenge and a year ago daughter, seventeen, and father went
skiing in Austria, only to find that you can’t teach the old dog new
tricks. But the Arlberg style still enables me to enjoy gliding down
the mountains in New England, as I approach the half-century
mark!

My daughter, Mimi, is in her senior year at Westover School and
hopes to go to college next year. A younger daughter, Holly, is,
thank goodness, still making noises around the home and is at
Wheeler School. Our eldest child is a son and namesake, twenty
years old, who is now in his sophomore year at Washington and
Lee University, where he finds it as difficult as any college. I im-
agine there are a Jot of us now writing in this reunion book who

might not be doing so, if the colleges had been as competitive then
as they are today!

Hoping the next twenty-five years will be as pleasant as the last
—and looking forward to seeing you all in June.

HARVARD DAVID JACOBS

 

HOME appress: 25 Haynes Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1352 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BoRN: May 26, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School for Boys, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: D.M.D. (Tufts Univ.), 1938.

Marriep: Esther Levin, Feb. 8, 1941, Troy, N.Y. crmpren; Eve Ilene, Sept.
5, 1946; Audrey Lee, Jan. 9, 1949.

occuPATION: Dentist.

MEMBER oF: New Century Club; American, Greater Boston, Metropolitan
District and Brookline Dental Societies; Fédération Dentaire Internationale;
Haynes Associates.

[ 694 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLICATIONS: Articles in American Dental Journal, South African Dental
Journal.

IN September, 1934, I applied for a leave from Harvard and matricu-
lated at Tufts Dental College. Thought I'd try dental school and
if I didn’t like it I would return to Harvard. I liked it, and all
went well. Graduated in June, 1938.

From July, 1938, to July, 1939, I served an internship in oral
surgery at the Worcester City Hospital. Then I engaged in the
struggle to establish a private dental practice. It was coming along
slowly but surely and I was quite pleased with myself. At this point
came the call to serve our country. I went on active duty, March,
1943, as a first lieutenant in the Dental Corps of the Army; served
two years in the European Theatre of Operations, spending most
of my overseas duty in England with short tours in France, Bel-
gium and Germany; discharged as a major in 1946. I then returned
to private practice and have been busily engaged in the battle of
sustenance ever since.

The past twenty-five years have shown the usual gains and losses.
Gained: weight, a wonderful wife, two lovely daughters, a little
wisdom (I hope) and plenty of responsibilities and worries. Losses:
plenty of hair and good health.

I am kept busy being a father and husband and keeping up-to-
date with the progress in dentistry. Never find quite enough time
to play as much golf as I'd like to and my score reflects it.

+ HAROLD BURTON JAFFEE

 

BoRN: Aug. 17, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y, parents: Charles D. Jaffee, Katherine
Weisbord.

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.; Country Day
School for Boys, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., Summa cum laude, 1936.
prep: Oct. 15, 1951, Berkeley, Calif,

HAROLD BURTON JAFFEE spent four years with our Class.
While an undergraduate he was a resident of Leverett House, mem-
ber of Phi Beta Kappa and on the editorial board of the Red Book.
He also won the Elizabeth Wilder Prize and held a John Harvard
Scholarship. For a few years he was associated with St. Thomas
Military Academy in St. Paul, Minnesota. He was a graduate stu-

dent in the School of Librarianship at the University of California
at the time of his death.

HAROLD EARNST JAHN

 

HOME apprEss: 337 N. Fifth St., Patterson, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Patterson Canning Co., P.O. Box 1166, Patterson, Calif.
BORN: July 12, 1915, Milwaukee, Wis,

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee University School, Milwaukee, Wis.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.B.A, 1939.

Marriep: Margot Fider Willits, Oct. 11, 1941, Wynnewood, Pa. camp: Jody
A., Jan. 16, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: William August Jahn, m.3.a,, ’29.
occupation: President, Patterson Canning Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Brookline Foods Inc.; president, Patterson Cham-
ber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: LE.T.; B.P.O.E.; International Rotary.
PUBLICATIONS: “How to Stow and Take Care of Food on Shipboard.”

AFTER twenty-five years I can honestly say that I believe I’ve
found a niche in life, which though not monetarily monumental
provides the happiness which we all seek as a prime goal in life.

[ 696 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am a member in good standing of that 4-H Club which includes
Harvard, Hair, Health, and a Happy Home Life. I was fortunate
upon graduation to be able to travel to many of the untroubled
spots soon to be engulfed in turmoil, and due to a bit of miscalcula-
tion on wintry conditions in the Bavarian Alps I spent my first
post-grad year soaking up Tucson air at the University of Arizona.
My first astonishing discovery after entering the Business School
was the con job we undergraduates had been given by the graduate
students regarding the undesirability of dating Radcliffe girls. From
that moment on Business School not only became academically ac-
ceptable but also socially enjoyable. No more of the midnight rides
from Wellesley and Northampton. (I have to include Northampton
as later I was to meet the one and only in that out-of-the-way
locale.)

Having an A.B. and an M.B.A., I now felt qualified to go into
my chosen profession-— dude ranching in Wyoming — but a fam-
ily tragedy intervened — I ran out of money and had to go to work
instead. My first two years in business are memorable primarily
because I found HER and by developing a tremendous amount of
business in Springfield I had time to convince her to abandon the
academic life at New Haven in favor of the Cambridge variety.

Prior to World War II, I was one of a small group asked by Pro-
fessor Doriot to join him in a research and development program in
the OQMG in Washington, and it was there with utter disbelief
that we heard the death knell of the old way of life. Five deferments,
four extensions, and two and a half years later, I was right back
where I started, at the Business School attending Supply School.
The military aspect of my naval career consisted of marching across
the bridge to the new gymnasium and firing five rounds of 22's
at a wall, but my actual work for the next several years was gratify-
ing and worth while. My work consisted of developing systems of
mass (or mess, take your pick) feeding on converted Liberty ships,
and as a result my mobility was uncluttered with specific orders or
senior officers. Fate, split-second timing, and astute planning found
me, my family, livestock, and furniture in San Francisco on my re-
turn to Brooks Brothers mufti.

The next several years were spent traveling the length and
breadth of this beautiful state as sales manager for a machinery
firm owned by a member of the Class of 1927. My sales approach
possibly was too strong, for suddenly in 1948 a customer who had
purchased too much food processing equipment with too few sales

[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

handed over the key to his plant and I was in the food business.
Nothing seemed to go right for some time. The commute was
eighty-seven miles one way, and while I flew most of the time there
is a whitish substance in northern California not to be confused

with smog which grounds small planes, especially those flown by
chickens or otherwise family men. The only memorable note in
the next seven years was the introduction by our firm of a product

now known as Good Seasons, distributed nationally by General
Foods (advt.).

Our move to Patterson was probably motivated in part by finan-
cial considerations, but fundamentally there was a deep-down feel-
ing that there’s more to life than hours of commuting, early break-
fast, late dinner, too little family life, parking meters, crowds, and
rush rush rush. After five happy years here I am convinced that we
are among the most fortunate families in the Class. No hurry, no
commuting, no locked cars or houses, two minutes from work,
five minutes to year-round fishing, twenty minutes from the finest
duck shooting in California — bagged a deer and was home in less
than an hour. Am I getting through to any of you? I could go
on but won't. Our daughter, Jody, who will be sixteen shortly goes
to school (boarder) at Milwaukee Downer Seminary where all of
the girls in my family went — Mother included. Inasmuch as our
plant operates only five months a year (no loafing during the canning

season), we have ample time for travel, golf, and just plain goofing

off. It is also affording me with the opportunity of entering into
community activities on a more active basis than during my hectic
travel years.

During the past twenty-five years I haven’t done anything pro- —
found or earth-shaking. 1 still hope in some manner to revolutionize
the tomato paste industry but time is moving on. I do hold the
record at a country club in Larchmont for holding my breath —
six minutes, four seconds — necessitating one portable pulmotor
and two operators for thirty minutes, This record has stood since
June, 1945, and the pool attendants have my name on the perma-
nently posted list. We are somewhat active in politics, being slightly
right of the far right of center, but you can’t win ’em all. I treasure
my years at Harvard and hope to have a grandson some day who'll
be among Her graduates. Now that Harvardians are again domi-

nating the Washington scene, I suppose we should all hoist a glass,

but I can’t help but believe the old Mother Goose fable that you
don’t get something for nothing — but maybe the Goose that laid

[ 698 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Golden Egg is the fashion of the ’60’s. I had hoped to see many
of you at Reunion but it comes at the start of our harvest. Maybe
on our Fiftieth. °

CHRISTOPHER GEORGE JANUS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 340 White Oak Lane, Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bache & Co., 140 S. Dearborn St., Chicago, Ill.

BorN: March 25, 1911, Charleston, W. Va.

prepareD AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: S.B. 1936; 8.B. (Oxford Univ.), 19375
Investment Bankers Diploma, 1955.

marriep: Beatrice C. Short, Dec. 29, 1938, Winnetka, Ill. cumpren: Andronike
Elizabeth, May 29, 1942; Christopher George, Jr., Feb. 3, 1944; Lincoln S..
Sept. 19, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker; associate, Bache & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Navy War Relief, 1941-42, Greek
War Relief Association, 1943-53, National Probation & Parole Association,
1948-54, Athens College, 1951-52, American Museum of Immigration
(Chicago chairman), 1954-56, Modern Poetry Association, since 1955, Win-
netka Music Center, 1957-59, Eisenhower Dinner (chairman), 1957, For-
eign Groups, 1957; delegate (Time-Life) International Industrial Develop-
ment Conference, San Francisco, 1957; delegate, Foreign Aid & Point Four
Seminar, Washington, D.C., 1958; Immigrant Service League, 1959; Chicago
Consultant, Fund for the Republic, 1960.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Harvard Club of New York; Ridge
& Valley Tennis Club, Illinois; Caxton Club; Oxford-Cambridge Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Meaning of Philosophy in Everyday Life,” New Fork Times
Magazine, “The Greek Civil War, 1944-1945,” Arbene Magazine, “Foreign
Trade — Opportunity and Challenge,” The Yale Review, 1959; “Imaginary
Letters,” Athens Press.

UP betimes and did put on my new grey jacket, just come from
London, with real horn buttons and silk lining from Italy, and after

[ 599 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

home to Winnetka again, still thinking about all the things I did not
do so Jong ago and what I did once believe in. Thence to my study
to find a special delivery letter from my son, just fifteen, at Kent,
who did write with great sense of discovery about the sorry mess of
the world and that he will study philosophy and change men’s minds
and he did ask me to help him translate a sentence from Pliny: Deus
est Mortali Mortalem luvare, saying if it means what he thinks it
means, at long last he has found his creed in life. As I did look at
this sentence, I did recall, with a lump in my throat, this very sen-
tence at Oxford twenty-five years ago which Gilbert Murray trans-
lated for me thusly: The Helping of Man by Man is God. For I, too,
that long, long ago did believe it was for me but that this day being
so very busy and the market being so very good, I did write my
son congratulations in discovering gentle philosophy but, my heart

was not in it, no, it was not in it, and I was much sad for it. And
so, late to bed.

LEONARD WALLENSTEIN JARCHO

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2024 Princeton Drive, Salt Lake City 8, Utah.
OFFICE AppRESS: Division of Neurology, University of Utah College of Medi-
cine, Salt Lake Ciry, Utah.
BORN: Aug. 12, 1916, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1936; A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1937, Mv. (ibid.), 1941.
marrigp: Ann Elizabeth Adams, April 11, 1956, Salt Lake City, Utah. cHipREN:
John Adams, April 9, 1957; Daniel Gordon, April 22, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: Saul Jarcho, ’25.
OCCUPATION: Associate professor of neurology and chairman, Division of
Neurology, University of Utah College of Medicine.
OFFICES HELD; Instructor in physiology, Columbia University, 1941; intern,

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, 1942; fellow in physiology, 1946-47, fellow
in medicine, 1948-50, assistant in medicine, 1948-51, instructor in medicine,
1951-52, Johns Hopkins University; assistant resident, Mount Sinai Hos-
pital, New York City, 1947-48; assistant physician, Johns Hopkins Hos-
pital, 1948-52; assistant professor of medicine, 1952-60, assistant professor
of neurology, 1959, associate professor of neurology, since 1960, chairman.
Division of Neurology, University of Utah College of Medicine, assistant
chief, 1953-57, chief, 1957-58, Medical Service, chief, Neurology Service,
since 1959, VA Hospital, Salt Lake City; neurologist-in-chief, SL County
General Hospital, since 1959; director, SLC Chapter, ARC, 1960.

MEMBER OF: New York Academy of Sciences, A.A.A.S.; American Physio-
logical Society; Association for Research in Nervous & Mental Diseases;
Sigma Xi, Salt Lake County Medical Society; Utah State Medical Society;
A.M.A.; Western Society for Clinical Research, American Federation for
Clinical Research; Utah Society of Internal Medicine, American Associa-
tion for Electromyography and Electrodiagnosis, Utah Neurologic So-
ciety; American Academy of Neurology.

PUBLICATIONS: Translation of Plautus’ Mostellaria for the Classical Club Ter-
centenary Production in 1936; some twenty-five professional papers in
neurophysiology, neuromuscular disorders and clinical and experimental

neurology, including a chapter in Harrison, Princtples of Internal Medt-
cine.

IT was my original intention to practise medicine. After a year
of grace (A.M. in Latin), I went through the conventional four
years of medical school, internship and residency training, inter-
rupted by military service in the Pacific. A year of research in
neurophysiology gradually stretched out to five, confirming the
prejudice in favor of university life acquired at Harvard. Follow-
ing a research project I went out to Salt Lake City, never really
believing that an easterner could live for long in the desert. Here
I found three things that changed my mind — the first girl who
ever made my bachelorhood seem empty, the first professional
opportunity that seemed to ask for my kind of ideas, and the first
spontaneously appealing balance between city and nature. Hap-
pily, all three have continued to be challenging. The first has pro-
duced a home and two wonderful sons. The second has brought
forth the first independent effort in neurology at the University of
Utah. The third has resulted in a garden, an indifferent skier and a
ruptured intervertebral disk.

The social, political and religious convictions which I have come
to hold are all one. Contemporary American medicine seems to me
to be rapidly losing its ideals and its humanity. We were late in
accepting the profit motive from business and the thirtv-hour weck
from labor, but we are learning. Selflessness, dedication, morality

[ 703 ]

L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

are all Sunday morning words, and on weekdays they produce only
derision, In common with all other Americans, we have lost moral
leadership, and where shall we find it? Certainly not in the churches,

which have abdicated it in sectarian squabbles, as witness the dis-

graceful exhibitions of the 1960 election, Perhaps it is not too much
to hope that Harvard might find a new wellspring.

HALFORD HOWARD JAY

 

MAILING AppRESS: The Great Road, Princeton, NJ.

PETER JAY

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Windmill Hill Farm, RD 2, Havre de Grace, Md.
BORN: Jan. 5, 1913, New York, N.Y,
pREeaRED At: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B,, 1936,

maaaieo: Gertrude Holden McGinley, July 1, 1936, Milton, Mass, crip: Peter
Augustus, Nov. 27, 1940.

L704]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
HARVARD SON: Peter Augustus Jay, '62.
occupation: Agriculture.

MEMBER OF: National Steeplechase and Hunt Association; United Hunts

Association; Elkridge-Harford Hunt Club; Maryland Horse Breeders
Association.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago I did not know what I wanted to do
except to get married as quickly as possible. Accomplished that
mission on July 1, 1936. It proved, as expected, to be the best thing
I ever did.

Filled ink wells in New York until I could stand it no longer.
Thanks to Harvard ROTC and the fun days and nights of polo at
government expense, I volunteered for ONE year’s active duty 4 in
March, 1941. On Christmas day, 1945, I was a civilian again after
visiting such spots as the Solomons and Italy, in that order. Sull
very vague as to plans, except no more ink wells for me. Moved to
our present farm in Maryland in the spring of 1946. Ran an un-
successful Noah’s Ark-type of business for a couple of years, then
majored in horses with gradually increasing success, but am sull

looking for the gold mine (called a stakes winner in this business).
Anyone want to buy some good yearlings?

RUTLEDGE LAWRENCE JAY

 

HOME appress: 7714 W. 83d St., Playa Del Rey, Calif.

OFFICE aApprEss: North American Aviation, Inc., International Airport Los
Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1913, London, England.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1939-1940, DEGREE: A.M, (Univ, of Chicago), 1950.

MARRIED: Edith Sherman, 1942, Chicago, Ill, cumoren: Lawrence Sherman,
Dec. 13, 1943; Dennis Oliver, Oct. 29, 1946; Philip R., 1949.

[ 705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARVARD BROTHER: Halford Howard Jay, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Senior research engineer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Univ. of Chicago Chapter, Psi Chi (hon. in psychol-
ogy), Del Rey Little League; cubmaster, Pack 427; scoutmaster, Troop

77+
MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association.

WALTER WILSON JEFFERS

    

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Brookside Drive, Plandome, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National City Bank of New York, 55 Wall St., New York
15, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 12, 1915, Columbus, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio. * |

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

MarRIED: Mary Walden Bell, May 12, 1940, Worthington, Ohio, CHILDREN:
William Christopher, April 23, 1941; Landon Bell, Dec. 7, 1943; Gabrielle
Williamson, March 2, 1945; Louise Petry, June 29, 1946.

occuPATION: Banking; vice-president, First National City Bank of New York.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Troop Committee, Troop 71, Boy Scouts of America,
1955-59; trustee, Congregational Church of Manhasset, 1956-59; member,
Board of Education, Manhasset, Long Island, Public Schools, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Plandome Country Club; Chicago
Club, Chicago, IIl.,; New York Society of Security Analysts.

DESPITE a spate of anxious and entertaining messages from our
Report Chairman, my picture of the last twenty-five years totally
refuses to come into focus. They have been interesting, rewarding
and exhausting; happy and successful by all the usual measures; yet
perhaps a little disappointing, too, in their failure to produce a
mature philosophy guaranteed to take me safely through the next
twenty-five and to serve as background for giving help and guid-
ance to my four teen-age children. In the large Wall Street bank
where I have recently taken over a slot handling our business in

[ 706 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Delaware, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, after five years covering
Illinois and Wisconsin, all of us are too busy to sit back and figure
out where we are really going and what we might and should do
to turn out a better job of taking care of our customers and our
bank. Similarly, I suspect, I am running much too fast in my per-
sonal squirrel cage to stop for breath, put my feet up, and try to
crystallize a philosophy and program for the next quarter-century.

In 1936, on my way back home to Columbus, Ohio, I stopped
off in New York City and touched base with a few financial houses,
including National City Bank which persuaded me (and I was
aching to be persuaded!) not to go back to the Business School, since
they could teach me everything I needed to know for their pur-
poses. So I started there in September 36 and, after a short period
of training and a few years in foreign operating departments, spent
eleven years in the investment end, and ten in the banking depart-
ment with accent on loans. Since there have been frequent changes
of areas covered, I have not been able to put down many roots in
any of them, to my regret, but I can claim many pleasant personal
relationships and a working acquaintance with a large part of the
business scene from Manhattan to the Mississippi. Ever since Ec. A,
under Charley Abbott, in my sophomore year, the business picture
has been my chief intellectual interest, so this aspect of my work
is particularly gratifying and stimulating. All in all, it has been
a satisfying and, I suppose, a successful career, even though there
has been no time to sit back and take stock, and even though the
fairly substantial pay check is regularly dissipated the moment it’s
received, or sooner.

On the home front, two boys followed by two girls have com-
pleted a very happy circle, even though four teen-agers at one
time can make life a bit strenuous. By-products of such a family
are a large suburban home, with large suburban mortgage and
taxes, and an even greater burden of civic activities — several vears
as Boy Scout Troop Committee Chairman, a tour as church trustee,
and currently, a term on the local school board. Some day, this over-
loaded calendar may start thinning down a bit, but no sign yet.

Hobby-wise, life includes a little gardening, a little golf, some
badminton in the winter and a lot of tennis from April to Novem-
ber. Since moving to New York, I have neglected the golf that
was my chief sport in college days. Tennis has more than made up,
to my wife’s distress (though she admits she would sce even less of
me on weekends if I had stuck to golf).

[ 707 ]

ett ane ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

In trying to distill the essence of this quarter-century since grad-
uation, I can see why it is so impossible to get it to crystallize for
this Report. The entire period has been one of amorphous living,
from day to day, without any particular plan or organization. There
have been many pleasures, many achievements, a few pains, a few
serious disappointments. Today, there seems little promise of an
early change in this state of affairs, but perhaps as the next twenty-
five years go by, some positive answers will emerge.

WILLIAM HAMILTON JEFFERYS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 365 Belrose Lane, Radnor, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: St. Martin’s Church, Radnor, Pa.

BORN: May 27, 1915, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; BD. (Virginia Theological
Seminary), 1939; a.M. (Temple Univ.), 1955.

MarRiep: Ena Violet Baur, June 12, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cuitpren: William
Hamilton, 3d, July 8, 1940; Lucy Hubbard, July 26, 1942; Peter Standish,
July 13, 1946.

OccUPATION: Episcopal clergyman; rector, St. Martin’s Church.

OFFICES HELD: Curate, Grace Church, New Bedford, Mass., 1939-40; rector,
Holy Trinity Church, Marlboro, Mass., 1940-42; chaplain, Episcopal
Academy, Overbrook, Pa., 1942-44, U.S. Army, 1944-46; personnel coun-
selor, Budd Manufacturing Company, Philadelphia, 1946-47; membership
secretary, Philadelphia Fellowship Commission, 1948-49; priest-in-charge
and later rector, St. Luke’s Church, Kensington, Pa., 1948-51; rector, St.
Martin’s Church, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Merion Cricket Club; Philadelphia
Club.

A VARIED experience in teaching boys, in the Army during the
Second World War, both overseas and later on transport duty, as

[ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an industrial counselor, and in the parish ministry, has convinced
me of the inseparable relationship between good religion and good
psychology if we are to have emotionally and spiritually healthy
individuals and communities. It was for this reason that I studied
for the Master’s degree in psychology, which I received in 1955,
served for three years as part-time chaplain at the Willow Grove
Hospital for mental and emotional disorders, and underwent psy-
chotherapy myself. Recently, I have been active with the Mental
Health Association of southeastern Pennsylvania, and chairman of
its Delaware County Committee for the past three years.

Happily married for twenty-three and one-half years, my wife
and I are especially proud of our three intelligent and talented chil-
dren. Our elder son, Bill, is now a junior at Wesleyan University,
majoring in astronomy, and is planning to study for a Ph.D., perhaps
at Harvard. Lucy is a freshman at Pembroke College, and is not
only a good student, but is artistic and musical as well, and is both
pretty and charming. Peter is in ninth grade at St. James School
near Hagerstown, Maryland, and doing a grand job.

My wife took up nursery teaching about six years ago, and re-
ceived a teaching fellowship at Bryn Mawr College to pursue post-
graduate work in education. She is currently working with a class
of four- and five-year-old children at the Germantown Community
Center, a job which she finds enjoyable and very rewarding.

We both are registered Democrats at the present time, and our
mutual hobby is collecting recordings and attending performances
of Grand Opera. Our most beloved material possession is an old
farm in Fayston, Vermont, with a fifty-mile view down the Mad
River Valley, to which we retire each summer for seven or eight

weeks of peace and proximity to the beauties of nature far from the
madding crowd.

L 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANK GREENWOOD JEWETT, JR.

  

HOME Appress: 101 High St., Marshall, Minn.

OFFICE appress: Geo. A. Clark & Son, gor N. Third St., Minneapolis, Minn,

BorN: April 14, 1914, Minneapolis, Minn.

prepareD AT: Blake School, Hopkins, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrigp: Betty Jones, May 16, 1939, Minneapolis, Minn. cHiLpReN: Frank
Greenwood, 3d, Feb. 13, 1941; Theodore Thomas, Aug. 15, 1944; Peter,
April 26, 1946, Nancy Wells, May 27, 1952.

occuPATION: Sales, wholesale hardware, farm equipment, pumps and supplies.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Minnetonka Yacht Club; Marshall Golf Club.

DURING the twenty-five years that have passed since June, 1936,
my life has been an interesting experience for me, although it has
not been filled with too much excitement according to the usual
standards.

After a trip to Europe, following graduation, fortunately I took
the chance when I had it, I returned to Minnesota and looked for a
job. The choice in those days was pretty limited, but I was able
to start with a wholesale hardware and farm equipment firm in
Minneapolis — at the bottom. Well, after twenty-five years, I am
stull with the same firm—not at the bottom, but I don’t own it
either. I now represent the company in the southwestern part of
Minnesota! The remuneration is about what I want to make it
along with the rise and fall of crop conditions and government ad-
ministrations.

The move from a community of some 600,000 people to one of
6,000 called for some interesting adjustments. A lot of these were
compensated for by the change from being a very small frog to
a considerably larger frog in the proverbial pond. At Icast it gets
you awfully close to the grass roots of living.

[710 ]

eee ne nner nen emer er ATT LE LOLOL CCT ET I TC NE sm eRRRE Sree yee ~taer messenger ~ i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I missed the excitement and travel of World War II, because my
draft board thought I was too old and might have a family one day
and because the Navy thought that I was too hin and blind in one
eye. A few years later they all changed their: minds, but by then
the Nazis changed their minds, too. Instead, I fought the battle of
Minnesota with the State Guard, defending movie stars from crowds
and the city of Minneapolis from mock invasions.

Outside of my business career I have made other questionable
moves. I was brought up to feel that citizens have civic duties.
After my marriage in 1939, | indoctrinated my wife with this same
belief and now she spends much more time trying to run the com-
munity than her own home and family. The same was true with
my recreational activities. My summer love of scow boat sailing
has been taken up by my wife, three sons and daughter to the ex-
tent that often I have to stay home and work while they travel the
regatta circuit. The boys have far outrun my skills by being regu-
lar competitors in Sears junior sailing championships. The same 1s
true of skiing in the winter. Whereas I once tried to teach them
the Arlberg crouch on Minnesota hills, before the recession of the
ice age, I now take them to Colorado’s mountains where they pa-
tiently try to convert me to Wedeln and reverse shoulder tech-
niques.

For better or worse, Harvard probably has had little effect on
my life. Until the recent national election, very little notice was
taken, except for the pointed finger and the remark, “You, a Har-
vard man!” J have had some interesting experiences interviewing
prospective Harvardians in this part of Minnesota, including an-
swering such an honest question from a straight A student as,
“Where is Cambridge?”

I hope I shall have the opportunity of showing one of my sons
around the Yard come Reunion time in June, as the preview to the
remote chance of his becoming a member of the Class of 1966.

[zi]

————SSSS

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANCIS CHARLES JOHNSON

  

HOME apprEss: 613 McIndoe St., Wausau, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Freeman Medical Group, 501 Jefferson, Wausau, Wis.

BoRN: May 24, 1915, Pittsfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936, M.D. (Med. Coll, of Vir-
ginia), 1940.

MarriED: Eleanor Freeman, Nov. 28, 1942, Wausau, Wis. CHILDREN: Judith
Regnier, Nov. 12, 1944; Jeffery Clark, Sept. 6, 1946; Douglas Francis,
Nov. 13, 1948.

occuPATION: Obstetrician and gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Marathon County Medical Society, 1950-52; general
chairman, P.T.A. Stunt Night, 1960; various committees as a staff mem-
ber of Wausau Memorial and St. Mary’s Hospitals.

MEMBER OF: County, state and national medical societies; state obstetrical and
gynecological societies; Wausau Club; Elks’ Club; John Harris Memorial
Obstetrical-Gynecological Society.

FOUR years of medical school in Virginia with its softening south-
ern influences: followed by post-graduate training in Wisconsin
completed the metamorphosis of a Yankee to a Midwesterner. I was
not long in Wisconsin before deciding that this would be my home,
and having shortly thereafter met my wife I started planning to
take root in this area. However, the rooting process was interrupted
by the onset of war and an Air Force-sponsored tour of this country
and the South Pacific to Saipan as a flight surgeon.

Perhaps you have seen in magazines the series of ads called “The
Wausau Story” by Employers Mutuals of Wausau which depicts
the many fine qualities of this community. Most descriptive is the
fact that if one stands on the roof of the Employers main office
building, no matter in which direction he looks he will see a church.
I have now become a part of this community and take pride in it as

[712 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my own. My first five years were not too happy since I found the
life of a general practitioner not to my liking. This was remedied
by leaving for three years of specialty training in obstetrics and
gynecology and now I am at last content with what I am doing.

I have three children now teen-agers, each completely different,
on whom I often gaze in wonderment and perplexity trying to de-
cide whether I’ve been a success or failure in their upbringing.
Having lost my wife several years ago to the attrition of mental ill-
ness, | was cast in the dual role of mother and father much to my dis-
may, Since it is often difficult to determine which you should be in a
given situation. If the end result is good, do you ever know whether
it is because of you or in spite of you? I find the days do not have
enough hours to do all the things I want to do. Being a confirmed
do-it-yourselfer, I have at least a half-dozen house improvement
projects going at one time. I will always say “Yes” to any invita-
tion to a jam session and get out my trumpet and trombone. 1
roller skate at least twice a week and enter at least four skate-dance
contests a year. In addition to finding out how much I don't know,
I have learned a few things such as:

1. If someone else can do it, so can you (with a few exceptions).
It’s amazing the skills one can acquire by doing.

2. Most every situation has a humorous side. Laughter can be and
is a very potent medicine and each of us has a human quirk we can
laugh at.

3- My old professor of obstetrics used to say a good obstetrician
should have a fat cigar and a posterior to match. When things get
complicated and the wisest course is uncertain, do not be stampeded
into the wrong decision, but rather sit on the fat posterior and putt
on the fat cigar until Mother Nature points the way. This works

well with almost any problem as well as obstetrics.

[713 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD BRIGHAM JOHNSON

&
i
E
Hl

 

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Stanwood Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE appREsS: Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg, 50 Federal St., Boston 10,
Mass.

BoRN: May 9g, 1914, Phillips Beach, Mass.

preparen at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1939.

marrieD: Chloe Tyler Walker, Oct. 12, 1946, Salem, Mass. cHr_pren: Ruth
Brigham, May 12, 1947; Stuart Walker, April 7, 1949; Chloe Tyler Niles,
Feb. 17, 1951; Anne Carter, April 4, 1955; Frances Martin, June 23, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Laurence Sheldon Johnson, ’39.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Swampscott Finance Committee, 1953-56; Board of
Delegates, Massachusetts Bar Association, since 1955; Town Moderator,
Swampscott, since 1956, president, Swampscott Council for Public Schools,
since 1959; director, Massachusetts Moderators’ Association, since 1959.

MEMBER oF: The Abstract Club; The Whiting Club of Lynn; Marblehead
Yacht Club; The Beach Club; Tamworth Outing Club, Wonolancet Out-
door Club; Harbor Island Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional short articles on legal matters, including one night-
mare in the Massachusetts Law Quarterly.

IN the summer of 1935, along with a clutch of Classmates, I re-

charged my batteries, for Law School, by pedaling a bicycle through

Europe, and in 1944 and 1945, the Army furnished an even more

inexpensive tour of approximately the same places, with the 82d
Airborne Division. Even the second expedition now begins to ap-
pear a blessing (somewhat disguised at the time), because my whole
tendency since has been to anchor myself in one place. I live in the
house I was born in; my specialty is real estate law (and, if there is
any branch of law which confines the specialist to his own com-
monwealth, it is real estate); and the hostages to fortune enumerated

[714 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

above preclude adventuring. Fortunately, I like my hostages and
my specialty, and the house has come to fit me like an old shoe.

I say no more about the hostages for fear of spoiling them. There
is no fear of spoiling the specialty; it will take care of itself, although
some of my fellow-specialists occasionally give signs of wishing
that I would abandon my semi-professional hobby of tinkering with
it by drafting legislation designed to take some of the mystery out of
it. I like to dream of the day when we get it classified to the point
that some Classmate in the computer business can design one which
will tell the state of a man’s title to land as quickly and accurately
as the state of his checking account. The above-mentioned fellow-
specialists fear that I may be heading myself and them for technolog-
ical unemployment, but I am sure that as long as land is owned by
humans they will be thinking up land deals with each other for
lawyers to describe — either in English or in codes.

Two years of teaching at night at Northeastern University
School of Law gave me great respect for the teaching profession.
The first year I was learning, in preparation, much more than the
students did in class, so 1 enjoyed teaching and thought I was a
great teacher. The second year I used the same old lecture notes
and bored myself stiff (and probably the students, too). I declined
to inflict myself on them a third year.

Service on the Town Finance Committee was as enjoyable as the
first year of teaching — for the same reason. I was learning a lot
about towns and people. It was a lot of work, however, and when
the opportunity arrived to withdraw gracefully (by getting elected
Moderator), I took it.

I am fickle in my unprofessional hobbies. Once it was gardening
in the summer, but the job of keeping back the weeds was abandoned
to the ragged rearguard of perennials when we built a boat. I used
to spend winter weekends at carpentry and photography, but the
jigsaw and the enlarger are gathering dust in the cellar now that
we have bought an old house in New Hampshire as a base for skiing
operations.

[715]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD CHESTER JOHNSON

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 11 Marmion Rd., Melrose, Mass.

oFFice AppREss: Avery & Saul Co., 115 Rindge Ave., Ext., Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: May 26, 1913, Norwich, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Loomis Institute, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marrieD: Margaret Whitehead, Aug. 14, 1937, Melrose, Mass, CHILDREN:
Arnold Whitehead, May 31, 1941; Carolyn Chester, April 29, 1944; An-
drew Murray, Aug. 24, 1945.

occupation: Vice-president and general manager, Avery & Saul Company,
welding fabricators of heavy industrial equipment and nuclear com-
ponents in steel.

OFFICES HELD: Board member, Boston Chapter, American Welding Society,
1950-55; secretary, Brier Neck Association, Gloucester, Mass., 1951-56;
chairman, Melrose Boy Scout Fund Drive, 1955-58, member, Melrose
Republican Committee, 1956-59; vestryman, Trinity Episcopal Church,
since 1957, council officer, Minuteman Council, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Bellevue Country Club, Melrose, Mass.; Brier Neck Association;
American Welding Society; Trinity Episcopal Church.

WHAT happened? Twenty-five years have just gone by. I went
to work the day after graduation with Avery & Saul Company of
Cambridge, after standing in line with seven of my classmates to
submit an application. Ever since then I have worked there con-
scientiously, with many changes of title and scope.

For the last twenty-three years [ have been married to a “perfect
36” Radcliffe girl, and together we have raised three of the best
children in the world.

Sitting out the war was discouraging, even though I had an
“essential-to-the-war-effort” job, but I tried to do my bit by work-
ing in the local civilian defense unit. To gain more experience in
my job, I studied at M.LT, in the evenings,

[716 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My pleasures lie in playing rather inconsistent golf, serving my
church and community, summering at Gloucester and skiing at
Waterville Valley. My children are now all at high school and
college age. One went to Loomis and is now at Colby, another
attends Governor Dummer, and our daughter is headed for Mount
Holyoke.

Looking back over the last twenty-five years I see nothing of
any spectacular importance to anyone but me, and yet I certainly
have gained rich experience, and it has become a source of great
personal satisfaction.

WILLIAM WADE ALLEN JOHNSON

 

HOME apprEss: County Road, Ipswich, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Laboratories, Inc., County Road, Ipswich, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 2, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1938.

MARRIED: Natalie K. R. Scott, July 18, 1937, Boston, Mass. (died March 10,
1960), CHILDREN: Rollin Montague, August 31, 1938 (mm. Penelope Liv-
ingston Delafield, Dec. 19, 1957); Edmond Daniel, Dec. 12, 1942; Lorne
Sargent, Sept. 28, 1951. GRANDCHILD: Richard Wade Johnson, June 5, 1959.

HARVARD SONS; Rollin Montague Johnson, ’60,; Edmond Daniel Johnson, 63.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Montague Johnson, ’34.

occupation: Research physicist, president, Research and Development Cor-
poration.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; American Association of Textile
Chemists and Colorists, Society for Applied Spectroscopy; Institute of
Food Technologists; American Association for the Advancement of Sci-
ence; Essex County Club; Manchester Yacht Club; Harvard Club of the
North Shore.

PuBLicaTIoNs: “Spectrographic Study of Treated Textiles Dyestuff,” Reporter,
Dec. 13, 1948, with Daniel P. Norman; “Massachusetts Fisheries Today.”

[717]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Massachusetts State Department of Commerce, April, 1953, with Daniel
P. Norman.

EVERY time you want one of these darned multennial reports, it
seems as though one phase of my life was completed and a new
one not well enough started to make any report. As for career his-
tory, it seems to me that we go along as best we can, mellow a little,
are a little less demanding of life, and learn enough in the process to
make it possible to go ahead with some degree of assurance in the ag-
gregate. As for war records and government service, my only experi-
ence has been a couple of research development contracts for the Air
Force, the results of which were unprintable. It is interesting to
put travel and hobbies together, since I suspect travel is my prin-
cipal hobby, especially when I can combine it with business com-
mitments in Europe, etc. I have succeeded in sneaking in five trips
across the pond in the past ten years, without getting in one trip
to the British Isles. Outside of this, music and ceramic glazes have
continued to be hobbies in the puttering class.

It seems to me that in my case the twenty-fifth year is not a
vantage point from which I can sit back and survey or contem-
plate, but rather a whistle stop along the hectic road of trying to
pin down a few securities, or perhaps moderately stable points, in
the midst of a flood of metastable uncertainties. Perhaps, in scien-
tific terms, I am referring to the Heisenberg Principle that nothing
is stable or certain but change.

On the matter of social, religious or political convictions, I am
utterly stumped as to what a social conviction can be. As for politi-
cal convictions, they are ever beclouded by politicians or political
figures; and the more you know individual politicians, the less
you are likely to think of them. Religious convictions seem to grow
with one’s experience. In college they were certainly characterized
by incredible naiveté and ignorance. With experience comes knowl-
edge and the importance of faith follows on its heels, as a natural
consequence. All of which reminds me of a quotation, from I do

not know where: “Good judgment comes from experience, which
comes from bad judgment.”

[ 718 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRISON PAUL JOHNSTON, JR.

    

HOME aAppRESS: 5415 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1500 Arrott Bldg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1913, Pittsburgh, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 1935-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).
MarRRIED: Mary Arlene Hoover, Dec. 8, 1951, Pittsburgh, Pa.
occupation: General agent, insurance business.

MEMBER OF: Duquesne Club, Pittsburgh Athletic Association; Pittsburgh Fielc
Club; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh.

CHESTER RICHMOND JONES

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 8818 Halsted St., San Diego 11, Calif.

. [719]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GRINNELL JONES, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4350 Vallejo Drive, Salt Lake City 17, Utah.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Machine Computing Services, 138 S. Second St. Salt Lake
City, Utah.

BorN: Dec. 27, 1913, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1936(37)3 M.B.A., 1939.

MarrieD: Fanny Rickard Kennedy, June 17, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHitp:
Grinnell, 3d, Feb. 2, 1945.

occupaTioN: Broker of machine computing and accounting services.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Essex County Health Association, Mass.,
1954; trustee, Tower School, Marblehead, Mass., 1954; member, board of
governors, Boston, 1954, New London, Conn., 1957, American Institute
of Banking; member, board of directors, Chamber of Commerce, Groton,
Conn., 1957; second vice-president, Kiwanis Club of Groton, 1957; chair-
man, Youth Service Committee, Kiwanis Club of Salt Lake City, 1958-61;
member, Science Curriculum Study Committee of Groton School Sys-
tem, Boy Scouts Troop Committee, Connecticut and Utah.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club, Salt Lake City.

OCCUPATIONALLY, the central thread of the last twenty-five
years seems to have been fiddling around with numbers — arith-
metical, mathematical, accounting — and how to handle them fast,
accurately and in large volume. It started with commercial banking
in New York City, Boston and Salem, Massachusetts, and Groton,
Connecticut, on the operating side. Heavy emphasis always had
to be placed on simplification of routine and procedures. This was
also true during a World War II army tour with the Quarter-
masters. Inevitably I became more and more involved with the
early crude attempts at automation. Finally, in a “whither goest
thou” mood, I decided I really liked the challenges of figuring out
answers to some tough problems of office paper-work and started

[720] .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

out on my own as a broker of idle computer and electronic ac-
counting machine time.

Since I have never learned to keep my mouth shut, I have always
been on various committees wherever I have been living. One of
my most interesting current assignments is as chairman of the local
Kiwanis Club’s Youth Service Committee. As this club is the fourth
largest in the country, we have a generous youth project budget.
Even so, it is truly amazing how hard it is to be sure we are getting
the maximum community benefit for the club’s dollar.

The family hobby seems to be visiting American historical spots,
with the net result that we have been in almost every state at one
time or another. Being New England-born and raised I find the
process of adjusting to life in Salt Lake City a little disconcerting
at times. After all, from my doorstep it is ten miles north to a
symphony concert and only twelve miles southeast to big game
hunting — elk, antelope, etc. If my son needs a little extra cash for
date money, he can go about six miles away up a canyon and in half
a day find five to ten dollars worth of gold in a stream bed (relax,
brother capitalists, there is not enough to be commercially feasible
—I have checked it). We cannot go due east, as three-quarters of
a mile away a mountain peak starts its upward sweep to 12,000 feet,
and since our house is at 5500 feet, it is an interesting phenomenon
to have a mountain practically in the front yard.

HENRY BOWDITCH JONES

  

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Buswell St. Boston 15, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Book Stack Service, Boston Public Library, Copley Square,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 17, 1912, Heath, Mass.

[721]

a | -

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Assistant in book stack service, Boston Public Library.

MEMBER OF: Metaphysical Club of Boston, 1956-58; New England Railroad
Enthusiasts, 1953-56.

puBLicaTions: Letters to the Boston Globe: “B. & M. Has Grandest Of All
Whistles —The One On The Large 3600 Pacifics,” February 24, 1954;
“Must Heritage of the Steam Whistle Be Sacrificed Along With Locomo-
tive?” February 22, 1955; “Plea to Save Iron Horse,” Christian Science
Monitor, June 20, 1955.

SOON after leaving Harvard, I took up the study of piano-tuning at
the Faust School of Tuning, in Boston (1932-36), a school which
had been originally a part of the New England Conservatory of
Music. While I have gone on to other work since that time, I have
been glad ever since that I took up this study, with its scientific in-
terest; and I still keep up some tuning as a side occupation, enjoying
the varied social contacts which I have made through this work.

Mr. Oliver Cromwell Faust, the head and instructor of this school,
had developed a system of his own known as the “Faust System of
Tuning,” perfected the work beyond a regular factory job, and
made it a particular point to raise tuning to the level of an art. I
felt that I was fortunate to get to know Mr. Faust, who was a par-
ticular type of German with a fine feeling for craftsmanship.

While music itself has always been one of my main leisure in-
terests, including some study of piano-playing, I have found it
particularly enriching and illuminating to have this additional knowl-
edge of the science of tone. This knowledge has impressed me as
being essential to a complete understanding and appreciation of the
development of our musical scale as we know it today.

Over a two-year period during the Second World War, 1942-
44, I took several kinds of work (at a garage, a paper company and
mill-end store) for the varied experience. But I enjoyed most of
all a period of country life on a farm in Cuttingsville, Vermont, in
the summer and fall of 1943.

But I was planning, according to my taste and natural bent, to
find a permanent position in the field of books. So, in 1944, I was
happy to settle at the Boston Public Library, where I have been
working ever since, enjoying and benefiting by the close access to
the library’s rich and valuable collections. Meanwhile, about the
year 1951, I watched with pride the newer developments in the

[722]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

library, particularly an additional place, such as the library had never
had before, for playing and borrowing classical records.

In the library stacks, I was particularly attracted to a certain sec-
tion with interesting books on Oriental religions, some of these
being rare and practically forgotten. From a reading of this collec-
tion, one gets a thought similar to what is so well brought out by
the popular Chinese writer and philosopher, Lin Yutang, to the ef-
fect that an appreciation of the Oriental outlook reveals a wisdom
in the light of which the modern western world should be reévalu-
ated. Similarly challenging was the fertile metaphysical thought of
the last century in New England.

For five years, 1949 through 1954, I had the pleasure of singing
in the choir at Christ Church, Cambridge. At the same time it was
stimulating to listen to the liberal views of the Reverend Gardner
Day, who spoke with a particular courage and frankness, keeping
us freshly alive to our heritage of religious liberty, and warning of
the present dangers to it right around us.

Meanwhile, over the past eight years, in a way which I had never
foreseen, my background in music and piano-tuning turned out to
be a most valuable help in a study which I have been making in order
to preserve the tones of the whistles and bells used on the railroad
steam locomotives. Like many of us, I have always been particularly
fond of riding on the railroad, and felt that a train ride had a
unique quality which made it stand apart as a stirring experience.
Then, when the railroads came to be in jeopardy and steam locomo-
tives started disappearing, I thought it time to give the matter some
thought and study.

In 1952, when the New Haven Railroad had its last steam train,
it occurred to me then for the first time to concentrate my attention
on the whistle, in order to see whether the whistle had any distinc-
tive character worth noting, and whether its sound could he analyzed
in terms of notes and pitches. I found that practically all American
railroad steam whistles (unlike most European ones) did have several
simultaneous tones forming a definite chord; and that on the rail-

roads many different whistle-chords were used, according to the
period, type and number-series of the engine. Most people, while
fond of the steam whistle and while feeling its distinct character,
have been unaware of these details of tonal construction. Unfor-
tunately, people say, “A whistle is just a whistle.” But on the rail-
roads it is known by a more descriptive term, “chime whistle.”

Fortunately, meanw hile, the Boston & Maine, being a a more con-

[ 723]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

servative railroad, held on to some of their steam engines for four
years longer, until 1956, thus giving me just the opportunity which I
wanted to continue my study of the “chime whistle.” So, from 1952
till 1956, I tracked down a number of the remaining steam engines
on a number of trips, both with the Railroad Enthusiasts (a club
which arranges special railroad trips for those who enjoy train
rides and visits to roundhouses) and independently on many short
Jocal runs, such as to Clinton, Stoneham, Lowell and Marblehead.
On these trips, I would ride close behind the engine and listen
carefully for the whistle, and check the several notes and pitches
with a tuning fork which I always took along. Soon I developed
an instrument consisting of several copper pipes, prepared like
organ or flute pipes and blown simultaneously like any hand whistle,
duplicating the whistle-tones with all their characteristics.

Meanwhile, the editor of the Boston Globe, around January, 1954,
started a discussion in his column to urge the railroads to restore a
similar type of whistle on the diesel engines. Along with several
others, I wrote a letter to the Globe in February, urging that we
ought to take pride in our railroad whistles just as England does in
her church bells, and should take a stand for saving them as we
would our city parks.

On February 26, 1956, the Sunday Globe gave me a write-up in
what I was attempting to accomplish. This write-up brought me a
very interesting correspondence and lasting friendship with a man in
New Hampshire who had been studying Aeolian harps, and had been
making a number of harps himself. Being himself a member of the
Thoreau Society in Concord, Massachusetts, he called my attention
to an Aeolian harp kept at the Emerson house in Concord, which
Thoreau used to use to get inspiration for his waiting when he came
to Emerson’s house to visit.

So this friend and ] have discussed and compared the Aeolian
harp and the railroad “chime whistle”; and we are both of com-
pletely one mind in our conclusion that the two are comparable in
their aesthetic value and contribution; that both alike, in their color-
ful and poetic qualities, are remarkable achievements in the realm of
tonal effect, and that they are a challenge to some of the limitations
of ordinary conventional music and musical instruments.

To date, with the help of the many published recordings of train
sounds, I am still trying to make as complete as possible my data on

chime-whistles, not only for their historical interest, but also in order
to preserve their plans of construction for possible future use and

[ 724]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

further exploration of their possibilities, either on the railroads or in
musical composition.

WILLIAM PICKERING JONES

  

HOME AppRESSs: Wheat Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Haven Railroad, 292 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: Nov. 20, 1911, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1939.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Jarvis Beach, May 17, 1947, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Frances Redway, Feb. 11, 1948; William Pickering, Jr. “Dee. 17, 19493
Elizabeth Hart, Jan. 6, 1953; Margaret Jarvis, Nov. 24, 1958.

occupation: Lawyer; New York counsel for the New Haven Railroad.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Wee Burn Country Club, Darien,
Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

HARVARD Law School absorbed the three years following grad-
uation. This left just time to start with the New York law firm of
Perkins, Malone & Washburn, establish residence, and be admitted
to the New York bar in November, 1940. That same month, with
the Draft Board breathing down my neck, I became, without bene-
fit of military training, an ensign (DVS) USNR, acting on the tip
of some salty friends who w ere forming what was euphemistic: ally
called a ‘‘yachtsmen’s reserve.

A few months later, I was afloat in the U.S.S. Wullizamsburg, che
converted yacht Aras. This vessel should never have sailed east of
Nantucket; nevertheless, she took me and sixty-three other suffering
souls on escort duty ten times around Iceland, twice near Greeenland,
several times into the Arctic, and once to Londonderry, Ireland.
Incidentally, she was one of the few large converted yachts ro
survive naval duty. Thereafter, true to promise, the Navy provided

[725 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

other wondrous cruises: Miami to Brisbane, Australia, on a Kon-
Tiki-like voyage in the P.C. 1119 that touched at Bora Bora. This
unspoiled gem in the Society Islands is recommended to the man who
has everything but needs something. In 1943, in command of the
P.C. 476, we explored much of Australia, New Guinea, and nearby
islands. It seemed that in 1944 I plotted the USS Straub (DE-181)
in every square mile of the South Atlantic, being rewarded with a
few memorable liberties in Montevideo and Rio de Janeiro. Later,
in command of DE-181 I revisited the North Atlantic, made a trip
into the Mediterranean and North Africa, then west via the Azores
and again through the Panama Canal to Hawaii. After a stretch of
weather patrol in the Central Pacific where typhoons enlivened the
solitary vigil, I brought the DE-181 in February, 1946, back through
the Canal to New York, and in March, 1946, laid that rusty wanderer
to rest among the water hyacinths of Green Cove Springs, Florida.
Back at Perkins, Malone & Washburn, I was soon up to my eye-
brows in a general law practice. On May 17, 1947, I married Eliza-
beth Jarvis (Jerry) Beach of Hartford (Vassar 41). The firm made
me a partner in 1948. During this period, I continued active in the
Reserve, commanding Division 383 in Manhattan. So, I had only
myself to thank when the Navy beckoned in March, 1951, for more
sea duty — this time as exec and navigator on the USS New (DDE-
818) with the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean. Notwithstanding the
lure of Monte Carlo, with Jerry and two young ones at home, the
distant horizon lost some of its charm, so in September, 1952, I was
quite ready to resume the practice of law and bring my naval ac-
tivities to a close as commander, USNR-R (retired list).
Then the busy years swept by, during which the firm changed to
Washburn, Gray & Jones, and I argued a case before the Supreme
Court of the United States. The Justices unanimously disagreed with
my views but flattered me with six pages of opinion. The year 1956
brought a departure from general practice, and I am presently Coun-
sel-New York with the New Haven Railroad. We live in the wilds
of Fairfield County with four energetic children, a dog and a cat.
When it’s too cold to play tennis, we go out and hack at the under-
brush. My most capable wife is about to attain her Master’s degree
in education amid distractions that would finish me. As a case in
point, we have just returned from the Stamford Hospital emergency
room where “Margot,” our two-year-old cherub, now safe in her
crib, had her stomach relieved of some silver polish. But this was
the night, prodded by our patient committee, that 1 promised to

[ 726 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

take this backward glance. There hasn’t been a dull minute since
that sunny June day, and the four kids asleep around me guarantee
there won't be any in the next twenty-five years either.

EDWARD SAMUEL JOSEPHSON

  

if.

*

HOME ADDRESS: 121 Cabot St., Newton, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Hq., Quartermaster Research & Engineering Command, Natick,

Mass.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: .19}2-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; PHD. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1940.

Marrigp: Blanche Andelman, Feb. 3, 1938, Jersey City, N.J. cumpren: Nancy
Ellen, July 1, 1942; Betty Louise, Nov. 26, 1943; William James, June 2,
1952.

OCCUPATION: Associate scientific director for development.

OFFICES HELD: President, Oakview Elementary School P.T.A., Silver Spring.
Md., 1950-51, Scientific Research Society of America, Natick Quarter-
master Branch, Natick, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; Scientific Research Society of America (RFSA);
Quartermaster Association; Society for Experimental Biology and Medi-
cine; Sigma X1.

PUBLICATIONS: Some 45 scientific articles in journals mainly on chemotherapy
of malaria: “The Estimation of Basic Organic Compounds in Biological
Tissues. 6. Estimation by Ultra-violet Spectrophotometry,” E. S. Joseph-
son, S. Udenfriend, B. B. Brodie, Journal of Biological Chermustry, 168:
341-344 (1947); “Studies in Human Malaria, VIL Whe Protective and
Therapeutic Action of Quinacrine Against St. Elizabeth Strain vivax
Malaria,” W. C. Cooper, D. S. Ruhe, G. R. Coatney, E. 8. Josephson,
M. D. Young, American Journal of Hygiene, 49, 25-40 (iogg); “Seudies
in Human Malaria. X. The Protective and Therapeutic Action of Chloro-

quine (SM 7618) Against Sc. Elizabeth Scrain vivax Malaria.” G. R. Coat-

[727]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

desk in Washington, D.C, I helped manage the Army Chemical
Corps research program in chemical, biological, and radiological
warfare. This switch meant ending a career at the laboratory
bench where I had been sufficiently productive to publish over
forty articles in scientific journals and to become a scientist admin-
istrator. ‘Then in mid-1954, with the opening of the Army Quarter-
master Research and Engineering Center at Natick, Massachusetts,
I returned to my native Massachusetts to direct the development
program for the Quartermaster Corps.

The Quartermaster Corps development program is conducted at
Natick and Maynard, Massachusetts; Chicago, Illinois; Fort Lee,

Virginia; and Yuma, Arizona. The Corps is concerned with de-
veloping equipment, clothing, rations, and tent-type shelters to
enable troops to fight anywhere, any time, in any kind of a war. In
my present assignment I have traveled extensively to observe how
Quartermaster items function in the field. We subject our new
items to the most challenging tests before introducing them into the
Army Supply System. Consequently, I have traveled in one sum-
mer both to the torrid desert and to Greenland. The American
people can rest assured that, within the limited funds made available
to the Quartermaster Corps for developing new items, our Gl’s
are getting the best clothing, rations, and equipment that modern
science and engineering can provide.

Through the years my tastes have remained fairly consistent —
same wife, same avidity for good music (mostly chamber music),
same love of good books (history, biography, classics), and same
enjoyment of stimulating company of both sexes. I have maintained
a consistent interest in education at all levels. We must find ways
to attract and retain the best teachers; we must pay them better,

and we must give them status (love, respect, dignity, and prestige)
to go with their honorable calling.

[ 730 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALVIN MM. JOSEPHIY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Kinsman Lane, Bruce Park, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Heritage, 551 Fifth Ave. New York, N.Y.

BORN: May 18, 1915, Woodmere, Long Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MaRRIED: Rosamond Eddy, March, 1938, New York, N.Y. (divorced tags.
Elizabeth Peet, March 13, 1948, Santa Monica, Calif. auipars. Diane,
June 20, 1943; Alvin M., 3d, Jan, 31, 1949; Allison Flizaberh, Mav oa) syeo,
Katherine Anne, Oct. 22, 1954.

occupaATION: Author; managing editor, Book Division, Amernan HHentsge
Publishing Company; member, Advisory Board, American Henrage Vaya
zine,

OFFICES HELD: Educational editor, New York Herald Tribtane, rgye. director.
News & Special Features, WOR-Mutual, roi8-4t; chicf, Special Beene,
Domestic Radio Bureau, Office of Facts and Figures and Othce of Waar
Information, 1942-43; vice-chairman, California, American Veteran Coc,
mittee, 1947; member of board, Third Marine Divison Awewinen, pre
dent, New York Chapter, U.S. Marine Corps Combat Correpombtenes
Association, 1953, Young Democratic Club, Greenwich, Conn, ogy ee
vice-president, Young Democrauc Clubs of Connecticut, tocg ai. ment
ber, Connecticut Democratic State Central Committee, 19 i fe, merrier,
Greenwich Democratic Town Committce, 10¢8 40, Demes rata ¢antil ore
for Connecticut State Assembly, 19s0; vice-chatrrman, New York Chapter.
Westerners, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Third Marine Division Association, US. Marine Carpe Ceaniue
Correspondents Association, New York Chapter, Westerners, earns
political and historic associations,

PusLications: The U.S. Marines on Ivo Jima: The Lame and whe Sort and
the Tall; Uncommon Valor: The Pioneer Spirit, ety awe pure cnet
magazine articles and contributions to state, Feyrenal and woes erury hes
torical quarterlics and publications,

LIKE a number of banks that boast of their seabiliry, we oan triily
say that we have come through riotous ines of Prohilitest 4 rast,

[730 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ings (Colliers, etc.), we told the country that we took the island for
the B-29s!

Before V-J Day, I did a lot of war writing on the Corps, mostly
for the Iufantry Journal. Also, | did some books. The best I think
was The Long and the Short and the Tall, published by Knopf in
1946. Chapters from it are regularly reprinted here and there. I
also sold something again to MGM and once more went to California
to write for the movies. I could not find a place to live, however,
and for six months after I got out of uniform, it was very rough. I
was separated again from my wife and daughter (who had been
born when I was in boot camp). They stayed in Washington as
long as we could take it. Then they came on, but things did not
work out well in some very cramped quarters. It ended in separa-
tion, divorce — and eventually in a new and happy marriage and
three more fine children. Fortunately, my first daughter never
ceased being a part of my family and is still with me most of the
time when she’s not at school.

I was a staff writer at MGM for about four years, then at War-
ner’s and United Artists, and finally teamed up with director Mark
Robson and others to make an independent picture. At the same
time, I became interested in a string of weekly papers around Los
Angeles and edited them. It got me mixed up in west coast crime
and politics. In 1951, during a visit to New York I was invited to
join the editorial staff of Tire magazine to help start the color pages
and a new feature called “News in Pictures.” I moved from Santa
Monica to Greenwich, Connecticut, where my wife had been born
and raised, and I stayed with Time until January 1, 1960, as an asso-
ciate editor.

In the meantime, I had developed interests in conservation, the
American Indian, and the history of the early United States west,
and spent much time studying and writing on all three subjects.
My avocation at length became my vocation, and in 1960 I joined
American Heritage. I have a number of books in the works, write
regularly for periodicals and scholarly journals, and am now some-
thing of a specialist on the history of the Northwest.

Finally, politics. 1 have been a Democrat and am still one. [’ve
dabbled, fretted, and slaved, and have held a number of local and
state positions. The most exalted echelon I’ve reached: Member of
the Connecticut Democratic State Central Committee. In the fall
of 1960, I was an unsuccessful Democratic candidate for the Con-
necticut State Legislature from the Republican stronghold of Green-

[ 734]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wich. That leaves only philosophy to account for, and perhaps the
above speaks plainly on that score. I have lived life fully and have
been exhilarated by it. At the same time, I have hoped that the
footprints I left pointed forward, and that the efforts I made con-
tributed to those who are following, and hurt no one.

STANLEY LOVERING JUDKINS

 

HOME AppRESS: MR 97, Binghamton, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Link Division, General Precision, Inc, Hillcrest, Binghamean,
N.Y.

BoRN: April 14, 1914, Merrimac, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1937, 1939-1940. DEGREE: S.B. 1936(48).

marrieD: Marjorie Randall, June 29, 1935 (divorced); Jeannine Reynolds, tycy.
CHILDREN: Hope, May 14, 1937 Gm. Andrew Spencer, May, tyfo), Marjone,

July 14, 1939; Jacqueline, May 6, 1950.
occupation: Manager, bids and proposals for Link Division, General Pree runn,
Inc. -

AN autobiography, even a brief sketch, arouses mixed feelings
Somerset Maugham’s title, The Summing Up, emphasizes one reason,
The others are probably related to stagefright. [To have not ap-
proached the task with enthusiasm, and I intend to be brief.
Although my college degree was in chemistry, [ have spent only
a few years in that field since graduation. Experience has convinged
me that, in industry at least, a man’s colleagues are usually better
judges of his abilities, his strengths and his weaknesses than he
himself. Accordingly, I have become more and more amenable te
accepting assignments which at first seemed divergent from my
own pre-conceptions. I have been, successively: a quabey contred
chemist; a research chemist; an advertising copywriter, a techmeal

[735]

it

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

editor; and, for the last ten years, an administrative engineer with a
manufacturer of electronic equipment. My present position is
manager of bids and proposals with the Link Division of General
Precision, Inc.

The importance of Harvard in my life has grown, rather than
lessened, with the passing of time since graduation. One invaluable
gift from college has been an enlarged capacity to deal with new
concepts, whether in business or in private life. This has increased

both my usefulness and my enjoyment of life.

The swift unfolding of today’s social and technological changes
makes life intensely interesting. | confess that my adolescent enthu-

siasm and sense of anticipation are still strong. | look forward to
the next twenty-five years.

+ ALEXANDER LUEKE JUNGE

 

BorN: Sept. 29, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Ernst Herman Junge, Eliza-
beth Marie Lucke.
PREPARED aT: Wright Oral School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS (N COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: 3.B., cum laude, 1936.
MaRRieD: Barbara Jean Graham, July 30, 1938, White Plains, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Stephen, April 29, 1942; Margaret, Aug. 12, 1944; Ingrid, Dec. 3, 1949.
piep: May 1, 1954, New York, N.Y.
wipow: Mrs. Alexander L. Junge, 32 Yale Rd., Hartsdale, N.Y.
ALEXANDER LUEKE JUNGE spent four years with our Class.
While an undergraduate he was a resident of Lowell House and a
member of the editorial board of the Crimson. After graduation he
worked a short time as a tool designer and then became a salesman
for the Dictograph Products Company. During the war, he edited
government technical publications. For our Fifteenth Anniversary

[736 ]

——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Report, he wrote that he was occupied with the Hartsdale Dads’
Club and writing articles for the local papers. He was survived by
his wife and children. ;

PETER DAVID JUNKIN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Starlea, Brewster, N.Y.

EPHRAIM MAX KAHN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2709 Claremont Blvd., Berkeley 5, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6601 Fairmount Ave., El Cerrito, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1915, New York, N.Y.

_ PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cumt laude, 1yi6, soa. (New York
Univ.), 1940.

MarRiED: Barbara Bliss Allen, June 30, 19430, North Chatham, NOY. cuitoess
Susan Kathleen, Dec. 31, 1943; Georgia Jean, Feb. 27, tyyu, Mie hacd VHeay
Nov. 23, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roland Kahn, ’41 (deceased),

[737]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

occupaTIoN: Physician, specialist in internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Infectious Disease Section, 1959, Gastroenterology Sec-
tion, 1960-61, Herrick Memorial Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Internal Medicine; American College of
Chest Physicians; American Geriatrics Society; Harvard Club of San
Francisco; American Civil Liberties Union; NAACP; The Physicians
Forum; Friends Committee on Legislation.

HOW has that distant, youthful quadrennium at Harvard affected

my last twenty- -five years? My difficulty in answering this question

to my own satisfaction has delayed this report right up to the dead-
line, even in the face of your fantastic series of postal reminders.
I still have not arrived at an adequate answer, but [ think I might
settle for a general statement: four years at Harvard during the
Great Depression helped produce the necessary background and
perspective for me to become a confirmed nonconformist in my
profession.

To claim nonconformity in the brotherhood of ‘medical practi-
tioners is not exactly claiming unusual distinction. Most American
physicians are true examples of the prototypes drawn by Molic€re
and Shaw. They are mercenary, Philistine, filled with an unreal-
istic sense of their own importance and devoid of the attributes one
expects to find in an educated man. The majority of my colleagues +
in the brotherhood of Aesculapius adhere to an antediluvian set of |
political and social doctrines and clamor loudly that they are
uniquely equipped to help the people preserve their American
liberties from the collectivistic threats of health-planning and group t
medicine. On this basis, 72% of doctors voted for Nixon as a
lesser evil. In some instances, unfortunately, their professional com-
petence is no more up-to-date than their political understanding.

The exceptions are many and honorable, but they are exceptions
nonetheless.

To be an exception in such a profession is obviously desirable. f
Only by being consciously atypical have I been able to enjoy my :
work and my professional life. And I have enjoyed them greatly:
the gratitude and devotion of patients, the stimulation of clinical
investigation and of diagnostic problems, the pleasures and chal-
lenges of teaching younger physicians, not yet touched by the
venality of their seniors, and the close association with other ex-
ceptional colleagues of sympathetic attitudes and tastes. For this,
then, I feel I owe something to my years in Cambridge.

Twenty-five years is not such a long time when events divide it

[738 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

into sections. Promptly after final exams in 1936 I left for a lony

summer in Europe (so promptly that I missed the Tercentenary

celebration and the Commencement exercises). Then came four
years of medical school and a two-year internship. The latter was

interrupted before its scheduled completion by World War IL.

From 1942 to 1946, I was a medical officer with the 77th Infantry

Division. This entailed a gruesome summer in the Arizona desert

and three major campaigns in the Pacific, which seemed rather tame

by comparison. It also entailed countless inspections of kitchens
latrines and short arms; considerable mud, dysentery and shrapnel,
and no medical experience of any value. My greatest personal los

in the war was the death of my brother Roland (Class of 1941)

who was a naval flyer.

Following the war came the years of training in internal medh-
cine. Then by a trick of fate, I landed back in the Arizona desert,
this time as a civilian and with a family. One year in Tucson was
all we could stand — physically, emotionally and financially. We
couldn’t afford to move all the way back to the East Coast, so we
followed the course of empire and came to California. We are
now convinced that San Francisco Bay is the only place to live in
the United States. We don’t intend to leave.

During my. medical school days I pursued the editor of the Vawsur
newspaper. Being sensible (as well as lovely and bright), she de-
layed our marriage until I received my degree. During my intern:
ship she was the family breadwinner. Later, in my first six Vears
of practice in Berkeley, she was my nurse, secretary, receptionist
and office manager. Sharing daily problems, difficulties and sativ-
factions was an experience prized by both of us. T think we shall
always look back with nostalgia to those years and to the closeness
they engendered.

Those years were also the years of McCarthy. As unencumbered
people, dependent on no employer or institution for our livelihood
we were able to raise our voices in opposition to the spread of
conformity, silence and fear. The identification of Elarvard as an
island of resistance to the spreading witch-hunt was a source of
pride to me, as it was to most Harvard men. Vhe cheerful and
determined spirit of fighting the good fight was INViFOranNY, Even
exhilarating. I like to think that we carry it with us vet.

For ten years we have lived in Berkeley, taking part urate pelica,
cal, schoo] and cultural activities. Berkeley has Many poms of
similarity with Cambridge, being a university town ina Metre pete

[ 739]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

tan area. And San Francisco is a city of unique charm. We like
it here.

Life in Berkeley is enhanced by the existence of a remarkable
non-commercial radio station, KPFA, which presents programs of
intellectual and cultural distinction free from the restraints of ad-
vertising taboos and Madison Avenue Babbittry. For several years
I was privileged to be a regular commentator on this station. Our
classmate, Harold Winkler, has been in charge of KPFA for the last
few years. Under his aegis, associated stations have been developed
in Los Angeles (KPFK) and New York (WBAI). The existence
of these listener-supported stations presenting cultivated, thought-
ful and controversial programs is a beacon of hope in our civiliza-
tion of TV commercials and bomb-shelters, [ doubt if any of our
Class has made a more significant contribution to social sanity than
Hal Winkler.

My wife points out that we are really not so all-fired atypical.
She says that as a family we are really about as typical as it is pos-
sible to be —for a Vassar graduate’s family, that is. The Vassar
class of 1939 reports that among its members the average number
of children is three; Harvard leads the list of colleges from which

their husbands were graduated; and medicine leads the list of their
husbands’ occupations. But, of course, she is wrong. In actual fact,
our family is far from typical if only in one respect: no one can
classify as typical children as delightful and unusual as ours.

ANDREW MARTIN KAMARCK

 

sone vane pr >

HOME appress: 7013 Meadow Lanc, Chevy Chase 15, Md.
orrice appress: International Bank for Reconstruction & Development, Wash-
ington, D.C. {

[740 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porn: Nov. 10, 1914, Newton Falls, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Bryant High School, Long Island City, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., summa cum laude, 1ox4. ane
PH.D., 1951.

marrigp: Margaret Ellen Goldenweiser Burgess, Oct. 25, tygt, Washingron,
D.C. cHipren: Ellen Mary, June 20, 1940 (step-daughter); Flizabeth
Anne, July 14, 1943; Martin Alexander, May 15, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Norbert Lawrence Kamarck, ‘49.

occuPaATION: World Bank, Economic Adviser on Europe, Africa, Australasia,
lecturer on African affairs, School of Advanced International Seudiey
Johns Hopkins University.

OFFICES HELD: Membership Committee, Health & Welfare Council of the
National Capital Area, since 1960.

MEMBER oF: American Economic Association; African Studies Awacianen
(fellow); Council on Foreign Relations, Allicd Military Government
Finance Officers Association, Phi Beta Nappa, Uganda Club, Brewstcs
Park Club.

pustications: Articles in the U.S. and Africa, the American Awembly, 7 be
Wellesley Symposium on Africa, Wellesley, various publicanons devoted
to Africa; reviews in American Economic Review, other econeme pub.
lications; articles in The Field Artillery Journal, Institure of Naval Pro.
ceedings; The Economic Development of Uganda (currently in process),

 Mbg.

IN the past twenty-five years I have been quite successful. so far.
in getting what fundamentally I want out of life and work — a series
of interesting new challenges coupled with the fecling that what I
am doing is making some kind of contribution to humanity ~ Lhave
also been extremely lucky so far, in that the jobs I have had thar
have met these requirements have also usually paid enough to meet
my family’s requirements. Happily too, my wife has been in full
sympathy with this way of life, having herself been brought up in
a similar environment with a father who was one of the great
American public servants. Asa result, my jobs and my family have
filed my life and I have had little remaining need to get inte our.
side voluntary public service.

In the first part of the war, 1 worked directly for the Scerctary of
the Treasury on a whole variety of assignments connected w ith the
war. I was on the Allied Control Commission in Italy — at one penne
running the central bank in liberated Italy, at another, berg an
charge of I.R.I., an outfit that owns just about every vanety of en-
terprise you can name. IT was the U.S. Deputy Representative on
the Four-Power Finance Directorate of the Allied Control Corurnesl
in Germany for the brief time four-power control really funenoned
I was in the middle of the work on the Marshall Plan, chaning, ot
one point, a committee bearing the glorious ade of EWORRP

C74t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

(Top Workmen European Recovery Program). Then, I was U.S,
Treasury Representative in Italy and chief of the Finance Division
of the Marshall Plan Mission in Italy during the crucial years when
we helped the Italian Government lay the financial foundations for
the outstanding growth Italy has made since.

For the last ten years I have been with the World Bank, mostly as
Economic Adviser on Europe, Africa and Australasia. I have headed
economic missions of the Bank to the United Kingdom, France, Italy,
Yugoslavia, Australia, Ghana, South Africa, etc. I did the economic
work on the Kariba project in the Rhodesias and recently on the
Volta project in Ghana. I am writing this while on an economic
survey mission in Uganda.

I do a fair amount of lecturing, mostly on Africa these days, and
some writing. As far as hobbies are concerned, I suppose that
Africa, conversation and sailing would fit this classification. ‘“Sail-
ing” is an over-statement: we have a small catboat on Cape Cod that
we play around with.

My elder daughter, Ellen, is at Smith and this year is in Italy —
a country the whole family loves. My second daughter, Betsy,
has her eyes on Wellesley for next year. My son, Tino, who was
born in Rome, still has some years to go. He shows no interest in
Harvard at this point, being attracted instead by M.I-T., and the
space age. I dare say he is right; 1 am looking forward myself to

taking the first World Bank economic mission to Mars.

t

EKJAI KAMBHU

    

eal ea Ae gabe hs

3
4

HOME AND OFFICE appress: 118/3 Sukumwit Rd., Between Soi 61 & 63, Bangkok,
Thailand.

BoRN: May 14, 1913, Bangkok, Thailand.

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N_J.

[ 742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; M.D., 1941.
marRiED: Kathleen Amy Dillon, Aug. 13, 1949, Bangkok, Thailand. cunpers:
John Eklin, June 14, 1950; Susan Aree, Sept. 19, 1952; Jim Wirajai, Feb.

17, 1954; Peter Pimon, Dec. 31, 1956.

OccUPATION: Physician.
MEMBER OF: Medical Association of Thailand, Royal Bangkok Sports Club,

Royal Dusit Golf Club.
AFTER college I went on to Harvard Medical School.
starting practice in my country were delayed by the war. Joined
the O.S.S., and served in the Free Thai Underground. Received the
Medal of Freedom from the United States. I returned to Harvard
for more postgraduate work. Finally settled in my home town,
kept my military connections by serving in the Thai ‘Army Medical

Plans of

Corps.

Two years later I got married. Who else from our class can sav
that his wife came half-way around the world to marry him? W ith
a growing family to feed I went on the Reserve and have been
doing full-time practice for the last nine years. Now have three sons
and one daughter, all smart. Built our dream house two years ago,
next door to our old one. Made our own furniture, using teak and
Thai marble. My gardener supplies the labor, I the know-how.

As Bangkok has grown rapidly in the last ten years, and now has
grown beyond our once suburban home, I have closed my down-
town office and opened a new one at home.

Just thought — Twenty-fifth Reunion — what have I been doing
all these years? Just started really practising medicine nine years
ago. I must take the prize as the last in the Class to get started.

WALTER BYRON KANTACK

 

HOME AbpRESS: 1 Edgewood Lane, Bronxville 8, N.Y,

[ 743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICE abpREss: Dunnington, Bartholow & Miller, Chrysler Bldg. E., 161 E.
qzd St, New York 17, N.Y.

Born: Oct. 16, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B. Summa cum laude, 1936; LL.B, 1939.

marRiED: Mathilde Anne Schwiers, July 17, 1943, New York, N.Y. cHivpren:
Laura Maria, May 16, 1945; Robert Byron, July 20, 1948; John J. W,,
March 31, 1952; Thomas George, July 4, 1956.

occupaATION: Member of law firm in general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1948, secretary, since 1956, Associates of Engineer
Corps and Co. K, Seventh Regiment, New York National Guard, Inc.;
Village and Town Democratic Committeeman, since 1953; director, 1953~
56, treasurer, 1954-55, Vice-president, 1955-56, member, Advisory Council,
since 1960, New York Young Democratic Club, Inc.; director, Com-
mittee on Foreign Trade Education, 1954-58; treasurer, Bronxville Demo-
cratic Committee, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Associates of
Engineer Corps and Co. K, Seventh Regiment, New York National Guard,
Inc.; Harvard Clubs of New York and Westchester.

THE general course of my life since 1936 is indicated by the fore-
going data and by contributions to the five previous issues of this
publication. There is little to tell since the Twentieth Anniversary
Report except to note that my planning with respect to the Reunion
in 1956 was affected by a development alluded to above under the
caption “Children.”

Law practice I have found much like the rest of life —- sometimes
interesting, sometimes not. My work brings me to a reasonably
broad range of business and personal problems; and from time to
time I can feel I have really helped someone.

The rest of my time is devoted largely to activities such as those
listed above, plus the Army Reserve (which requires two weeks
each summer and over thirty evenings through the rest of the year)
and the customary community occupations such as P.T.A., Boy
Scouts and politics. A Democrat in a place with a registration more
than 90% Republican finds his name quickly reached on the duty
roster. Last year it was my turn to run for Village Trustee. The
result was somewhat more work and fun than I had anticipated —

but not nearly enough votes. Such time as I can consider strictly
my own is used for a modest program of reading, primarily in
American history and literature though I try to keep it in some sort
of balance.

About the state of the world (not to include the solar system),
my feelings are mixed. Despite the familiar manifestations of cruelty

[ 744]

 

SE Abner on eee om oTRpROMON NRE

AERC REMY IG Kags

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and materialism, I have the i impression that human beings in genera
have been improving and are indeed better than they have ever
been. It is encouraging to count up the numerous dire predictions
which have not come to pass. Yet all this is outweighed by the
multiplication of destructive power, which I cannot regard other-
wise than as lengthening the odds against the human race (one more
underdog to root for).

Nevertheless, thinking about what is ahead comes much more
naturally than thinking about the past. To write now in terms of a
backward look seems a tedious job. Suffice it to say that I can
count two big dreams which have come true — evidenced in one
case by the words “Harvard College” on the cover of this book and
in the other by the family data above. Realizing them has meant all
1 had hoped. It has also brought a feeling of responsibilitv and
obligation which is one of the things I had in mind when I mentioned
thinking about what is ahead.

x

IRVING KAPLAN _

 

HOME ApprREss: 55 Glendale Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

sorn: April 25, 1915, Chelsea, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES! A.B., 19363 LL.B., 1939

MarrieD: Beatrice Boyar, June 27, 1950, Brookline, Mass. crtoren: Gayle

Arlene, Sept. 28, 1952; Charles Eric, April 21, 1954.
occupation: Attorney,

AFTER college I attended Harvard Law School, graduating in
1939. I then was employed in the government service and in De-
cember, 1942, was inducted into the Army. Through the courtesy

[745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

of Uncle Sam, I saw part of the United States and then was sent
overseas to Africa and Italy. In December, 1945, I was given my
discharge and became a civilian again.

After knocking about for a while, I settled down to engage in
the practice of law. I am so occupied at the present time and my
office is in Boston.

MORTIMER KAPLAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3720 39th St., N.W., Washington 16, D.C.

OFFICE AppRESS: Federal Housing Administration, Washington 25, D.C.
BorN: March 15, 1913, Springfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1936; AM.
(Columbia Univ.), 1937.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Financial economist, Federal Housing Administration.

oFFIces HELD: FHA chairman, National Brotherhood Week, National Con-
ference of Christians and Jews, 1956-57; member, board of directors,
Government Division, UJA, 1958-60.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Washington; Royal Economic Society; Ameri-
can Economie Association, American Statistical Association; American
Finance Association.

puBLications: “Elements of Foreclosure Risk,” Journal of the American Statts-
tical Association, June, 1942; “Government Insurance and Economic
Risk,” International Review for Social Sciences, Kyklos, Fasc. 3, 1955,
with S. A. Miller, “Recent Institutional Arrangements in Mortgage Lend-
ing,” The Journal of Finance, May, 1958.

oT ATT T RT

MOST of the last twenty-five years have been spent as a govern-
ment economist in Washington, D.C. This is a comparatively new
estate in the federal service. I came to practise its art sometime after
Commencement by way of Columbia for more study and then the

[ 746 ]

OA RMI merece ene

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Littauer Center, a school which has contributed greatly to the
elevation of the estate. The latter’s first dean, Professor Emeritus
John H. Williams, aided me enormously when he invited me to
join its first staff and later recommended me to my first federal post.
This was with the Federal Housing Administration, an agency [am
with today. Service with it has been almost continuous, except
during the war and special work with other government agencics,

During World War II, I was with a navy amphibious engincer-
ing battalion in the Central Pacific, and at its close we were attached
to the Marines’ Third Amphibious Corps for some occupation duty
in North China. Although mine was an amphibian’s eve-view, 1
was much impressed by what I saw of the Navy’s effort. It re-
flected a kind of “higher intelligence” for which only supenor
planning, organization and administration could account.

Promptly after being mustered out, I was asked to join a small
government group planning the legislation and administration of
what later came to be known as the veterans’ emergency housing
program. A major part of it, government insurance of mortgages,
was given to the Federal Housing Administration by the legislanon,
and I returned to this agency after the program was launched.

There was another interruption in service, for example, in con-
nection with the government’s flood insurance program in which I
had a part, again with a small group which planned its legislation
and administration. This was the first such venture, private or pub-
lic, and we had the help of the U.S. Geological Survey and Weather
Bureau, the Army’s Engineer Corps and the Navy's Coast and
Geodetic Survey. The talent available within the federal service
which can be mobilized on short notice is indeed impressive. ( Al-
though the legislation was approved, the failure of the Congress ta
appropriate the necessary funds to administer the program has ren-
dered it abortive, only temporarily perhaps.)

My work at the Federal Housing Administration has been largely
developing or reviewing legislative proposals. Unlike most other
government agencies, ours has legislation every year. Since the
original legislation, there have been sixty-six amendments which
have been enacted; the number of bills which have been introduced
to amend the legislation I have not counted.

There have been other duties such as serving as a consultant te
the House Committee on Forcign and Interstate Commerce which
was considering a legislative proposal to use the vehicle of gevern:
ment insurance in a program to provide medical facilities; to the

[ 747]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Department of Health, Education and Welfare in a similar connec-
tion; to the Federal Reserve Board, among other agencies, on inter-
governmental committee work. In addition I’ve been a frequent re-
viewer of manuscripts, among them National Bureau of Economic
Research authors, have written for the professional journals and
have read papers before learned societies.

There has been some talking, too, mostly before missions from
foreign governments invited by our government to study our private
and public institutions. The vehicle of government insurance against
loss of investments as an instrument of public policy is still some-
thing of a novelty outside the United States. The fact that it utilizes
the institutional framework of private enterprise, providing -incen-
tives to the investor and the borrower, has evoked international in-
terest. Several foreign governments have adopted similar insurance

plans.

WILFRED KAPLAN

 

HOME aporEss: 1308 Olivia Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mathematics Dept., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936, DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1936; AM., 19365
PH.D. 1939.

MararieD: Ida Roettinger, Aug. 16, 1938, Zurich, Switzerland. cHipREN: Roland,
June 10, 1942; Muriel, Aug. 12, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Leonard Kaplan, ’33, LLB., 36; Robert Kaplan, ’39.

OCCUPATION: Professor of mathematics, University of Michigan.

orFices HELD: President, Dramatic Arts Center, Ann Arbor, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; American Association for Advancement of Science; American

[ 748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Physical Society; Swiss Mathematical Society; French Mathematical So.
ciety, Phi Beta Kappa; Research Club of University of Michigan.

puBLicaTions: Advanced Calculus, 1952; Ordinary Differential Equations, gst,
fifteen journal articles.

HERE’S what happened after I graduated. Three years were spent
in the study of mathematics: one in Europe on a fellowship, one in
Cambridge, one at The Rice Institute. The first year also brought
me to Zurich, where I met my bride-to-be.

In June, 1939, I received the Ph.D. at Harvard and in September
1 was ever so happy to have a one-year appointment at the College
of William and Mary. June, 1940, brought me to Ann Arbor for a
conference on topology. An unexpected vacancy in the Mathemat-
ics Department of the University of Michigan developed just then
and again an appointment as instructor relieved our worries about
unemployment. It was soon evident that Ann Arbor was where we
wanted to stay and now, twenty-one years after, we are most firmly
rooted here.

My mathematical career has followed the normal pattern of ris-
ing through the ranks to professorship. ,My research has ranged
widely from topology to analysis to mathematical physics; some of
it has concerned problems of interest in control engineering and |
have developed a close association with related engineering depart-
ments. Over the years I have taught a great variety of courses, in-
cluding graduate courses in analysis, special courses for engineers
and one in celestial mechanics (a topic suddenly become very popu-
lar). My teaching interests are reflected in two books published
(Advanced Calculus, Differential Equations) and a third (Opera-
tional Methods) to appear soon. The research has appeared in jour-
nals both in the United States and in Europe.

I have had several leaves of absence from the University of Michi-
gan: in 1944-45, for research on military problems at Brown Uni-
versity, in 1949-50, in Europe on a Guggenheim Fellowship, in 1961
on sabbatical, again in Europe. The several visits abroad have led
to close association with colleagues in Switzerland and in Finland.

Family life has centered about the one hobby passionately shared
by all four of us: music. We all (to varying degrees) play prane
and/or a string instrument and have had ever so many wonderful
evenings of chamber music. Recently we have added choral singing
(first learned by me under “Doc” Davison).

One more hobby has recently absorbed me greatly: the encourape-
ment of serious professional theatre. Since tos4. T have been a met

[749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ber of the board of directors of the Dramatic Arts Center, an or-
ganization which until 1957 sponsored an arena theatre, and which
since then has been struggling manfully to re-establish a professional
theatre in Ann Arbor. The year 1959-60 was spent in a valiant
effort to persuade Tyrone Guthrie and his colleagues to locate their
new theatre here — but alas, they went to Minneapolis. With much
encouragement from the University of Michigan, we are still pur-
suing our goal.

ANDREW ARNOLD KASPER

 

HOME ApprESS: 15 Stoneleigh Rd., Watertown, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Kendall Co., 76 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: March 27, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; A.M. 19373 PH.D. 1951.

MarrigpD: Blanche E. Curtis, Wellesley, ’37, July 16, 1942, Seattle, Wash.
CHILDREN: Carol Olga, June 28, 1944; Gretchen Eva, Nov. 21, 1946;
Roberta Louise, May 15, 1949; Heidi Blanche Hope, Oct. 7, 1951; Andrew
Henry, July 9, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Research scientist, Theodore Clark Laboratory, Kendall Com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and assistant professor of chemistry, Boston Univer-
sity, 1947-50; laboratory director, Jonics, Inc., 1950-55; research scientist,
Kendall Company, since 1955; lecturer on chemistry, Boston University,
since 1959, usual P.T.A. and other civic organization positions, all local.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; A.A.A.S., Sigma Xi; Alpha Chi
Sigma.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-authored four papers, four patents,

IN preparation for this opus I located and read again my Decennial
effort. This was indeed a mistake for, unfortunately, my wife and
my four daughters can read (they even wear shoes). Thus, the

[750]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

advice, the exhortations and the condemnations have been nwet
complete and quite good-naturedly given and received. For my
part, it is absolutely true that I am a procrastinator par excellence
when it comes to communications. For their part, they are all agog
about the June 11-15 schedule and the younger ones are enamoured
of the idea that this 2 sth-year written summary is a sort of Open
sesame to a superior future experience — perhaps it will be!

Taking my departure from the Decennial Report, may FT recount
the pertinent events of the past fifteen years? The experimental
work for the doctorate having been completed i in Apnil of igygr,
I departed full of good intentions toward thesis writing and a real
sense of responsibility toward my new position. Next followed three
interesting, effort-filled years as a chemistry instructor at Boston
University. At the end of this apprentice period, I was offered an
assistant professorship, at a modest increase in salary. Simultane-
ously, however, I received an offer, unsolicited, to join Tonics, Inc.
as laboratory director, at twice the salary. This caused me to with-
draw from the academic climate.

For five years my main interest in life centered about ion-exchange
materials, especially the development of techniques for prepanny
them in thin impervious sheets. These were to be used in an clectro-
dialysis system for the desalting of sea water. This effort was in-
teresting, challenging and required some measure of dedication.
At Ionics, time and secretarial assistance were gencrously made
available during working hours in order to get the thesis written.
This task completed and accepted, Harvard awarded me its dace
torate in June, 1951. Work then went on apace, from research to
development and on to the production stage, and TP with at.

At this point, 1955, a change in company was indicated and an
excellent opportunity opened at the Kendall Company (Cunty dia-
pers, Curads, Bike Web products, Telfa pads, these are some of
the company’s better known products). Here | returned to funda.
mental research, for this company believes in separating tewarch
from development, and both from production, There ix however.
adequate liaison among the several subdivisions so thar people, prob-
lems and aims are known. We work on problems of our own
choosing and preferably of our own discovery. Obv tously these
ideas cannot be completely of the “Blue Sky” varicty, but even
20% of that is permitted, almost even encouraged! Boe the past

six years I have been extremely well satisfied with mv plac of
employment, its challenge, its rewards and its efforts te enewe an

[750]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ever-increasing interest, personal development and productivity. I
am a research chemist.

Let’s now have a look at the family and let’s start with my wife.
Probably the most useful lesson hammered out during military serv-
ice is the transitory nature of time, life, family, etc. Twenty-four
or even forty-eight hours to get something done, to travel, or some
such means real efficiency in closing out the old and preparing for
the new. Consequently, my helpmate on every contemplated change
of position has only compared the old with the expected new —
never interfered in the making of a decision — always accepted,
and maximized the value of the new location or situation — never
any recrimination nor grousing —this defines HER — Wellesley

and all. Sure we fight, in earnest and in front of the children, but |

over trivia. .

Turning now to the next generation, four girls, two and one-half
years apart, and a Harvard '78 comprise the covey of offspring.
Currently their problems, from PSAT to SAT and other forms of
College Board torture; to dating, lipstick and high heels; to Ger-
man, music, dancing and swimming lessons; on down to lugging a
favorite steam shovel to nursery or Sunday school; all of these, and
more, comprise a sample of our daily routine of harassments. Now
the settling or the elimination of these small crises requires any-
thing from a look, a gentle word, a bark, firm guidance based on
discussion, down to a directive or edict that, so far, has stopped
just short of physical enforcement. “How long can Nikita Jast?”
This is the chant of the natives.

At this point it may be well to speak of goals in life. Many of
mine have been realized. The major one remaining unfulfilled con-
cerns the education of the above five. Let it be such that each
child, on his own, shall keep bright that spark of continuing intellec-
tual achievement throughout this life. This is a large order for a
simple father. One finds few check points along the way and navi-
gational ranges for exact conning are almost nonexistent. Beware,
indeed, the solicitous friend with assurances that all is well. Turn
rather to the belligerent one who calls you a jerk. He is honest and
he will keep you thinking.

My interests are few and pretty much routine. They are family,
church and community-centered. There are P.T.A.’s, several of
them, Republican clubs, even attempts at town politics. I do attend
professional meetings, local and national level, rather regularly. I
am giving, on a regular basis, a course in freshman chemistry (for

[752]

TE NaN pag d ae TTT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

concentrators only) at Boston University — Evening Division. Mv
wife is truly interested in, and successful at, raising budjerigare
Of course, I object, but pour in a five-inch concrete floor in the
root cellar, acoustical tile the ceiling and shine up the wall area
with three coats of white paint.

At this point, a Budgie anecdote may be in order. As you know,
these creatures feed their young by a regurg'tative process, in which
both the male and the female take part, each with an efficiency
proportional to his size (males are larger). Now a capable handler,
my wife must judge when it is time to “wean” the babies, for they
are, like all offspring, quite willing to be babied. Scparation daily
from the parents for eight to twelve hours, during which ume they
feed (maybe) on seeds is the means of weaning. When the babies
are returned to the parents, there is much fluttering about and the
feeding operation begins. Recently two clutches required weaning,
so my wife swapped parents and children on the first mght. There
was the usual fluttering and feeding, but no sign that the babies
were foreigners. On the next night proper babies and parents were
united and story of the Prodigal Son was a nursery rhyme com-
pared to the treatment afforded the babies of both clutches by their
respective parents. Are we alone civilized?

ON TO THE REUNION.

DAVID KAYE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 124 WV. Selden St., Mattapan 26, Mass.

FREEMAN ADDISON KEAY
MAILING AppRess: St. John’s Lane, Harvard, Mass.

[753]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GEORGE KEELER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Case Ave., Lakewood, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jamestown High School, Jamestown, N.Y.

BORN: Aug, 10, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B., cw77 laude, 1936; A.M. IN TEACHING=—=——
°39-

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTION: History teacher.

LAWRENCE MURRAY KEELER

   

HOME appress: 71 High St., Whitinsville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Whitin Machine Works, Whitinsville, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1913, Whitinsville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: A.B., 19363; M.B.A., 1938.

MarRRiED: Augusta H. Lorenz, Jan, 2, 1950, Whitinsville, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge, Meadow View Fish & Game Club; Harvard Clubs

of Boston and Worcester; Whitinsville Golf Club; Republican Town
Committee.

[754]

eee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER leaving Harvard, I went to Japan and China for three
months, and for two years to Harvard Business School. Became
associated with Whitin Machine Works — my great-great-grand-
father founded it.

Then the roof caved in —I had a cerebral hemorrhage in 1940,
which left me speechless and my right side paralyzed. However,
within a year I could speak some, and with the aid of a brace for
my leg I get around very well.

During the war, I helped publish a home town paper for service
men and women.

I married my nurse in 1950. We like to go to Nassau in the win-
ter, Kennebago Lake, Maine, trout fishing in the fall. My one great
interest is trying to get my inventions for textile machinery to work.
We have bought a summer house on Whitin Reservoir in Douglas,
Massachusetts, and spend five months of the year there. I am a
Republican and I’m a Protestant.

WILLIAM HILIARY KEFFER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 413 Oley St., Reading, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1914, Reading, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936; M.p. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1940.

MARRIED: Gloria Marilyn Waugh, Dec. 18, 1948, Minneapolis, Minn. crapar~:
Kathleen, Dec. 10, 1950; William Hiliary, Jr.. Dec. ao, 1932; Thomas W.
June 23, 1955.

occupation: Physician, specialist in internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Associate in medicine, Reading Hospital, consultant in’ meds
cine, Ephrata Hospital and Berks County Tuberculosis Sanatorium, mem

ber, board of directors, Berks County Tuberculosis and Health Awe
ciation,

[755]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); American
College of Physicians (fellow); College of Physicians of Philadelphia
(fellow); American Medical Association; Alumni Association of the Mayo
Foundation; Pennsylvania Society of Internal Medicine; American Dia-
betes Association; Berkshire Country Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

DURING the first few years after graduation J completed medical
school, an internship, and started a residency. Then came World
War II and a commission in the Army Medical Corps. For three
years I was in Australia, New Guinea, the Philippines and Japan,
serving with the 39th Fighter Squadron, 96th Station Hospital, 47th
General Hospital, and 8th Army Headquarters — advancing from
first lieutenant to major. I returned with some campaign ribbons
and battle stars and resumed my residency at the Mayo Clinic.

Finishing this late in 1948, 1 married Gloria Waugh of Barrett,
Minnesota, and began the practice of internal medicine. Profes-
sional progress has been very satisfactory and family life even more
so. We have Kathy, Billy, and Tommy who are healthy and bright.
I have not changed much since we were in college and remain
Roman Catholic, Republican and conservative. Further statement
of my convictions would be superfluous.

CHARLES SAMPSON KELLEY, III

 

HOME ADpRESS: (Nonquitt) South Dartmouth, Mass.

OFFICE Apress: Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day, 261 Union St., New Bedford,
Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1912, South Dartmouth, Mass. 5

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass, °

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Security salesman,

[756]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFICES HELD: Member, advisory board, Salvation Army; incorporator, New
Bedford Five Cents Savings Bank, trustee, Industrial Foundation, 10%”,
treasurer, Old Dartmouth Historical Society, since October, 1gte, mem-
ber, board of managers, North End Guild (all of New Bedford, Afasa.}.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New Bedford, Wamsucra Club,
New Bedford Yacht Club.

SHORTLY after graduation I made a tour of Europe via bicycle,
and since that time travel has been more or less limited to the United
States, except for sailing to various islands in the Caribbean and tak-
ing part in yacht races to Bermuda. Sailing is my hobby, confined
mostly to the New England area, but do manage one or two tnps
south during the year.

Served Uncle Sam three years during World War II, three months
in the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve and balance of the time in the
U.S. Coast Guard Service.

My business career has been in the stock brokerage business, hav-
ing been a partner in the firm of Sanford & Kelley who were mem-
bers of the Boston and New York stock exchanges and the American
Exchange at one time, but went out of business at the end of 1938.
Am presently employed as a salesman in the stock exchange house

of Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day.

v

FERDINAND FRANCIS KELLEY

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 Gerry Rd. Chestnut Hill, Masa,
BORN: May 23, 1912, Boston, Nfass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B, 1936, MBA, 194K,
MarrieD: Katherine E. Donovan, April 1&8, 1959, Arlington, Mas,

OCCUPATION; Sccurity trader.

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
OFFICES HELD: Certified public accountant.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of C-P.A.’s, University Club, Boston,

AFTER a great deal of thinking about this autobiographical sketch,
I have decided that the keynote should be gratitude for all the good
luck that I have had. Especially I am grateful for having had a
wonderful mother and now having such a wonderful wife, Perhaps
this all sounds rather sentimental but it really expresses my feelings,
My greatest fault has been that I have devoted so much of my time to
enjoying myself rather than becoming one of those hard-driving
executive types that the “B” School is supposed to turn out.

Most of my working time is spent in trading in securities. Unlike
my fond dreams of college days, I have not found this business a
smooth path to great wealth, but I really love my work and would
not change it for anything.

However, certainly I think that the greatest advantage from a
Harvard education is the assistance it gives in making life richer and

more enjoyable — and more fun. Some day I hope to be able to
spend a month in the summer and in the winter sailing.

JOHN WINTHROP KELLOGG

 

HOME ApDprRESS; 38 Spruce Drive, Fair Haven, N.J,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Turner Construction Co., 150 E. 42d St, New York, N.Y.
BORN: Feb. 15, 1915, Glen Ridge, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

Marriep: Catherine Arche, Oct. 30, 1941, Alpine, N.J. cHitpren: Carlos Arche,
Sept. 29, 1942; Juan P., Aug. 22, 1948; Christopher B., Aug. 19, 1949-
HARVARD SON: Carlos Arche Kellogg, '64.

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Moulton Kellogg, Jr., 355 Stanley Goedecke Kel-
logg, 7353 William Alexander Kellogg, ‘36,

[758 ]

ee

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Purchasing agent.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

SOMETIME during my last year in the Engineering School. 1
decided to go into building work. Very shortly after graduation
went with the Turner Company — timekeeper, junior engineer, as-
sistant superintendent. Three years in New England, then three
years in the circuit between Philadelphia to Buffalo to New York
to New Orleans, with stops in between. In 1941, had the good for-
tune to get married. In 1943, the war caught up with me and I
went into the Navy in ship repair work, first the West Coast, and
then Guam. It was interesting work. 1946, back to civilian life
and having moved around so much, requested to be assigned to the
office. Since then, purchasing, sales and back to purchasing. How-
ever, it did not stop the moving, except not quite as often.

As a family grows, each move becomes harder. Most of us in
the building industry wonder why we stay. Probably the answer ts
that the work is interesting—no two days the same —and the
satisfactions of seeing a concrete result of your work.

WILLIAM ALEXANDER KELLOGG

 

HOME AppREsS: 177 Boston Post Rd., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Webster Academy, Webster, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1915, Glen Ridge, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; en.sg, (Northeastern Uae s.
1960,

MarRRIED: Jane Norton, togo0, Manchester, NB. Cdiverced tyqo). cripeee

William Alexander, Jr. March 24. 19415 Douglas Bruce, July aa tyes.
Jonathan Fox, Dee. 2, 1946.

[759]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Moulton Kellogg, ’35; Stanley Goedecke Kellogg,
35; John Winthrop Kellogg, ’36.
occupation: Teacher, Webster Academy.

AFTER graduating I went to work for the National Shawmut Bank
of Boston, as a trainee, then in credit work and later in times sales
and personal loans. During the war J was in an interesting job as
chief civilian in charge of supply and accounting for the Boston
Port of Embarkation.

Followed ten years, first in New York as a methods man and cost
accountant and then in Boston as general manager for Music & TV
Corporation and as assistant treasurer of Background Music Cor-
poration, dealing in television and music systems. I then decided
that business life and I were not bedfellows and returned to scholas-
tic endeavors.

After obtaining a Master’s degree, I am now happily ensconced in
teaching seventy-five boys how to study and how to behave gen-
erally. 1 only wish I had decided to do this earlier.

SHAUN KELLY, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: Snakehill Road, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
OFFICE AppRrEss: Central District No. z, Box igz, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
BorN: May 5, 1914, Freiburg, Germany.
PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1936; B.A. (Oxford
Univ.) 1939; M.A. Cibid.), 1946; ep.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1958
MARRIED: Jeanne Millet, July 3, 1937, Stockbridge, Mass. (divorced 1959)3
Roth Lundt, June, 1959, Iowa City, lowa, cup; Shaun, 3d, May 21, 194!
(m. Edy Jo Keaton, Aug. 27, 1960).
HARVARD BROTHER: Bartow Kelly, "40.
OccUPATION: Education, district principal — public school administration.

[ 760 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFIcES HELD: Instructor, Phillips Exeter Academy, 1939-44. 1944-47; coun.
sellor for veterans, Harvard University, 1936, headmaster, Woodberry
Forest School, 1948-52, Casady School, 1952-56; research assistant, tus -
58, lecturer in education and research associate, Harvard Graduate School
of Education, 1958-59; educational director, Horizons of Science. Fduca-
tional Testing Service, 1959; district principal, Central School District No,
z, Towns of Huntington and Oyster Bay, New York, since 199.

MEMBER OF: American Association of School Administrators; National Fduca-
tion Association; New York State Teachers Association; Suffolk County
Teachers Association, Suffolk County School Executives Association;
Headmasters Association; Harvard Varsity Club; A.D. Club, Phi Delta

Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to the 1957, 1958, 1959 Reports of the Center for
Field Studies, Harvard Graduate School of Education; “Today's Teen-
agers — What makes them act the way they do,” with Cyril G. Sargent,
Professor of Education (H.GE:), School Executive Magazine. Apul.

1958.
FROM 1936 to 1939, I attended New College, Oxford, “reading’
philosophy and economics and spending most of my vacations in
Munich, Germany. In 1939, I joined the faculty of Phillips Fveter
Academy, taught ancient and American history, the Bible, and
coached various sports.

In 1944, after almost a year of trying to establish my American
citizenship, I received my commission in the US. Navy Reserve
and, after four months of “indoctrination,” joined the Amphibious
Command, teaching communications and tactics at Camp Bradtord
and Little Creek. From May, 1945, to February, 1936, 1 served
aboard the USS Burde, APD 133, first as a communications officer,
then as executive officer, Hadlai Hull (Yale, 736) in command. We
arrived in San Diego, en route to the invasion of Japan, the day
the first atomic bomb was dropped, and spent the rest of the summer
on escort and “magic carpet” duty in the Pacific. A superb com-
manding officer, Hull ran a taut, happy ship and taught me much
about leadership.

I was discharged in February, 1946, and spent two months at
New York University where I met Sidney Hook, who introduced
me to John Dewey’s philosophy. Elistory and literature at Harvard
and Modern Greats at Oxford had not prepared me for the an-
pact of Hook’s rigorous logic and this was perhaps an ipertant
turning point in my intellectual development.

Bill Bender then took me on as a Veterans" Counsellor chat spring
and J had an interesting and valuable experic nee observing the Elin
vard Adinissions Commnttce in operation. In the fall, P returned te

[ 761 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Phillips Exeter Academy expecting to spend the rest of my life
there.

In the winter of 1947, the board of Woodberry Forest School in
Virginia asked me to succeed Carter Walker as headmaster. Carter
Walker, at the request of his father, had taken over the school in
1897, at the age of twenty-one and in fifty years had brought the
school to a leading position in the South. For a young New Eng-
lander with only a few years of teaching experience to take over
the leadership of a southern boarding school, so long directed by
the sons of Robert Stringfellow Walker, captain of Company B
of Moseby’s Rangers, seemed even to me, at the age of thirty-three,
a pretty rash undertaking. Nevertheless, in early spring, I accepted
the position with the understanding that I take a year of graduate
study at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and the Epis-
copal Theological Seminary in Cambridge, before assuming my
duties.

In July, 1948, my family and I moved into the Residence, once the
house of William Madison and, since the Civil War, the Walker
family’s home. The four years, 1948-52, learning to lead a southern
school and directing the operations of a thousand-acre Virginia
plantation, proved to be a fascinating and stretching experience, and
1 shall always be grateful to the Walker family and the Woodberry
Forest faculty for their extraordinary kindness and patience through
those difficult transition years.

In 1952 I was called to the headmastership of the Casady School
in Oklahoma City, a coeducational country day school under the
direction of the Protestant Episcopal Diocese of Oklahoma. The
contrast between Virginia and Oklahoma is, of course, dramatic and
is well reflected in the two institutions I served. Casady was found-
ed in 1947 and was growing fast when I arrived in 1952. Most of
the graduating class were headed for college, over half to the Ivy
League, much like Woodberry Forest, otherwise, the two schools
are still today quite different institutions.

In the winter of 1956, a much-respected Negro physician and
lay leader in the Episcopal Church applied for the admission of his
twelve-year-old son into the Casady seventh grade. The board of
trustees agreed to allow the school to process his application in the

same way as every other candidate’s. The boy was examined and
found qualified for admission.

From the beginning the crucial question confronting the faculty
and the board of trustees was whether or not the school was suffi-

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ciently well established to provide a good education for a Negro
student. By May, after careful study, the faculty was equally ah-
vided as to the wisdom of admitting a Negro student in the fall of
1956. On June 4th, I presented a strong recommendation to the
board of trustees that the school admit this student. This recom
mendation was not accepted and I resigned as headmaster, ctfective
July ist. In hindsight, I am sure that the trustees acted, not in dis
agreement with the policy I was recommending, but with the um.
ing of the decision. In any event, Casady School has continued to
develop. Today, Casady boasts more Harvard varsity football
players and national scholars in proportion to its enrollment than
any other school in the country!

From 1956 to 1959 was a period of transition and re-education.

I spent three years more at Harvard University, one vear as a grad-
uate student and member of the Administrative Career Program, and
two years on the staff of the Graduate School of Education. After
a few months in 1959 with A. Butterfield, °36, helping him develop
his exciting school science film program, under the auspices of the
Educational Testing Service, I was asked to serve as chicf administra-
tor of a new central school district on Long Island. | accepted be-
cause of the opportunity of taking part in the development of onc
of the most forward-looking school systems in the country.

In retrospect, the twenty-five years since graduation have been
extraordinarily interesting, and I think I have learned enough to
learn some more in the next twenty-five.

HUBERT DOLBEARE KERNAN, JR.

 

HOME AbbrRESS: 106 Valentine Circle, Warwick, RJ.
OFFICE AppREsS: Lecsona Corp., Box 6088, Providence, RI

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

BORN: Aug. 7, 1914, Utica, N.Y.

prepare aT: Utica Country Day School, Utica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MarRiIED: Patricia Ann O'Connell, Aug. 13, 1951, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Mary
Adelyn, June 30, 1952; Margaret Cook, Dec. 5, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Constable Kernan, ’38.

OccUPATION: Sales manager, Fiber Producers Section.

OFFICES HELD: With: Gosnold Mills, New Bedford, Mass., 1935-36; Mt. Hope
Finishing Company, North Dighton, Mass., 1936-37; Shenandoah Rayon
Corporation, Utica, New York, 1938-42; U.S. Navy, 1942-46; Leesona Cor-
poration (formerly Universal Winding Company), since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Dunes Club, Narragansett; Sada-
quada Golf Club, Utica; Ski Club Hochgebirge.

SINCE leaving college, ’'ve worked in the textile industry. Sole
activity has therefore resulted in considerable, if unglamorous,
traveling in the eastern part of the country. There is a satisfaction
and excitement in working for Leesona Corporation, which is
making major machine developments to modernize and automate
certain sections of the basic textile processes.

I served in the Navy during World War II, as an air combat
information officer. After a Caribbean cruise in Trinidad, our P.B.Y.
Squadron went on an island-hopping jaunt through the central and
southern Pacific islands. Two cruises later, we ended up in the
Philippines. I retired as lieutenant commander, USNR.

During my bachelor days, the off moments were filled with field
activities, skiing, golf, tennis, trout fishing and bird shooting. How-
ever, marriage and two daughters have slightly reoriented these
off moments.

We moved from Utica, New York, to Warwick, Rhode Island,
in 1957, and have had the fun of learning the different activities
of the Narragansett Bay area. Clam digging, learning to swim, to
read, and other homework problems, plus keeping up with garden
weeds, seem to keep the family more than busy.

| 764 |

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

REGINALD DEVEREUX KERNAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Ave. des Champs-Elysées, Paris, France.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1914, Savannah, Ga.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1936(37); M.D, 1944.

MaRRIED: Gail Neilson, Nov. 28, 1942, Boston, Mass. (separated 1959). cnit-
DREN: Amity, March 11, 1944; Alexander Devereux, Feb. 18, 1946; Lucy,
March 7, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Newberry Kernan, 2d, ’40, L1B., "49.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

WALTER AVERY KERNAN

 

HOME appress: 830 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Carter, Ledyard & Milburn, 2 Wall St, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 1, 1913, Utica, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B, 1936; LLB. 1ytg.

Marrigp: C. Leslie Hadden, May 10, 1942, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Ident,
N.Y. cuipren: Charlotte Anita, June 16, 1993; Mary Spratt, Dew. at

[ 765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

1946; Emily Hadden, March 13, 1949; Nancy A., Oct. 31, 1952; Beatrice
L., Oct. 8, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Francis Kernan, ’24, LL.b., ’27; Thomas Spratt Kernan, ’2o,
LL.B., 323 Richard Dickinson Kernan, °31.

occupation: Lawyer, partner in firm.

orFices HELD: Member, board of directors, New York Herald Tribune, Inc.;
member of board, Payne Whitney Clinic, New York Hospital; former
member, Surrogates Court Committee, present member, Professional Ethics
Committee, Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

MEMBER OF: Links Club, Down Town Association, both New York City;
Harvard Club of New York; American Bar Association.

IN September, 1939, after graduating from the Law School, I
started work on the eighteenth floor at 2 Wall Street. My wander-
Just has taken me after twenty-one years to the seventeenth floor.
In 1939, however, I shared my pay with no one, while now what
Uncle Sam leaves is going, going, gone for teeth straightening and
to meet the endless wants and whims of my five daughters and
spouse. (The greatest injustice of existing tax law is grossly in-
adequate deductions for female dependents with expensive tastes —
in the case of my daughters this make elopements essential.) Early
in 1941, my friends and neighbors were about to find me uniquely
qualified for “selection” as a private in the Army. Accordingly,
I volunteered, little realizing it was for a five-year interlude. The
Army also found me well qualified as a private. They even per-
suaded me to retain that position for about a year. My wife was
more demanding and delayed our marriage until the day after I
became an officer in the spring of 1942. We honeymooned on the
Union Pacific and were separated in San Francisco not to meet again
until three years and one daughter later. In the meantime, I traveled
extensively in the Pacific, “returned” to the Philippines with Gen-
eral MacArthur, and did a stretch on Okinawa.

After my return I relaxed and then went back to 2 Wall Street
(still on the eighteenth floor), only this time I tried commuting
from Long Island — never again a commuter! Now we are en-
sconced in an apartment in Manhattan. Our recent neighbor, Mr.
Khrushchev, contended that only a monster would raise children
in New York. He may be right, but the little women seem to be
thriving and New York is a stimulating place to work. My efforts
recently have been directed primarily to the legal aspects of financ-
ing various projects. This scems creative in a vicarious way. As to
my political convictions —I register as an Independent and usually
vote Republican, including this year; as to my religious convictions

[ 766 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

—I{ have always been a Roman Catholic and my convictions hav.
increased over the years. I have no grandchildren but my daughte
Nancy’s friends think I'm her grandfather. This no doubt result
from gray hair—a situation which IT am rapidly remedying by
extending my furrowed brow.

FRANCIS KEYES

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.
BORN: Dec. 4, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MarRigD: Louise B. McNeil, June 16, 1937, Chestnut Hill, Mass, cantans s
Peter Bowen, May 26, 1938; John Parkinson, zd, Oct. ta, toga; Daved
Johnson, Feb. 8, 1947; Virginia Bowen, March 18, iggy, Frances amd
Louise (twins), Dec. 6, 1951.

HARVARD SONS: Peter Bowen Keyes, ’60; John Parkinson Keves, ad, “6.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Wilder Keyes, '26, uta, "30; John Parkinson Keyes,
"29.

OCCUPATION: Headmaster, Westminster School.

OFFICES HELD: Joined Westminster School as instructor of English and batory
and coach of football, basketball and baseball in 1938, appointed swnrane
to headmaster, 1940, assistant headmaster, 194, headmaster, 1946, furmerty
officer, Schools Committee, Harvard Club of Connecnewt, charman,
Simsbury Communiry Fund, president, Simsbury Rorary Club, nemdbee,
Founders Committee, University of Hartford; member, cxecurive com.
mittee, Connecticut Association of Independent Schooh, direceor amt
founding president, Simsbury War Memonal Swimnung Pool fae. one

tee, Westminster School, Walks Foundation, Hartford, Conn
MEMBER OF: Hartford Golf Club.

YN essence there is little to add to what [ mentioned in the lt Cle
Report. Our oldest son, Peter, has graduated from Harvard amd »

( 767 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

teaching at the Fenn School. The next boy, Parky, is a freshman
at Harvard. The other children are at home. We are still at West-
minster School, which has been essentially my life since college.
We have had many blessings, more than we realize. I sense senility
creeping in, but I keep going by kidding myself that I am working
harder, have no need of bifocals, should have had more children,
play tennis better, am gaining no weight and know something about
my job.

ALONZO BARNARD KIGHT :

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1209 Astor St., Chicago 10, II.

OFFICE AppREss: Borg-Warner International, 36 S, Wabash Ave., Chicago 3, Ill.

BorN: April 24, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), r9qo;
M.B.A. (Univ. of Chicago), 1954.

MARRIED: Jean Pirie, June 20, 1942, Evanston, Ill. cxip: Jean Pirie, April 6,
1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Edward Enright, ’53.

OccuPATION: Overseas operations, vice-president and director, Borg-Warner
International.

OFFICES HELD: Governor, Naval Officers Mess, 1944-46; section leader, Red
Cross Fund, 1954-56; director, U.S. Outboard Corporation, 1954-55, Execu-
tive Program Club, University of Chicago, 1956-58, senior partner,
Executive Associates, Chicago, 1954-56, member, Official Board, First
Methodist Church, Evanston, 1955-58.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Harvard Club of New York; Snow
Chase Club; Phi Delta Phi; Beta Gamma Sigma.

PUBLICATIONS: Various international management publications.

AT Harvard my future career seemed clear —J would be a lawyer.
About the time I finished law school, the possibility of combining

[ 768 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

law and my hking for engineering matters seemed more to my
taste, and so I became a patent lawyer for the Western Electric
Company after serving the usual apprenticeship in Washington.
Marriage in 1942 seemed to fulfill all my ambitions, but then the
Draft Board began breathing down my neck and what would have
been a pleasant career in patent law was interrupted by two and a
half years of naval service, mostly at the Naval Research Laboratory
in Washington. Contracts and commercial matters as well as patents
became my assignment, and I acquired a definite interest in com-
merce.

Returning to Western Electric after the war, I was assigned to the
foreign patent division but, apart from the novelty of foreign work,
this assignment was less than satisfying. Accordingly, I moved to
the Borg-Warner Patent Department where the diversity of prod-
ucts and the variety of work fully occupied me for several years.
Frequently, because of my naval experience in contract matters
and my foreign patent experience, I dealt with the international
subsidiary of Borg-Warner and my ambition became specific — to
work in international trade. Three years as assistant to the then
president of Borg-Warner, Roy C. Ingersoll, one of the most dy-
namic industrialists in America, gave me an unforgettable and in-
valuable commercial background. .

For the past five years, I have done exactly the work I believe I
like best and count myself most fortunate. Our international busi-
ness has expanded many times and with each expansion new and
even greater potentials appear. My work has brought me into con-
tact with people from all over the world — we deal in 124 countries
and many of these I have visited. Last year my wife and daughter
accompanied me on a three months’ trip around the world — I sold
and they bought! Occasionally, I meet a Harvard man in my travels
two weeks ago Jim Thackara, 736, in Brussels. He is vice-presi-
dent of the Chase Manhattan Bank in Paris. Barring an unexpected
warming in the cold war, I look forward to many more years of
very satisfying work in the international field.

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JAMES TRUESDELL KILBRETH, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 147 Brompton Rd., Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Scandinavian Airlines System, 638 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 10, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Laft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1036. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; LL.B., 1939.

marrieD: Shirley Smith, July 3, 1943, Cambridge, Mass. cHILDREN: James
Truesdell, 3d, May 27, 1947; Jeffrey L., Sept. 22, 1951.

occuPaATIon: Eastern regional manager, Scandinavian Airlines.

MEMBER OF: Wings Club, New York.

THE fall of 1936 found me still living in Cambridge trying to figure
out just what the Law School professors were talking about. Some
of it evidently rubbed off during the three-year course as | left
with the LL.B. degree. Although my course through the years has
not been in the legal profession, I consider a Harvard legal education
on top of college as one of my intangible assets on life’s balance
sheet.

After graduation in 1936, I kept up my Naval Reserve connections
and, as a result, found myself at sea in 1940. This nautical hobby
continued until January, 1946. My service was exclusively in de-
stroyers and destroyer escorts and included a year as executive off-
cer of a destroyer and two years as C.O. of DE’s, If they did nothing
else, these years provided me with a Cook’s tour of most of the
oceans of the world.

After returning to civilian status, I started looking for a business
which was growing and which would also be responsive to action
and ideas. The answer, in my case, lay in the airline field and I have
found life extremely stimulating in this dynamic and challenging
industry. I started with Eastern Airlines in 1946, and for the next
seven years was basically engaged in moving from New York to

[770]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Louisville to Miami. During this period we became experts in real
estate through buying and selling houses. Eventually, we ended
back in New York.

In 1953, I joined Scandinavian Airlines and have found this asso-
ciation broadening and extremely gratifying. Although my work
is primarily in the U.S. market, along American business ideas, the
European flavor and contact in terms of people and philosophy
make it, to me, uniquely interesting.

My own pet hobby is travel. From a business point of view 1 am
fortunate in being able to practise it while being paid for it. The
entire family has worked the fringe benefit of free transportation
up to the hilt and vacations usually see the whole tribe or a portion
at least taking off for Europe.

Time is a commodity which seems pretty scarce. I am afraid we
are part of “suburbia” and I cringe at the two to two and a half
hours per day which are consumed in simply getting to and from
the office. There is still hope, however. As soon as the children are
a bit older, we are planning to move into Manhattan and Iet the
neighbors worry about the P.T.A. and the Long Island Railroad.

Changes in twenty-five years? Less hair and more weight. Basic-
ally I am more cynical but more tolerant if anyone can hgure that
one out. I still actively dislike most organizations and am noc a
“Joiner.” I look on business success or lack of same as being un-
related to one’s basic philosophy and feel that balance is the most

important thing for which to strive.

’ HARLAN LE DOIT KIMBALL

 

MAILING ApprESS: J. FE. Kelley Food Stores, io Isham Rab, West Plarthoed,
Conn,

(771)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN HANCOCK KIMBALL

 

HOME abpRESS: 345 Chestnut St., Lynnfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 590-A Main St., Lynnfield, Mass.

BorN: May 28, 1914, Concord, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1036. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1943.

MARRIED: Virginia B. Doughty, March 9, 1937, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Marilyn, July 19, 1939 (Radcliffe 61); John Hancock, Jr., Sept. 22, 1943;
David Doughty, Sept. 20, 1949.

occuPATION: Lawyer and trustee, self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Fidelity Lodge, AF. & A.M., Melrose, Mass., 1946-47;
secretary, Lynnfield (Mass.) Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1955-58; clerk, Lynnfield
Center Water District, since 1954; trustee, Massachusetts Charitable Fire
Society, since 1957; town moderator, Lynnfield, since 1958, vice-president,
Pastmasters’ Association, Seventh Masonic District.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Essex County and Boston Bar Associations, Wake-
field Rotary Club (director, since 1960); Waverly Royal Arch Chapter and
Hugh de Payens Commandery No. 20, K.T., both Melrose, Mass.

PuBLicaTions: Choral and secular music of some local interest.

RECEIVED A.B., 1936. Happily married in Marble Collegiate
Church, New York, 1937. Spent 1937-38 in New York in the field
of music, still a compelling hobby. From 1938 to 1943, worked with
my father and attended law school. Associated with an excellent law
firm in Boston, 1944-48. Private trustee, some general law practice
on my own in Melrose, Massachusetts, 1948-51. In 1951 moved to
Lynnfield, Massachusetts, acquired a federal period house, built in
1790, and a keen interest in its restoration. Since 1951, still self-em-
ployed in small town, general law practice, conveyancing work for
a local cooperative bank, acting as trustee of private trusts and in-
vestment and financial adviser for individual accounts.

[772]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Public service — the last three years acting as Town Moderator
of Lynnfield.

Comment — For the past ten years my work has been demanding
and interesting and worthwhile, far happier for me than practice in
the madding city. Though periods of leisure seldom seem to be long
enough, they afford some opportunity for me to compose music,
including some pieces which local choral groups have been kind
enough to sing, and a complete score in the popular music idiom for
a play with music which has been performed by The Spotlighters, a
Lynnfield Little Theatre group. My family often stimulates, some-
times disturbs and always fascinates me. My wife, Ginnie, seems to
become more attractive every day. My daughter, Lyn, is a senior
at Radcliffe, Class of 1961; my son, Jay, is a senior at Lynnfield High
School, is engaged in many activities and hopes to enter Harvard
(partly, at least, his own choice) in the fall of 1961; my younger
son, Davy, enjoys life with gay abandon.

FREDERICK WILLIAM KING

HOME ADDRESS: 315 W. 16th St., Joplin, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 261, Joplin, Mo.

BORN: May 30, 1914, Joplin, Mo.

PREPARED aT: Carthage High School, Carthage, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 72agna cum laude, 1936.

mMarRiED: Mary Jean Ellsperman, Feb. 26, 1949, Chicago, Ill. critpren: Janet
Elaine, May 17, 1951; Frederick Lee, April 9, 1953; Nancy Anita, June 24,
1957; Susan Kathleen, Sept. 8, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Owner, general manager, wholesale lumber business.

OFFICES HELD: President, Tri-State Salesmen’s Club, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club of Joplin; Tri-State Salesmen’s Club, City Council of

PTA’s; Twin Hills Country Club.

FOR a number of years after graduation in 1936 I held no strong
convictions as to just what career I should follow. Having had
certain commercial requisites in high school, on the advice of the
placement service I took a secretarial job at first, with Carnegic-
Illinois Steel, South Chicago Plant, but either the opportunities or
my qualifications failed to measure up to those of Charles Schwab,
and I decided I was in the wrong business. In 1940, taking a size-
able cut in pay, I went to work for what is now Trans-World Air-
lines, but within two years I had advanced above mv previous
salary scale, from the Palmer House (Chicago) Ticket Office co
the District Office, where I became chief clerk. In those days the

[773 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

autopsies conducted in Korea, some 76% of our boys were found
to have arteriosclerosis, whereas no such condition was found among
the Koreans, Turks or Greeks on whom autopsies were performed.
This and many other questions cry out to be answered. Why is
this so? Where are the spirit of Veritas and free and open minds
among our professional men, who are aware of many of these things
but can’t or won't speak out? Only an unquenchable desire and
yearning for truth can ferret out the actual facts which today are
being covered up and glossed over for so many devious reasons.
U nless something can be done about such a situation, our very nation
cannot long endure.

One other item and I am through. We all profess to be aware
of the dangerous influence of Soviet Communism throughout our
country. In their desire to be open-minded, however, such institu-
tions as Harvard often bend over backwards to avoid interference
with free educational processes. Whatever our individual views
may be on that score, surely most would agree that a freshman
entering Harvard should be made aware of any organizations which
are Communist fronts or sponsored by the Communist Party. It
is tragic that a young student should be entrapped into a situation
of joining an organization representing principles contrary to his
own.

GRAHAM KING

 

Hoste apowrss: 124 Laurel Sc, Longmeadow, Mass.

orvice aporess: Valley Bank & Trust Co., 1351 Main St., Springfield, Mass.
woun; May 2, 191g, Syracuse, N.Y.

reepauep at: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936.

[776]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Elizabeth de Saint Phalle, Dec. 9, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa. cmpas~.
Helen Chittenden, Oct. 7, 1940; John Lord, July 10, 1947, Sally Seagwock,
Dec. 27, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: Chester Harding King, °34, Lu.B., °37.
OccUPATION: Assistant vice-president, Valley Bank & Trust Company, in charge
of marketing, advertising, public relations, sales promotion, etc.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Schools & Scholarship Committee, since tosa, preadent,
1954-56, Harvard Club of Springfield; member, since 1952, chairman, sunce
1956, Longmeadow Town Republican Committee; president, Converse Se.
School P.T.A., 1953-54; vestryman, 1954-57, chairman, Nominaung Conv.
mittee, 1959, St. Andrew’s Church, Longmeadow, chairman, Building Com-
mittee, Blueberry Hill Elementary School, 1956-57, Elementary Schools
Additions Survey Committee, 1958-59; trustee, since 1956, chairman, Noms
nating Committee, 1958, 1959, 1960, Wesson Memorial Elospital, treasurer,
Longmeadow Foreign Student Exchange Association, since t9¢9, corpo-
rator, Wesson Memorial Hospital, Wesson Maternity Hospital, Springticld
Hospital.
MEMBER OF: Colony Club, Springfield, Mass.; Cazenovia Club, Cazenovia, N.Y.
THERE’S something final about being twenty-five years out of
college. Perhaps it’s because you arrive at this milestone with such
frightening speed. I suppose, as for everyone else faced with this
biographical task, the past twenty-five years break logically inte
segments on either side of World War I]. My first six years, unul
1942, were busy in the employ of the brothers DuPont. | made an
attempt to purvey their finishes in Syracuse, New York, and Phila-
delphia. This period had its moments of disillusioning truth, but
passed off in a generally pleasant and satisfactory manner.

In the same years, other important events transpired. In Decem-
ber, 1939, Libby and I were married and we had our fire daughter,
Helen, in the following year. We also had our fire giddy whirl
with politics in practically a frenetic support of Wendell Willhe.

This was to be the beginning of a continuing interest in Republican
candidates.

When World War II arrived, we were living in Bryn Mawr,
Pennsylvania. I was accepted by early "42 for the Sinty-day Wonder
Course in how to be a naval officer, This was followed in quich
succession by a few months in converted yacht, command of a
sub-chaser (SC) on a wild and woolly trip from New Yerk t
Panama, where we were based for a year, and finally awiyninent
as navigator on a 2250-ton DD converted to a high-speed tunelay ee
which we took into action at Iwo Jima and on the radar paket
stations at Okinawa.

The immediate postwar years were devoted to Lunching @ prefab

[777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

house operation in Westfield, Massachusetts, which never really got
far off the ground. The experience was richly rewarding in the
“don'ts” of starting a new business in a new field, but intensely in-
teresting, nevertheless. Our son, John, was launched during the
same era.

Following the demise of the prefabs, I learned the hard way that
“only God can make a tree” and spent eleven fruitful years mer-
chandising the product to manufacturing plants in the northeastern
area. Our girl Sal first saw the light of day in 1950, during the early
years of this period.

In August, 1959, I accepted a job as director of marketing in
Springfield's Valley Bank & Trust Company, “the largest commer-
cial bank in western Massachusetts.” It is a fascinating and rela-
tively new field in banking, involving all those elements which tend
to promote the sale of the bank’s services and the increase of its
assets.

Over the years, we have enjoyed participating in many local ac-
tivities in our fine community of Longmeadow. The local Epis-
copalian Church has taken its fair share of rewarding effort from
both Libby and me. I have also spent a great deal of time and
effort in prying additional funds from my fellow townsmen to
build additional classrooms for our elementary school system which

has suffered from a population explosion.

The political situation in the town has been a prime interest for
many years. As Republican Town Chairman, my job has been
made somewhat easier by a high percentage of vocal and active
fellow Longmeadow Republicans. However, there is still plenty
of work necessary to keep them all properly registered and to get
them and all others of similar leanings to the polls. (Our recent all-
out effort in November, 1960, might perhaps explain why I’ve re-
ceived so many reminder cards from the Class Report Chairman.)

Family-wise, our oldest, Helen (Chi-Chi), has completed two

successful years at Vassar and this fall transferred to Katy Gibbs

in Boston. The son and heir, John, is struggling in junior high to
keep his record at the proper peak in hopes it will insure his en-
trance into the college of his choice, hopefully Harvard. Our
youngest, Sal, is a rewarding experience for everyone concerned. |

As a family, we have done no spectacular traveling except in
the vacation areas. For hobbies, I still have a Navy-engendered
delight in any sort of water-born activity which I’ve been able to
satisfy to some degree in the past few years by family cruising in

[778 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Thousand Islands. Other than this, my interest lies in “putter-
ing” with the myriad of maintenance problems which beset a home-

owner.
The last twenty-five years have been good. Let’s hope the next

will be equally so!

JAMES ERVIN KING, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10700 Weymouth St., Garrett Park, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Institute for Defense Analyses, 1710 H St. N.W., Washington
6, D.C.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1914, Sumter, S.C.

PREPARED AT: Leesburg High School, Leesburg, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 77agna cum latide, 1936, B.A. (Oxford
Univ.), 1939; A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1941; M.a. (Oxford Univ.), 1944.

MmarrieD: Barbara Crosland, June 20, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. cHitpren: Judith,
Oct. 18, 1945; David Crosland, Dec. 17, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Associate director of research, Institute for Defense Analyses, re-
search consultant, the Washington Center of Foreign Policy Research.

OFFICES HELD: President, Falls Church (Virginia) Citizens Association, 194A,
vice-president, Foreign Service Educational Foundation, September, tgs4-
June, 1957.

MEMBER OF: The Oxford Society; Harvard Alumni Association; Society of the
First Division; Garrett Park (Maryland) Citizens Association, Institute for
Strategic Studies, Ltd. (London).

PusBLications: Contributor to: National Security in the Nucleav Axe, Pracyer,
New York, 1960, Gordon B. Turner, R. B. Challener, editors; Allince
Policy in the Cold War, Johns Hopkins Press, Baltimore. rosa Arnold
Wolfers, editor; “Developments in Military Technology and Thew hnpace
on USS. Strategy and Foreign Policy,” a study prepared at the request of
the Committee on Foreign Relations, U.S. Senate, by the Washington
Center of Foreign Policy Research; articles and reviews in Foreign Afaers,
The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics, The New Republic,
etc,

[779 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOSEPH THOMAS KLAPPER

  

HOME ADDRESS: 41-63 150th St., Flushing 55, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., §70 Lexington Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1917, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1936; a.m. (Univ. of Chi-
cago), 1938; PHD. (Columbia Univ:), 1960.

MARRIED: Hope Lunin, July 15, 1949, New York, N.Y.

occuPpaTION: Sociological research; consultant— communications research, Be-
havioral Research Service, General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive council, since 1951, variously and concurrently
editor, counsellor-at-large; secretary-treasurer, since 1956, American Asso-
ciation for Public Opinion Research; consultant, various agencies and in-
stitutions,

MEMBER OF: American Association for Public Opinion Research (officer);
World Association for Public Opinion Research, American Sociological
Association (fellow); National Society for the Study of Communications,

International Association for Mass Communication Research; Society for
the Scientific Study of Religion, American Jewish Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Effects of Mass Media” (a monograph), 1949, “Children and
Television” (a monograph), 1954, New York; Bureau of Applied Social
Research, Columbia University; The Effects of Mass Communication,
Glencoe, Illinois: The Free Press, 1960; numerous articles, book reviews, in
American Scholar, Scientific American, Public Opinion Quarterly, etc.

I MUST say that I find it extremely difficult and somewhat dis-
tasteful to attempt to sum up twenty-five years of my life. I cannot
imagine why anyone would want to read such an essay, unless it
reflected great wisdom or touching human truths. Everyone’s life
docs reflect these things, I believe, but I cannot seriously attempt
ta cull these golden moments or reflections from my own last
twenry -five years. Hicre, then, is your “informal narrative,” un-
clouded by reflection.

[ 782 ]

pr AI nee a Om EEC i apo ences
ce ney aera A INE IE NTO CORR cele tt wre HN POO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Career History. Having concentrated in English at Harvard and
obtained an A.M. in the same subject at Chicago, | moved to the
front of the classroom and taught English, from 1938 to 194s, at
a high school in Chicago and later at Brooklyn Polytechnic Insu-
tute and the College of the City of New York. During my military
service, however, the Air Force and the Army scized upon my train-
ing in psychology, and I was assigned for some time to psychologi-
cal research involving the simultaneous testing of large groups. Ie
so happened that at about the same time, I wrote a couple of radio
plays for a local station. My own background and the general
milieu at the time created in me an interest in scientifically deter-
mining the psychological and social effects of mass communication,
and J have been concerned with this ever since, which is to say for
fifteen years.

My interest in social research led me out of English and into

sociology. Between 1946 and 1951, I variously pursued research
at the Bureau of Applied Social Research (Columbia Univernity )
and taught sociology at the University of Washington and at Stan-
ford. From 1951 to 1954, I served in several capacines with the
evaluation sections of the Voice of America, eventually becoming
chief of the Media Evaluation Unit, which was concerned with
assessing the effects of the programs on overseas audiences. During
the next three years (1954-57), I again pursued mass communication
research at the Bureau of Applied Social Research (Columbia) and
decided, despite my advanced years, to equip myself with a Ph.D).
in sociology. (Part-time pursuit of this required ages, and | obtained
it in 1960.) I directed I-don’t-know-how-many studies of the effects
of various types of mass communications and wrote two monographs
as well as a goodly number of articles for learned journals.

In 1958 I was invited to pursue similar research at the General
Electric Company, and was appointed to a position enatled “Con-
sultant — Communications Research,” which is the company's woe
what peculiar term for a full-time “individual contributor,” with.
out managerial responsibilitics, working in a specialized fichh Pam
at present a member of the company's Behavioral Rescarch Service,
which designs, pursues and, in some instances, sponsors soctohopieal
and psychological rescarch designed to advance cuiting know leslyre
about factors which affect industrial employ cos in normal working
life situations. (We do not pursue market research of community
relations research as such.) |

The field in which T function is still sparsely populared, ant |

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

have accordingly served as a consultant (this time in the usual sense
of the term) to a variety of voluntary, governmental, academic and
commercial groups (for example, the Department of State, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, National Council of Churches of Christ,
American Jewish Committee, Child Study Association, Television
Bureau of Advertising, National Health Council, and such like).

J have been quite active in the American Association for Public
Opinion Research, have been on the executive council since 1951,
and have been secretary-treasurer since 1956. I am listed in Who’s
Who in America.

Your questionnaire asserts that the “Class wants to know about

. . my family, travel, hobbies, war record or government service,
and my social, political, or religious convictions.” As a public
opinion researcher, I doubt that the Class really wants to know all
this, but here it is, in brief.

Family: 1 married a lovely girl who happened to be another
sociologist, in 1949. We have no children. She is still a lovely
girl, and is now an associate professor at New York University.

War Record: 1941-46, Army and Air Force, entering as private,
leaving as captain. Mostly in psychological research and teaching.

Other Government Service: Department of State and U.S. In-
formation Agency, 1951-54 (details above).

Travels and Hobbies: My major hobby is skin-diving and snorkel-
ing, and I am interested in archaeology in a rather casual way. My
wife shares these interests, and they more or less determine our
travels. We have peered at most of the U.S. coastline, and have
wandered through France, Italy, Greece and the Grecian Islands,
with a brief visit to Turkey. We have been on eleven snorkeling
excursions to various parts of the Caribbean and to Bermuda, which,
at the proper time of year (June), seems to us the nearest gateway
to underwater paradise. Minus the aqua-lungs, we have explored
Canada and Switzerland.

I am a devotee of science-fiction, hate detective stories and love
the theatre.

My social, political, or religious convictions, if they must be
labelled, could 1 suppose be summed up as on the extreme liberal
edge of conservatism, or, if you prefer, on the extreme conservative
edge of liberalism.

[ 784]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEONARD MILTON KLEIN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 95 Beeching St., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9 Walnut St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1913, Chelsea, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cv laude, 1936; M.p. (Tufts Coll.),

1940.
MaRRIED: Fruma G, Gilbert, March 14, 1948, Boston, Mass. cup: Richard,

Aug. 6, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Howard Klein, ’27, LL B., 30; Arthur Klein, "32.

OccuPATION: Physician; chief medical officer, Veterans Administration Office,
Worcester, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Worcester District Medical Society, American Heart Association; Alpha
Omega Alpha (medical honor society); Noddles Island Lodge, AF. & A.M.
(Boston); Level Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Worcester (charter member).

IN the past quarter of a century (sounds like ages) I have acquired
another degree, a wife, a son and a home with a mortgage — in that
chronological order. Oh! yes— also a few gray hairs — but no
complaints since I am lucky to have hair at this stage of life.
Following graduation from Harvard I matriculated at Tufts Col-
lege Medical School and received an M.D. degree in 1940. Two
years of internship passed swiftly and I “decided” to do a little
traveling — at Uncle Sam’s expense. On August 6, 1942, my Cook's
Tour began. After traveling 4,200 miles by train during my first
week in the Army, I found myself still in the U.S.A. — if you can
classify the Mojave Desert as such (temperature tz0° in the pro-
verbial shade which was non-existent). But two months liter we
went on a beautiful cruise to the South Seas. Ironically, our ship,
the ill-fated Calvin Coolidge — pride of the Dollar Lines — crowed
the ocean successfully though unescorted, only to sink on  sub-

[785 ]

caer acneenaeinsnanteaeeascasansenaienaeama

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

marine mines within sight of her destination. It occurred on my
twenty-ninth birthday. What a thunderous celebration! — when
the mines exploded and gutted the ship. However, it was a beauti-
ful, sunny day, and we enjoyed the swim to shore.

During the next three years, as a battalion surgeon, I saw action
in three campaigns: Solomon Islands, New Guinea and the Philip-
pines, and was awarded two medals: the Silver Star and the Bronze
Star. After a short occupation tour of Japan, we were sent home
where I was discharged as a major.

Since 1946 I have been working for the Veterans Administration,
as chief medical officer of the outpatient clinic in Worcester. We
have a fine office, well staffed with capable physicians and good
equipment, including a complete laboratory, X-ray and physio-
therapy facilities.

My main hobby is my family. We do many things together and
have a great deal of fun. Philately and photography — stills and
movies — have interested me for years. Like Winston Churchill,
I have taken to oil painting in middle age. Mine do not compare
with his, but I do get a great deal of enjoyment and a sense of ac-
complishment in producing my own chefs-d oeuvre.

In spite of all that has transpired in the world since I left Har-
vard, I am still an optimist and feel that this earth is a good place
and that most people are fundamentally good. I believe that a true
Peace will come eventually, but I doubt that our generation will
see it.

ROBERT HAZARD KNAPP

att

   

HOME appress: 390 West End Ave., New York 24, N.Y.
orrice appress: Goodbody & Co., 2 Broadway, New York, N.Y,

[ 786 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Sept. 22, 1913, Syracuse, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Faith Thoron, Jan. 16, 1943, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Robert Hazard,

Jr, May 18, 1944; Michael S., March 29, 1946, Camilla T., May 22, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Hobart Knapp, ’38.

OCCUPATION: Stock brokerage, assistant to partner.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Cazenovia Club.
TIME seems so much the keyword in a Twenty-fifth Report I'm
struck with the contrast that life in the investment business mostly
involves the future — the market and security values six months or
a year from now — while the balance of my life and interests is
considerably tied up with old things — living in one of New York's
finest (as of 1907) apartments, maintaining the family homestead in
central New York, helping to run the small club there, preferring
old music to new, biography to the current novel. From investment
counsel — Scudder, Stevens & Clark, Boston, in 1936 —I progressed
through assistant chief, Labor and Security Division, Boston Ord-
nance District, then six years post-war as sales engineer for a large
central New York custom molder of plastics, then back to invest-
ments. Am now assisting a partner of a New York brokerage house
(“offices in forty-one cities”), working with institutional custom-
ers and doing “technical” work — bar charts and other esoteric
media which are proving a valuable adjunct to serious investing and
which suggest the market will have gone higher by Reunion, though
my Scudder, Stevens training says it shouldn’t.

I also function as a trustee and serve on the Investment Committee
of my church. The latter fund’s excellent results, though perhaps
assisted by the “technical” approach, seem to be a further demonstra-
tion of religion’s essential force. As to hobbies, I play a great deal
of tennis and endeavor to keep pace with my children’s vast crudi-

tion.

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOSEPH FRANK KNOWLES

 

&
=
BS

HOME ADDRESS: 135 Great Plain Ave., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Goodwin, Procter & Hoar, 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 25, 1914, New Bedford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1936; LL.B. 1939.

marriep: Margaret Noyes, March 28, 1942, Intervale, N.H. cHitpren: Joseph
Frank, Jr., Jan. 17, 1943; Emily, June 29, 1944; Faith, March 25, 1948; Alison
Eliot, Dec. 29, 1950.

occupation: Lawyer in general practice; partner, Goodwin, Procter & Hoar.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Wellesley Town Meeting, Wellesley; Scholarship Foun-
dation, Wellesley Conservation Council.

MEMBER OF: Schussverein (ski club); various bar associations.

THE three years at Harvard Law School were the most stimulating
I have yet experienced. While these years in no way instruct the
student in the actualities of legal practice, the discovery of the
real brilliance of the other students is exciting and revealing. For
me, it indicated that I should cultivate a certain amount of per-
severance and provided an opportunity for most enjoyable mental
exercise and congenial friendships. During the vacations, I managed
to do a good bit of skiing, and I continue to do as much of this as
possible in spite of the fact that each passing year makes my style
look more like that of a square rigger when compared with that of
the nimble, well-coordinated modern technicians.

After slightly more than two years of enjoyable bachelor life on
Beacon Hill, serving what was then an apprenticeship at law, I
found myself like everyone else caught up in the war which had
then become inevitable. Fortunately, so had marriage, and in the
nick of time I was married to a fine playmate, mother, cook, do-it-
yourself person and, incidentally, one who proved herself to be a

[ 788 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marvelous correspondent in the war years that followed. I was
drafted into an Army which wasn’t quite sure what to do with
lawyers who wore spectacles, but after various tests in the Army
Air Corps I was taught how to administer training to pilots in
blind-flying trainers and in celestial navigation.

Being an enlisted man, I saw endless duty in the Air Corps kitch-
en, so after my stint there I switched over to anti-aircraft artillery
and became a lieutenant. This enabled me to apply for a post in
the civil affairs military government end of things, so that I was
able to go to Normandy, Brittany and Munich as a military govern-
ment officer. In Munich, I ran an occupation court and was the
administrative officer at Stadelheim Prison.

After the war, I picked up my legal practice again with the same
firm, a most congenial group of lawyers with a wide range of in-
terests. Each day seems to produce new and interesting challenges.
The firm has nearly tripled in size since 1946 but has retained its
character as a wonderful place in which to work.

Two children arrived during the war and two more in due course
thereafter. The family travels have been pretty much confined to
a north and south line running from Nonquitt on Buzzards Bay
where we have a summer place, through Wellesley to Intervale,
New Hampshire, where my wife has roots. This makes for a great
deal of tennis, sailing and skiing, since Meg is pretty keen on doing

these things, too. We are now beginning to break out of this lim-
ited perfection, and in 1959 the whole family spent a month climb-
ing and riding in Glacier Park. Last summer, my seventeen-vear-old
son and I were able to cruise the Bras d’Or Lake in Cape Breton with
Dr. W. A. Dickson and Dr. J. G. Scannell of this Class. Both of
these ventures are unconditionally recommended to all others.

These pleasant family activities, plus of course some concern with
town affairs, have managed to absorb what Icisure time there is. I
hope all of us will put less time in on taking readings as to whether
or not American prestige is up or down and more on the friendly
and constructive projects of exchange student programs, scholar-
ships for foreign students, and helpful sociable relations with the
visitors from other countries who come here. I confess chat I have
done too little in this line during the years which have been devoted
to family and professional matters, but I hope to do better, Another

area in which I should hope to do more in the future is in guiding
the development of our crowded sections to preserve open spaces
for recreation, and in promoting methods of transportation which

[ 789]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

will be less punishing than the present jammed-up situation. Al-
though local home rule is extremely fashionable and stimulates in-
dividual mterest, it has the great defect of making cooperation be-
tween neighboring localities almost impossible. This is one area
where we should take a larger view with regard to the activities
of state and federal governments, so that we may come to think of
these agencies as “us” instead of “them.”

SIDNEY WILLIAMS KNOWLES

   

  

HOME appreEss: Boston Post Road, Old Lyme, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Electric Boat Division, General Dynamics Corp., Groton, Conn,

BORN: Jan. 31, 1913, New Bedford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MarrieD: Katharine S$. Dutcher, Sept. 14, 1940, Washington, Conn. CHILDREN:
Thomas C., Williams Coll., ’64, April 22, 1942; David D., Jan. 1, 1945.

occuPATION: Industrial relations administrative aide.

[ 790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY CALVIN KNOWLTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 435 S. Oakhurst Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Homespun House, 261 S. Robertson Blvd., Beverly Hills, Calif.

BoRN: Oct. 25, 1913, San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, NJ. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTion: President, Homespun House and Homespun House Wholesale
Corporation, cotton textiles and draperies.

I HAVE to report that this quarter-century and I made little mark
on each other. Without having advanced my own cause appreciably,
or humanity’s at all, I’m afraid | haven’t much to show for twenty-
five years. Of these, I passed seventeen in a gentle rise to the middle
professional level of ad writing. A busy, pleasant period I spent in
good company, at a good company (J. Walter Thompson). I lived
in Manhattan, unmarried, and the seventeen years went like seven-
teen months. Three war years in the Army, made partly interest-
ing by service in the Ski Troop and in a detachment with the British
forces. The most recent five years have been somewhat more full
and gratifying, in business for myself in California. To develop mv
product, a new type of textiles for draperies, I spent many months
in steam laundry work, Up to the ankles in hot caustic slush, up
to the shoulders in tangled sopping cloth — just twenty years out of
Harvard. Am back up the ladder to the extent that I now wear a
shirt to work, but not yet a tie.

[791 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT ALMY KNOWLTON

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 3521 Davis St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

BORN: July 17, 1914, Scituate, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., 1936.

MARRIED: Rebeca Trucco, Nov. 26, 1938, ‘Washington, D.C. cuitp: Marta Maria
Isabel, Feb. 18, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Warren Knowlton, Jr., ’35, M.B.A., 39.

occuPaTION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Downhold Club (New York); Re-
tired Officers Association.

puBLications: Court of Crows, Harper & Brothers, 1961; fiction and articles in
about thirty magazines.

ONE way or another, with time out for a couple of wars, I’ve been
in the writing business ever since graduation. I started, tradition-
ally, as a night police reporter for the United Press, and probably
haven’t had so much fun since; but the trouble with police report-
ing is that (emotionally speaking) everything afterward is anti-
climax.

From this sort of gaudy nonsense I shifted to the more sedate non-
sense of political reporting, covering the various executive agencies
in Washington. I exchanged my battered brown hat for a homburg,
learned to keep a straight face under a barrage of inanities, and
for a few months (Lord help me!) even served as president of the
Financial Correspondents’ Association. By the time World War Il
came along, I was only too ready to join the Navy,

I can’t think of anything I did during those four years in uniform
that brought victory any closer, but I learned to keep a shut mouth
to go with the straight face, and saw briefly a certain amount of the
world. When anyone asks, “Where were you when we bombed

[ 792 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hiroshima?”, I answer truthfully, “At Sharjah—a little caravan
crossroads in Trucial Oman,” and maybe that doesn’t kill the con-
versation.

Having nothing better to do after the war, I went back to the
U.P., this time on the foreign and diplomatic beat — the same old
nonsense, only in broken English. By the close of the Forties I was
managing editor of the U.P. Foreign Department in Washington,
and beginning to wonder (since my predecessor held this job for
seventeen years) if maybe I wasn’t cruising up a blind alley. I
flirted briefly with public relations and free-lancing as ways out and
then, in 1950, the whole problem was solved for me. We were at
war in Korea, and incredibly the Navy ordered me back to active
duty

I still have no idea what they wanted with a lieutenant commander
who was, shall we say, past the first eager flush of youth. (At the
Navy Department, I ran into Tom Curtis — in the same boat, if not
the same ship. We discussed the problem at length, but inconclu-
sively.) I only know I didn’t advance this victory noticeably, either;
and the end of 1953 found me in the Naval Hospital at Bethesda,
Maryland, with a few pounds of surgical steel in my leg and hip,
and in the pocket of my bathrobe a pension for total disability in-
curred in the line of duty.

The one thing I couldn’t face was a return to news work; to
start that business all over again for the third time struck me as
supremely ridiculous. Besides, there was the inhibiting fact that
for the next year I had to spend four hours a day at the hospital
working out on various Rube Goldberg devices and learning how
to walk —an astonishingly complicated process. Free-lancing was
the obvious answer, and it wasn’t any time at all before I came face
to face with Rule One: unless he is very talented, the man who hopes
to make a decent living at this trade must be prepared to write any-
thing, any time, for anybody. Acting on that principle, I have sold
articles, stories, poems and indefinable miscellanea to every major
magazine from The New Yorker to Esquire, from the Saturday Re-
view to the Saturday Evening Post. Every magazine but one, that
is: somehow I don’t seem to be right for the Ladiey Home Journal.
I try not to brood about this.

There are moments, I confess, when magazine work isn’t really
satisfying. The idea then — it’s an idea that occurs to every writer
I know — is to Get Far Enough Ahead so you can forget the com-
mercial stuff for a few months and Do Something Really Worth-

[793]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

While. This, I regret to say, is illusion. Under that inexorable
corollary to Parkinson’s Law which states that expenditures rise
to match i income, you find the treadmill just moves faster and faster.
The only solution is to add another hour to the normal sixteen-hour
working day, and use it for strictly freestyle writing. By grabbing
this extra hour over the last couple of years (what is sleep but a
bad habit?) I have turned out a novel called Court of Crows, which

Harper is publishing this spring. The bookstores will have ample
supplies by the time you read this. For heaven’s sake, buy it — and
don’t let me catch anybody sneaking over to the lending library
counter, either.

What activities does this leave time for, aside from what my
daughter’s school catalogue coyly calls “the joys of family life”?
Well, for one thing, I’m a Republican Party precinct captain. This
does not mean that I smoke fat cigars and fix traffic tickets — as a
matter of fact, in the District of Columbia it doesn’t mean much of
anything — but consists largely of organizational work in prepara-
tion for the day when you in the fifty states will let us have the
vote. For the rest, I see a few friends, enjoy a few laughs, take
the weather as it comes, and clutch happily at any stray remnant
of sanity in a razzle-dazzle world. All in all, it has been an interest-
ing quarter-century.

And now, before we catch our breath, will you join me in a
salute to Stan Deland? What a magnificent job he’s done, over all
these years, seeing to it that we’re paid-up members of our own
past!

JOHN JAY KNOX

 

HOME ADDRESS: Trinity Pass Road, Pound Ridge, N.Y,
[794 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Drexel & Co., 45 Wall St., New York, N.Y.
BORN: July 18, 1913, Rumson, N_J.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrieD: Charlotte Denny Schloss, Jan, 29, 1947, Greenwich, Conn. cit: John
Jay, Jr., Dec. 10, 1947.

OccUPATION: Registered representative, Drexel & Company, investment business.

OFFICES HELD: Steward, Pound Ridge Community Church.

MEMBER OF: Waccabuc Country Club; Harvard Club of New York, Bond Club
of New York.

EXCEPT for a very brief fling in the chemical industry directly
after graduation, I have spent my last twenty-five years in the in-
vestment business. I have been with several firms, the last one being
Drexel & Company, where ] have been for almost three years. 1
have enjoyed the security business and have watched it change a
great deal over the years. | am old-fashioned enough to believe
that investment is still the life-blood of our economy and I ho
will remain so. One subsidiary benefit to me has been that I have
had to make frequent trips to Boston, which has enabled me to keep
up my friendship with many classmates.

J had an undistinguished military career as a “tank gunner” in
World War II. The only positive result of this was a chance to
see a good deal of Europe including a six weeks’ tour of duty at the
Sorbonne in Paris after V-E Day.

I have been happily married for fourteen years and have one son
and two stepchildren. My boy is in the eighth grade at Fox Lane
High School in Bedford, New York. I live in Pound Ridge on the
outer fringe of exurbia and concern myself mildly with some of
our town affairs. I have long since ceased to worry about crab
grass. I have quit on vegetables but still try my hand with flowers
(mostly perennials).

Five years ago I had a severe heart attack and for a while I car-
ried on like an old woman. However, the memory of this illness
has faded away and, within reason, I can do anything I choose. In
fact, I only think of it when I need a handy excuse to get out of
something I want to avoid. I like to play golf and can break one
hundred fairly regularly but only occasionally am Tounder nincey.
My wife and I have been lucky ‘enough to travel a good deal an
have had two trips to Europe, among others. I don’t go to church
as often as I should. I vote Republican and take cheer from Elar-
vard’s improving football team.

Making due allowance for the usual ups and downs of evervday

[795 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
life, the last twenty-five years have been very good to m
next twenty-five years are as happy, I shall have no com

WALTER ROGER KRAEUTER

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS; 117 Vose Ave. South Orange, N.J

KRAEUTER has been carried as a “Lost” man on our records s
1943.

JOSEPH HOFFMANN KRUG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 82 Walnut Ct., Englewood, NJ

OFFICE ADDRESS: 988 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

Born: March 14, 1916, New York, N-Y.

PREPARED AT: Collegiate School, New York, NLY.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; M.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1940.

maraiep: Bernice Elizabeth Grohe, Nov. 30, 1942, Fort Devens, Mass. CHIL
paren: Ernest J. F., 3d, June 20, 1946; Pamela Dawn, May 13, 19473 Joseph
Hoftmann, Jr, July 12, 19565 Elizabeth Ann, November 8, 1957.

[796]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPpaTION: Physician, ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: Surgeon, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, associate surgeon
in ophthalmology, Lenox Hill Hospital (both New York City), assistant
clinical professor of ophthalmology, New York University.

MEMBER OF: New York Ophthalmological Society, New York Academy of
Medicine, American Medical Association; County Medical Society of
New York; American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology,
American College of Surgeons (fellow), Medical Strollers, New York
City; Englewood (N.J.) Field Club; Knickerbocker Country Club,

Tenafly, N.J.

COLLEGE to medical school, then internship for two years at the
Lenox Hill Hospital, New York City. Then directly into the U.S
Army with the 12th Evacuation Hospital — overseas from January,
1943, to September, 1945. Residency in ophthalmology at the New
York Eye and Ear Infirmary from November, 1945, to May, 1948 —
then into private practice.

Important dates: marriage and birth of four fine children.

NAOTADA KUMAGAI

 

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: The Nissho Co., Ltd., 115 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

KUMAGAT has been carried as a “Lost”
1942.

man on our records since

[797 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JAMES LINCOLN KUNEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3712 Bradley Lane, Chevy Chase, Md.

OFFIcE appress: Martin & Kunen, 817 Barr Bldg., Washington 6, D.C.

BoRN: March 8, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., Cu71 laude, 1936; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),
1939.

MARRIED: Marcia Robinson, June, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHiLpren: Lisa, Jan. 17,
1945; Andrea, March 25, 1946, Seth, June 5, 1949; Jonathon, April 26,
1951; Jessica, Feb. 14, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, partner.

OFFICES HELD: Senior counsel, New York State Commissioner of Housing,
1939-42; captain, USA Signal Corps, 1942-46, executive director, Citi-
zens Housing and Planning Council, New York, 1946-48; assistant gen-
eral counsel, associate general counsel, 1948-50, general counsel, 1952-54,
National Security Resources Board; assistant dean, New York School
of Social Work, Columbia University, 1951; counsel, U.S. Gov’t. before
International Joint Commission, 1952; deputy general counsel, Office of

Defense Mobilization, 1953-54; secretary, Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer
Foundation, since 1955; professorial lecturer, American University, since
1956; member, board of directors, District of Columbia Health and Wel-
fare Council, Community Psychiatric Clinic, Montgomery County.

MEMBER OF: Federal, American and District of Columbia Bar Associations.

WE came to live in Washington about a dozen years ago, when I
was still pursuing a career in public service. Earlier, having served
on the state and local levels in New York, and then in the Army, I
was asked to serve as assistant general counsel (later general counsel )
of the National Security Resources Board. This was a staff agency,
advising the President on planning for the mobilization of resources
in the event of war. Later, the Board merged with the Office of
Defense Mobilization, where [I spent two more years as deputy
general counsel. Additional assignments included negotiating the

[ 798 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

St. Lawrence power project with the Canadians, serving as statf
counsel to the Cabinet Committee on Energy Resources Policies,
member, National Enforcement Commission; consultant, World
Bank, special mission to Colombia.

In 1954 I finally entered private practice, and have since been
adjusting my outlook on life, with offices in Washington and New
York. The pace has been somewhat quickened, but I doubt that
private business activity will ever bring the same feeling of achieve-
ment and satisfaction that comes with coping with public policy
issues.

Every growing area presents the challenge of participating in
community affairs. Marcia has been working hard as a director of
the Modern Dance Council and the Montgomery County Arts Cen-
ter. I derive much satisfaction from time spent as secretary of
the Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation, a director of the
Health and Welfare Council and of the Community Psychiatric
Clinic. (These latter interests derive from a brief spell as assistant
dean of the graduate social work school at Columbia University

some years ago.) If I have any hobby, it’s spinning new Iecgal
theories on how to protect our land resources, especially around
our metropolitan centers, against misuse —a subject about which I
can prate indefinitely.

The five children are thriving — our scheduling system resembles
that of an air traffic control center —and I often wonder what
happened to the blissful and unconcerned condition of things when
young ones were just being out and doing nothing. The teen-age
girls are wholly absorbed in the ballet and drama; the younger bovs,

in music and all conceivable sports; the youngest, a six-year-old
girl, a little of everything. So, over a twenty-five-vear period, a
fair share of fulfillment, and the usual feeling of w ishing that one
had drunk more deeply at the well, a long time ago at Harvard.

[ 799 ]

[ 108 ]

-INaWi0es pasearour sey PROT sAeIIsTURUpe oY ‘porodsoid sey YOM
ay3 st qnq ‘pooS Ar9A usaq sey yoreoser 10y Ayunysz0ddo ayy ‘ar9F7
‘eMUIOJTeD UsTIYyING 03 UO SuTAOW Au 02 pal Yyorys sdiysuonejes
jeuosiadiajut ut syuounutoddestp suros paaroaut anq ‘AyjeoyMusros
SUIPIEMIT BIA YOTYM ‘TOOYDS [eoIpayy suR[NT ay2 Jo AINoez 9yI UO
sivaX INOJ PAMO]O} 919 J ‘WOYyDoIg ur nINsUT BYsUT[OIeY] OY Je
pue YIOK MINT Ul VININSUT JaTajoyooy ya ye sdrysmorjay yoreasar
jo sreaX 901y) 02 UO JUaM | PU paUINIaI YoIeasaI JOF wseIsnyUa
aya ‘auipour ut Aouapisas s.sead & JO asINOD aYyI UT ‘IaAIMOT{ “OpIA
-oid 30u aysiu Sunutod usaq pey | yor preMo} ojq OMMEpeoe pue
Ayo 81q oy) yorym apy Aprurey ur spremor savy ayStur uerorsdyd
UMO} [[EUIS B JO oJ] 942 FYI HUT 02 ow poy ‘dn Surmoisd sem uos
AUL IY ‘OYTOe_ oy2 UT sea INOF ASOWIPYW “AdIAIaS 9y2 02 ]]Bd 942
Aq poidnirzajur sem drysuszajut jo sreaA omy ud9q dABY 0} SEM AEYM
‘stya SuIMOT[O “estdsopzy [erausxy sqasnyoussepy oy ae ArTOIeIOGe]
sjoqe], uyof *1q Ul BuTyIOM pue yoaNG UODvEg UO BuUTAT] syUOW
o[Apt may 8 quads pue powseur sem ] Jooyss [eoIpayy ay) Wor; UON
-enpels BuIMol[O] “Joyey stead ysio jnoge sgnsuy JoT[aJoyoy 243
ye sysidoyorsAydosnau jo dnois e Aq paiiodar sJaM sanses Jepuns
ysnoyye ‘paysyqndun poureursr azoyaray) savy Ady, ‘UoneIpsul
jzormsyo uo smoatA sjuousedap aya YIM prose UT AOU Inq ‘But
-JSoJOIUT 9IOM SyNsal ayy ‘aposnur yoows yo Arypiqeaoxe [eoLo9I9
uo A8ojosAyg jo wounredagq ay) ut yoieasor Suipnpour ooyss [eo
“Ips psearepy oy} 3e savad moj os9M aay], “UsJaed peuoMUaauOD
pue pouurld @ pamoljoy uonenpesd Joye sreoA [eraaos yay AHL

*sjeumol Jeuoneusaiut
pue [euoneu snowea ur paysyqnd sraded oynuerss sAy-AIOUIN[ ‘SNOLLVOITEAd
*ASooqeurapy Joy Aj2I90gG JeEuoNeusaIwy
SuoneOssy JeoIpayy Aqunos sajasuy soy tASoposeuspy Jo Ais1ID0g ukD
“HOW fYyoreasay JEoIUTTD JOJ AIIID0G UI9ISIAA fYDIVISIyY [COUNT JOJ “pry
ueolauly Sauroipayy [eusaqwuy jo Ararog sajaduy soy §(moyfaj) suviorsAyg
JO aBayjop uvowoury tAja100G JeoTUIOY) UROIOUWIY ‘Yysieasay yEsurD I0yJ
Araia0g “uay ‘tx euiBig “Wy Wy tABojorg [Jap roy Arat90g JeuoneuraIU] $A
-snuayy Jesdojorg jo Ajatoog JeuoNeuIaqUy {(MOTP) “GSW WW ‘auripsyy
pue Adojorg fequauntedxy soy Ara190g tAia1sog yeoUIAYyooOIsI}Y $(MOTIPJ)
gauaIsg yo AWapeoy YIOR MAN fyosvasoy peoturyy) Joz Ax9190G ‘OG :40 waEWAW
‘IdINsIG
JOousS YyBIPY uowy 20014) usprery ‘s2aIsn Jo preog ‘IIqUID,TY :aTaH sao14s0
‘BIUIOJYED ‘yoveg Suory ‘yeard
~SOLL UONEIISUILIPY SuvIzia A *yoreasai yeoIpsul pue ASojoxwsy ‘SUIDIpaUul
[BUINIUT UT JURITNSUOD ‘erUTOFED JO AdsIOATUL) ‘F9IUIT [RIIPI|\ sapasuy so]
‘stuJaqUr Yorvasal S1EIDOSSE ‘auroIpaul jo Jossajoid feos aieis0ssy *=NOLLWdNDOO
"79, “YOTUINY punwipy uyo[ :Nos auvauvH

LUOdAA AUVSUAAINNY HL$Z

[ 00g ]

“Lb61 ‘Ez

‘adag ‘seuioyy sowel ‘ob6r ‘gi 29¢ ‘uvof autaipey {zb61 “b -qay ‘punuipy
UYOf :NIWaTIHD ‘sseyy ‘oBpriquiey ‘ob61 ‘Y 39Q ‘JouNOYyURyA AYYOIOG] :aarMavW
"ob61 “aw ‘of61 ‘apny uno “wy :saauvad °9£61-z£61 :a9aTION NI SUVA
"A'N ‘Yoouosewey] Jooyuss ysip{ yoouoIeweyy ‘LY Gauvaaud
“AN ‘udTyoorg ‘L161 ‘g “AON > N¥Oa
"JID  yovag Buoy “aay ounmsay fod1 :ssaucav ao140
"JED ‘aa01Ly usprery ‘apo Jouef zobz1 :ssaudav aWOH

 

MOINYOM GNVULWd THINVHLYN

‘Jayjour sty Aq poatains sem searadny 389]
[OD BurIAvs] JoUIS saITAOe sty UO UONPMIOZUT OU sey AreIZIDIg BY L

SSE[) Ino yA reaX suo uods SYAYTIAN NINWINAG NVWAH

"SSPIAl ‘Joasayoog ‘$761 ‘z1 °qaq scald

"€€61-ZEOI :dDATION NI SUVTA

"Sse ‘WO3sOg “fOOYIS une] SI1qng :1V aguvagad

"JeIG VY ‘sealadny UOUIG ‘sINGUVd ‘ssepy ‘uoJsog ‘£161 ‘61 “AON, ‘NYO

 

SVAWAdNN NIVVINTT NVWAH

g£61 JO SSVIO GUVAUVH

[ fog ]

QUIS ‘SOL BY JOJ stout poos kv papyatd siyz ‘aured sod sieyjop
uaayy 38 ]]Eqaseq jeuorssayord-tuas paced J os “mnoy sad squas
Aayy Jo aged ayy 3e sem ppy ieya ur qusufojduia jo Joyo 3saq Aut
‘poopuy “ose savaA aAy-AIUOMI PUBUIOP UT JOU dJeaM SIZ0UISUG

‘QININJ BY JOJ swysis mo asn{[pvar 07 Japyo ur ‘AT[eUOTseIDO ‘MOTADI
01 Ja339q st Ww sdeyszod pue ‘Aeme Surddys jo Aem be sey sum yng
“gareuuonsanb ayy Jo uonoess siya 03 SuIUIOD papeoap ] Goodsomes
Ul SAT] 02 (JOIN B OUT 9ze3 J [QUN) Ysnous pjo Buses aA TON

JY Wory odeosy aur nox,, ‘ostwsrediea ut AeA VY, ,BIZUIA PIW,,
cTysupyy Jayy Buoy, ,exjog esnop{-80q,, 2 UO PG HL Ng Nox
3u0g,, ‘278 yoy Suoure ‘sduos Iepndod 001 Iaa0 JoOZ sowA] :SNOLLVOIIENd
‘sIoyst|qng pue sloyany ‘srasodusoy yo Aya190g uRDTIIWY
‘Ayaisog surseursuyq prlearepzy ‘puejsy Buoy so qnyD prearepy :40 waswaw
‘synod JOoYSs YSIy JOj soruoIqoapo [eotuYyseI “IayoRa T ! NOLLVdN900
“ACN ‘puesy Buoy ‘Aqtry uaprery b$61 6 Aepy ‘oujog “FD AsO A, :aanniviw
*(LE)9f61 “ars saaunaa -9f61-z£61 :aDaTIOO NI SUVAA
"A'N ‘pueysy suo7q ‘Aary uoprery ‘Jooyss syne 3G ‘LV aguvdaNd
"AN ‘uApqoorg ‘b161 ‘71 ‘uef ‘Nao
‘A'N ‘Arng
~ISIAA COAY YIOR MON Qf ‘oquaT) Bururel]T yesuyosy Y sper] :ssauaav a1440
“A'N ‘pues, duo] ‘peaasdurapzy “1g proysiog 661 :ssaudav aINOH

 

SAYHINAMAYT SOMAdCHaaA SATAVHO

‘sassad0NS Ilayi YIM pouleu0d oJOUI pus [euosiod
ssay_ Ajaatssarsoid sauroo|aq ainany ay) ‘dn smor3 Aprurey ay se ing
cPpeaye sary aangnyg aya, ‘sAes [yeG Woy Sy ‘suonesusdwos o3enb
-ope oq Aeut dnoid Aqssoatun qWuy Ajesopd & Ul pagsixa aaey IYSTU
URYy SJOBIUOD [eIOOS JopeoIg yuRIyNsaT oyI ‘JaAIMOZY ‘squauNsed
-ap AussoaTuN Ino Ul satiqisuodsar Suryeut-Aotjod pue sdrysuoney
~O1 JOSO]D Passiul SdLUM Iw BABY Inq ‘paptaoid savy 3y8tw sursipouw ut

LWOdaA AUVSUAAINNV HLSZ

ee enna nasudiesnmtunestsiitiR= SESSA

[ zog ]
SOIPIAIJSE J9YIO Jey} SpleMaI [eoUeUY JoIvaIZ ay? Passius JOU DALY 2
‘BuUIpIeMIT UdIJO pue Bunenums useq savy ssulyesopuNn [euorssay
-old mo pue usoned auosajoym & ur dn Surmoid aq 02 seodde
UdIP[IYD sy ‘aq 02 Wayd pax] aaey prnoys _ ey Ay[eIaUad UVEeq
savy Ady? IYI Japisuos y ‘sia aay-Ayuamy 24} UO xOeG Buryzoo'y
"JeoT Je QW & AOjJ
‘giquiejed aJour ay2 [je sory awoy ay) Burpusr ayeUr [IA IdeJ STYL
‘TQAIMOY ‘ONDIY 001 JOYII sem ‘uoNeBtaeuuMdI1D AUL Jo sfaay aya UO
syvom oaryy ATuo Aq Burmoros ‘Aouady ABrawy siwory [euoneu
-191U] PUB OHM 22 JOF BAsUay 02 opeur asni savy Y Yor din
ay], 0961 ut OAYOT pue amy jay ut sioded quasaid pue sdunaour
puswe 03 Japso Ur seg SULMOT[OJ aqo[s 2y3 pafamO pue gS61 uF
yUOUT & IJoj auole adoing ur sem J ‘0961 Jo IoWMUINS ay UT ‘sIIEg
Ur si JO [[@ Joy yauoUT & puke Uapamg ut ApJ aJoYM ay JOJ FEY
e pue reoX ev Surpnyour queseayd ysour usaq sary asaya ‘AyTeIaues)
‘[aaeay IOZ sarungsoddo snosoumnu papraoid sey ayy yoreasar oy].
‘au0Y ay Jo ssoundura uappns
gyi UO Jape 02 ow aaa aut aard Aqasoya pue ‘sasuodxa jooyss
Sunsour Asnq au daayq prnoys smpy ‘ada[od prearepy ye Jorn
B AOU ST UYOL sours ‘jooyas ae ABME UdIPIyO aoryI [[e SUIAeY URIWE
[es FeUL, “Jotrq aq Ayqeqord ose [ptm Jooyos yB8ry [eso] ay3 ye apeIs
yuu ay? ur Avis sJoaysnep Aur pue WWOUTaIE[) Ur [OoYDS qqaAA 942
BuIpueNe MOU st Uos apesd-yjuTU AuZ yey sfooyds ay} UT 3991/93
“UT 943 Jo yuaudoaasp ayy saye(nUMs YOR] JWouUOITAUS Jo Pury
dy} 31891 02 SUOP aq 0} SUTUaT yoNUT os ‘IaAaMOZY ‘pasvard ore
OM YOY IA SUIOJaT VUIOS psonpoMUT aavy aM ‘pIvog IY) UO
Udaq SAvY IM 3eY IedA  IOAO II] YI Ul ‘I UO spueUlap aarssaoxa
SUIYUI UdAd SOLUIMAtIOS ‘astT [eIN0S Ino payotus Apwais sey sty,
‘Ayunuw0s Ino jo ywauwisas yenoapaaur aya Jo sn anoqe Surdyyes
YI Ul pag[nsar ose sey 3ng ‘suoNeENds yNOYJIP Jo Jaquinu e payesIs
sey AJTUNUIUIOD INO Jo spNgnye eNyoo]JaIUT-NUe [eIOUNs SY T *S39}
-SN.I] JO pIvOg FOOYSs YSTY ay) 02 paidaza aq 02 sn pasned sey WOTILD
-npa Arepuodes UI 3S9J93UT INO ‘aAIMOP{ ‘UOISaI INO jo SydesSo08
943 Jo ansor & se Auszaatun QY2 JO apisIno ose st asl] peIOos INC
-AJISIOATUN dy) UI
SI9yIO YA JORIUOS AIep Jo UONY|NUINS [eNgDa[[aIUT BY Jo pd audap
yeyMatuos paoy snyy pue ‘sndueo Aysraatun ayi JO sxa.10i ATOAT
IYy3 WOIF PAAOWAI ase a.An ‘AreatydesSoasy ‘azIs ajqraseuru A[Ipead
Jo pue Surdysres useq ose sey autorpatu yrusayur puke ASopoyewoy
ur sonseid uoNeyNsuod ING. ‘Surdysyes usaq sey Yor. ‘sare ALU
UI SUOTINGIIUOS SYLUT OF UOIskdDO pry avy Ar ‘SSTIYIOAIN' *ATPLI

9£61 JO SsVIO GUVAUVH

[ Sog ]

‘Asng aul
sdooy ‘JOUILUNS 943 UT asINOd Jfos B punore sXoq Japro Au MOTTOJ 01
Suid YL JoyIa80i ‘sm y_ *AT[VIOT sataNde “E77 2Y3 JO IOI-aTIP
a1a[yye UI9q aaVY | sIVIA [eJOAas Jsed ayy JOY “sAog saIYI JO I9YIeJ
pnoid aya pue ‘sreaA auo-Aquami asoule Joy parazeur Ayiddepy
‘yIOM asuajap ut Apsour ‘Sururyoeur pue uon
-eouiqey [ejaw ut JoAojdwia yuasoad Aur quassadaar 03 ‘o8e sreak omg
INOGE ssauIsNG 9Y3 P[OG ‘soUTYDeUT DDYJO IOJ 9dIAIVS PUL SoTeS [IeIOI
‘gI01S aUTYDeUT ssoutsnq & paseysind 7 ‘uoneiodio7y usprexr) UOIsOg
aya yaa savah jo ajdnoo & Jaapy “Ja0yjo UO ONsUOD & se sIvaA
INOj noge paaras | ‘AABN, 9Y2 UI USISUD Ue SB UOTSSIWUIOD & PaAlaooI
| UsyM ‘JT IEAA PPOAA Jo VeIs oy? Jaye Aproys pun sivak Maz B
Joy ‘swasnyoessepy ‘AouIN? ur Aueduro_ Burprinqdiys weystyreg 243
WW YIOM 0} WAM | ‘WLUISITeS DOULINSUT Ue se JU JOYS & WALAV

doys ouryoeul pue uoneoqes [eo UI UPWISaTeG :NOLLVdND00

“bS61 ‘oz youepy “MA UlAsy ‘gh6r 6 “Bry “f saAyy

$¢cS61 ‘Sx -uef parp) gb6r ‘or aunf “> yupy {Shor ‘21 cuef “sf ‘ydasof
SIoURI iNFYCTIHO ‘ssePy ‘osompapy ‘oP61 ‘61 pady ‘sfouey yUpy -aarmavw
*9£61-7E61 :ADaTION NI SUVIA

"HIN ‘Iovoxy ‘Auro
-peoy Joiexy sdiypmyg ‘sseyy “193s9010 4, ‘AWapeoy JoIss.IO AA ‘LV aadvamid
“ssuy] ‘osorpay] £2161 ‘gr 19Q :NYOE
‘SSRI ‘sn3neG :ssaxaav 31440
“Sse ‘asl ‘oue] puog suremg 96b :ssauaav aWOH

 

ANWI Hdasof SIONVUA

LuOdaa AUVSUBAINNY HLS Zz

[ bog J

j39q NOX cure |e 3 OP | PINO.M
‘uny ang ‘Aouow ou—uny pey aary yt yo wq Alaa ysnosya
qnq ‘somioedea Aucur ut padcjdura usaq acy ] siead aay-Auaay IOJ
puy ‘Aoury Aw yonsys asja yoaaaeym pue sasinod Suryseay [euorssay
-oid ‘AZooyaAsd ‘muy aouernsur pue Ayadoud year ‘Bununosze 3soo
‘sjorgu0D UONONpold ‘udisap Suidid ut sasmmood uayea aaey YT “TPeys
qaaau Ajqeqoid pure ‘yjasAur fooyss 0} Suto8 paddoys r9a2u dary |
|, AdeqauoU
uey3 I3ay10 pieMma,, aseryd oy Aq quesUT st YM MOUY |F ‘Way
QAIB plnoo [ souepINS yey JoF aw YULYI 03 UINJeI sajeNnpeI3 usyR
puy ‘sodajjoo Butsssuidua Joqua 03 Jo/pue sueioruyoai sotuomaa
at099q 03 paredaid aq 0} are squapnys ayy yey} 3d30xa uapaoaid ou
YA [BUISIIO aq asnU YOM AUL [[e 3eYI Os ‘aIwISs sya UT aUO rorid
@ SI asinod ayy {3 Jo aanuru Ayana Sutdolua we | pue Joavapua
jo oury AW MOU SI SIU] ‘sJuapms [ooYyDs YsTY YORI 0} JaaUIdUA
SOTU0IIO3[9 UC IOJ WUDISIIZAPE UB JOAMSUE 0} ULY? [eINIeU dIOUr aq
Phos 3eyYM Os — oUdIDS pUk sOMeWOYIUE UT porojNy pue ‘andeaT]
ONIYIY sg ay UT yINOA YI paytom | sIead asayi Sup |TV
‘deorpuey & 32913 003
jeudes pany & punos ing ‘surpying yenuapiser awos paidwone |
poiad styi suring = jswat[a-sapying wosj saay Aw Sunsayjoo ayqnoa
JO sjoy YM ‘yam Jad skep uaaas ‘Aep & soy UsI1INOJ YIOM 0}
age SEAL ] j3YysNos | WopselJ ay) pey | MON ‘ssauisnq uso AW
pouado pur ‘sasusor adeiay01q 2OULINSUT pUe d}eIS9 [eT IOJ PoIpnys J
‘paquniad sea, I Se UOOSs se pur ‘payyuer gol ay) 03 UaZOIJ Bulag UT
uorsjnduroa jo a3ou ayy, ‘gol ay3 03 uszory — yaa.n Jod sAvp usaas
‘<ep Inoy-aajami B pue siead Je ayi auled vay) fAvp Inoy-3ysIe
sou & Suiyiom ‘sursautsue jeory97]9 ut Jopeay dnois & se quan
[ ‘qed aerome ue ut sutraautsua 01 yorq os ‘yo azo. UoOSs ABP
[je Sutdaajs pue aysiu ye SuryJom jo IMowes, pue Ayasou sy]
‘1a88njd Suos pue soutzeseul ape JOJ NUD BISSYDIO “19M UAT
‘Tau adios ‘Jaounouue ‘10108 Opes B ‘WIN UT ‘atUeDaq | pur aur 31q
nq ssoutsnq Moys ay]. “9d1ATas OWT passaid sen J pue Surpsoa]
eiado deos, ev 103 readde ou pip Joioe ue Aep ouQ ‘Jeoursua
punos e se ‘Kueduioo Surpiosay younjap arou & Aq sug & Joy pa fold
“Wa SBA pus ‘UIEde Suiaauisua pain y pa.noys soxayal AUL SY
“JQIUIGUD UB SB IW
aly JOU PyNom yey) SWIY asoy2 JOJ pue ‘squauIedasp uoNryuEs pue
ary ‘soyod aya Joy (Jadu, & se Yoon B sated IYSIa OF XIs paryd |

9£61 dO Ssv1D GUVAYVH

[ Log ]

prey [ ‘ourvoriny pursugq MON gf6r aya Joae asn{ ‘ArowasosgqgQ
IH AY g aya ae JoAJOsqo puB ArvI9I99s sB JUS YWOW-IYsIa ue —
[los pavarepy uo adxyd yo03 asayi Jo Bunsaszaqut jsour sy_T, ‘soustrod
-xa Sunsazoqur ue Auvur 09 sioop ayy Buryoozun soz say oqenqea
aaoid 03 asa yor SuidAy pue puvyyoys jo aspaymouy e ‘a019ap
paraivpyy Alu 03 UOTUppe ur ‘pey | ‘Yaway AyTueZ oy IJoT T USY AA
“USUI PIBAICEY IO preva
-It}] Worj Jey AIIA JOS JQAOU aavYy J YOTYM SuuMp ‘anyusape sno
-o[s & se paquiosap aq ‘sdeysod ‘ues jearoqut oy, ‘sodoy uewysosy
AU wory AID Tye St Avpo} Sutop ure 7 yy 394 furayI Jo 9UO se
if "Aepoy suossams 10 suvisAyd Suisnovsd Aqpenjgoe ose ouTdIpour
SULApNys jo Bapt oy] Ysa oSprrquie) Joy ano 39s oy su jo Aueut
Moy sIvad aay-Aquam3 ased asayi Surmmp porapuom uso FAVH I

"SOS O]JO) UPILIIUP [NGUYIS]

aqi fo unayng tuunjp ‘Iapunojy put JoUpa ‘sapnie snoIaUNNY :SNOILVOITENd
UORBIDOSSY JBUONLONPY UvdTIOWY-YsIyIN | SuOeIOOSSY

Aysiaatupy ueououry-ysrypin [ {Aqa10g yesoporoayapy] ueoWoUry ‘40 asaWaW
“$761 AsnSny sours ‘aday[op
Waqoy ‘Areqoioos TUNE Jaw] pue ysysuy jo Joyorsy ‘Sh61 YsnBny 03
*zb61 ‘raquisoeq] ‘YOR man ‘heg JaiskC ‘uonepunog Aueyry, uauidojaa
-aq 8 Yyorvasay IyMUAaIDG jo soIO {zh61 “oquIs.0q—asndny ‘uonEyIEqUy
jo Wog uosog “3daq sprosay pue prep ‘peay ‘zb61 Gsndny 02 ‘6£61 ‘Ae
‘Arauyay IeBng aloaay ‘1oSeuvur sayes 03 Areqeroas +6£61 ‘Avy 02 ‘gE6r *raqor

-9Q ‘AlowalasgO peolsojoroaqay [TH onpg ‘Avejodoas-Jaalosq(Q) ‘ATH Sao1ddO

-adayjop IQGoYy ‘X1e19199S TULUNYy -NOILVdN990
‘AdYIN[, ‘[nqueasy ‘gr61

eaopreuryy atydog {(gh61 paoroarp) ‘sseyy ‘uoIsog ‘661 ‘rowun,g Aqny :caravw

(LE) 9f61 “ary :agunad *££61-z£61 :aDaATIOO NI SUVIA

“ssBJA] ‘WOIsSOg ‘JooyoS uoIUNUN} :1V aauvaad

*sseyA] ‘Foasayorog ‘£161 ‘gr aunf{ :Nao@

-AdWIN GE, ‘Tnqueasy ‘8 “y'_q Yaqag ‘edayjo> 1wsqoy :ssauddv aldo GNV JWOH

 

ANVT SIWUVH Leads

LYOdaAY AUVSYAAINNV HLS 7

[ 90g |

‘savad Aja} IOJ
poyelpyye usaq avy [ YOIyM YIM ‘OIpNys [Ld0] & UT JOJNVsUT JDUEp B
se quautAojduia punoj peaysur ang ‘duryoeay Arepuoses 03 usMal
JOU PIP | pus JOARapUD sty advo] 0} SUI pasned YYesy ATY “prensy
SOD “SF 243 UT BSutAras Jeak & puR YT IEA, POA awe Udy]
‘uo wurIyse AA ‘JOOYSS YSIP] uysneA 3 oeNUOD Stead B Aq PaMoT[oy
sea sfooyos aiqnd ewooey ul Suryovay aamansqns sivad sary 1
"aqeoyn190 suryoes} & pue s015ap siry jo
Jopayoeg & YIM punog yosng jo AyssaatuQ ay Woy powenpess |
‘IOAIMOFY ‘osty Aur ur qusuNUTOddesip & usaq sey ‘rea aUO IOF aI9yI
sasse[a Suipuoye ssqye ‘prealezy ye wonvonpa Aul snunuOd 02 TON

‘IOIONIISUT UEC] ?:NOLLVdI900
*danNVWNA
*gf6x ‘(-piqr) o3@DyHIX) S194 IRI |
‘9£61 ‘(punog josng jo ‘alug) ‘sv csaausaa “f£61-7£61 :aOyTIOO NI SuvaA
“Yse AA ‘eul0se T OoysS YySIP] wmMrIpers :Lv aRIvaTd
"yse yy ‘eurooe | F161 ‘£ AON :NYOR
"YSBAA “BUDE ‘OIpNrg sdueG puro} :ssaUaGV FOW4O
ryse 4 ‘€ ewOce] “IG “N09 :ssauaay aIXOH

  

‘Uf “ANWT Faw ONC

9£61 40 SsVTO GUVAYVH

[ 60g ]

souasypowuy Jaqunos) aya ur Apuewund Surases ‘gb6r ‘Arensqay 03
“sH61 ‘“sOqUaAON, WoIy AULTY aya ya seam sorases Area Apy

‘[RIQUaT) AUTON IWeIsIssy UB SB PoAras [ TOYAL

‘syasnyoussepy Jo [eIoUaL) AauIONY IYI Jo soYJo dy} 0} Praour Udy?

‘JHIA B ULYI WOW IIIT] @ JOJ WNOD yeripnf swaadng oy Jo vonsn{
JatyD 2y2 OF paysajo J yooyss me, wor; uoNenpers Au uody

“9b61 ‘raquiaza(qq JOUIS WITY sTYy} YIM Us9q

dA] “UOIsog UI AYSJopny Y uosueyINY Jo WAY Me WY Jo Joquou

eB ‘aienbo prevaiepy 01 aso [TMs we 7 sIvad say-AQUEA WALAV

‘IaAMC'T :NOLLVdND00

‘aanAvWNA

6661 Sari tof61 ‘apn wns ruBoie | ‘av iswauoad “9 £61-z£61 :aDaTIOO NI SUVIA
‘ssefy ‘uoIsog OoydS uNePyT oyqng :Lv aauvagud

“ssey ‘uoasog ‘$161 ‘gi aunf{ :Nuo@

“sseyy ‘6 uoisog “1g alTysuoaag Sg ‘AysJopny ¥% UOsUBYIN] ‘SsaYaaV Foo
‘sseyy ‘SE woIsog “py yormsryy S41 :ssduaav aINOH

 

ANVT YWAAGNVXATV NOLAN

"pivaAlepy ueys
ayo 28a]foo awos 03 yam Aadyi FI UdAd Io — yeads Aaya adsensury
ays ‘moyjoy Ay uoisyar ayy ‘UTS 242 Jo JOjOD oy Jey 39}9eUT
ou sSuraq uevumy se ajdood adasoe 03 :uaw-Moray AW Jo VoUeII[OI
su SNe ose sey souatodxa YT, “AL, UO YOO] saiepipuers sya
MOY YIM ULyI a8ie] 3 P]IOM a2 YA pauIa.U0d aIOUI UI opeUl
sty ‘xoaamoy ‘proiqe Sutary ‘ueoyqnday e ys uty ‘Ayeontog ~

‘read ueulysory 943 SuLINp JOJNIQsUI qe] q] soIsAyg AUT sem
OYA ‘URUIAIPY JasOY “AC{ JO UOs oy} oARY osye aM Iva sya Yeas Ino
UQ ‘3d9][0F) Vaqoy 3e Aynoey aya Jo Uap sI OYM ‘RET ‘g premoy
pue ‘uBoLOWYy Ueg YIM soy SEA OYA ‘JayeUI20yS Aajpny :ospiq
-UIED) UT Maury Jaaou | Sarewusse[d Sunsaur usaq aavy | [nquedrsy UT

LYOdaAU AUVSUAAINNV HLS Z

[308 ]
“sal
Aq youn Wody sinoy jo adnos & Ajuo ase aA, “S9LUNOD URIAeU
-ipuvsg yi adooxa parsia acy am yorym Jo ye ‘adoiny ur asar oy
‘BIBULIEYY 24} JO Satoys sNeISY 243 UO sJQWUINS INO Jo Jed quads
savy am ‘ghOr ur odeiseW Ino aouIg ‘assnu ada|[09 ay2 Jo Used
ayi ul UoTURdWOS Suyaaes paiey-ney e yout | aBaqjor Waqoy IV
"WT asnge jou op am se Buoy os ‘asaymAraaa st diyspuayy
jo puey 243 IeyI Aqnop Jo Mopeys B puodag aut PaduTAUOD pu
uorssaidur daap 8 apeur ieyi saouatiadxa aie suonsarp yse 07 Suid
-doys Ajaraur uaym Jayjoue Aq poutp pue pauim aq 03 pue Sutusow
3Y) Ul YIOII,O INOJ 3 UMOI aU0 Jo JoAeWT aya Aq PaatadaI aq OT,
‘Way? Jat 394 JOU peYy 3nq suedtaWY Jo pleay pey om adooad ke jo
Ayyeudsoy 943 afdures 03 aoueyo & pey | eyoeUY Ul “‘pauoNeis |jns
azam sdoon ysntig aay ‘suayiy Ul OsTe sem | “J99NS ay) ssoIDE
WOWA 242 3e sem 7 cdo umoyg sem aopy praeq Bury ayy Jaaye sep
maj 8 asn{ wayesniaf Ul sea [ ‘9yoBNe [PARU se URUIOG UYof sem
aay2 ‘oh61 ur andiog ur Assequry ueooury ay] oUt poyyen | UsY AA,
‘BYOILUY PUP ISEY IPP! 3y2 03 suoMIpadxa aamord-Sutaour uo ano
JUIM | WAY) JO OM} UG “Buraaesy 04 paioaap Usaq aaey sJoUIUINS
‘Suryovad Joy fay auM ou yt ‘gol awm-yny e sou st yy ‘op
02 pasoddns sea Arejaroas TUWIN]e Ue IVYAA JO KapT asaqy STs ay pey |
JOU UOTeISTUTUIPE dy) JayIONy *ArejaI99s TuuINje Jo gol pappe ay
uo yoo) Ayyeuy ang ‘apnpayps [[nj & UO YsIsuy Suryoeay Aq uesaq |
‘YIOX MAN Sutavay Joye sXep suo-Aquam} pnqueysy Suryoesr ‘wen
pue re Aq ABM ayi JO Isa oYyI Suaaen ‘ejfrepy ye papuey aA,
“POLS pur ase Ie
oy) ur s3sod say? 03 BuTUINIVI sIayoes1 PUB SaTIeUOTSSIUE puRsNOYI
e Ajieau pue saoiiodap oof pey am pieog uQ ‘Neaing sroyoroy
prearepy ay2 ySnom Aen Aur atuoa prey Anungioddo sry *332T
-]Or) Waqoy 3e yoear 02 Aayny 02 din e Jo Say asIy aya uo ‘wyog
“SG14D) AUT 9Yy3 UO ASKY IZppryy ay3 JO; paztes y uayn ‘St6r snd
NY Ur uesaq ArISIZATUN P[IOA dy) UT UONEINpa ayenpessisod ATY
‘Atva\Japun syoalord Arpuns
pue snorea 94) uo sjiodaz ajo1m ose puke uonrys Joye. e dn
WS | SINT ‘JapyIs uosweAA pIeyory ‘aawusseyd sel mo jo Jays
-puei3 aya Aq paumo aivisa ue uo — yIOX MAN ‘Avg Jaas{Q ‘uones
yorevasar uonepunoy Autyty Jey) ye Yio. 07 aw and yor. Qual
-dojaaoq % Yyoreasay oYyMUAIDG Jo S0UJQ ay) Joy zt6r Ur aIe[ Jes
02 udm | ‘ped puvywoys & puke aouatadxa Joysean AW YA,
‘uoysog ut Auedwoy sayidg 7 "EY aya pue peowiey
USARFY MAINT ay2 IJOF JaydesZouars se au woys v quads Ajsnoraaid

9£61 do ssvId GUVAYVH

[11g ]

‘suvioisAyd jo aBa][oD uesowy ‘uonemossy [eoIpapy uBoOWY oO weWwaW
‘osvoyy JO anansuy uonenpqeyay ‘QUIDIPSUT [eUIaIUI UT JUBI~NSUOD
tyeadsopy peuowosyy AajsaA\-osea1yD ‘Surpusye oaerosse {fooyog [eopay]
AUSI9AIUD) UJaIsaMU ON 4$-1$61 ‘unos sea4-pary3 Jo Joep ‘urd

“payy jo -adaq ‘uewireys aya 02 aueasisse ‘ourorpaut ur FOIONSU :dTaH SAO

‘sutotpaur yeussqut jo Ayeroads ur payises ‘ueriskyg :NOlLvan900

‘aaWavWNOA

*CAMIQ) UJDISIMYVION) “(IW Sav isdauodd *££61-z7£61 :aDaTIOO NI SUVdA

"yse A ‘aueyodg ‘fooyss YSsrpy [eU|TD YON ‘Lv amivawia

‘quOyy ‘eualaPy ‘F164 ‘oz Avy : NYO

TIL 11 o8voryy “aay ofeoryy “y 12 :ssauaay ao1ds0

TI] ‘11 oSeonyy ‘aremejag “q £$z tssauaav awoH

 

HOVENADNVI FOOVE GNOWAVY

“layem ayi Aq aso[d asnoy Wey WaTOUe Ue UT pausqUOS aqmb [Ye ose
OM soy ‘UOWUILIVg 03 ow sSuiq ureSe yorum ‘SuTuTeEN JoYIINy
roy yeudsoyy Jopng Surpuowe ‘Anerodsd ur jsorajul pouowuow
-3IOJe 9Y} Jo asnedaq ‘purys] spoyy ‘sousprAoIg 02 sued 661 UT pue
‘2b61 ur ‘eruvalAsuusg ‘olry UT sUTOIpaU Jo sonoeid ayy UT paczos
WIG | ‘9F61 UT ‘puR[aAg|D Ut ‘sAraSoYy UsOISeAY Je Bururesy o1eIpoed
auimsaz 01 Addey sem pue ‘uterdeo @ se ‘draquiainN ur dn popuo |
a010 9 any AWIY ‘SQ ay} 01 payoene sieaXk Ino papasaid ysing
“syig ut Sururesxy jeydsoy jo sreak OMT, jWey} Iaquioulsr | se s[red
-Op dy} Ul {[y pue xorg 08 [LJ Os ‘3tg & Bulquier useq aay | 99S |
‘gsuRYo 0} poou 3.u0p Asy3 — sjeopt Yysiy Inoge ssuryi sou
aya jo quo SI yey] ‘Os Uleulor [IM sAvmye A[qeqoid pue uayi sear
NM yey oy] oumnb st yooyss ay Jo quaqut pue yuids ayy yBnoy? se
sulaas 199A puy ‘[[amo7T Waprserg yWM systa UCOUIaIe AepuNSs
JsIY INO souls p2IINI90 saeY WY? sfooysg sajenpessy) pue sda]joD
yi ul sodueys oteUAp 24} Uses sey PIBAIUEY Ye Sse Ino se asn{ —
Buly3 [NJJapuom ez st sou ye YU pue ,ssueyo,, Aolua 7 asnvoaq

LYOdaud AUVSYAAINNV HLS 2

[org]

‘snya aq skemye yim 31 ey) asituoad auom pang “Aeas freys Apqeqoid
pue sivad qwysia Joy ‘purysy apouy ‘uo SuLeg Ul u9aq MOU aay
an ‘aoerd mou e ur aonoeid dn Sunieys ureSe pue Apmys rayling
jo aoug]nqina ay3 Jo aJoul Joy ajy yo Aem Aseva ayy paadnssaqut
pue ‘Aneryodsd ur paasaraqur arou auiesaq | ‘sommeipad jo aonoeid
gyi Ul paouatiedxa azous awiesaq | sy “gh61 Aq Apes oy posers
pus payes orem Ayeuy pue 1661 ur parseu aram [ pue Aouex
‘soiIoy yuajnqing ayy Sump Apyoinb passed auny ‘jooysg jes
" -Ipayy Jo savad Inoj Joy prvarezy pautol urede | pue Suipremar o19M
yormsunig ur sseaX oy ‘ased sours Buoy mou ‘sawuins yey3 Suryjad
“lr pauisas Aayi ynq ‘suosear asidaid ay) ]feoaI 0} MOU prey soy
‘989[[07) UlOpMog 03 padsajsues [ JeaX asry ayy Joye pue awo0ys
AJPaNeJaI SEM aBa][O7) pIeaIep{ Ww oenperssopun ue se 139109 LW

"qn Anunoy pues] epouy
{4ya190G IENeipag pueysuq many ‘somneipag jo Awapesy ueouewry 40 yaaa
“UBIDLNLIPad :NOLLVdN300
"SE, ‘Suey Aajueag uyol :waHLowd auvauvH
6F6r ‘gz dy ‘ereqieg ‘gtr ‘gz
judy ‘prosyorg uoydaag :NauaTIHO ‘eg ‘og ‘1h61 6 “Bny ‘re[g AoueN sav
"of61 ‘(ATU
PIPATEEY) "aw ‘9f61 ‘(]]o3) Ulopmog) ‘av :saausaa *££61-7£61 :aDaTION NI SUVAA
‘eg ‘Temurdsy ‘Jooyss ysipy peaurdsy :iv aauvania
“7 C ‘Wowuryse 44 ‘$161 ‘E -qay :Nuod
‘Ty ‘uo surrIeg 15944 “py eumorg palpy Lz :ssmcav Taso GNV TWO

 

INVT GYOANDIG GIOUVH

-gonorad aweaud
paroqua y pQun Aauroye ura e& se syJUOL U9] INoge Joy Wall
“UJOAOL) [PIOPIT 9y1 YM padras J ao1A19s Arent Wolf, asJeYyasIP
Aur uody “xaaseuusoasen?) ayi Jo waunredap jeSaz aya ut pue sdz0p

9£61 dO SSVIO GUVAYVH

[ £1 ]

‘POM aya punole ye Sunrpnono sen osja ApogAyaao ayn ‘opepng
ae ‘OUT. JOYS B JOF ‘pues spe vredserpy ur sseg DPW aya 1e yonas
aur yan ApPyomnb passed sivad area ayi sny “eysepy ‘syUeqiey 03
S[[Bq PILSLIN' SUNOI 9y2 UO saucyd pairosse pue s.6£g JO} JaIseIaIOF
utLAID 8 se pueutuo’y Jodsuery any Awsy 9y3 03 pasrajsues | ‘styy
Jay “BWOYLTYQ ‘esny ur AZoyorosieur syapeo soJoy any Away
Suryseay dn yoo) yxou J “no syA0Iq TT IEMA POA sy SYIOX
MIN ‘SqpoIwIuULYS spisno wey [ews wv paieredo Y YOTYA SUIMOTI[OJ
‘parareur 393 03 YSingswig yey [ “(sauyary eudeg mou) ysinqsurg
Ww soUyITy [emuey elues;Asuuag jo peas [eoIso[o10019Wl pawJoy
-ALmau ay pautol vaya ‘yI0oK Man ‘Aoqury 3 qodiry asnoerdg
Plo ayg Ie NesINg IJ9YyIZIAA VYI JOJ payTom | ‘uorsssoons prides Uy
“MOU al sodeosa YOTYM JO oueU ay2 ‘paystjqnd sem as0d
-ar AYSuszz & sty) Jo no pus smysdurepy MAN Jo 218IG YI] IOJ YIOM
Yorvasay JoyIwaAA-o1ty Sulop 0} uMOp popiies J ‘sTy3 Surmoyjoy
‘uonvonpea [eJaqi
Jy I B YIM I Jo yno owed | yng — sieak uorssaidap ayy aTaM asay)
‘Faquiatuay “IsaA4 942 INoySnosrys Apsour — sAoye Surpmoq ut suid
dn Sumes pure “519 ‘sader3 pus sueaq Suryord ‘suvuyfnd Joop-aprs
ul Supra pue Suryry-youy ‘ung yuesJourt yo yzos e se ATUNOD ay}
punose Suypsaen sen asa{foo SUTAva] JoIze UOTaT[OIeI IsoTpIVe AYA]
‘yyeoar Jouued | sSury3 Auer (Aryowosur yeam Jaye @ Suravy) pue
‘yuo syutod ySry ayy jo aaj e uo yonoy 03 An [[eys [ “eLs[eysou Yyonut
YAM UO YOO] J sIoyIO pus yos10j woos se asn{ prnom | YOTYM Jo oulos
‘sSuryy Jo singxtur years & us0q sey a8o]][09 Suravay souTS OF] AW

‘garysdure Fy
AAIN Ul Josue] Jayiwa AA Ty fazuadaf{uoy mous usaisuyq fo j1oday junuup
ur paysyqnd sSurpaacead {]jey mous uo suonesriqnd aroys yeIaAdg :SNOLLVOITANd
‘030 ‘oper jo preog oSesryy tuoruy yeorsAyd
-Oar) uvoueury ‘4j31I90G o1ydesZ0ar) uRdTIOUTY ‘sIaIseopeorg jo uoNeID
-Ossy JeuoneN {(Joquiour yeuorssajoid) Aratoog jeo1Sojosoaqepy uevorIOUTy
‘aeuutoUtyy ayy yo Aya1I90g $AyJID0g puE]OF] ‘suoseyy ‘sy Tq ‘stueMIy :40 WEA
0961 aduls ‘adTBUIUIOD
jO Jaquiey) ayrauoog ‘9$-$661 ‘aauaIajuoT) MOUS UIIIseq ‘Uaptseid {0961
sours *$$—-1861 ‘ysanys edoosidy Arutry ‘uaprem pues uewiAnsa A :C1aH SA1AIO
“AUEM BORRS
OIpey jo siowsado “ouy ‘orpey Joary yov[g ‘Taumo pue auapisarlg :NOLLVdND90
"0$61 ‘L -qay ‘axocd purpaa[y thb6r ‘rz yoreyy ‘aiqqy oer) {fb6r ‘LZ yore
‘uuy Arey 81661 ‘$1 -oaq ‘uoisdurary eapueg :NawatiHO +($$61 ‘zi -Bny
PP) “A'N. ‘sopa3eaueyg ‘ob61 ‘iz ‘adeg ‘ysnoiqdelg uoppeg yup :aavN
*9£61-7EG6L :HDaTION NI SUVAA
“SSEY] ‘PIODUOD ‘[OOYIS xoso[PprJy :1LV aavdayd
uuIyy [Neg “ag ‘1161 ‘91 -‘Bny -Nuoa

LYOdaAU AUVSUYAAINNV HLS7Z

[zg]

“AN ‘O][Auoog “SPI AUGAA *Ssauadv aoids0
“A'N ‘ayftauoog ‘Wyrpy wosyoel ‘zc ‘Cy ‘ssauday aon

 

ONISNVT NOLSONIATI

‘yjosAun SutAolus wre | ‘Arewuns uy -Aunnaos yuaSijaqur pue sarmbut
He AoyI youl 03 snyMuNs pue auatjeyo yonw soptaoid apispaq
sy) 3e Suryovay peor syi UT suapMs YH VONeIDOSSE ay) ‘seapt
pue saouariedxa Ssunsaiaqur pue mau Joy soytunqioddo paynuyun
soplaoid auloipaul jo ppay ay] ‘ayqeaoywioo aymb st syodonou
oy) Ur ,Jarjaap: yy,, @ suteq ‘Apuanbasuoo ‘yendsoy pareyuge
pue soo ay3 JO SYOOTG INO] pue yooyas jeaIpaus aya fo saloies0ge|
pue Arerqy ay Jo syxdo7q sey UTM st quauaIede AW “[OOYDS
jeoIpayy AWUSIOATUL) UJaIsaMYION I oULOIpaw [LoIUT[D Jo Suryoray
auy-jzed ym ovary ur sonoerd ayeaud ut we 7 Apuasaig
‘peo| SuTyoeay psonpad yILN
aonoevid award pue surtoipayy feusaqU] Jo preog ay) Aq uoNeoyNII0
SEM JI SIYI JoIpy “saaIgIWWOD suOneUTUeXY pue sUOIssIpY ay3 UO
ANanoe [euonppe yw wesdoid Suryoeay JeaA-psy2 ay) Jo JoWaIIp
SEM J] JOYA pOoYyoS Jeorpayy AuseatuA wlaIsaMyWON YEW YON
saneIstuupe pus suryseay auin-|;nj yo pouad ve aweo uayy ‘oud
“Ipour yeusajurt jo Aqemads aya ut Suture paoueape Joy [ooyds [ek
-Ipaur pue yeydsoy ayi 0) paummiar | suonestqo Arey AW paiaid
“lW0D SUIARFT ‘opedojoD ‘saauaq ut sjeudsoy a0 7 any aya ur AInp
jo powad e pue eidsopy yerowayy A2[s9A4-oSvory’) ye drysuraiut
ue Aq paMmorjoy Ooyas [voIpayy ASIA UsaIsa.nyWON 3v Apnas
paouvape pansind | ada][09 JaayyW ‘uoNeIOUaS Ino Jo JaqusU ae
“IAB IYI JO IYI SMOT[OJ stead Vay-Aqua.ny ised Alu jo WaueEd FHL
*sadaq[oD
[PIIpapy uroOLIDWYy jo UORPRDOSY SIUISIPITY [eudoquy jo AY10G oseo14)

9£61 40 Ssv1D GUVAUVH

[ $1g ]

‘uo
-CUNUIOISP IYI SIVYS 9.0 [99J 0 Woas AsYT, *AvIS 0} POUTUIIOJOp o7e
sjuspIsar Ul[IIg IS9A4 942 IYI DOUIpIAD SurourAUOD st Weidoid uON
“ONNSUODII ISVA IY, “JWUOS 943 pozisvydura urpiog asoAA Jo AI
-[e11a SuNSINg 9y2 pue dUOz jstUNUTOZD ay} Jo ssauUqeIP ay UaaMIaq
yseUOD ay], ‘siods yoy s.ppiom 943 Jo UO Fo Mora BuNeUTDsey &
P2INIYsSUOD — si0jDas JsoAA puke jseY— UlpIeg 03 diy opis pouuejd
-un uy ‘odoing Ur uoNeORA $.yIUOU! B WOIJ pournies asn{ oazy |
“Surpremar AIOA SBM
gouatiodxa 043 pue sy3ed [eorSo8eped yoor100 Buoye Burfquims jJpasAu
punos | ‘sutyovay ur Sururen [ewsoy ou pey pey [ ysnoywypy “AyD
YIOL MINT Ur sasaqjoo yedrorunur 9y2 Jo suo ‘aSaT[oT- UATYOoIg 3
stead omg Joz ApyIomM s3y8ru oj BuQuNOsde WySne J ‘Aqqoy & sy
"ueeyuR Ut aaq ] pur ‘Aq
YION MIN 999g ASIP aseq zi 1e st soyo AJ “YIOX MON JO aIkIG
Qui UT JURIUNODVe SI[qnd pays. & sUIeDAq | ‘ATISIOATUA) BIqUINTOD
ye ssauisng JO ,OoyS oy ye Apnys pue 961 ul uOneNpes YALAV

"BUISIG EUIWEX) Blog ‘Yd Bpquie’y] ig :40 waEINaIN
‘quequNosse aI[qnd payndad : NOILvan990

“caRUVAINA

“9f61 ‘apnyy uno “aw vasanaa -9£61-b£61 :aDaTIOO NI SUWaA
“AUN ‘Suruissc¢ ‘Jooyss ysipy SururssO tiv avivamid

“ACN ‘Buruissc ‘z161 ‘6 Aqnf :Nuod

“ATN SYIOK MAN “3G asibv “7 :ssauaav aldo

"AN SYIOR MAN “IG 06 “gy O£S :ssauaav TINOH

  

ZNV'T NVIWYON

‘PABAIBE] @ MAUY J SazwUIsseyD aUINPTO 9Y4
[]@ 02 offazy e asnf ou Fy ‘apqissod yr uorunsy ssery) yayy-Aquom LL

LYOdaa AUVSUAAINNY HL$z

[rig ]

aya ayeur 09 adoyy *9£61 ur ayaq J aours aBpruquUED 02 YOeq Udaq AOU
dary Pur PjJoM ay} jo yred siyy Ul UU PIVAIVET Aue 398 Wop[as |
‘sapes3 aya Ul aAat Aog AU pure ooyps Yysry ur are
WIOYM JO OA ‘UdIPfIYD JayIo ay) aster aut Surdyay st ‘Bursuey] soury
‘SIT ‘IuUNe poos AW ‘preArePy 3e pip Jaa9 J URYI sNYyoNI e Jo srOU!
SUISIeI 3qQ 0} SUIDIS DYs aJayM ‘[[2UI07) Je a1oWOYdos e st ‘eIpUES ‘193
-ysnep asopjo AJ ‘JO[aYyoeq PauIyUOd B ssaq JO aIOUW 9WIODaq BOUTS
savy pus ‘$$61 url quaprsoe BuruMorp & YSnosy) ‘YUpT ‘ajUn paaoyaq
Aut ysoy [ “yosad ynjaovad pue Aryjoy sty3 Wosy syoepuorpy oy) pue
Aaye@A JOALY YR[G ay2 Jaa0 ano Zuryooy Aolua pue os Jo sivad uay
ysed ay} IOj aT[TAUOOg apisino urged Boy & ur [TY & UO pray sary |
‘OININJ snopuswan Be YK AQUNOD sUeUT
Sunod e Ajawuyap [je pue — umMo} aysoaey Au ‘eysepy exIIG — aaeIs
ausoaey AU SE ASE] YOTYAA ‘“VYseTY pue IsaMYWON oyloeg oy) ut ATyeIo
-adsa — Surpaaes Jo mq @ aymb auop aary | ‘sty [Te UseMIDq UT
“BUCT 00} 210Jaq LplIO[] 03 UMOP Jay UNI 04 adoy | ‘sIvaA
qU9d9I UT sToUIUINSs Imo quads savy OM JIBYM SYIOK MON ‘OQIET]
UOsIapUaFy IL OLeIUG oye] Jo pus usoysea ayy ye Jay daay J ‘Apuas
-iny ‘Aol pue aprid Aur st yor ‘Sussuny “g qupq ayy ‘resin adAy
ou-]]18 pasamod-jasaip yooj-b£ e& ying pey Ajuaver pue Iayooj-£z
B UWA pores “Suneog ur paysoroqut Araa auedaq | ‘9S61 ynoqy
7 ‘atu ay Jo qed
4se9] 32 stoopyno aw daay Aay} pur satqqoy ssaj 40 aiour axe suoN
-erodo asey asoy yz, ‘o1a ‘sXaamng Mou aAneradoo’) a181G YIOX MON
ay3 Joy soAaaIng MOU ‘UONAIasUOD jo yuaUNIedag IFS aYI JOJ
I9AIISGO IdYIVI AA OIL {a]]TAUOO Je nesNg I9yIwIA4 9Y2 JO} JaAIIs
-qQ Neaing JayIwaAA aaneradoo| & Ua—aq aAey | ‘sTYI Jo apIsing
‘yonur Azaa yom 943 Aofua pue 3 3e [As we |
‘gouatiadxa — ayqeiyoid you j1— Suneununyt pue Sunsarzayut ysow
& Ugaq SEY SITY] pue a]]IAUOOg UT a194 (AYGAA) VORRIS OIpeI U.NoI
~jjeuis & pagieys  ‘S$$61 uy ‘YyIOG IO —saaIoU JO sIaI[N Jo ased sseId
-is1y @ auodue aars 01 Ajay] st ‘FaaaMoy oyTeU sty ut Super].
‘Ajuo jpasAul JOJ siseq aAtsuayXa-ssay eB UO ABP sty] 02 apea 02 anu
-uos pue Aueduros 942 paapossip | ‘Surpexy url sqrrys WayI soy s19tW04
-SND [BIDAVS Iaqye ‘pue sarqeiea AuvU 003 ara aray ‘(sdo19 sy)
uO JOIZa su pue sdpaymouy Suseoajoj pue Jay Iwasa aatsuadxa AW
uo paseq) jposAtu Joy Appnjssooons Ayatey apesy pjnos | TM ‘uop
-UdIETD "WW Aruopy sqeusseyy papnpout pue ‘Auedtuoy » Susuey “J
se uMoUyY sea Auedwos ing ‘sukaq pue sjeO ‘ay Ul Ajjrpadss
axe AVIPOtULUOS dy} UT sJ9yIO pur Jas.{uu JOZ AjaaisuayNe Surpey
‘apeLL, JO prvog osvotys) dy2 Jo Taqwa B atuvdaq [ Ie 9y) IW

9£61 40 SSV1O GUVAYVH

[ 419]

‘g[A1S-2UBIZ)
YIOL NON ‘{1eqQI00j-o1d 03 UOQOASP UesHaed ‘piqer BE pue SpuNOg
pues, Suoy jo slows sya uo asmso jeuoisvooo uy <satqqo]{
‘zaisea ABAL Iya apeu sey SurueN pue UoMeONps pIBAIeEY
Mo ywyd qwosoid yaaa st uonEZyRar ayT ‘ayyT ur Aem sty Suryeu
UIZIND & JOJ peuoU Ajamns alam Yoodsoner ul MOU Uves ‘s1EaA
BuUIpssoons ayi ‘Ayres Surnors & pue asevisieur Aq pouaysig
‘Sn'V
‘sdiog yeusig ‘ureadeo ‘pourene ues OYSIY ‘salowsul Suysey pue
saouatiadxa ayqenassojun &q paoeidar ara sivad asoyi asinoo jo ing
,sanua.ny,, Aur Jo yno aos Biq ew yoo) sorazos Areqy stead Jey
& puke INO] “passitu usasd pue paswupe ‘payoadsaz saaey INQ pexT[stp
pue paieay isiy uoneziuesio ue ‘AULTY 941 UT dOIAIOS pue eM 9 JO
JUIAPE 2Y) YILN VULIYTUSISUT OUT pape} UOOS assay, ‘BuIpea, us0q
PeY IM dsl] DiWapeoe ay2 03 ISeIUOD UT sINJeU sNotJas eB Jo surajqosd

wSno1q uorssaidagq Sig ayi Jo sUIN ay2 IB [OOYIS MET ONIA VAT

qh] YyoRag BIUaIO ‘aIsayoisaA, JO UORBIDOSSY [OOYDG MET pIeAIEyy
{YJOX MIN JO UORPIDOssY [OOYIG MET preareyy “req YIOK MIN :40 waaINGIN
‘aavasa [eal ‘Japying ‘1aAme'] :NOLLVan900

‘9S61 *6z ‘adag ‘vpaureg ‘£61 ‘$1 9M ‘preuog {1861 ‘fz ‘go ‘euaMOY
SITY =NFNCMHD "AN “YFOR MON ‘ob6r ‘€ yoreyy ‘Query acy saamavw
6£61 “aT ‘9f61 ‘apa wins “ay :sTaDAd ‘9f6I-ZE6I :ADRVIOND NI SUVAA
"AN ‘2][24yI0y MAN ‘JooyS euoyT :1v aaivaayd
‘A'N ‘YIOX Many ‘S161 “Y ounf : Nao
“A'N ‘UOUIOA JNO] “IG peorg "MA 09 :ssaudav aod
‘A'N ‘uourysie’y ‘pueysy repad :sswaaav aWOH

  

VIVSVT “A GIVNOG

LYOdaY AUVSUTAINNV HLS 2

[ 91g ]

ery ‘Aesaq ‘epropy jo qnyy Anunoy ayy fyyeg ‘sBuudg uqeg ‘quip
=(xyuno7) prliqiapuny py ‘qn Aussaag tqnity Anunoy sayqnexpyy ‘qnip
Say NEM[TAY SSUOTBIOOSSY Jeg aayxNeMI PUL UISUODSI A, “ULSOUTY :40 Wada
"SUONEZIULIO [eID0s pue [eUOeONps
=3[quareyd ‘suonerodiod ssautsnq shoes ‘raayo put Joan] :CTIH sA1GA0
‘IaupIe'] 9 puowures ‘Aajoy ‘“Jouued Jonas ‘aA. me] :NOLLVa2990
*$$61 “€1 ounf ‘oqezyy Arepy
€$6r “Sx Apaf uuy oypsary £1961 b 39CQ ‘“Joao[ry amuef £0661 ‘17 “qa y ‘psroypag
Sssray\l -NGUCUHO “syed ‘sapBuy soy ‘6b6r ‘1 yudy ‘yneny spony] :aanniviw
-ob61 “ae TI S9f61 Sapna] utna “ws :samanad ‘9£61-7£61 :a9aTION NI SUVaA
"FIED ‘STI Apraaag ‘Jooyss ysrpy sytpy Apoaog :1v anivaaa
“SAA SDOMOLUOUOIO ‘S161 ‘oz “Gay :NYOE
“STAA *Z DOHNBAATIFY “IG JoIeAY “N] SEL :ssauday ad1Gg0
"STAA SIT SoqneaytIpY ‘IalG oye] “X\ £967 :ssauaav gINOH

 

Ul WANGUVT GUOANAT

sdiyspuatsy plo avaual 02
atunzioddo ayy pu saws 3xau UOTUNIY dyI 03 PIR.AIOJ YOOT |

9£61 dO SsvIO GUVAYVH

[ 61g ]

“SOXB] sUOSUT SMaulIaysy UO SojsnIe MoT -SNOILLWOITENd
‘uouzedag oir IaoIuNTO A JoqreZy 3am
-YINOG ‘UONBIOOSsSY soURpINY) pTYyD purysy wessq JuNopy ‘suoneDossy Ieg
yownf 3seor) ouTey) pue ‘Aaunog yooouryy ‘aurey\y Jo 03836 “uBoHOUTy | ‘qniD
re83ry yer tandeay Aaeny ‘uonemossy sis04yQ sarasoy ‘sep, UsIaIO
JO sueioja A ‘0066 “ON ASOg [eIFOUA}] JUOWAT YT ‘uorseT uEoHOWYy ‘69 ‘ON
og poomIoN “WY sussNy ‘yOOT ‘SEt ‘oN 98poy oneweg ‘way ‘42°ON ,
aspoT qoull ‘ourey\) uloisey pue uorsog jo sqni> preaiepy 240 aaa wa
"09-gS61 ‘uoIda] ueolowy ‘69 ‘ON SOg POOMIONY "fy 9us3
“ny ‘Iapueuiumi0d ‘gS6r asus ‘sano UMOT WNEIDOUIEG] JOqIeFY 38M
-yanog +561 souls ‘saqUUIOD pry [ese] Aqunoy yooourTy ‘ueureyo ‘oS61
gous “MAT A pue uorday] ‘Taoyjo aorates {6b-gh61 ‘sorauuIOZ jo Jequieyy
oqIeFy 3saMmyNog Yuaprsaid SroqIeFY asamyINoG JO UMOT, ‘soT sNoreA
‘IOyJO YIeEoYy [PICT ‘Tossasse ‘IoOg 342 JO JIISIIAGQ) “UBLUIDIJIG :CTaH SAIH4O
“AB[-B-JOT[asuNos pue AsuIONY :NOLLVdN900
"€>, Qermne] odeg [OtUeYIeN :WIHLOUG GUVAUVH
9561 ‘zz -uef ‘aBeg sdiyyryg ‘¢$6r ‘zz -qaq ‘uewepy empudd
‘7S61 ‘of “Sny “af ‘preyng eBro0ax ‘oS61 ‘§ Avy ‘asunosy snadD :NaYQTIHO
“IN, ‘Aueqry ‘4b6t ‘6z ‘AON ‘Hb, uoqay A, ‘asunoIN UUYy AyIOI0G :aanavW
‘cb61
‘(CATUG, UTaSBayON]) ‘A’TT ‘961 “ay ‘saauodd *gf61-7E61 :AOaTIOD NI SUVaA
‘puepsuq
‘yBiajuerZy ‘fooyss ySrayuesg ‘ssepy ‘uo man ooysg Aeq Anunoy Lv agvuvamta
“soe ‘odpraquie’y ‘$161 ‘Li ‘uel :Nuog
“JUTE
‘TOQIBFY sam aNg UIE! “YOT_ SMOl[aqy PPO ‘viz wooy ‘ssaudavy Forus0
‘QUIBIN ‘JOQIVEY ISBAKYINOG ‘proy JuIog yIeID ,“esnopy urydjaqy,, :ssayaav awou

‘
é

 

LVIWAV! GUVvVTINd JOUOAD

"yjasAur yIEM
ydooxa ‘nod put ‘siurediuoo ou ang ‘payydurs a 3umie3 01 punowe
ja3 | a1o0Jaq aud ag jasej Os soo3 UW puY “noqe Ayear st ast] yA
Ino aindy o1 Surdy 2ai3-og-ay2-rapun-Sugus urerd yasn{ pue ‘aa

LuYOdaa AUVSUAAINNY HLS$z

[gig ]

0} juvaut skemye ] spaou asoys Summ ‘Aqeuey aya Burdolua ‘dur
-yuryy ‘BuIpvar Joy sum ySnous you — punose SurAzn9s yon! 003
— LAG — .AyMyyom,, ‘asoddns | ‘pue Sunioxa Aroa ][e — tIsy
03 sdiaq [njzopuom aay ym — Ayoid0g BIsy puke UORepuNnoy ps0y
ay} JOF YIOM ,JeININIIaQUI, fyeIF, UT SsoUIsNg JJOSIT TS 2Y7 pue
SUITYS YA Wswadoaut yonu ‘Burysyqnd aurzedeu pue yoog ‘sur
~JsoJOJUT W9YI JO [[e Yysnoyy — BulAjsnes Ajeet oq 03 YsnoUa ouOp
[[2% wIsy2 Jo suo ou—sBunyy quarayip Auew 00} Jo yonuw OOL

‘squouatddns Apqsuopy otunip ,‘Aueut
-Jor) ‘euling ‘uedef jo saanoadsiag,, ‘9$-S$S61 pon saausadsaag :JOUps
‘sourzeseut ut soidoi Aresany snore pue Sumys uo saonie ‘ses0g pajzajag
‘suaog Jo yoo [jvms P ‘ssuty] jvanivAy ausog :a8Iaa JO SyOOg :SNOLLVOIIENd
"mnoMo9UUOZD ‘AIngsies “O'H'C ‘Ieyepuey ‘Draquwy ‘wapy YIOK MN Jo Ina2
-BUIY — Sqnid Tyg £(20uerq) JOUOFY Jo uoIday ‘Au aye] Jeg ‘qnID ely
‘yIOR MAN Jo qnyD prearepy SAaa190g Jarporyy ‘uoneisossy Arnqua; :40 waa
‘YIOK MINT
‘AJDID0G BISY ‘aI TWWOD suonPaI[qng ‘UBUITIEYD {<ONSYN/ JO} vorssiuu0’y
yeuonenN °o'A ‘a8re]-3e-Jaquiou! ‘ainqsuy uadsy ‘[ooysg yoosgapBeyq ‘Jooysg
SJIEH SSIPY ‘923sn ‘uoNEDossy NYS JeuoNeN ‘sannuwoD Surrasurequnoyzy
pue anfzy ‘ueurrreyo £2561 sours “oul ‘suoneoygnd JeinanorJequy Quapiserd
‘ob6r sours “ouy ‘adpo'] apy pue uonerossy syodg Joqura, AD oye'T ayes
‘suontsod snoriea {9f61 a0uTs ‘suOnsaTIG] MANY ‘JOUpa pue JIUMG :CIaH SAA
‘IowiIMm Saanndaxa uonepunoy ‘roaerado qosar rys ‘saysyqnd yoog :NoLLvdn|00
"0961 *€1 ‘qaq ‘rosay Arua] $4561 ‘g Avy Waqoy [PhOr ‘$1 "qaq ‘eplary $zh61
‘gr 20Q [Neg :NFAGUHO “UUOT) ‘YOtMUIIIZy ‘9561 ‘61 ABP IOsay rep uuy
‘(pasroarp) yerg ‘Aas aye] yes ‘zh6r ‘$1 ‘uel ‘Jashay ualpy joredsepy :aannviw
*(6£)9£61 ‘apnny una “ary :aaundd *6£61-SE61 ‘PE61-2£61 :aDaTIOO NI SUVAA
"UUO) ‘propsurye My ‘Jooyds awoyD 2Y [ :-1V aauvagua
"eg ‘ysingsurg ‘v161 ‘of 19CQ : Nog
"A'N FI WIOR MAN “OAY YR EEE ‘suoMdaIIG AON 'SsauaaY F1AdO
‘UUO’) ‘YJOJION ‘peoy urequnoyy :ssauqav aIWwOH

  

NITHDOAV Savvl

9£61 3O Ssv10 GUVAUVH

[ €zg ]

noNosUUOT) Jo oj¥Is Bur
-UWLItYyd INO YSnoss Av. Ino uo sn aos pue surog *ABMAIe SSOID
InqITA, 242 Yo ysnf ‘usaezy MON apisyno yasnl ose AA “PouTUIaIEp
3q 02 [JMS St AIpIqe onayYyIe — astM-azIs [eLIAIVUL YORqI[NF VAI] SYOoT
dF °1461 Jo sstyy ‘prearepy rows 0} sadoy pue vad IxXeU [OOYS
qeiutueis surdopy soy Surpeay st ‘uaagja mou Yraqoy ‘uos NEO
*AOBIOUNIT ssautsng ood9y jensn Aur uO uvYI JoYyIeI AprueZ 943
yn ApINSII] Jaaes3 02 soueYyS eB AT[eUY pue ‘WONeSIDeI 9IOUI 912]
& ATMURS BYI IAA QUIT BIOW 0} PABMIOJ YOO] ued | ‘UOIIYS UT IJ2]
qued suo Ajuo yi Sey Burdoy uty ‘ysypduwoooe 02 JUBM | sdurTya
aya [Je Op 03 aU 9127] Os st arayI JeyI st wafqord ayy, “peofua
avy [ IYI SHeaiqg poos sy3 Te pry aavy you Aut oym ajdoad aya jo
auIOS IOFJ Jasea apay B asn{ as Suryeur Aq a jo aed oreys 02 Oy] P.]
yey sXem AURUL OS UT 93eUNIIOJ OS Ud9q DAY ] IYI JOoF ] YI IF
ay2 02 anp st w jo aed aqAey ‘990 ‘spung 3snz} [eUOvONpe [eJ9AaS
4sauzy Aprunurutos ‘qnyD stuemry ‘WOIWA ‘qn shog ay ‘speatdsoy
OA} INO Jo JIDWJO JO Joep v se yom ayy Aolua | ‘asea Aue uy
cou, Avs 03 AIIqeur ue savy | osnevdeq [AIS & UTOg 3,useM
J 2eya saeunazoy asn{ sat shes ‘FoAaMOY ‘WANY ‘910 ,,41 Op od109z)
,, .{ywep 07 ssJoy Sum & yYIOM,,— sgyoI[D pfo sy2 presy sey
QUOAIIAT ‘SOTTUNUIUOD [[PWS Ul poA[OAUT soUIODeq 9UO YoTYyM UT
samtanoe JepnowInoenxs Aueur ay Joy Aressaoou ow ay opraoid 03
Japio ut sanyiqisuodsar iuawaseueul stI0s Jo JpasAUI ISOAIP 01 Pry
[ 3ey3 sasisur Apres AY “3seq] Oy} UT sysorOjUT BSuLINJORJNUEL AU 03
aug Aut JO SOU! BIOADP PUL ISPLIqpoo AA Ul Val] OF ONUQUOD ][eYs |
“AJoIOvJ sty aiviado 03 uoNeiodioa Mou e# dn tos savy aM Tay
‘uisuoost AA, Jaddn 03 paaour uaaq Apacer sey— urd Suriom
-poom & Aypeoseq — ssautsng yayseq [eutsi0 ayy “Ayso1u Burssor801d
SI pUk UOISYS Ul pozwIoy []Us st ssoursng [oo] AP “suLINIoejNUueW
— puris pro owes 042 Je Ay;euonednos0 au spuy Ivad UOTUNDY STHL
‘qnyy AusivA prearepy ‘yIOX
MAN PUB SAPPY MAN ‘INONaUUO’ JO sqniD preaIELY SuoNeDOssy [eadsopy
NINSsUUOY ‘qn{D eprqpooA ‘uOIPYyS Jo qnyD Jor) pueyysizy :ao waaWaW
"$61 aouls ‘pun. diyszejoyos ppo yl,
‘aaasnya *6$61 aours ‘qendsopy uygiyy ‘z$6r aours eudsopy peowsyy IMF]
‘333SNH PUL IOIDIIIp ‘puny; ueoOT jeuoNVoNpy uoyoyg ‘£$-1861 Quaprsaid

“1861 aouls “JOIaIIP pus soisnsi ‘asayD AUNWUIOD UOYayS-Aquaq ‘9S—b$61
‘utuuey ‘0S61 sours ‘1o1anp ‘1S-o$61 ‘qniD stuemry Uoprsoid $g561 sours

LYOdaY AUVSYAAINNV HLSZ

NE hi deta an

[ 77g]

Kur) dunuansyg uoneousay unpyo-daing
tyS-b61 MeonoUy JO Gay) seg uoyayg- A
woyaygeAuungy ‘2861 sous urdu jony
Jo NY) [0% pucyudiy 'St6r sous ‘vos
-Anig uerjayg ‘sorsourp ‘Aquaq pur uoyay yo au
buapward ‘961 souls Jo.0oNIp ‘usundst44 jpzeAtA
woyjaug ‘oxarp ‘e661 sous ‘Aueduo sayseg ua
‘OUT ‘Stonporg woyayg ‘JuapisesG

‘61

SOND “WHO ‘uaaepT many ‘2h6i ‘L youepy ‘Bte
‘9661 ‘apnoy iano “av :aquoad *.

‘UUOD ‘uoyaus fooyas

“WuO) ‘UaseHy

"nuO) ‘Yoeyg “our ‘sianpo.

BuO ‘apriqpoo jy ‘peoy &

 

' SHLAIAVT TaVd CNOWAVE

“T'S wowunyse yy “MAIN “If wosaydaig z1z£ ‘ssaic

 

BATIVAV WiLyY GowoID

9f61 a0 ssvIo auvauvel

|

[ $zg ]

0} 3eYy) duns We |] ‘Op | sv .poo3,, prom oy) Sursn you are Aaya aeya
qgadsns J 3Nq ‘39}Hq dUOU ST a1943 ‘aqnop qsaqysiys oy Jou sary J ‘ast
poos & Say “yAewod yeya yILM gouaned asoy asourye J ,,;ayoeeI & Jo
ay] poos ay) nod Aaua J, ‘sAvs puary e Aypeuotseoo0 uBYyI sO;
‘rorddey Aue
Sulaq ouLseiut JouURD | ‘ayer Aue Je ‘suOIsINoxa opis Auewl 9y3 JO;
yayovay Joyeq @ wy sdeysad usya ang ‘aanoy yaIIp yi Uaxe] pey
[ Jf Sunyjgawos 03 junowe 03 Ayfear soueys Jaq30q A[qeIopisuos ke
pry sary pure ‘ssordoid soasvy apeul ‘au YyoNUT poses oavy 3Y4srUU |
“$t61 pus of61 jnoqe us9am30q saw AuLU OS PayseIIapIS UIBDEq |
yey) si yor8or Ajuo Aw fou Joy yjed aysir sy3 sem UONeUTSUT ATIea
yey) Wy psourauoo ule | ‘sreaX Uday UYyI aTOUI JOJ 3ysNeI Sulary
‘MON “St6r pQUN d19y3 393 Ayeor 2,UpIp | Inq ‘YyoeaI 01 poEM |
Jooyps Arepuooas Wory parenpess | 210Jaq Yoeq AVAA “we ] wYI pes
AIBA puB YOYyoeAI B We | AT[eoIseq Inq ‘003 ‘ssuTyA Joyo AueUI Op |
“Jayors} B We | ,"aF] pood e sat, ‘pres ay ,‘stoyousy noA KXAN I

*A43190G
aueyy wayeg feoraury jo qniD Suismsxy ‘qn[p awyoex AInqxng :40 waawaIn
‘QdWIWWOTD
Jooysg weypeq ‘0961 6861 ‘ueureys-ao1a ‘7561 aduIs “IaquIayy :aTaH SxO1lLd0
‘jooyos Aep pue Surpreog sAoqg wwapusdaput ue fooyos
ySnousesy) put o[GoN ‘Joseueul ssauIsnq pue Une] jo JayoeIy :NOLLvdn900
gf, “af ‘uosmey] ydjey :waHLowd cavauvH
*gPOI
‘6 -Bny “y janures ‘gb61 ‘f -uef “4 prempy ‘fbr ‘gz aun “af ‘uosuag Yury
7NFNGTIHD ‘JJ ‘aoouayy ‘1/61 ‘zz yore ‘YWOMsUIeY “yy doTedIepy :asmwavw
*(4£) 9£61 “ary :aaunad “9f61-2£61 :aDaTIOO NI SUVaA
‘ssepy ‘weypaq ‘fooysg ysnoussir) puke s]QONy :LV aauvaayd
“SSBpY ‘ulazes ‘161 “ ‘Sny :Nuod
"SSE ‘WeYypeq ‘fooydS yYsnousarr) pur s]QON :Ssauaay DOWsO GNV TWOH

 

NOSMV’T NOSNAG INVUA

LYOddad AUVSUAAINNV HLS z

[ bzg ]

‘AvjS 03 aray sj sUOYydaaa ayy JeYA eins We 3Nq
‘ppoyasnoy a[eWsj & 0} payeumpooe A[232;du109 at09aq 394 JOU DARY J
‘UIEJIQOUN [[S St VdIOYS aya ang ‘uayi adaT[oo JaqUa 03 sadoy osye
SopjO sy, ‘T]eJ IXoU JaqUa 0} SuNsadxa st ysaBunod ay pue Jooyds
JOSUIA, 9Y} Ie De VdIYT ‘sJaaysnep moj ym dn daax 03 BurAT UI
ysoIaquI SUIqIosqe ay) WOIZ apise ‘suoMearsar ureur Aur ore ApTUIET
Aut yaa dooys jpews mo ur Zuisingzo pue sda Sumys ;euoises9Q

‘S1SN.1] PUB S9qeIS9 ‘s[ENPLAIPUT Joy yom xe} UT QuaUNTedap
XP} BY JO pray se ‘pue soniMoss Juiseuru ur pasedua we | “zb61
ut Ayzea way yuasord Aur 03 Zurajsuen ‘pray jasunos yuouNsoauT
oy2 poraqua Ways | “PayefOOsse os[e se UOSYDI] [Iq aay ‘Jomo L
‘) unueluag jo souJo ay) Ur ayoIq ajeysa ead & se ead eB yuods
| ‘or9y3 porod Sururen swod-sory2 # Jayy ‘uowog ‘Auedwoy ¥
9U0IS ‘UspARFT YITAA ssautsng santNdes 341 pesajUa UsyI pue [oOYdS
[EH 3uowlog ae avaA auo Jos wysney |] adajoo Sulaea, WALAV
‘asligesyoOH QnyD rs ‘40 wIEWaW
*yuoWOseUeUL JUIUNSIAUT > NOILVd 19000

“ob Saw ‘bb, ‘souarme'y ysnpy ad10ar) ‘ob,
‘SOUSIMBT TJassrg pratq f4£, ‘souaTMET] SUIETTIA, PIBMPY :SUaHLONA MUYVANVH

*1£61 ‘6 ounf ‘yoos suuy

*9F61 ‘or “10K ‘swe A, yaoqearypy ‘hh61 ‘bz paudy ‘aredsepy ‘zb61 ‘or Apo

‘SULIBYIEY INAMCTIHD ‘ssepy ‘lasseyor) ‘ob6r ‘bi ‘adag ‘swepy “7 ales :aannvWw
“FE61-z£61 2A9TTIOD NI SUVIA

“SSBJA] QUOWTIG YOOYIG ][IH{ WOUW)Ig :Lv qauvaaua

“Sse ‘QuIpyoolg ‘rar ‘zr ‘udag >NYOF

“Sst ‘UOIsOg “1g [eIapay bz “O7) Y ssopy ‘UOIseTg ‘ssTUaaV FoI

" ‘sseyy ‘ourpyoosg “Ig Surasy $$ :ssauaav aWwOH

 

IH] ‘AONFUMVT AUNGH SATYVHO

9£61 40 SSVIO GUVANVH

[ £zg ]

Surquioq auru-Azroy ut poyedionzed pue uospenbs sty Joy Iss yo
suoneiado pajutodde sem off ‘s010qg Ny Yast ya utof o2 Ayeay
uJayINos 03 May ay ‘E61 “TaqwaaoN UT pure s.bz-g sem JUSUTUSIsse
spy “urvades e& pauoissiutuos sew pur sSuum sgorid sry uoM ‘sdiog
JIY ay2 02 padsassursa ay ‘zb6r ‘ounf uy “ArapaIy plata Ul queusy
nal] asiy 8 se AInp aAMoe UO Wa ay JOqUUZAON SUIMOT[OJS IU,
‘Ib6I JO JOUIUINS 943
UI UWIEXD Ivq 93LIG YIOX AN 9y2 passed pue soiSep Mey] sty poate
-3I put JOOYSS Me] WILypIOY 3B [OOYDs AYSIU popusye spy ‘Aued
-WUO7) ISNI TL JWSWYSIAU] [PIOTIUIWOT) 943 JO sOYJO YIOX MINT 9yI Jo
juaunredap yeSaq ay1 Sututol arojaq ueuisayes Joded v se pu ssoutsng
QOUBINSUT dy UT aU joys & yeds UOJMET ‘UONENpEIs WALAV

‘spueys] auiddyryg ‘uozn’y ae ‘S61 ‘1 “Sn ‘UORoe UT pol[ry :aata
“1t61 ‘(caTup) WeYpIO) ‘aT tof61 “ary isamuodd *9€61-z£61 :aOaTIOD NI SUVIA
TN PReyUE[ Tooyss ys ppyuretd sLv cauvanea
| “SAPD OUP AL
‘uoLNET] YOETY Prey “SINTYVa “WUD ‘UaAeEY MON ‘$161 ‘gz ouN{ tNYOE

 

NOLMVT FNYVTO MONACHA

“ABM

yissod AraAa ul ay] poosd & ATureIII9 $31 Inq ‘UoNeNdsut oz sn ques

T aTuur AA saay opdiues puesd asoyy Jo SIOUAO JY) SB ]TaA\ SB IM
jue | pue ‘deg Arngxnq wo sieoq ]jews Buroer rayj01q Aut yeaq
Jo JouurD | ‘A1oys AuuNy k q[93 AT[NJssadons youued | $Xay uo Bus
Usea] JOUR | “ysasaqUT Jayjoue AueU puB ‘ASojoy IO ‘BuIpeas
Tuapies ‘Surtes Jo ‘sruuay 38 Jeaq (Ajareq JI) ][Ns uo | Woy
2 ‘shoq prpuayds aarya jo ‘reaX ayy Jo syyuow jyey & pue suTU
Inp ayy Apituey Jo you] [erauad no pue gol Surpueuap s pueqsny
Yan quaned ‘ayia njrapuom & jnoqe Suryiou pies aavy ] 124

LUOda AUVSUAAINNV HLSZ

[978 ]
pus ‘Surpear [js st ApoqdAue yey iqnop pue Zuo] 003 yonur UO au03
dA J “UoTUNDY Burmosywoj Ino ya day aulos oq 0} UeYyTUNOT) PY
WOIJ UONEUAUT UL SuNUNOD 1OU UaWOUT ay1 IB JO JOqUIOUE B 9q OF
Wiaas J IYI ‘BATIO [[e ‘soaUMMOD JayI0 WYyBra dn paqunos asnf aavy |
‘uo OS pus ‘ssUIP[INg Mau ‘Aed ayrour ‘sajnpayos Azepes ‘wmMpNstNS
—suonsemp Aueul ut spea, YOM saNIWIWOT) JooYDS sy “Jooyss
quopuodapur ue ul duriseueul ssoursnq pue Burysea1 01 Juaua;du09
Sunsaiajur ue st pue Ayyiqisuodsar apisino sorys Aur st saqturuI0d
Jooyss weYypaq 24 UO FIOM, “UOISa] ose soTAMOL IeMoIMIeAIXY

"solo u0IsOg

B UI YSOp Yj. OF YOeq JUaM Ioaou y AemAUY “BuTes poAolua ATear
Jupey pue yorosxa ue Jo YyonW Jeay J Jou ‘oageuseun AprEyn
-onsed jou we | ‘oozes Au sea, Suryorar yey) Jas9 UY) p2duTAUOD
910 aUIeD9q J pue ‘Ajnp Suryoea 0} pousisse sem | ‘ULoUeIIOUpI
ay) Ul syuOUT AIUSMI Jo apis Joyae ‘sIvaA asaya BULINP 9K
“S$h6r ajey foun AaeN 2yQ UT pouteUiar | INO pouINy syudA9 se 9sIN0D
jo Inq ‘syuoUr InoJ ut ysap AW Ie YORG 9q P[Nom |] yey AysNoy?
1 ‘GOLOW JOF asmnos a8aqJoo Aur ut woor pey [ yey) z7£61 wT
yuryi 1.upip ~) wersoid 2-A 9y3 BIA UOTSSIWUIOD aArasay [RARNY AW
303 0} dava] paqueId sem Ob61 Jo [[eJ ay) UT Udy) ‘ssouIsnq SuTyUEq
JUaUNSSAUT ay1 UT svaX Ino; quads asdy J ‘Wt ayeI 03 asuas YSnoua
pey J 3ya Goodsomjar ut ‘pazeure yeymoulos we | ‘JuaT[2oxa sem
QOIApPe sy], ‘JooIvd SuTyoeei B Jo aoroyo At 3noge siqnop Aq 39S9q
JaAIIOF 9G UIY} JOU P[NOM J IY? ‘oY sem asi ssauIsng yeyA Ino
punoj ysry [ Jt Suryovay ut rarddey 0q prnom | yy? IsIY sieak May B
JOJ asja SUIYIWOS OP PNoys | ‘Yovad 03 paquRM | JI IeYyI OUT pasta

~pt® SOU PoIIUIpe | SIYydeI DY) Jo UO ‘pIeAIET] pasoqus | aWojog

"yazea 02 yoerq 309 $9] ‘UayA Inq — sUTUN INOGe We | se

sqol aay jnoge oMseIsny3us se aae sajeussejo Au Je 3eya odoy |
‘ssautddey ueumy Jo [e301 WINS 9y} UT SOUaIS{Ip [kaT UNOS SYBUI YIOM
souo ves o2 Ayuniioddo ue Surary jo ‘aya yom Suryyauos
SuIop Jo asuas 1938018 & puy pjnos suo yoy ur sqol may ouIBeuT
ued ] ‘Iuesvajd paopuT ae ssuIpUNOIMS at fas[a ApoqAIaAa oYI]
asn{ ‘ur ar yormpues nod jr astoroxa atos 398 nod ‘stoopur aw Inod
puads nod yng Aquos ay} ut aaq nod {Aueur are suratqoid ayy ‘Suoy
are sinoy aya ‘gol Suneurosey e yan Jayioue Aueur Joy st wt se asnl
‘snoay st soed ayy “suosead quazaytp Ajasea Joy jug ‘snopaarew st
‘Poos st ay ‘JyasAur 02 apitus sXemye ] ‘ajt] poos Aur sataua auoauios
Udy AA “UO Os puke ‘ssuIpUNOJIns Jueseajd ‘Aep Araaa astoJaxa otWos
398 01 adueyd e@ ‘ayy AjUNOD JoOpIno ‘stuaTqosd araq ‘smMoYy WoYs
‘soed Ajarnsioy B JO UORTIOUUOD oY) sate. _pooS, prom ayy Way

g£61 dO SSVID GUVAYVH

Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

missions over Germany, Austria, France and Rumania. He was
awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal and four
Oak Leaf Clusters and received the Soldier’s Medal for saving a
Liberator bomber from destruction by an exploding plane.

In August, 1944, Lawton returned to the United States, was as-
signed for additional instrument training and in 1945 volunteered
for duty in the Pacific Theatre. He became commanding officer
of the 371st Squadron, 307th Bombardment Group in the 13th Air
Force based at Morotai and participated in a number of bombing
missions in the Dutch East Indies. He was killed when his plane de-
veloped motor trouble and caught fire on a take-off from Nichols

Field. He was survived by his parents.

RALPH LAZZARO

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 38 Longview Drive, Marblehead, Mass.

GLENN HARVEY LEAK

 

HOME appress: 150 Dorchester Rd., Buffalo 13, N.Y,

[ 828 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: 375 Linwood Ave., Buffalo 9, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1916, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Bennett High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1036. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (Univ. of Buffalo), 1940.

margieD: Nora Elizabeth Ann McFarland, July 2, 1945, Vittel, France. cn-
pREN: Glenn Harvey, Jr., July 29, 1947; Sharon Ann, Aug. 13, 1949, Edward
John, March 23, 1952; Mary Margaret, Dec. 31, 1958.

occupaTION: Medical doctor, private practice of oncology.

OFFICES HELD: Associate in surgery and cancer coordinator, University of Buf-
falo; chairman, executive committee, New York State Division, member,
national board of directors, American Cancer Society; past president, Erie
County Unit, American Cancer Society, Harvard Club of Buffalo.

MEMBER OF: Erie County and New York State Medical Societies; American
Medical Association; James Ewing Society, American Radium Society;
founder member, Society of Head and Neck Surgeons; Association of
Medical Colleges; American Geriatrics Society; Nu Sigma Nu.

PUBLICATIONS: “A Study of Spinal Fluid Pressures in Operations Requiring Re-
moval of Both Internal Jugular Veins”; “The Treatment of Cancer of the
Larynx.”

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard College, my first summer
was spent making plans for entering the University of Buffalo
School of Medicine. The next four years can be taken care of very
quickly by stating that they were spent with a nose in laboratories,
books, and summer employment, so that medical school could be
completed in June, 1940. There is no point in going into the sordid
details of what those four years were like.

Following graduation, an internship was completed at the Buffalo
General Hospital before letters started to be exchanged with the
famous uncle of mine, known as “Sam.” This led to joining the
23d General Hospital which was the local Buffalo unit in World
War II, and on July 15, 1942, we were off for four years of some-
thing I had not planned on. This unit served in Africa, Italy and
France, and received a citation and five battle stars. An interesting
feature of the unit was that a nurse from the same hospital in which
I had interned was a member. This led to marriage in Vittel, France,
on July 2, 1945, with the remarks of my colleagues ringing in my
ears: “He is one of us who never left home.” Upon our return
Stateside, we plunged into the problem of the necessary readjust-
ment, although this was not too difficult. My wife returned to her
nursing position, and I started to complete my residency. I had in-
tended to finish in straight general surgery in Buffalo; but during
a year of pathology I became very interested in the study of rumors.
This led to my packing the bags again and going to New York,

[ 829]

eC

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

where during the next four years, with my wife and a beginning
family, I spent the best years I have had so far. These were at the
Memorial Center for Cancer and Allied Diseases in New York City,
and I was pleased to once again team up with some old college
friends from Harvard, such as Bill Cahan and Charlie Breed.

My family’s next time of decision came in 1950, when it had to
be determined whether to stay in New York, which we liked very
much, or to return to Buffalo. The latter was agreed upon because
of the fact that there was a position with a salary attached —- some-
thing I had not previously appreciated. With two children at the
time, I realized the necessity of it, however. So we packed once
again in 1950, and returned to my position as teaching coordinator
at the University of Buffalo, a position which I still hold. The last
ten years have been most profitable, although I can honestly say
more in an academic way than a financial way. It has been a happy
ten years teaching medical students, engaging somewhat in the
private practice of general cancer surgery, and developing a great
interest in the American Cancer Society. This has led to various
worthwhile positions with the latter organization, the only disad-
vantage being a great deal of travel away from home. As you can
see from the biography, we acquired two more children in this cold
Niagara frontier climate, the last delectable tax deduction arriving
on December 31, 1958. We are now ensconced is a comfortable
home carrying on the program of the last ten years and raising a
very active and, I am so proud to say, happy family.

I cannot help concluding this report with saying that I have
also spent a little time doing a few odds and ends with the Harvard
Club of Buffalo.

[ 830 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID LEAVITT

  

c if. :

HOME ADDRESS: 6030 N. Sheridan Rd., Chicago 4p, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, 200 S.
Michigan Ave., Chicago 4, Ill.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriED: Adell L. Rubinstein, July 28, 1958, Chicago, IL.

occupation: District manager, Performing Rights Society.

AT this point, I am as far as possible from what I had intended my
vocation to be prior to and during my college years. From 1936 to
1941, I drifted from one job to another trying to “find myself” and
seeking that “position with a future.” I was too inexperienced and
too immature to realize that one makes his own future rather than
a job or position having a future. I can’t exactly pinpoint at what
time I reached this conclusion but twenty-five years after gradua-
tion finds me in a completely different line of endeavor than I had
even remotely imagined,

To revert back to 1941, my economic travails ceased suddenly
when Uncle Sam, who needed manpower, called me to active duty
as a lieutenant in the Quartermaster Corps, U.S. Army. After a
short period of soldiering in several posts in our southern U.S.A.,
I found myself on duty in the Panama Canal Zone where I literally
and figuratively sweated out World War II. Shortly after the end
of the conflict, I was stateside-bound and did further duty at sev-
eral depots located in and around New England.

In 1946, with a maple leaf on my shoulder, I found mysclf a
civilian and again started the search to find myself. I tried the shoe
business, starting at the bottom; but not finding it to my liking, I
decided to look in an entirely different direction. Since I liked

[ 831 ]

sae ,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

traveling, meeting people and selling, I became a representative for
the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (more
commonly known as ASCAP) in New England, on a trial basis.
At first this job had the appearance of being simple and more or
less routine. However, the longer I stayed and learned of the many
ramifications involved, the more challenging it became. Before ]
realized it, eight years had flown by and suddenly I found myself in
Detroit, Michigan, for the purpose of opening and managing an
office for the society in that state. Exactly thirty months later, I
received a call to pack my bags and report to the Chicago office
of the society without delay. This was a simple matter for me,
still a bachelor, as all my belongings could be hastily packed or
jammed into one foot-locker and four two-suiters. Management of
the Chicago office, with its multitude of activities and problems of
administration, was nearer the destination toward which I had been,
perhaps unconsciously, driving all during the past years.

I have been very happy since my arrival in Chicago. Perhaps
this can be directly attributed to the fact that I married and settled
down, and now live a more normal life as opposed to the nomadic
living of my past years. Ironically, I married an old girl friend
from Boston, whom I had taken to my commencement dance. It
took a long, long time, but I don’t regret now having waited all
those years for the right girl. Yes! Twenty-five years have wrought
these changes and I have finally found myself. I have put on the
usual poundage that maturity brings, but I have managed to stay
relatively slim. My hairline has naturally receded, but nature has
been generous and has left my pate still sufficiently covered. This

hasty saga of the past twenty-five years makes me speculate what
the future has in store. Only time will tell.

[ 832 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GAYLORD GEORGE LEAVITT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 13 Park St., Madison, Maine.

WILLIAM HENRY LEDGARD

 

HOME apprEss: 98 Summer St., Maynard, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 34 Nason St., Maynard, Mass.

Born: Aug. 8, 1914, Maynard, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Maynard High School, Maynard, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., C27 laude, 1936; A.M. 1941.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Joseph Ledgard, Jr., ’39.

OCCUPATION: Newspaper distribution.

AFTER a year’s graduate work in English at Harvard, four pleasant
and rewarding years teaching at the Mount Hermon (Mass.) School
(English, dramatics, debating and allied subjects).

Entering the Navy through a V-7 training program in June, 1940,
I was engaged in duties as assistant naval observer at Maceio, Brazil,
at the time of Pearl Harbor and remained there for the next fifteen

[ 833 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

months, Transferred back to Washington, I spent the remainder of
the war and the next two years engaged i in intelligence duties for
the Navy and the Central Intelligence Agency.

For the past several years | have been at home working in my
father’s business (distribution of newspapers), with time sufficient
to visit with old friends (trips to Alabama, Virginia and California
in 1953, 1955 and 1958, respectively) and the minor pursuit of the
arts: an exciting course on American literature — America as Fron-
tier in Literature—at the Harvard Summer School in ig50; a
course in the theatre at the Brattle Theatre in the summer of 1951;

directing plays for a local group; an occasional sketch or water
color.

WINTHROP HOWARD LEE

 

HOME appress: Monument Street, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Riverside Press, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: May 19, 1913, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).

MARRIED: Barbara Bartlett, Sept. 15, 1945, New Britain, Conn, cHiLpREN: Mal-
colm Bartlett, Jan. 20, 1947; Caroline Tucker, June 2, 1948.

occupaTion: Book manufacturing, manager, industrial relations.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1950-57, chairman, 1953-56, School Committee, Con-
cord, Mass.

To my first descendant
to attend Harvard College

Dear Boy,
I hesitate to think how many generations you are removed from
me. Perhaps you are my son. Perhaps ] am only a remote ancestor.

[ 834 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Perhaps even, in the infinite wisdom of some future admissions
committee, you are not a boy at all but my great-great-grand-
daughter.

In any event, surely you are interested in how your ancestor spent
or misspent the first twenty-five years of his postgraduate life:
since I have little to be modest about, I shall abandon all modesty
and embellish the story as best I can in the few pages allowed me.
It isn’t colorful, but if you had lived it, | hope you would have en-
joyed it as much as I have.

When I graduated from Harvard, the automobile still had run-
ning boards, and the rumble seat had only recently become obso-
lete. Young waitresses served us in the College dining halls, and
more elderly ladies made our beds. It was the depression, but life
was deceptively good.

Fortified with my diploma, a smattering of Greek and consid-
erable Latin, I set out with confidence to make a living. My first
job took me to Maine at $25.00 a week to a textile mill. Six months
Jater, I was earning $18.00. A year later, $15.00, and when the mill
went on short time and I dropped to $12.00 a week, I retreated to
Boston. Just as a baby loses weight at birth, so had I. But my
chances of showing progress were good from here on. I took a job

with the Riverside Press at a 33 1/3% increase in salary. I am still

there.

But life is full of interruptions, and the first big one lasted five
years for me, as a soldier at Camp Edwards, Fort Belvoir, North
Africa and Italy, a tour of duty that is more fun to recollect than
to experience. The Army, as a travel agency, did a remarkable job
in giving me a glimpse of fascinating parts of the world from Casa-
blanca across North Africa to Jerusalem, and from Sicily to the
Brenner Pass.

Before the war, I met another ancestor of yours, Barbara Bartlett.
We were married in 1945. Our children, Malcolm and Carol, ar-
rived in 1947 and 1948. Now, it is 1961. We are all flourishing,
even prospering by the standards of the 1930’s, but prosperity is a
relative thing.

Since the war, the intervening years have been unspectacular, yet
anything but dull. The stage has been almost exclusively New Eng-
land, a place to get away from only because it is so nice to w hich
to return. You may accuse me of being provincial. T am. But
one can be provincial j in Paris or Los Angeles. I prefer New Eng-

land, partly because the combination of mountains, ponds, and ocean

[ 835 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

shoreline is intimately arranged within easy reach, partly because of
the wonderful variety of the seasons, and mostly because New Eng-
land is conducive to a way of life that suits me. It is not easily de-
fined, but it has something to do with a pace less hurried than one
finds in many parts of the country, and perhaps it has something
to do with the things one comes to consider important.

At any rate, to earn a living, I have stayed with the business of
making books in a fine concern that has been at the trade for rio
years. I have tried my hand at production scheduling, selling and,
more recently, industrial relations, where union negotiations and
other aspects of the labor field have precipitated me into a life that
is intriguing, unpredictable, frustrating, full of infinite surprises,
humor, face-saving and face-losing. There is nothing monotonous
about it. And while the book business is undergoing critical change,
it will always be with us in one form or another. I look forward
to a great increase in the use of books in the 1960’s, not only because
of school and college demands, but because the’world is gradually
discovering that a good book is more lasting and satisfying than a
good television program.

As a citizen, I have confined my activities to the local community
level. New England towns are run on a volunteer basis, and their
character is a direct reflection of the interest and personal contribu-
tion of time on the part of the townspeople. I have spent six years
in the Concord school committee during a period when rapid growth
brought forth wide and vocal extremes of educational philosophy,
both as to curriculum and building program. Town meetings were
exciting and tumultuous. In the long run, the schools have been
greatly strengthened by the sharp focus of public attention.

On the personal side, we live in a seven-room, somewhat modern
house, on two acres of land overlooking the Concord River Val-
ley. I have a most perceptive family that understands my pecu-
liarities and indulges them within reason, particularly my fondness
for the uncivilized world of nature. I find great pleasure in canoe-
ing on the Concord, Assabet and Sudbury Rivers, and in the tidal
estuaries along the Maine coast. Skiing, camping, mountain climb-
ing, stream fishing are part of our portfolio of pastimes. For me,
they are not ends in themselves. I excel in none of them. Each in its
own way and own season lures me into a world detached, where
the clock for the moment is slowed, and there is time for reflection.

In this busy generation, the standard of living is increasing at an
ever accelerating rate. Each year there is more and more of every-

[ 836 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thing, except possibly the capacity to enjoy. As leisure time ex-
pands, worthy causes are spawned in frightening numbers to take
up the slack.

I remember hearing an early morning radio program with the
provocative title, “What Harvard done for me.” The foregoing
account only indicates that the answer is not precise or measurable.
But whatever you do, dear boy, don’t let your spirit be trapped
by the growing complexities of life — and Harvard can help you
in this respect. "

Your devoted forebear,
Winthrop H. Lee

LEONARD CALLAN LEEN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Wood Rd., Cape Elizabeth, Maine.

BORN: Oct. 29, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

Marriep: Eleanor Marie Kelly, March 15, 1931, Roslindale, Mass, cinip:
Kate Callan, March 3, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Norman Edward Leen, ”38.

occupation: General insurance; special representative in charge of production
for Maine and New Hampshire.

TWENTY-FIVE years is about one-third of a man’s life span. Yee
it is inconceivable that we are on the verge of returning to the ivy-
covered walls around Harvard Square to celebrate our Twenty=
fifth.

How have the past twenty-five years treated me? Physically, |
have added a few pounds, I have most of my hair, most of inv teeth
and a few inevitable wrinkles.

[ 837 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Most of my life has been spent around Boston in the business
world, First, as a buyer with a large national soap manufacturer
and in later years in various capacities with a large insurance com-
pany.

During this span of twenty-five years, the U.S. Navy has twice
had occasion to call on me to serve. Once for three and a half
years during World War II and then for two years during the
Korean emergency. I am still active in the Naval Reserve after
nineteen years and hold the rank of commander.

I have been lucky enough to be blessed with a wonderful wife
who has put up with my whims for twenty years and a delightful
daughter who is now a junior in high school. We reside now in
a picturesque setting of birch trees in Cape Elizabeth, near the
rock-bound coast of Maine. My work is still in the insurance field

as a representative for a large mutual fire and casualty company.
That about sums up the major events of the last twenty-five for me.

MELVIN LENNARD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15331 Friends 5St., Pacific Palisades, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 444 N. Camden Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

BorN: May 29, 1915, Findlay, Ohio.

prepared aT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; LL.B., 1939-

Marriep: Evelyn Stern, Sept. 20, 1939, Brookline, Mass. cHiLDREN: Barbara
Stern, March 22, 1943, Lyn Edward, June 29, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Attorney and arbitrator of labor-management disputes.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Jewish Community of Pacific Palisades, 1955;
member, California Democratic State Central Committee, 1958-60; past
president, Pacific Palisades Democratic Club, 1958; Democratic nominee
for Congress, 16th Congressional District of California, 1958; vice chair-
man, 16th Congressional Districe Democratic Council (Calif.), 1959-60

[ 838 }

 

 

 

AENEAN NDR A OPA NALIN RIENCE EROS ABEORED

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Beverly Hills Bar Association, State Bar of California, former
member, Harvard Club of New York; National Academy of Arbitrators.
PUBLICATIONS: Six or eight of my arbitration opinions have been published in
volumes called, Labor Arbitration Reports, Bureau of National Affairs.

FROM what I have observed, the tough part in writing an auto-

biographical sketch, if you are an amateur like me, is giving a truly

balanced picture. If you simply or cheerfully list jobs held, activi-

ties engaged in, number of children produced, and places visited in

Europe, and if you leave out (for one reason or another) the inner
tensions or spiritual unrest that afflict most of us — that is, most of
us who have intelligence and sensitivity — the account may be in-
teresting and accurate as far as it goes; but it is likely to be incom-
plete and therefore not wholly true. This is not to say that there
are not fortunate individuals who are apparently endowed naturally
with inner tranquillity —they don’t seem to have to struggle for
it or whose search has been successful and no occasion arises
to talk about it, like an injury from an accident suffered long ago,
from which they have fully recovered.

But when I suspect that an autobiographical statement deliberately
sloughs over this problem, I feel most unsatisfied about knowing
what really goes on in that person’s life. That kind of personal his-
tory may be like a definition of an orange that describes only the
peel. The peel alone may be indistinguishable from garbage.

On the other hand, an obvious trouble with an account of one’s
inner life is that it may be dull as hell. And even if dullness is
avoided, the matter can be so intimate that shyness will dissuade an
otherwise willing reporter. Some things you talk about only to your
wife, and some things not even to her. How can you be expected to
set these down in print, exposed for all to see, even if you are sure
that only a few old friends or acquaintances will have the shight-
est interest to read it?

Well, to get to the meat of it: the search for spiritual content-
ment has been the central activity of my own hfe for the pant
twenty-five years (as it was, I must confess, during my undergrad-
uate years). The late Harold B. Jaffce, a member “of our clas and
my good close friend whom I miss, introduced me to the works
of Irving Babbitt while we were still in college. The new humanisn

formed the base for my attempts, then and later, to reconcile mye
self to the universe. Over the years this base has been supplanted,
in my case, by religion — religion of a classical form. This road
has been a rough one, partly because (a) making progres, reli

[ 839 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

generosity to my request for campaign funds. I thank them again
now.

In looking over what I have written above, I see I have not really
related my inner life to my, so to speak, outer life. Perhaps these
observations come out as garbage, after all. Perhaps this is because
I don’t really know, and therefore can’t describe, the points of in-
teraction, and the nature and extent of interaction between the
search for inner peace, and moving and acting in the outer world.
If this knowledge is wisdom, shouldn’t I have more than a little

glimmer at the age of forty-five?

ARTHUR LENSSEN, JR.

 

sa nN ANSARI EES PRE RIE OOP

MAILING ADDRESS: 3615 Coconut Grove, Miami 33, Fla.

FIELD CASE LEONARD

OL ERE ELD

    

MIOME AppREss: 131 Hillcrest Ave., Longmeadow, Mass,
FFICE ADpREss: 6 Temple St., Springfield, Mass.

[ 842 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porRN: March 25, 1914, Springfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D., 1940.

marrieD: Margaret Warner, April, 1942, Florence, Mass. (divorced 1954); Sarah
Wellington James, 1956, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Ralph French, Jan. 9,
1943; Susan Field, May 7, 1944; Helen-Lucie, June 2, 1948; Ruth Elizabeth,
March 23, 1950; Ann Alice, June 21, 1952; Nancy, March 1, 1958.

occuPaTION: General surgeon; private practice in Springfield since 1950.

OFFICES HELD: Senior surgeon, Wesson Memorial Hospital, Springfield Hospital,
assisting visiting surgeon, Cancer Division, Westfield Sanatorium; consultant
in vascular surgery, Holyoke Soldiers Home, courtesy surgeon, Mercy
(Springfield), Ludlow, Wing Memorial (Palmer), Cooley Dickenson
(Northampton) Hospitals.

MEMBER OF: Springfield Academy of Medicine, Hampden District Medical So-
ciety; Massachusetts Medical Society, American Medical Association;
American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of Surgery (dip-
lomate); Daland Society, American College of Angiology, Beverly Yacht

Club, Marion, Mass.
PUBLICATIONS: Several clinical studies in surgical journals, mostly on vascular
surgical problems.

AFTER graduation I studied (at Harvard Medical School) harder
than J ever had in my life before or since. I don’t believe I could do
it again, but consider it to have been a rare privilege and challenge.
After that discipline came the Army and World War II (collecting
company commander, 38th Infantry Regiment of the Second In-
fantry Division, ETO), and subsequent internships and residencies
in surgery (Children’s, Peter Bent Brigham, Massachusetts Memo-
rial, U.S. Marine, Pondville (Cancer) Hospitals, all in greater Bos-
ton).

After almost thirty years’ living in Boston and its environs, I
moved to western Massachusetts (Springfield) in 1950 to practise
general surgery. This was a deliberate move from the ivory tower
to the practical world of applied surgery in private practice, and
it has turned out to be a salutary mixture of self-reliance, sclf-em-
ployment and self-satisfactions, with the advantages of a smaller
puddle to compare with the proverbial frog. My ‘chief concern is
that the move made me a land-locked sailor. My only boating, ¢x-
cept for a brief boat ownership, has been occasional charters and
an annually renewed subscription to Yachting Magazine. However,
the new plastic trailerable compact cruising auxiliaries for blue
water may yet solve my dilemma. I hope one day to have one in
back of my garage, whence I can “mess around with boats” at
leisure. I might even use it as a portable ski lodge in the off season!

Another great satisfaction has been to have ‘all my children by

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

both marriages living with us. It is a thrill to see them develop
under the remarkable loving care, guidance and patience of my
wife, Sally. She and I are learning a great deal about this new
world in which we live, through the minds of our particular six

future members of coming generations, ranging now from age eight-
een years down to three.

++ NORMAN PHILIPPE LETARTE

 

BORN: May 5, 1912, Leominster, Mass, PARENTS: Antonio Joseph Letarte, Rose
Legere.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936.

marrieD: Alice M. Houde, May 18, 1940, Leominster, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard

Whitsett, April 25, 1942; Linda Marie, May 9, 1945; Stephen G.; John P.;
Jane E.

piep: Oct. 14, 1960, Methuen, Mass.
wipow: Mrs. Norman P. Letarte, 15 Court St., North Andover, Mass.

NORMAN PHILIPPE LETARTE spent four years with our Class.
During his freshman year he was a member of the Copeland Read-
ing Committee, the Smoker Committee and the football and squash
teams. He was a member of the junior varsity football team and
Winthrop House football and hockey teams, and a member of Pi
Eta.

After college he spent a short time in the merchandising depart-
ment of the Leominster Electric Light & Power Company and since
then had been associated with a number of manufacturing firms, in-
cluding the Lawrence Processing Company and the Grant Plastic
Company of Townsend. He was plant manager of the Island Plas-

tic Company of Lawrence and president and treasurer of the Lan-
caster Molding Company at the time of his death.

[ 844 ]

oc guon a aN ERNEST HRT TET
so ya Ass ONESIES TEN COROT nA w ™ mm

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

His memberships included: Harvard Club of Andover, 5t. i

chael’s Guild, St. Michael’s Holy Name Society and Bon Seco
Guild. He was survived by his wife and children.

GEORGE MORRIS LEVENSON

 

HOME abbRESS: 33 Delano Way, South Dartmouth, Mass. /

OFFICE ADpREss: Abramson, Titus & Levenson, 705 First National Bldg. Ne
Bedford, Mass.

BoRN: May 7, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE! A.B., 1936.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer .

MaRaieD: Barbara Ann Smith, April 4, 1954, Newton, Mass. compres: Ja:
Seth, Jan. 15, 1955; Lisa, June 18, 1956; Edward Smith, June 30, 195%

JACOB LEVINE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 85 Cliff Ave., Winthrop, Mass.

orrice Appress: Revere Smoked Fish Co, Chelsea, Masa.

[ 845 ]

_— L—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

porN: April 11, 1914, Chelsea, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 62/772 latide, 1936.

marrige: Miriam J. Shapiro, Aug. 15, 1937, Roxbury, Mass. cHiLpREN: Phyllis R,

March 8, 1940 (7. F. D, Krause, June 11, 1960); Irma R., Feb. 15, 1943;
Gail C., Dec. 27, 1948.

occupaTion: President, Revere Smoked Fish Company.

MANUEL LEVINE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1345 Sudvale Rd., Baltimore 8, Md.

OFFICE appress: Social Security Administration, Baltimore 35, Md.

BORN: July 18, 1914, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; LL.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Lillian Blumberg, May 30, 1941, Brockton, Mass. cHILDREN: William
David, April 21, 1945; Sherry Ann, March 27, 1948.

occupaTion: Social insurance research analyst (legislation).

THE task of writing a biographical account since leaving Harvard
twenty-five years ago is not an easy one. Events which at their
occurrence seemed so important carry little significance when
viewed retrospectively. If one could turn the clock back and re-
evaluate the decisions that were made, one wonders whether the é
results would have been the same. To some extent, however, we - .
must always revert to the past, because in a large measure it is the |
past that influences the present and the future. But to look back
at the past with nostalgia and wish for the “good old days’ is to
make the present and the future a frustrating period.

Even if I could reach back and alter the past, the decision I made
to go to Harvard would not be changed. With the passage of
time, my esteem for Harvard increases, because it is part of a great
University. Yet, while I attended Harvard, it was difficult to see

[ 846 ] '

a, Nee se

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

exactly why it stood out so strongly among all other institutions of

learning. It is only when you meet people who have been educated

in other colleges that you appreciate the valuable assets at Harvard.

Upon graduation in 1936, there was little available for one who

had majored in mathematics. I guess it was a shocking revelation,

after four years of deep and concentrated study, to find that this
country had little or no use for one who had given so much time
to his development. The few jobs that were available were de-
meaning and one wondered at that time what purpose there was in
attending college, Harvard in particular. Looking around for some
avenue of endeavor, I saw that the legal profession was the most
logical place for one with a background in mathematics, and in the

fall of 1936, I entered the Harvard Law School, a decision which I

shall never regret.

My experience at Harvard Law School was a very maturing one.
The Law School turns the “boy” into the “man,” because here one
can meet the high standards set by the faculty only through per-
severance and mental discipline. Competition is keen and because
the Law School, once referred to as the “incubator of greatness,”
attracts so many brilliant minds, one must work with diligence to
keep pace with just the average.

After the Law School and a year of clerkship with a New Jersey
law firm, I entered government service in the Federal Security
Agency, a forerunner of the Department of Health, Education and
Welfare, and was assigned to work in the old-age and survivors in-
surance program, commonly referred to as the social security pro-
gram. After a few years in the administrative side of the program,
I went into the General Counsel Office of the Federal Security
Agency.

The 1940’s were very dull under that program. Congress, devot-
ing its full energies to the war effort and to the postwar cconomy,
did nothing to modernize the old-age and survivors insurance pro-
gram to keep it in pace with our growing economy. The election
of Truman in 1948 was a spur for an entire re-examination of the
program and from then on Congress has given much attention to
what the program should do.

One of my duties in the Office of the General Counsel was to
work on legislation in its formative state by assisting in the develop-
ment of program changes and by drafting’ legislation i in conjunction
with the legislative draftsmen of Congress. From that vantage point
I got a good view on what makes “democracy click. One get a

[ 847 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

sense of history by just watching the negotiations, the compromises,
the give-and-take among individuals out of which is hammered a
piece of legislation. At times, however, the work is frustrating. But
in the end, after the legislation is enacted, there is a certain amount
of satisfaction derived from seeing one’s efforts fructify. Over the
years, Congress has taken action under the old-age and survivors
insurance program every election year since 1950, and each time |
have had the pleasant experience of being in at the start of the
legislation and watching it grow to a statute.

In 1956, after many years in the Office of the General Counsel,
I transferred over to the Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insurance,
in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and have con-
tinued my efforts in the legislative field, but with a greater em-
phasis on the development of ideas for changing the old-age and
survivors insurance program. As for the future, the election of
John Kennedy presages much activity in that program. One can ex-
pect a great deal of expansion, especially in the area of medical care
for the aged, an issue that was fully debated in the recent cam-
paign.

In 1936, under the guidance of FDR, the upward swing in our
economy, which had hit its nadir under the Republicans, had just
about begun. In 1960, with John Kennedy at the wheel, the move-
ment of our economy, which seemed to have paused somewhat as
a result of eight years of Republican rule, will continue upward.
In the 1930's this country was led to greatness by a Harvard son and
in 1960 another Harvard son has been chosen this country’s leader.
It augurs well for us.

 

 

[ 848 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILTON LINCOLN LEVY

 

HOME apprEss: 58 Green Pk., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Zayre-Bell Shops, 1 Mercer Rd., Natick, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 12, 1915, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; MBA. 1938(39).

marrieD: Shirley Feldberg, Jan. 6, 1946, Brookline, Mass. cxitoren: John F.,
Jan. 20, 1947; Steven D., June 9, 1950.

occupaTION: Retailing; president, Bell Shops, Inc.; vice-president, Zayre Cor-
poration.

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Massachusetts Bay Lodge, B nai
B’rith; Belmont Country Club; Temple Israel Brotherhood.

I SUPPOSE I should start this biographical sketch at the time when
I laid aside my cap and gown, in June of 1936, and crossed the nver
to the Business School, where I spent two years before stepping
from cloistered academic quarters into the cold world with an
M.B.A., in June of 1938. However, that was a long time ago. As
a matter of fact, it was twenty-five or twenty-three years back and
I find it easier today to retrace my history rather than work my way
up from graduation to the present again.

Right now I am sitting at my desk on November 6, two days
before election and still undecided whether “K” or “N” is the man
for me. At the present time, I am one of those Jimmy Reston calls
a “neither” man. Anyhow, here I am at 58 Green Park, Newton,
writing these notes for my classmates, while my wife, Shirley, sits in
a chair silently musing. My two children, John, age thirteen and
Steven, age ten, are upstairs studying. In other words, the house
is quiet, and I am taking advantage of this lull in our family hfe
to do something on which Winthrop Lee is spending too many
U.S. government stamps to accomplish.

[ 849 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

At the present ume, I am a vice-president of Zayre Corporation,
the parent company which operates a chain of self-service depart-
ment stores, and I am president of its subsidiary, Bell Shops, a chain
of women’s specialty shops. The self-service department store orig-
inated in the discount field, but our organization was the first to
build new, free-standing units. Discount stores which carried ap-
pliances and hard lines have had a long history, but the self-service
store featuring soft lines had its birth a few short years ago here in
New England.

We established our first unit five years ago when we built a pilot
store in Hyannis, Massachusetts. Since then we have established
fourteen other units, expanding outside New England, the most
recent being a store of 80,000 square fect in Atlanta, Georgia. Our
merchandise runs the gamut from our original soft lines in women’s
and children’s apparel, through the men’s field, to sporting goods
and major appliances. Today, we consider our stores of eighty-
seven departments complete, self-service department stores.

Previous to my present position in Zayre, I had been a buyer,
then a district supervisor, and ultimately, personnel manager of its
subsidiary, the Bell Shops. This entire experience started in 1946
when I left John Irving’s Shoe Corporation, a women’s shoe chain
where | had been buying handbags, hosiery and accessories. ‘The
gap between my M.B.A. degree and my connection at John Irving
was filled by a representative of Worth’s of Hartford, Connecticut.
This gentleman came up to the Business School, in early 1938, and
offered me a position as assistant buyer in his store.

In 1941, due to poor vision, I was unsuccessful in my attempt to
receive a paycheck from Uncle Sam. A commission in the U.S.
Army was refused me, although I had made some friends of regular
army people at the Business School. When the draft came along, I
was turned down again and, therefore, stayed in civilian life.

In January, 1946, I married a former Smith girl, Shirley Feldberg,
a native Bostonian, whose family I had known for years, but whom
I had considered a youngster in the years heretofore. In January,
1947, our first son, John, was born. Three years later, in June, our

second offspring, Steven, saw the light of day. The two male heirs
will have to suffice. One of them is definitely casting covetous eyes
across the river toward the direction of John Harvard, while the
other is setting his sights on an engineering career, either at Cal
Tech or M.1.T. Now the boys are rapidly descending the stairs,
their studying finished for the night. I shall, therefore, close this

[ 850 ]

 

t
i
i
£
t
*
:
i
‘
t

7 ok pee oamirnyymmpeer tH

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

biographical sketch, for, believe me, there is to be no peace and
quiet for quite awhile. They are seeking a western or murder
mystery on their favorite TV channel. Who knows — perhaps they
are right — I am getting old. After all, it is my Twenty-Fifth, isn't
it?

LEONARD CASE LEWIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 160 Claremont Ave., New York 27, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Barnard School for Boys, Fieldston, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., C77 laude, 1936.

MaRRIED: Iris Zinn, May 3, 1941, Washington, D.C. cuitoren: Michael Zinn,
July 21, 1942; Julie Elizabeth, Oct. 26, 1944.

HARVARD SON: Michael Zinn Lewin, "64.

THIS report will be brief and it will be superficial. I didn’t know
in 1936 that I’d be called on for an accounting at this time, in the
form of a kind of pro-tem obituary; if I had, I certainly wouldn't
have suspected that it would find me once more at a turning point
rather than at some recognizable position in mid-passage. It’s usually
hard enough to see where you've been even when you're moving
in a fairly straight line, so Pll refer only to a few ‘markers along
my way that can easily be identified. Moreover, because of this
uncertainy, I’ve left blank the questions about offices, memberships
publications, most of what I might list is likely to be irrelevant to
what I’m doing by the time this book appears.

During the first five years after graduation I knocked around in
a variety of jobs, places and experiences; except that none of these
occupations were either colorful or hazardous, noting them down
would be reminiscent of what appears on the dust } jac ket of a certain

[ 851 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

kind of novel, under a pipe and a thoughtful expression. I worked,
more or less in order, as a synopsis writer, unskilled laborer, book
reviewer, department store clerk, traveling salesman, statistician,
executive assistant, bicycle dealer, mechanic, movie exhibitor, year-
book producer and occupational analyst for the Social Security
Board.

In mid-1941 I married, and over the following seven years |
worked in what is described generally as the labor movement. Most
of this work was as an organizer, except for the last two of these
years, during which I was a writer and editor for newspapers asso-
ciated with unions. This was an especially busy time for me, which
included most of the war years.

From 1948 until this past year, I was in business in Indiana, chiefly
in the: sugar refining industry. For the last few of these years |
headed an independent refining company in Indianapolis until it
was taken over by a national firm. This long and comparatively
settled period corresponded to the elementary and secondary stages
of my son’s education, and almost the same of my daughter’s.

As for geography, apart from the time in Indiana, I’ve lived a
few years each in New York, Chicago and Springfield (Mass.),
and for shorter terms in Cambridge, Washington and Hartford
(Conn.). What traveling P've done since 1936 outside the United
States and Canada has been limited to a little in western Europe and
somewhat more in Latin America.

Why this has been a bare-bones account I indicated at the start.
It has not been due to any general reluctance to tell more about
myself or what I think. By the time this appears in print I expect
to be once again engaged in an occupation that, for me, is reward-
ing in itself, not merely part of a long-range plan to subserve some
other end. What it will be, I don’t know, except that it will in
some way involve the expression of ideas, I hope more effectively
than in these paragraphs.

To all of you, and especially those I used to know at least a
little, but who aren’t among the few I’ve been in touch with, greet-
ings. May we meet again before we are past recognition of each
other. i

 

[ 852 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP EUGENE LILIENTHAL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 523 Spruce St., Berkeley 7, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of California Press, Berkeley 4, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 29, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1936.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Head, March 14, 1944, Oakland, Calif. camupren: Suzanne,
Feb. 16, 1945; Andrea, Jan. 26, 1947.

OccUPATION: Publishing.

CHARLES EDWARD LILLIE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 64 Pheasant Hill St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Wayland Laboratory, Wayland, Mass.

BorN: April 15, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Ruth Nadine Manley, June 13, 1943, Clinton, Iowa. ctutpaan: Scott
Rattray, Oct. 28, 1950; Anne Sparks, Jan. 21, 1952,

HARVARD BROTHER: David Waddell Lillie, ’39.

[ 853 ]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

occupation: Military electronics, section manager, documentation.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Audubon Society; Rocky Woods Club; Nature Con-
servacy.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous instruction manuals for military use,

FOR me, the past twenty-five years have passed in swift though
somewhat unspectacular fashion, Upon leaving business school in
the lean days of 1937, I served a sufficient apprenticeship in the
Boston insurance field to decide it was not for me. Thence into
electronics as a production scheduler for Aerovox of New Bedford,
which also gave me a pleasant interlude of small-town living at the
old Tabitha Inn in nearby Fairhaven. I enlisted in the Navy in early
1942 and during the next ‘four years served variously as an elec-
tronics trainee, instructor, and education officer in the radar tech-
nician training program. Never before or since have I spent so
much time so far from salt water, but I did serve a stretch in San
Francisco where I met my wife-to-be — a corn-tall lowa blonde of
uncommon good looks and good sense as well. We were married in
1943 and lived out the remainder of the war years landlocked in
Chicago.

Out of the Navy in 1945 and back to New England posthaste.
We settled in Westwood, a small town of 4500, and have watched
it grow to more than twice that size in the past fifteen years. First
Scott (1950) and then Anne (1952) entered upon our previously
carefree existence, and thenceforth life began to follow the usual
pattern of suburbia — grass, gardens, screens, painting, storm win-
dows, and snow. Throughout this period, my business life has
centered at Raytheon, first in technical publications and more re-
cently in the broader field of documentation (which encompasses
the entire bundle of paper that accompanies a military radar or
missile system for purposes of logistic support and reprocurement).
It is an interesting field which will make a national hero out of any-
one able to prevent the paper from outweighing the hardware.

Hobbies and recreation we find largely outdoors. Each summer
when school is out, the family troops off to our cottage on one of
Cape Cod’s fresh water ponds while the old man maintains weekday
bachelor quarters in Westwood. Cape Cod hobbies are trout-fishing,
golf, sun-worshiping, and an occasional crook of the elbow at bar-
becue time. Westwood hobbies are largely those dictated by the
demands of the lawn, garden, and ever-peeling clapboards.

As to the future of the world and other such weighty problems,
I am well content to leave them in hands more able than mine, Give

[ 854]

 

NAMEN PLO TTL OT ATE IEE ND Leen mers *

PM ERTS ATE NE OOOO II

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me a four-ounce fly rod and the purl of fast water, or an open fire
on a cool November evening, and I find it hard to convince mvself
that the space age is much different from any other.

STANLEY BRYANT LINDH

   

iiss tostloe (Biagio ciicasn ome a lalalime sachet

SEAR sen Dept SteapaE ea AETE I PR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 308 Summer St., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Chirug & Cairns, Inc., 824 Boylston St. Chestnut Hill 67,
Mass.

Born: May 19, 1914, West Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MarrieD: Marjorie O. Allen, March 31, 1945, Covington, La. CHILDREN: Eliza-
beth Allen, Aug. 20, 1949; Stanley Bryant, Jr., Jan. 4, 1951.

occupation: Advertising agency account executive.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent four years with Lever Brothers
Company in inside sales work. At the time this seemed to be
leading me nowhere, but I have subsequently come to realize that
the experience was far more valuable as a background to markeung
than I appreciated at the time.

In late 1940, moved in part by. the above attitude and a desire to
“get my year over with,” I enlisted in a National Guard band, it
being rather obvious that the War Department would look covet-
ously at bachelors with increasing frequency. Five vears later to
the day, I returned to civilian life as a first lieutenant, Transporta-
tion Corps, after spending most of the war in the California desert
and the Port of New Orleans in rail transportation or troop move-
ment. Most importantly, I met the gal I married in New Orleans
and we've lived happily ever after, with two wonderful youngsters
Betsy and Pete, who arrived on the scene sixteen months apart,

[ 855]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

while we lived in Mattapoisett when I was assistant sales manager
of Morse Twist Drill & Machine Company of New Bedford.

In 1952 opportunity beckoned with an advertising agency in
New Britain, Connecticut. Between 1952 and 1956 we lived in
Connecticut, Indianapolis, Rockford and then again in Simsbury
with the original agency. This was sufficient time to convince us
that the grass wasn’t necessarily greener elsewhere and that New
England was where we preferred to live.

To me, the most amusing part of living in the Middle West was
listening to advertising managers in the area lament about the con-
servatism of their companies in approving budgets, summed up by
the comment, “But back in New England you don’t have that
problem!” I could never convince them that for every such
lament, each one had a counterpart in New England saying the
same thing, but looking toward the Middle West as the area where
ad budgets always went through without change and sales man-
agement was bubbling over with derring-do and the progressive
spirit. My conclusion is that people are people, anywhere, and
New England would do well to bury its pessimism and stop assum-
ing the rest of the country thinks we are dead from the neck up
and the neck down.

In 1956 I returned to Boston with the present agency with whom
I have been happily employed working on the preparation and
implementation of marketing plans for leading industrial advertisers
in the New England area in the various fields of abrasives, machine
tools, temperature controls, electronics and turbines.

As a family we live rather quietly, confining our activities to
community projects such as Little League, the Scouts, church, hos-
pital and hobbies, mainly because work keeps me going straight out
most of the time. What spare time I have I spend in a home work-
shop, which has acquired the appearance of a small industrial plant,
on amateur tool-making or assembling electronic equipment, both
of which areas relate to the type of accounts I handle and their
products. And, as an ex-music major, it’s inevitable that component
stereo is piped into the shop (along with the other rooms). As I
write I’m “taping” Brahms’ Second by the BSO from Sanders
Theatre off the air by FM. At last I’ve discovered why I concen-
trated in music.

I have no profound observations on life to record here, beyond
saying that I like my work and love my family.

 

pict Ap ORT T

[ 856]

eR RAL TI NE EM NNR TP BEATE OM

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER LIPPER

      

‘s
“HS

AL

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 235 W. 76th St., New York, N.Y.

 

LIPPER has been carried as a “Lost” man on our records sinc

WILLIAM HAROLD LIPSITT

 

HOME apprEss: 701 N.E. 169th St., North Miami Beach, Fla.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1914, New Bedford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; M.B.A., 1939.

MarRiED: Mildred Weiser, June 17, 1950, Miami Beach, Fla. cHi_pren:
Steven, Sept. 11, 1952; Andrea Gayle, Sept. 17, 1955.

OoccuPATION: Commander (SC), U.S. Naval Reserve (retired).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami.

[ 857 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CHARLES OGDEN LITTLE

 

HOME apprEss: 661 Highway 50, Grand Junction, Colo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Daily Sentinel, Grand Junction, Colo.

BORN: Sept, 28, 1913, St. Anthony, Newfoundland.
PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935- DEGREE: 8.B. (Trinity Coll.), 1937.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Newspaper writer.

AFTER college I spent fourteen months in France studying the
French language. I was a teacher at a boys’ school in Ashburnham,
Massachusetts, for a year and have been in newspaper reporting and
writing most of the time since. I worked on the Rutland, Vermont
Herald, moved west and was night city editor of the Denver, Colo-

rado Post for three years. Am now business editor and general hand
on the Grand Junction Sentinel.

JOHN BASCOM LITTLE

 

HOME ApprEss: 60 Cowdin Circle, Chappaqua, N.Y.

[ 858 ]

 

|
t

poeta i ti Pe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFICE ADDRESS: IBM Corp., 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

porn: Oct. 14, 1914, Waterville, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Worcester South High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: S.B., CU? Jaude, 1936; S.M.IN MECH. ENG,
1937:

marriED: Dorothy McQuaid, May 29, 1940, New York, N.Y. cui_pren: Laurie,
July 18, 1942; Merrie, April 19, 1944; Elliot, Dec. 15, 1945, Walter, Oct. 17,

1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Elbert Payson Little, ’34, a.M., 37, PH.D., 41.

OcCUPATION: Manager of advanced engineering, IBM Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Engineering Society, 1956-58.

MEMBER OF: Mount Kisco Country Club; American Institute of Physics; In-
strument Society of America; Electro Chemical Society, Boy Scouts of
America.

PUBLICATIONS: “Diffusion of Heat through a Rectangular Bar & the Cooling
and Insulating Effects of Fins,” Journal of Applied Physics, April, 1942;
“New Structure for Transistors,” IRE Princeton Symposium on Devices,
July, 1949; “Growth of Germanium Single Crystals,” Physical Review,
vol, 78, 1950; “Amplification at 6 millimeter wavelength,” Bell Laboratories
Record, January, 1951; chapter on “Encapsulation,” Handbook of Senu-
conductor Electronics, October, 1956.

TWENTY-FIVE years have gone quickly for me and there have
been very few dull or uninteresting moments. I have been for-
tunate in always having jobs which were closely akin to my major
interests, in finding a wife exactly to specifications, and in being
blessed with two boys and two girls to maintain the balance of
power at home.

Of course, now that Laurie, the older girl, has left for college,
and others will follow shortly, we shall have to face up to a chang-
ing pattern in home life and develop some additional compensating
interests. Dorothy, my wife, has through the years continued her
education in psychology and enjoys part-time work as school psy-
chologist in nearby locations. She has an expanding outlet in that
avocation.

For my part, my present job with IBM in the engineering aspects
of the business is limitless in the interest and challenge it presents.
I cannot see time hanging heavy on my hands for years to come,
But to fill in the years since 1936, I might briefly state that I went
to the Bell Telephone Laboratories in 1937 as a member of the
technical staff in New York City. During the war vears, I staved
with the Laboratories on various wartime projects including air raid
warning studies in the city, antisubmarine work at New London,
and vacuum tube development for high frequency radar systems
In retrospect, these were action-packed, emotional and hectic times

[ 859 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Several of our children were born during these years. We became
home owners and moved to the country in Summit, New Jersey.

After thirteen pleasant and profitable years with the Bell Tele-

hone Laboratories, I convinced myself that a change in jobs might
be challenging and accepted an offer from IBM at the Poughkeepsie,
New York, engineering laboratory. The change has been challeng-
ing. The computer business is a phenomenal one with all kinds of
interesting and rapidly growing branches. My main work has been
in the engineering of electronic components such as vacuum tubes,
transistors, printed circuits, magnetic memory cores and the like.
More recently, I have been engaged in staff work in engineering
and getting a much broader and even more interesting view of how
a large corporation operates and grows.

Lest you get the impression that my job is my life, I remind you
all that a wife and four children demand, deserve and get the major
portion of the off-the-job hours. After all, that is life.

WILLIAM DAVIS LOCKE

 

HOME ApprEsS: 8 Lowell Rd., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE appress: The Country Store, Inc. 1 Monument St., Concord, Mass.
BoRN: Feb. 23, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass. }
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

Marriep: Mary Phillips Trumbull, July 31, 1937, Portland, Oregon. CHILDREN:
Helen Russell, July 2, 1938 (a. Richard Charles Cook, zd, Harvard ’56, i
Sept. 7, 1957); Franklin Trumbull, Oct. 4, 1942; Miriam Mason, Sept. :
29, 1946. GRANDCHILDREN: William Bradford Cook, April 15, 1958; Douglas t
Simpson Cook, June 29, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Weidemann Locke, ’38.

occupaTionN: Merchant, president and treasurer, The Country Store, Inc., re-
tail sportswear and specialties,

 

[ 860 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Director, Aspen Country Store, Inc., chairman, Home Service
Committee, American Red Cross, 1950; director, Brooks School of Con
cord, 1951-53; president, Concord Chamber of Commerce, 1956; cor-
porator, Middlesex Institution for Savings.

HAVING successfully resisted the temptation to indulge in any

serious scholastic activity for four years, I departed Cambridge in
June of ’36 for the hamlet of Jewell, Oregon, to assist the Tide-

water Timber Company in its efforts to denude several thousand
acres of Douglas fir at a profit. The pay for Harvard men without
degrees was sixty cents an hour.

The following summer, with approval of the state and the blessing

of the church, Mary and I incorporated in a hillside cabin 26° x
16°—— the only one in camp with running water. The natural se-
uence of events, together with the sequence of natural events, in-
icated a need for sawmill experience and a nursery; so we moved

» Gearhart, Oregon, and the Youngs Bay Lumber Company .

With only a golf course between us and the Pacific Ocean, it
ok an urgent call from Giff Simonds to end this idyll. Giff needed
neone who spoke Swedish in his cross-cut saw division, so No-
nber, 1938, found us in Fitchburg, Massachusetts. There we
‘ht still be today if the Emperor of Japan had kept to his Diet.
ommissioned an ensign in 1942, I reported for indoctrination at
nset Point, emerging some six months later assigned to naval
itelligence. Asa result of my experience in the rather intensive
“am at Quonset, I feel there is much to be said for a break in
ormal educational sequence when it affords the less dedicated
1t an opportunity to develop an appetite for learning. By the
end I made lieutenant (j.g.) only because the silver had worn
ensign’s bars and I was over-age in grade.

46 I reported for duty to my father-in-law who had given
01 teaching several years earlier to enter the retail busines.

ined us in 1951 Just before her father retired and has been in
f buying ever since.

e we are twenty-five years later, devoting our time to the
demands of an active small business, attempting to guide

younger offspring through the adventures of adolescence
ing word of the arrival of a third grandchild. [woulda
past twenty-five years for anything,

[ 861 ]

ARISE Sari,
COOMA, ween.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

DONALD CHAPMAN LOGAN

  

HOME AbpRESS: 4131 N. Main St., Kansas City 16, Mo.
OFFICE Appress: Trans World Airlines, Inc., ro Richards Rd., Kansas City, Mo.

Born: Aug. 24, 1914, Avonmore, Pa.

prepareD aT: Union High School, Turtle Creek, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. (Gettysburg Coll.), 1937.

marriep: Alvina Muller, Nov. 15, 1943, Turtle Creek, Pa. cHitpren: Leslie

Chapman, Jan. 3, 1945; Patrick Armour, March 26, 1948, Timothy Robert,

June 21, 1949; Lisa Anne, May ro, 1955.
occupation: Air transportation; standards representative in Transportation Di-

vision, Trans World Airlines, Inc.

AFTER Dean Hanford and J failed to agree on my qualifications for
continued study at Harvard, I spent a month licking my wounds
and hating Bernard DeVoto (may his smug soul rest in peace).
Then, after a pleasant working vacation at Frank Welty’s lodge in
Bubois, Wyoming, I resumed college study, this time at Gettysburg.
Armed with an A.B. magna cum laude and a Pennsylvania second-
ary school teaching certificate, I sallied forth into the cowardly
old world of 1938. For more than two years the living was by no
means easy, little more than a hand-to-mouth existence supported by
temporary teaching assignments and odd jobs. It is almost beyond
belief that the teachers who are wooed and worshipped now were
treated with such contempt and almost sadistic condescension then.
In 1940, despairing of a happy life as a teacher under the then-
existing circumstances, I took a job for seventy-five dollars a month
as a junior clerk with TWA at the Pittsburgh airport. Within a
few wecks the first promotion came and I found myself in love
with this vital forward- and upward-rushing business of air transpor-

tation.
Two years later, I found myself more literally in love, with Alvina

[ 862 ]

Fn reece nape ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Muller, a fellow employee of TWA. Alvina, born in Idaho, was
reared in Buenos Aires, came to the United States when she was
twelve, speaking Spanish and German, but no English. We often
teasingly remind her that she has long since made up for all those
words of English unspoken in her childhood!

The early years of marriage were clouded with the uncertainty
of war time. In 1947 we moved to Zanesville, Ohio, to open and
manage a TWA station there. We had a lovely little girl, and an-
other child on the way. After the first hectic weeks of the new
situation, we began to experience for the first time a feeling of real
stability and direction for our lives.

The Zanesville experiment was terminated in 1953, as the eco-
nomic currents of the airline business veered off in a new direction.
We were re-assigned, to manage T'WA’s Toledo station. For three
years we lived in the delightful, small university town of Bowling
Green, Ohio. The whole family loved it.

Then came a summons to a regional assistant’s job at Kansas City,
operating center of the TWA system. We've lived here ever since,
handling several interesting assignments in regional and system man-
agement, including a seven-month task performed at 380 Madison
Avenue, New York, while “commuting” from Kansas City every
Sunday, and back every Friday!

My present work consists of working with a group of industrial
engineers to develop, install and maintain standards for the staffing
and equipment of TWA airport stations and related facilities. We
are also concerned with improvement and refinement of work pro-
cedures in these offices.

Although it is a rare week in which I do not travel a few hundred
or a few thousand miles in the performance of my work, I am not,
thanks to the marvelous jet aircrafts, away from home ov ernight
often enough to distress me or provoke any complaint from my
family.

That family has been badly bitten by the air-travel bug, inciden-
tally. Each of the children is ready to go at the slightest suggestion,
be it to St. Louis or Boston, Shannon or Rome, Palma or Torre-
molinos, San Francisco or Bombay. Since TWA makes it so easy
for us to visit wherever we care to, there may not be much “to-
getherness” the next few years but there should be deep enjoyment

of the times when we are together.

For example, Alvina and I just returned from a twelve-day holi-
day in Madrid, Mallorca, Malaga and Rome. It will be weeks ‘before

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

we run out of stories for the youngsters — about the fire in the
pension at Lisbon, the friendly maitre-de in Madrid; the Dutch
family we met in Palma, with four children just about the same
ages as ours; the Alitalia plane which diverted to Pisa when Rome
fogged in for the first time in three years! But, they’ll have their
own stories to tell next month after an overnight visit to New York
via TWA’s new non-stop 707 service from Kansas City.

This gadding about has its serious side along with all the fun.
We’re very proud to be a part of this business of bringing the peo-
ple of the world closer together. We are happy that we can and
do enjoy acquaintance and even close friendship with folks literally
all over the world.

Space is the frontier of our generation. It is only on our airlines
that most people at present have the opportunity to venture within
that frontier. So our industry has great spiritual as well as practical

significance. 1 have never regretted my unpremeditated decision
to cast my lot with TWA.

WILLIAM FARNSWORTH LOOMIS

  

HOME Appress: Calhoun Drive, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Loomis Laboratory, Calhoun Drive, Greenwich, Conn.

BORN: Aug. 11, 1914, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1937. DEGREES: S.B., Cum laude, 1936(38); M.D. Cum laude,
1941,

marriep: Violet Amory, June 18, 1937, Dedham, Mass. (divorced 1943); Betty
Blackmond Barton, Nov. 26, 1945, St. Augustine, Fla. cumpren: Joan
Amory, Aug. 27, 1938 (mm. Wilmot R. Hastings, Aug. 30, 1958); William
Farnsworth, Jr., Sept. 17, 1940; Elizabeth Jaqueline, Nov. 21, 1942; Nathaniel
Barton, Sept. 10, 1946; Ellen Farnsworth, Dec. 11, 1947,

[ 864 ]

§
4

AEA via Ca

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SON: William Farnsworth Loomis, Jr., ’62.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Alfred Lee Loomis, ’35,; Henry Loomis, "41.
OCCUPATION: Biochemist.

oFFices HELD: Director, Loomis Laboratory, Greenwich, Conn.; professor of
biochemistry, Brandeis University, Waltham, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Nippon Club; American Society of Biological Chemists; American
Alpine Club; Himalayan Club; American Go Association; Field Club of

Greenwich, etc.

PUBLICATIONS: “Climbing the highest mountain ever climbed by man,” The
Sportsman, 1937; about twenty-five scientific articles in various professional
journals, as reviewed for example in “Feedback Control of Growth and
Differentiation by Carbon Dioxide Tension and Related Metabolic Vari-
ables” that forms Chapter 9 in the 17th Growth Symposium Volume: Cell,
Organism and Milieu (1959), edited by D. Rudnick, Ronald Press.

YESTERDAY, before this history had been thought of, I put

my forehead down on the cold granite of a rock in my garden and

thanked God (I am an atheist) for the unequalled blessings He had
given me. The stimulus to this extraordinary action was fatigue
from a ten-day trip to Stockholm to deliver a scientific paper, re-
turn by jet without sleep followed by immediate driving to Cam-
bridge with my lovely wife to a) put our daughter in Radcliffe,

b) visit our son who is majoring in biochemistry at Harvard,

c) spend the night with our married daughter who, with her Hur-

vard Law Review husband, is about to make me a grandfather and

d) drive to Andover to enter our second son as a prep. Having

done this, Betty and I then drove back to Greenwich where I had

left €) a gorgeous twelve-year-old who is doing well in her studies,
f) a horse that she loves more than life and who lives in the garage
under our house where she takes complete care of it, and g) my
own laboratory where I work on biochemistry-aimed-at-cancer. My
lab resembles a painter’s or sculptor’s studio, for I am its sole occu-
pant and have been most of the last eight years, ever since I returned
to first-hand laboratory work after having served as assistant director
of the Natural Sciences Division of the Rockefeller Foundanon.
The work is hard at times, lonely at others, but always changing,
“always hopeful and always growing. Given time, it even may
amount to something. Each small step is fun as are the nods of
recognition that come along from time to time. The real thrill
comes from the gradually increasing sense of mastery over that
mystery: the living cell.

Looking back twenty-five years, I find that my life has been
built around the bargain that I struck with the heavens that rainy
summer night in Munich in 1933, when “we” agreed that I should

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

spend my life trying to apply chemistry to medicine. Having be-
come an atheist at St. Paul’s, this must sound funny. Be that as it
may, | have always known what I had to do, no matter how clum-
sily. At Harvard I over-worked badly and met all too few of my
classmates and missed many good times without knowing it. Senior
year I left college to join Ad Carter, ’36, Art Emmons, ’31, and
Charlie Houston, '35, in an attempt to climb Nanda Devi (25,660
ft.) on the border of Thibet. With four British friends we did
climb it too, a world’s record at the time, that fell when Annapurna
and then Everest were climbed. Still at loose ends, ] went with Art
Emmons by foot and mule through the backdoor of China five
years before the Burma Road was even named. This was far rougher
than the mountain and we nearly didn’t make it. China taught me
realism and the value of family above all else. Sobered considerably,
] returned to finish college, go through Harvard Med. and start an
internship when the Japanese struck. Back to China I went as an
O.S.S. major in the Medical Corps, serving mostly in Headquarters,
but also behind the Japanese lines where V-J Day found me. Since
then I have done research at many places and finally here in my
own Walden Pond.

The ingredients of my life are: Betty, the kids, research, philos-
ophy. I believe each man is both a) a worm in the cosmic unimpor-
tance of his job and b) a god within his own head from which
vantage point he looks out and judges all about him according to
his vision. Facing one’s unimportance is hard for those who have
dreamed great dreams. It is settled at last by understanding that
really trying to be as good a little worm as possible has got to be,
and hence can be, enough. The second or godlike aspect allows one
all the olympian fun of studying archeology, anthropology, foreign
languages and foreign cultures as if one really could become an ex-
pert at such things. To relate them to each other, to read constantly,
to talk to all and sundry, to have no taboos, to love museums and
travel whenever possible is the fun of this I-am-the-center-of-the-
universe aspect. Last summer, for example, Betty and I took four
of our children around the world in prop-job-economy. We lived
Japanese-style in that heavenly country, camped in the jungle of
the Malay Peninsula, saw famine and misery in Kashmir. Buddhist
calm and stoic endurance, family solidarity were there for our
American children to see and feel. Despite the present Time of
Troubles, I believe that MAN is just beginning to wake up to his
true potentials, be it in Africa, South America or the Orient. One

[ 866 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

planetary culture is emerging from the dark ages of the superstitious
past, a culture symbolized perhaps by the great jet airplanes that
span the Atlantic in six hours. After all, we have just started, for it
is only rot years since Darwin published his Origin of Species
and MAN knew the true facts about who he was and where he
came from, with all the momentous conclusions that come from
truth.

JOSEPH J. LO-PRESTI

 

HOME appRrEss: Cove Road, Oyster Bay Cove, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 123 South St., Oyster Bay, N.Y.

BORN: July 8, 1914, Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., #iagna cum laude, 1936; Mp. (New
York Univ.), 1940.

mMarriED: Maria R. Navarra, April 26, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHivpres: Enid E.
Sept. 25, 1947; Cora D., May 31, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Daniel Attilio Lo-Presti, ’46.

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Director and vice-president, Ficarra Medical Center Corporation,
director of ophthalmology, Oyster Bay Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa (Harvard); Alpha Omega Alpha (New York Uni-
versity); Massachusetts and New York State Medical Societies; American
Academy of Ophthalmology and Odontology; New England Ophthalmol-

ogy Society.

[ 867 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MILTON LOTTMAN

 

HOME AbpRESS: 5140 Plain Center Rd., N.E., Canton 4, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kulka Steel & Equipment Co., 826 N. Webb Ave., Alliance,
Ohio.

porn: May 13, 1914, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Elmer L. Meyers High School, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., #2agna cum laude, 1936; M.B.A., Magna
cum laude, 1938.

MarriED: Mary Jane Holub, March 18, 1939, Akron, Ohio. cHr~pREN: Michael
Stephen, Feb, 5, 1942; Mary Elizabeth, July 24, 1944.

HARVARD SON: Michael Stephen Lottman, ’61,

occupation: President, Kulka Steel & Equipment Company, steel warehouse,
iron and steel scrap.

OFFICES HELD: Divisional merchandise manager, The Wm. Hengerer Company,
1939-47; vice-president, Western Garment Company, 1947-51, Institute of
Scrap Iron & Steel (Ohio); president, Kulka Steel & Equipment Company,
1952-61; board member, National Institute of Scrap Iron & Steel, board
member and treasurer, Temple Israel, Canton, Ohio; board member and
vice-president, Canton Jewish Community Center; advancement chairman,
Boy Scout Committee; board member and president, Plain Center P.T.A,
1953-56.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club—Schools Committee; Rotary Club of Alliance,
Ohio; Arrowhead Country Club, Canton; Alliance Country Club.

AS Curvish Banshee so aptly put it, one can’t draw elixir from a
turnip. And for the past twenty-five years, ’'ve been just about as
remarkable — as the turnip, that is. Let’s see. Came Business School
and abrupt disgorgement in 1938 into the ridiculous realm of the
department store small world. Moderate success in that area did not
disqualify me from an assignment with the Corps of Engineers,
where I rapidly rose from private to first lieutenant — and stopped
there. Strange. I didn’t meet one Harvard man on either side in the
whole damn Army from Fort Dix to Tokyo, where I spent my last

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

twelve months of service. After a brief return to Buffalo retailing
—- retailing in Buffalo, that is — I sought mammon in another philo-
sophical field — the manufacture of women’s outerwear in Cleveland
and St. Louis. Mammon wasn’t too bad, but in 1951 I departed Sc.
Louis with my family and my remaining sanity and joined the enter-
prise of my wife’s family in Ohio with establishments in Akron,
Youngstown, and Alliance. The steel business, new and scrap, has
become my industrial way of life and it’s all right, Jack. So much
for eating.

I’ve had a pretty wonderful twenty-two years with a pretty won-
derful ninety-three-pounder who still looks like the best Wellesley
sophomore around. Our children have grown to monsterhood but
are still considered untradeable. Mike, now eighteen, is Harvard
’61; the young man in a hurry will enable me to combine Reunion
with graduation, effecting a twenty-five-dollar saving on a com-
bined investment of approximately twenty thousand. Upon entrance
he was immediately blinded by the Crimson and by-lined himself
almost completely out of academics. To the National Merit offi-
cials he’s a real puzzle. Betsy is a junior at Hathaway Brown School
in Cleveland prepping successfully for Wellesley. A BWOC.

My series of encounters with PTA’s, civic organizations and
efforts, trade organizations, etc., is fairly long but not particularly
distinguished. We are suburbanites with lots of grass to cut. We're
surrounded by horses, dogs, cats and aphids. I can sull take my
son occasionally at tennis. (Yes, singles!) We've done France, Italy,
Britain, and by publication time I hope Spain and Portugal. Fdu-
cational note: My ninety-three-pounder conquers the language bar-

rier before we cross the border. Obviously, once the language is
studied or reviewed we're irrevocably precommitted. She had a
helluva conflict deciding to visit England. Dull, language-wise.

My convictions and values? They keep changing, almost daily.
Just as I listen to Mahler’s First as I write this gorp (Elathaway
Brown expression), I’m satisfied that life has light to offer as well
as darkness; hope as well as despair; meaning as well as frustration.
Unlike Osborne and Sahl, I look neither back nor forward in anger.
Naturally, I credit Fair Harvard with my well-adjusted, non-neu-
rotic, physically vigorous state, and I hope that She will do as well
for my son and all of Hers.

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARRY PATRICK LUZ

 

LAST KNOWN AbpRESS: P.O. Box 626, 100 Main St., Balboa, Calif.

LUZ has been carried as a “Lost” man on our records since 1951.

JOHN MORTIMER RICHARDSON LYETH, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4663 Waldo Ave. New York 71, N.Y.

Born: Aug. 5, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: M.&. (Stevens Inst. of Technology),
1939.

Marriep: Harriet Elizabeth Tyson, 1946, Newport, R.I. (divorced 1948);
Patricia Dobson Clarke, Sept. 10, 1960, New York, N.Y, cHILpREN: Mar-
guerite Skirvin, September, 1947; Charlotte Dobson; Deborah Dobson.

HARVARD BROTHER: Munro Longyear Lyeth, 37, Lu.B., ’4o.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Lyeth Engineering Company; president, Wolverine Avia-
tion Company, both Detroit, Mich.

OFFices HELD: Director, Longyear Realty Corporation, Marquette, Ind.

[ 870 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Detroit, Grosse Pointe, Mich.; Se. Amirews
Golf Club, Harding, N.Y.; Shenorock Shore Club, Rye, N.Y.; Spors Cas
Club of America; Society of Automotive Engineers.

AFTER leaving Harvard I attended Stevens Institute of Technol-

ogy in Hoboken, New Jersey, and received a degree of M.F. in

1939. I moved to Detroit in October, 1939, to become an engineer

in the Universal Button Company of that city.

During the early part of the war I owned and operated a fiving
school, Wolverine Aviation Company, for the War Training Scrv-
ice. Later, I joined the Navy and served mostly on Guam — was
separated from the service as a lieutenant.

I returned to Detroit as chief engineer of the Universal Button
Company and stayed with them until early 1948. During this time
I was married for a little over a year to Betty Tyson.

In late 1948, I revived Wolverine Aviation Company and operated
it to date. I also started Lyeth Engineering Company in which I

have carried on product development work for automouve devices
and some fiberglass boat designing.

I have just moved back into the New York area and am blessed

with a lovely family by my recent marriage to Patricia Dobson
Clarke.

CHARLES PEIRSON LYMAN

 

HOME AppREss: Elm Street, Canton, Afass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard Univeruty, Cam:
bridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1912, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B. 19363 A.M, 1930; FULD, tagts

MarRiED;: Jane H. Cheever, June 21, 1941, Wellesley, Mass. contpars. Charkes

[ 871 ]

rn etcenntnenetinenaatttnenncanaeneeta gO”

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Peirson, Jr, May 29, 1942; Jane Sargent, March 12, 1947; Theodore, July 10,
1950; David Russell, Jan. 13, 1953; Elizabeth Anne, June 19, 1956.

HARVARD SON: Charles Peirson Lyman, Jr., 64.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Lyman, °37.

occupation: Research zoologist, research associate, Harvard Medical School and
Museum of Comparative Zoology.

OFFICES HELD: Research assistant, Harvard Medical School; assistant, associate
curator, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; American Association for the Advancement of Science;
American Society of Zoologists,; American Society of Mammalogists,
American Society of Physiologists; American Academy of Arts and Sci-
ences; Milton Hoosic Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club; Tavern Club;
Harvard Travelers Club.

PuBLICATIONS: “Physiology of Mammalian Hibernation,” Lyman, C. P., Chat-
field, P. O., Physiological Reviews, 1955, “Mammalian Hibernation,” Ly-
man, C, P., Dawe, A.R. (editors), Bulletin Museum Comparative Zoology,
1960.

AFTER graduation, I spent a long time training to become a biol-

ogist, and managed to get married and complete my thesis, in that

order, in the fateful year of 1941. I spent most of the war at

Hickam Field in the Hawaiians as an aviation physiologist, first

training men in use of oxygen equipment and related problems and

later in the Air Force Headquarters working along the same lines

with more authority and paper work. After the war, I returned

to Harvard to work as assistant curator of mammals at the Museum

of Comparative Zoology. Shortly thereafter, the head of the Anat-

omy Department at the Harvard Medical School, the late Dr. George

Wislocki, asked me to work part time there, and from that time

to the present I have done most of my research at the Medical

School, As far as I am concerned, this has been a most happy
arrangement, for I have been given the best of facilities and the
cooperation and friendship of two really fine anatomists.
New England, or inertia, runs deep in my blood, for I never have
wanted to be away from home for long, and we built a house on
my family’s place in Canton outside of Boston. He we live with
five kids, dogs, horses, and an occasional guinea pig or hamster. |
We have been able to go abroad several times, once on a trip through
England and Wales to Scotland and once through Norway and ;
Sweden. In 1959, we hired a house and took all the kids to Scotland
for a wonderful summer. Usually, however, the family spends most i
of the summer on Cape Cod, where I am able to spend weekends.
The bulk of my work is involved in research, and somewhat by ac-
cident it is concentrated on a study of hibernation in mammals, My

[ 872 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

main interest has always been the various fascinating wavs in which
mammals have adapted themselves to their environment, and PE started
studying hibernation because it is such a neat way to withdraw from
an unfavorable situation. It turns out to be an extremely compheated
way also, involving a whole series of physiological Specializations
Therefore, my research interests, which were at first primarily com
logical, have turned more towards physiology. Pecularly cnough,
this rather esoteric study has aroused some interest for more prac-
tical reasons, for the use of cold in heart and brain surgery can
ain some useful comparisons from the hibernators who thought of
the whole thing first. The more visionary claim that human hiberna-
tion is the only manner by which man can travel in space to the
distant planets without getting extraordinarily old and dying ot
boredom in the process— but the more conservative doo net em-
hasize this idea even when applying for government grants
I give a half-course for undergraduates and graduates on the tiol-
ogy of mammals, and at present I am trying to write a book on the
subject. I also average about two graduate students cach vear who
work along the same lines of interest. For the last couple « of vears
I have been a freshman adviser, which is an extremely rew arding | pob,
for advice and someone to talk to about their problems i is needed
by many freshmen before they get fully settled into their colleve
life. In politics, I remain a middle-of-the-road Republican who occa-
sionally votes Democratic at the local level. I have only run once
for public office — when I lost by a respectably narrow margin for
the Welfare Board of our town. For hobbies, | make and mend
gadgets with the children and play tennis and golf. T have alwave
loved to hunt and fish but have become a little less blowdthints ay
the years go on, so that now I would rather watch a trout than cateh
it and like working with a good bird dog as much as shootin. |
hope that this is due to a fuller realization of the be auty af tte
rather than premature softening of the brain. If I had anything te
complain about, barring of course the world situation, at would be
that our beautiful country is being desecrated by super hiphwaye
and badly planned developments.

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

LUCIUS BIERCE LYMAN, JR.

 

HOME appress: 7 Joyanne Ct., Kent, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1099 W. Main St., Kent, Ohio.

BorN: Nov. 15, 1911, Akron, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

marriep: Maxine Alice Skinner, May 2, 1936, Madison, Ind. cHiLprEN: Karen
Joy, Jan. 20, 1942; Anne Bishop, Feb. 17, 1948.

occupation: President, Lyman Chevrolet Company, Cartruck Rental Company,
Fanelly & Lyman, Inc., Cars for Professionals, Inc., all Kent, Ohio.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Portage County Republican Central Committee,
1950-56, Portage County Chapter, American Red Cross, 1951-53; presi-
dent, Portage County Automobile Dealers Association, 1955-56; mod-
erator, Ohio Conference Congregational-Christian Churches, 1959-6o.

MEMBER OF: Twin Lakes Country Club; Masonic Lodge; Kent Rotary Club.

STRONG winds make high waves, especially for a sixteen-foot
canoe. John Spicer and I were bucking four-footers on Lake
Ashuanippi in Central Labrador, one late August day in 1959. I
never came closer to losing my life, even during the thirty months
I spent overseas in North Africa and France, during World War II.
Then I was a battalion staff officer (captain), serving with the 247th
Ordnance.

Asa civilian my favorite hobby is wilderness fishing and camping.
Canadian wilderness has an allure which is irresistible. Dick, who
is my brother, and | lash our canoe to the pontoon of a Norseman.
We know northern Manitoba, northwestern Ontario and Labrador.
We find spectacular fishing, fine camping and the quiet discipline
nature demands when she nestles you to herself.

My other hobby is politics. It started out as a high-minded moti-
vation, developed during the war. Guys like me ought to take an
interest in government. I started out as a precinct worker, was

[ 874 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

romoted to a money raiser, ended up as county chairman, a job
I held for six years. The one irrefutable conclusion reached was
that we Americans get the kind of government we are willing te

ay for in time and money. Presently, I serve the party willinicls
and cheerfully on any committee assignment, and this last cleetian
I managed the campaigns in four semi-rural townships.

Church work is frustrating, especially if you're a Congreganon-
alist. You don’t find many people who are against the church or
what it is trying to do; in fact, most subscribe to the idea that the
world would be a better place if there were a commitment to
Christ’s Good News. But most of us fall short when it comes to
putting our effort where our intelligence tells us it ought to be. Or
so it seems to me after having served on numerous conunittces of
the Ohio Conference of the Congregational Churches, and having
just completed a year as its moderator.

My living is made in the Chevrolet business; it has been good to

me.

ROBERT HORACE McALEER

 

HOME AppbREss: 13 Walker Rd., Manchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 795 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: $.B, 1936.

mMarrieD: Verda L. German, April 8, 1942, Berkelev, Calif. csurpeny Seta
Christine, March 29, 1945; Christopher Robert, March at nage, Phe
Robinson, June 17, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Edmond MeAlcer, "33; Arthur Gordon Vio Viet, 4°

occupation: Civil engineering, consulting engineer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of North Shore.

[ 875 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

AS the important event of the Twenty-fifth Reunion approaches,
it seems like a good time to take stock of one’s self. I have a wife
and three children, a house with a mortgage, and a responsible posi-
tion in the engineering profession. All in all, it would seem that I
must at least be “holding my own.” Much more than that, I cannot
claim, yet my hopes for the future are still high. In the civil engi-
neering profession (not the most lucrative right now), I have reached
a sort of plateau, not as high as could be wished, where something
drastic must be done if ] am going to move upwards again. In short,
I’ve come about as far as is possible for me in the local Boston area
while working for someone else. ‘Two courses of action appear open
to me: to look to other areas, perhaps far afield, or to organize an
engineering business with others or by myself; in short, to become
management. The latter alternative is the more attractive for |
like the New England scene, particularly the area publicized as the
North Shore, and if ever I have to move there will probably be no
stop this side of the Pacific northwest.

Except for a period of some six years on active duty in the Navy,
my effort has been in engineering practice; first with the Corps of
Engineers, U.S. Army, and then with various, even numerous, con-
sulting engineering firms. I have obtained professional engineer’s
registrations in two states— Massachusetts and Rhode Island. My
experience has been quite varied and includes the responsibilities of
project engineer for a number of multi-million-dollar highway and
bridge projects in the state of Massachusetts.

The naval service was from April, 1940, to February, 1946, as a
commissioned officer serving on board light cruisers of the Pacific
fleet. I went in as an ensign, came out as a commander, and was re-
tired as a captain (USNR all the way). After the war, my wife and
I bought a house in Needham, Massachusetts, where we moved in
1946. By 1954 we decided that Needham was growing too fast
for us, so we moved in that year to Manchester, Massachusetts,
which seemed to be growing somewhat more slowly (or not at all).
We are happy being near the sea. The beaches, the harbor, and the
sailing have great attraction for us. And we have the woods, too.
Our house is practically surrounded by trees, at the edge of hun-
dreds of acres of woodland. However, high electric power rates,
hot tempers in town meetings, and a school system that seems to
fall short, combined with other factors make our town something
less than the ideal location we hoped it would be. Yet, the advan-
tages still outweigh the disadvantages, so we have no intention of

[ 876 ]

ee PE En ae eT Ee aR E> S ETERS EEREERERNpETT Reema

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

moving elsewhere, at least not at present. The entire family ts bak
ing forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion come June next. having
fully enjoyed the preview at Castle Hill, Ipswich, last year. In par.
ticular, the children are anticipating the activities at the bocy
County Club which is so close to home.

WILLIAM WINTON McALPINE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 147 Lincoln Drive, Beaconsfield, P.Q., Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Head Office, Sun Life Assurance Co. of Canada, Montreal, PQ).
Canada.

BORN: June 24, 1914, Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1936.

marrigD: Florence May Dodge, Aug. 8, 1938, Medford, Mass crurpars Joan
Calder, Dec. 7, 1943; Colin Campbell, Sept. 26, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Assistant superintendent, sales promotion and traning, Sun Tite
Assurance Company of Canada.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, General Agents and Managers Comauttce, Cohantuy
Ohio, 1955-56; member, board of governors, Lakeshore WAICIN, ome
1957; secretary, 1957-58, president, 1959-60, Qucbee Aweciution of [Prarmng

Directors.
MEMBER OF: Beaconsfield Swimming Pool Association, Aswocunen of Prarncg

Directors,

THE years go by unnoticed, until you are suddenly pulled up shect
by the realization that this marks twenty-five vears out of colo’
Unnoticed, too, are the changes that go on in those soars Dyess
you know they are taking place — a little less of this (bhe bart.
a little more of that (like waist-line) — a chanve of job, a chases
of city, even a change of residence to outside the U.S. - - telesnuce.
jets, atomic power, and me. Things sure aren't what they ued eo:
be!

[877]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

A long time ago I was a school teacher. It was fun and I felt
good about helping boys get an education. Then came World War
II and chronologically, at least, a cute blond daughter. Also came
the desire to be a part of it all the Navy, Australia, New Guinea,
the Philippines, victory —and after it was all over, a return to
Worcester Academy.

As alumni secretary, I led a varied and interesting life, partly
in the academic hall, partly in the world outside. A son, Colin, ar-
rived to keep his sister, Jean, company. But urges to move on had
been stirring in me for a long time. Now, with a growing family
they became stronger and, in 1948, I gave up the occupation I had
prepared for at Harvard and with graduate work at Middlebury
College and Clark University — an occupation I had worked at for
some nine years.

The changes I mentioned earlier really began. I became a life
insurance salesman, supervisor, branch manager. We lived in Wil-
mington, Delaware; Drexel Hill and Haverton, Pennsylvania; Colum-
bus and Worthington, Ohio. Our youngsters were in and out of
schools like figures on a Swiss clock. Then we moved to Montreal
and a new post in the Sun Life of Canada’s head office, in charge
of training, back in the educational field.

Midst changes and changes, a constant. Florie and I were high
school sweethearts and she has been much at my side ever since.
She has always claimed she went to Harvard with me and I think
she is right. Now we have settled down again. Jean is seventeen,
Colin thirteen, and I — well, let’s just say I am twenty- -five years
out of college!

| 878 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD LEE McARDLE

 

HOME AppreEss: 70 Methuen St., Lowell, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: IT. C. Lee Insurance Agency, Inc. 10 Kearney Sy. Leweil

Mass.

BorN: Nov. 6, 1913, Lowell, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1936(;8).

MARRIED: Katherine Ann Murray, March 25, 1940, Dorchester, Mas cia -
DREN: Patricia Therese, Feb. 14, 1941; Barbara Ann, Nov. tt tags. Donald
Lee, Jr., Sept. 13, 1946; David B., Dec. 15, 1949; Richard P. Nov. a, tyr.

occupation: Insurance broker.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Washington Savings Bank, Lowell Tmtitugna fos

Savings (both Lowell, Mass.).
MEMBER OF: Lowell Harvard Club; Vesper Country Club, Knights of Colum-

bus (Fourth Degree).
ENTERED into the insurance business immediately after college.
Served with Infantry during World War II. Received five battle
stars. Am now trying to finance five children through school, which
has turned out to be my greatest challenge.
Am with Jack Kennedy all the way, and foresce four vears of
dynamic leadership.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

AMBROSE CHURCH McCABE

 

HOME AbprEsS: Route 124, RF.D. 1, Brewster, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Suburban Propane Gas Corp., Mount Kisco, N.Y.

porn: April 23, 1910, White Plains, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.; Institute Minerva,
Ziirich, Switzerland, Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marrieb: Elizabeth Frances Moss, Oct. 4, 1941, Essex Fells, N.J. cattpreNn: Ellen
Degez, Aug. 28, 1942; Caroline Crosby, April 26, 1944; Beth, March 5, 1953,
Frank DeMott, May 3, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lyman Austin Spaulding McCabe, °34.

occuPATION: District sales agent, Suburban Propane Gas Corporation, Mount
Kisco, New York.

OFFICES HELD: First lieutenant, New York State Guard (enlisted, Jan. 7, 1941,
inactive reserve, Aug. 13, 1945); director, First National Bank of Brewster,
since 1943; president and treasurer, George W. Hall Sales Corporation, since
19523 co-chairman, American Red Cross Fund Drives, 1956, 1957; member,
Knights of Columbus, since 1957, Harlem Valley Garden Club, since 1957,
Alumni Council of the Gunnery School, since 1958; trustee and treasurer,
Brewster Chamber of Commerce, 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: Companion of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the
United States, 1960.

PUBLICATIONS: Originator and producer of first annual Brewster Chamber of
Commerce Directory and Telephone Book.

A TRIP to our nation’s capital at the end of May, 1936, produced
two shattering disappointments. A well-introduced visit to the State
Department produced one. In spite of my expected S.B. in inter-
national Jaw and relations, I found from my first nibble at the icing
on the State Department cake that it was quite unappetizing. Then a
telegram from home said “Return to Cambridge PDQ or you will
not receive credit for your half-year course in constitutional law.”
Both the hoped-for job and degree were slipping or had already

[ 880 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

slipped out of sight and out of mind. The next nine davs in Cam.
bridge produced the ten weekly papers on constitutional problems
which I had just “overlooked” and an “unsatisfactory but passing
D” in the law course which assured timely graduation and the de-
gree.

The year 1936 was not a good one for job-hunting, but from July
to October I enjoyed the good weather as a grease monkey in a
gas station here in Brewster. Late in the fall of that vear, the Tide-
water Oil Company finally rejected my application for membership
in their sales training program, and with winter weather blow ing
in I set out for New York City and whatever job I could find. One
accounting course in college got me started as a clerk with the
Marine Midland Trust Company. Next it was bookkecper for the
corporate trust department and then it was credit analyst in that
department. In spite of night school, life on Manhattan Island was
good, almost too good.

In 1939, four confirmed bachelors retired to a chateau in Scamdale.
In our half chalet and one-half chateau, we were so broke by the
oil bill that in the summer of 1940 we added seven paving guests
to our menage. This financial coup, plus our foresight in installing
a pay phone, left the four leasees so matrimonially vulnerable that
when our lease expired in September, 1941, we were all either en-
gaged or already married. Betty and I set up housckceping in an
apartment in Orange, New Jersey, but Ellen’s advent led us to a
rented house in Essex Fells. During this time, I had worked in the
credit department of the Title Guarantee & Trust Company and as
a report writer for the National Credit Office, Inc. Then f became
office manager for the Lloyd Engineering Company of Belleville.
New Jersey. Next there was time out for a real sexsmon with tuber-
culosis, but by 1948 I was again gainfully and happily emploved » «
this time with Areson & Company, CPAs in Newark, New Jersey.
In 1952, as part-owner and manager of the George WY. EUaill Sales
Corporation, gasoline and heating oils, | moved to Brewster, New
York. Our second daughter, Caroline, had been born in rygg. Ohie
third, Beth, arrived in 1953, and shortly after, in tg¢4, Frank pounced
the family. If he graduates from Harvard using the same whedule

as his father, I should be almost sixty-nine ripe old’ ves of aye
Even this does not upset him.

Here in eastern Putnam County, we have just succesfully coe
pleted the fund-raising for a new $i §0,000 hospital Herty ne pees
dent of the new corporation, and we have been working teyetiot

[ 881 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

on this project for over three years. In April of 1960, as an enrolled
Republican [ accepted the Democrat Party’s nomination for mem-
ber of the New York State Assembly. My opponent and his father
had held that office for thirty-four years. In spite of all I could and
did do before November 8th, they added two more years to their
unbeaten record. Better luck next time? Eight hundred more
votes out of 20,000 would have done it this time.

God helps those who help themselves, but J have also learned that
we today don’t think or talk of the many unpleasant things that
can and do happen to almost all of us while we inhabit this world.
If possible, it would be better for us if we braced ourselves for

these inevitable trials by joyfully appreciating all the good things
which come with the bad.

JOHN HENRY McCAMMON, II

MAILING ADDRESS: 1319 MacKenzie St., San Angelo, Texas.

JAMES JOSEPH McCARTHY

 

HOME appress: 5100 Main St., Trumbull, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 322, U.S. Post Office, Bridgeport, Conn.

BoRN: April 23, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1940.

Marrigep: Barbara Griggs, Aug. 7, 1943, New York, N.Y. cHr~pren: Richard
Norman, April 28, 1946; James Brazier, July 11, 1949; Justin Griggs, May
13, 1953.

occupation: Special agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Department
of Justice.

MemMaer oF: Gamma Eta Gamma (legal).

[ 882 ]

¥

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN addition to the years spent at Harvard and Boston Universes
Law School, I also attended the FBI Academy in 1948. and the US
Marine Corps Aviation Ground Officers School in 1944 — the latter
two schools being at Quantico, Virginia. T was adnutted te the
Massachusetts bar in 19ggo0 and the New York bar in rg 4s.

From 1944 to 1946, I served as an adjutant in US Marine Corps
squadrons and aircraft groups. After World \WWar II, 1 continucd
in the US Marine Corps inactive reserve until May, 193%. when |
was transferred to the retired reserve with the rank of major. Ps-
cept for the above period in the Marines, 1 have been cmploved as
a special agent of the FBI, since March 3, 1941.

In the course of my assignments in both the FBI and the Marines
I have traveled extensively and worked just as hard in twelve states
from Connecticut to California and Montana to Texas, in tempera-
tures varying from forty degrees below zero at Cut Bank, Montana,
to 116 degrees above in Newport, Arkansas. The Marines saw te
it that I had a tour of the Pacific islands. While stationed on Obs.
nawa, my commanding officer was kind enough to let me go to
Japan for a short visit, provided I returned on the plane that took
me there. I say a short visit, because the plane flew back to Ohinaws
after a two hour stopover in Japan. The C.O. said he needed ime?
I also visited Los Angeles for about a week following Dec. 7, tug.
but recall little of that city as my bricf non-working hours were
spent sleeping.

Service in the FBI speaks for itself. Too many books have been
writtén on the subject to require any statement by me here. In

some of them I have been able to point out to my children cases an
which I have had a small or a large part. It has been hard, evac tang
work, but always interesting and rewarding.

One fall night in 1942, w ‘hile assigned to the New York otice. |
joined a group at a party and found that the brother of Hiv bee se
friend was there, with a girl named Barbara Grigus, Ebadi my test
date with her two days later, and we were married the follows: ’
August. Barbara attended Wilson Colle ge in Chambersbury, Penn
sylvania, and Barnard College in New York City. vraduating with
an A.B. degree in 1941. She majored in psychology, whis he prerety.
ably explains why we have gotten along so well toyerher,

After ten years in New Y ork City, Twas transferre hte Connecn
cut in 1956, and we have since lived in Long EGIL, Trumtbatl, Cec
necticut. The requirements of my posiqon have linired tiny oats fe
activities to some extent. However, PE was the chaininan of €i%:

[ 883 ]

oe ba

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Pack 68 during the years my middle son was a Cub Scout, and
at present am active in YMCA Indian guides with my seven-year-
old son. My wife is president of the PTA in our local elementary
school and secretary of the Trumbull Little League.

My three sons give every evidence of being bigger and better
than their father. My oldest son, Rick, who is fifteen, is 5711” (?'m
still 5’7). He is a freshman at Trumbull High School; made the
honor roll; quarterback on the freshman football team; regular
starter on the junior varsity basketball team. He has been a catcher
in Little League and the Babe Ruth League, and expects to go out
for the Trumbull High baseball team in the spring. Jimmy, my
eleven-year-old, has been a pitcher and played shortstop and third
base for the past two years in the Little League. He is a good swim-
mer and diver, and was on the YMCA swimming team last year.
Justin, my seven-year-old, is a good swimmer, but is too young to
say he has much else but promise.

We all enjoy living high in the hills above Bridgeport, in our
white, sunny, New England home which we share with a dog,
three cats, three goldfish and numerous friends who are always

dropping in.

DOUGLAS TILLMAN McCLAY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 40 Rector St., Newark, N.J.

[ 884 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS TRAQUAIR McCLURE

 

HOME AppREss: 1107 Dryden St., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: Agricultural Research Service, US, Depe. of Agrwuleure,
Room 4130, South Bldg., Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Aug. 30, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Manual Arts High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B. 1936; S.M. (Rutgers Vaw, nit,
pup. (Univ. of California), 1949.

MaRRIED: Ruth Gilman, March 30, 1936, Pittsburgh, Pa. (died Jan. 2s, tag.
Mary Brown, May, 1956. CHILDREN: Anne, May 8 1947, Fhiaabeth, Aug a,
1949-

HARVARD BROTHER: Malcolm Traquair McClure, ’51.

OccUPATION: Phytopathologist — plant physiologist.

MEMBER OF: American Phytopathological Society, Botanical Sownty of
America; American Association for the Advancement of Svrence, Sa ety
of the Sigma Xi.

pusLications: Principal scientific papers only: “Mode of Infection of the
Sweet Potato Wilt Fusarium,” 1942, “Anatomical Aspects of the # usanun
Wilt of Sweet Potatoes,” 1942, “Rhizopus Decay of Sweet Potatoes a
Affected by Chilling, Recuring and Hydrowarming Aftce Seeage” torn
Phytopathology; “Chlorogenic Acid Accumulation and Wound Healing
in Sweet Potato Roots,” 1960, American Journal of Reosamy,

THE arithmetic looks right: 61—36=26, but it doesn't feel myhe
It has only been a few — well, several vears, with detours ard in:
terruptions — detours to wrest a pair of degrees and the hist of
war. My interests have centered about the phy Mology and anatomy
of disease resistance in plants. It has always scemed to me that a
more thorough knowledge of the chemistry and phy wes eof heew
plants respond to and resist discase should be invaluable in eur
search for new means of controlling disease. The natural prin cows
of resistance could be augmented to an effective level an supple:
mented by compatible measures. I have succeeded in publiatury 4

[ B85 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

few preliminary papers on this subject, despite protests by adminis-
trators to the effect that “these data do not support our existing
recommendations” and “the use of statistics proves this experiment
was not well planned.”

Administrators generally are reluctant to sponsor projects that
lie in the no-man’s-land between disciplines or threaten reappraisal
of well-accepted tenets. Both newness and change should be char-
acteristic of science, yet they are feared because of their uncertainty.
Although to err is human, to be caught in error is humiliating and
fatal. Hence, conformity is the unwritten rule in the feudal politics
of most of our educational institutions, industries and other bureauc-
racies, The definition of a scientific fact as one which is valid only so
long as contrary evidence is lacking is interpreted as meaning “don’t
look for contrary evidence.” But truth will out, if not in this coun-
try, then elsewhere and we, as a nation, become followers instead
of leaders in scientific endeavors. To lead is to hazard, and built
into that word is the idea of seeking change, not just accepting it
in “agonizing reappraisal.”

In a scientific career, advancement usually means leaving the
laboratory. 1 have left the laboratory, and like others who have
made this change, I find I still have research ideas and wistfully
hope some day to test them in the laboratory. The policy of re-
warding research men fiscally by removing them from their labora-
tories deprives the country of the efforts of its best scientists and
abandons its laboratories to the uninspired, aids our enemies, and
pleases none but those who have run out of ideas, The claim that
the better scientists are freed to direct the efforts of less experienced
scientists, conveniently overlooks the contradiction inherent in the
idea of directing scientists much as one would direct a gang of un-
skilled laborers. Policies affecting scientists should be formulated by
those cognizant of how scientists work and how new scientific
ideas originate. Scientists do not fit a platoon system, but are more
like guerilla snipers; their ideas result from their interests and their
curiosity, not from orders given by an administrator. The echelon
system defeats its purpose in this field, and I suspect in others as well.

In my present position I evaluate the data from experiments done
by others, Some of the reports are clearly written, but a surprising
number are vague — failing to name the chemical tested, rates of
application, time of application, size of test, effects produced or sta-
tistical analysis. Such reports are not due to a lack of writing abil-
ity, but instead reflect poor training in organizing pertinent data

[ 886 ]

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and often sloppiness in the conduct of the experiment. Exuberane
claims and lack of facts are the hallmarks of the charlatan, as anv-
one who has read Madison Avenue copy can attest. That the au-
thors are often professors is a sad commentary on the quality of
the research and teaching staffs in some of our colleges. This is
probably a reflection of poor administration more than “of low sala.
ries. A scientist is not necessarily a wise administrator, any more
than an administrator is necessarily an effective scicnust. It ts
strange that although few biologists would profess thereby ta be
expert physicists, many act as though administrative ability is in-
digenous to all scientists. Of course science is not a group of sulb-
jects but is a method applicable to most, including many normully
called the humanities. The application of the scienufic method to
the administration of research is not only possible but desirable.
A renaissance in the administration of science is long overduc. Ap-
praisals of new ideas should be based on their probable enrichment
value to the pool of knowledge, not on economic justification or
flattery to existing shibboleths.

The need for economic justification restricts science to its apph-
cation. This nation is noted for its ability to apply scientific find-
ings made elsewhere. To lead in science we must promote the pro-
duction of the raw materials of science, the concepts obtainable
only through basic research. As breakthroughs in basic research
are apt to be found in the no-man’s-land between delineated tics

of science, let us hope this aspect of nonconformity will be cn-
couraged in the near future.

- JOHN JOSEPH GERALD McCUE

 

HOME appress: 20 N. Hancock Sr, Lexington 73, Mass,

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

orice appress: M.I'T. Lincoln Laboratory, Lexington 73, Mass,
Born: Dec. 25, 1913, South Orange, N.J.
PREPARED AT: West Orange High School, West Orange, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; PH.D. (Cornell
Univ.), 1942.

marrieD: Miriam E. Crowley, Dec. 19, 1949, Boston, Mass. cxrLp: Brian, Aug.
18, 1954.
occupation: Research in physics.

MEMBER: American Physical Society; Royal Astronomical Society of Canada;
Institute of Radio Engineers, American Association of Physics Teachers;
Sigma Xi; Alpine Club of Canada, Lexington Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Research papers in Physical Review and other scientific journals;
Radar Beacons, Radiation Laboratory Series, New York: McGraw-Hill
Book Company, 1947 (contributing author and member of editorial staff);
The World of Atoms, New York: The Ronald Press Company, 1956 (sec-

ond edition in preparation).
WHEN we entered Harvard, it was my intention to get a Ph.D. in
physics and then to do research on the physics of communication
systems. That is what I am doing—so far, so good. Satisfaction
with the present, happy situation is reduced by the conviction that
I could be of greater value in college teaching, a field for which I
developed, and still have, a strong interest.

At the time of Pearl Harbor, I was finishing my Ph.D. thesis for
Cornell and was teaching at Hamilton College. The war brought
me to M.I.T., to take part in the development of radar. When that
was over, the men’s colleges were nearly empty; a postwar draft of
nineteen-year-olds was expected to keep them empty, and presidents
were not hiring, so | took an associate professorship at Smith. ‘The
undergraduates were excellent students and the physics program for
them was a mess. However, it became clear to me, too slowly, that
what the senior members of the department really cared about was
its appearance, as seen from afar. After one year, it was decided
that my research was not making my colleagues famous fast enough,
and that my three-year appointment would not be renewed.

A prime consideration was salvaging the research that I had
started. I, therefore, returned to M_L.T. to the laboratory for nuclear
science. The Smith interlude provided several insights. One was the
recognition that for unmarried women in the professions, the age of
compulsory retirement should not exceed thirty. Another was the
discovery that as a relatively senior member of the faculty of a top-
ranking college, 1 was being paid less than my milkman; though not
avaricious, I have never sought another faculty appointment. There
were, of course, the fringe benefits. After a careful scrutiny of the

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

two thousand girls, I persuaded the most attractive of ther te
marry me. Which is probably what T went there for in the fest
lace, you will say — possibly so.

At M.ILT., I brought to a conclusion the experiment: started an
Northampton, published a number of papers on a related phase of
nuclear physics, and also finished a book that IT had drafted: whive
at Smith. It was the first introductory college text on atone «renee
as a whole, giving equal attention to the physical and cheng al as.
spects of the subject. It is a succes destime and alvo a uieces de
mazuma,

By 1951, the explosion of a nuclear bomb by the Rusuans bad
made air defense an urgent problem, and MIT. was asked to see up
a laboratory to advise on the establishment of a defense wostem. |
was invited to join the staff of the new undertaking called Tincelds
Laboratory. The new work put me back in the radar business,
much of my time was spent on devising signal-processing sy steres
that are hard for an enemy plane to confuse by radiating energy of
its own. When the immediate problems were ‘solved, it seemed bhe
a good idea to try to learn something about the wavs that essentials
the same problem is handled by bats, which have been coping with
it very successfully for some thousands of centuries. For the pet
two years, therefore, ] have been working in collaboranen with
Donald Griffin, ’38, of the Department of Biology, at Blarvar dd, wher
is noted for his work on echolocation by bats. Phy sical ins cst ation
of natural sensory systems is one of the focal points of current re.
search in communications, and I am delighted ta be in on the
ground floor.

Apart from work and family, my fun has come mostly fre
sports and general reading. A prewar introduction to mountaineer:
ing has been followed by a succession of climbing vacations in the
mountains of western Canada. These have been interrupted be
cause for the past two summers I have LIVEN a Course ay stern:
physics at the Harvard Summer School, but if the yrese eure
leaves me with any energy at all, Pam going west nevt sumoee to
shinny up a few easy ones. At home, Tam a dedicated pected ‘|
have had a great deal of pleasure from the collecting of thew
graceful furniture in which the Shakers manifested there ns mh, " ‘
collection is now one of the good ones. In pohtral oark | a4
an old-fashioned liberal, i.e. a middle-of-the-road reacties. De
wildered by academic friends who clamor to plaee there dhatese ea
the hands of the politicians,

[ 88y }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Though there have been anxieties about public affairs and dis-
appointments in private ones, the past twenty-five years — like the
four that preceded them — appear, in the large, as a coherent and
satisfying pattern of struggle and reward. If 1 could write my own

ticket for the future, it would be to keep doing what I am doing,
where I am doing it.

ALEXANDER STERLING MacDONALD, JR.

 

HOME appress: go Neptune St., Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 Abbott St. Beverly, Mass.

Born: July 15, 1915, Winchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936, MD. (Cornell Univ.), 1941.

Marriep: Mary B, Wright, April 12, 1947, Cambridge, Mass. cxtoren: Alex-
ander Sterling, 3d, May 8, 1950, Margaret Ames, June 14, 1951, Susan
Lesley, Sept. 8, 1952; Gene Hunnewell, Sept. 18, 1953.

occupation: Medicine, pediatrician,

orsices HELD: Instructor, Harvard Medical School; member, pediatric staff,
Boston Children’s Hospital, Boston Lying-In Hospital, Massachusetts Gen-
eral Hospital, North Shore Babies Hospital, Beverly Hospital; school
physician, Brookwood School, Manchester, Mass.; physician-in-charge, -

Well Child Clinic, Beverly Health Center; commander, USMCR (active
reserve).

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics, New England Pediatric Society;
Massachusetts Medical Society.

INASMUCH as I have reported faithfully every five years, let any

interested reader refer to the previous reports for the facts. The

last five years have brought no great change to the home front.

As threatened then, the retreat in the north, which was then in the

planning stage, is now a reality. A regular escape to the eastern
slopes region of New Hampshire provides great satisfaction and

[ 890 ]

et

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fun for all, the year round. We are still dodging periodhe hurry
canes in Beverly, as well as the sheriff and the bank. The four
children are still in elementary school, so the big push hes ahead.
The practice of pediatrics continues, most satisfying and worth.
while, twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. The rest of
the time is devoted to the things the rest of you pursuc, such as
United Fund drives, etc. My wife is still living with me, in spite of
(or perhaps due to) the fact that I am almost never at home. Mont
of our family life takes place in New Hampshire where we ski,
swim, sail, fish and loaf, and where the telephone is in the ccllar.
Travel is confined to medical meetings and New Frgland shung
expeditions. We still hope to broaden these horizons some time
when the appliances are all in working order. (As I am apt to be
late about most things, this, too, will probably be much later.)

At such a time as this, it does seem appropriate to try to took
ahead as well as back. It would appear that the job to be done on
this planet has preoccupied most of us for the last quarter-century,
There would seem to be much to accomplish before tackling the
problems of outer space. I should guess, however, that we shall
not be allowed to proceed at a leisurely pace. I believe that we have
the facilities to achieve our goals and, God willing, we shall con-
tinue. There is much to be thankful for, and less to regret (in par-
ticular, such great institutions as Harvard, which must combat the
rising tide of mediocrity). My personal efforts support the behef
that the youth of the country deserves the greatest attention of the
future planners.

BERNARD COTTER McDONALD

  

b.. sie ei MB. rasan sessed

HOME ADDRESS: 1980 Commonwealth Ave. Brighton 35, Mavs.

[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFicE ADpRESS: M. L. McDonald Co., 71 Arlington St., Watertown, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 5, 1910, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MarrieD: Eleanor Mary Daley, Aug. 28, 1943, Brighton, Mass.

occupation: Painting contracting; estimator and field supervisor.

MEMBER OF: National Boxing Association; Gridiron Club of Boston.

FAMILY is one wife and one canary, Travel to Maine occasionally
when the boss loses his head and writes me out a fat check. Hobbies
are things that occur to me between 5:30 and 6 A.M. On most given
mornings.

During the now-not-so-recent unpleasantness, three years were
equally divided between the Aleutians and the sovereign state of
California. Arriving in California just in time for the dedication of
my statue — this was occasioned by the redoubtable manner in which
the defense of a lumber yard in Dutch Harbor was credited to me —
they started me on riboflavin and other mononitrates, and prosperity
has been my reward. Something did eventuate from all this. In the
lumber yard my assignment was to pick up sticks. When they felt
proper re-vitalization had set in they assigned me a new and glorious
task to perpetuate my already illustrious military career. Pick up
sticks in a lumber yard. In my record is included the following,
“Stick picker-upper — 4.0.” The great satisfaction is that this task
was performed with a delicacy and a sense of security that would
acknowledge no superiors.

Follow my meaning? Harvard.

DAVID MACDONALD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4125 Great Oak Rd., Rockville, Md.
OFFICE ADpRESS: 8485 Fenton 5t., Silver Spring, Md.

[ 892 ]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: June 2, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; LU.B. 1Qty.

marriep: Mary Louise Woodard, July 11, 1937, Indianapolis, Ind. cateesy
Sandra Louise, Oct. 5, 1941; Marianne, May 6, 1944; David, Jr. June ot, bing

occupaTIoNn: Attorney at law, private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant chief counsel, Joint Committee of Hfouse and Senate an
Labor-Management Relations, 1947-48, county attorney, Vbontyeanery
County, Md., 1949-54; president, Montgomery Hills Jr. High School PL y,
1955-56; member, Silver Spring Board of Trade, since toast. chairman
Montgomery County Chapter of the National Foundation, tg¢% 40, ,

MEMBER OF: Manor Country Club.
PUBLICATIONS: “Codification of Laws and Ordinances of Montgomery County.”

NIMLO Municipal Law Review, 195 }3-
SOME years ago a friend of mine told me that he had read an arty le
that the average man in the U.S.A. had a house in the suburby three
children, a dog and a car. Since I fitted that description, | was the
typical “average man.” I think, at least I hope, that he was over.
simplifying.

I practise law in Montgomery County, Maryland, a suburb of
Washington, D.C. Although close to the nation’s capital, with oes
emphasis on national and international affairs, my practice is Ewen.
tially a small-town practice. Montgomery County ts suburbia. My
practice is general, consisting of matters such as real estate, yoning,
wills and estates, contracts, negligence cases, corporations partner:
ships, taxes, and now and then a criminal case.

The old wheeze about the Harvard Law graduate is that he ts
taught to handle intricate corporate problems, bur he deesa't have
the foggiest notion how to replevy a horse. Well — Thad to tearn
how to replevy — not a horse, but scrap aluminum.

Upon graduation from Harvard Law School, I practived inn New
York City with a high-powered Wall Street law firm ~~ evecticnet
training — until 1947 when I came to Washington to become aval
ant chief counsel to the Taft-Hartley “watchdog” committee. Thos
was a joint committee of the House and Senate established by the
Taft-Hartley Act. My stint with the committee was unde roe
8oth Republican Congress. Then came the ayy’ cleenen, we
Dewey’s defeat and the Republican loss of control of bork hous +

Well, when we (the committee staff) went to work the meni
after election, our keys wouldn't fit the office doer, The looks t if
been changed. The senior Democrat member of the carmmurte’ hat
lost no time in taking over the chairmanship. ‘That yresr fost

of labor locked us out!

[ 893 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Shortly thereafter, ] was named county attorney for Montgomery
County, which had just adopted a new, reform, charter form of
government. This was fascinating work for a couple of years, but
after we worked out most of the problems, it plateaued into a job.
In 1954, I set up private practice in Silver Spring and have been
minding the store at this location ever since.

Gratuitous legal advice: (1) Most persons talk their way into
jail. If arrested, give only name, rank, and serial number, unless
you are innocent and appear innocent, in which case you won't be
arrested. (2) ‘Possession is nine points of the law.” The familiar
proverb, dating from the 17th century, is still very, very true. (3)
There’s a vast difference between having a case and proving it.
What actually happened is not as important as what can be sub-
stantiated by proof.

By far the luckiest and wisest decision I ever made was marrying
the girl who is my wife. I think that happy families have an anchor,
a mainstay, a solid rock; in ours it’s the spouse. She is truly wonder-
ful. We have three healthy children and the oldest is at that stage
where we began, 1.e., in college.

Two years ago we moved out to the fringe of suburbia and built
a new home at Manor Club which is our pride and joy. Being next
to the golf course, I got the bug back after a long lay-off initiated
by an attack of polio, in 1950. Although I use canes, I can’t say
that polio has affected my getting around too much, except that it
ruined my golf score.

Two years ago I ran for public office, as a Republican, here in
Montgomery County, where the registration is 3 to 2 in favor of
the “other” party. I made an excellent showing. I lost by “only”
10,000 votes. (Some on the ticket lost by 12,000.)

[ 894 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK HARVARD McDONEELL.

    

os » .
HOME ADDRESS: 110 St. John’s Drive, Camp Hill, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 12, Harrisburg, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1912, Melrose, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.
MarrieD: Marie Burnham, Feb. 3, 1939, Ashmont, Mass.
occuPATION: Sales engineer, representative in Central Pennwihana f. 4}

Houghton & Company.
MEMBER OF: York (Pa.) Chapter, American Socicty for Metals, Woese Sire

Country Club, Camp Hill, Pa.

WORKED for Norfolk Paint & Varnish Company, Quincey, Masa.
chusetts, from 1936 to 1940. Plaved hockey for Boston Olympus
on off-hours. Joined E. F. Houghton & Company, Philadelphia. ys
1940, and moved to Ansonia, Connecticut. Entered the U.S. Man

time Service early in 1943, spent almost three vears in the Pacite
Theatre of War. Discharged Xmas, 1945. as sccond otheer. Duper
enced usual “close calls”; returned home in one piece, but a tut
greyer! Rejoined E. F. Houghton & Company, January, 1g44, and
went to work in Central Pennsylvania. Enjoy this part of the Goud

try for living and working. Golf and keeping up the lawn ant
gardens around the house keep me out of mischicf. Stall very hoy»
pily married.

[ 895 ]

$$ L_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RALPH KEET McELHANY

 

HOME AppREsS: 813 N. Lea, Roswell, N. Mex.

oFFice appress: Hinkle Bldg., Roswell, N. Mex.

BorN: March 29, 1913, Springfield, Mo.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-193}.

MaraieD: Virginia Hervey. cuitpren: Andrew, 1940; Katy, 1944.
OccUPATION: Insurance, associate, Robert V. Ely, Insurance.

SON Andrew, aged twenty, is a sophomore at the University of
Missouri. Daughter Katy, aged sixteen, is a senior in high school.

JOSEPH HUGH MACEY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2775 Yellow Creek Rd., Akron 13, Ohio.

[ 896 ]

___—|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘+k ALEXANDER BLOOMFIELD McFADDEN

  

BorN: March 10, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: George McFadden, Jscphine
Mcllvaine.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MarRIED: Mary Josephine Cutting, Jan. 1, 1938, Westbury, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Mary, Oct. 1, 1938; George, Jan. 1, 1941, John.
piep: Feb. 14, 1948, Aspen, Colo.

ALEXANDER BLOOMFIELD McFADDEN was a partner in the
firm of George H. McFadden Brothers of Memphis, Tennessce, one
of the largest cotton firms in the United States, with whom he had
been associated since leaving college. During the war he sceved as
a captain in the U.S. Army in Burma. While skiing in Colorade,

McFadden was killed by a snow avalanche. He was survived by has
wife and children.

PAUL EUGENE McGEORGE

    

HOME apprEss: 510 Park Rd., Ambridge, Pa.
OFFICE appREss: 501 Maplewood Ave., Ambridge, Pa.

[ 897 ]

ee Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Born: May 3, 1915, Ambridge, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Catholic Boys High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1936 (37); M.v. (Univ. of Pittsburgh),
194l.

marrifp: Margaret McLaughlin, 1943, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN: Susan, 1945;
Constance, 1946; James, 1949; Francis, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Raymond McGeorge, °41.

occuPATION: Physician and surgeon, .

orFices HELD: President, 1958, chairman executive committee, 1960, staff of
Sewickley Valley Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Harvard, Yale, Princeton Club of
Western Pennsylvania, Sports Car Club of America.

FOLLOWING graduation from medical school, I interned at
Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh, then spent five years there in sur-
gery. I've been on the staff at Sewickley Valley Hospital since,
and I'm afraid [’ve let medicine consume most of my time.

I married Margaret McLaughlin, the sister of a medical school
classmate, in 1943. We have two lovely daughters in high school
and two nice sons in grade school.

Since 1954, I’ve taken time to race Jags under S.C.C.A. and, in
1959, had a wonderful trip to Europe with the Grand Prix d’Endu-
rance Des 24 Heures Du Mans as the excuse. Horses have been an
interest since | was a kid. Our first colt that we raced injured a
tendon, but a three-year-old that we've raced this year has been a
success and we're looking forward to next year when he should
prove a top-flight and seasoned campaigner. The recent elections
have been a disappointment, but Peg and I feel that America and
medicine can probably survive the trauma.

LOUGHLIN FRANCIS McHUGH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 406 Lexington Drive, Silver Spring, Md.

| 898 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orrice apprEss: U.S. Dept. of Commerce, Washington, D.C.

BORN: July 6, 1915, County Sligo, Ireland.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude. toys, ssh tea:

MARRIED: Barbara Whitman, Feb. 18, 1939, Exeter, N-EE. cumpar~: Panis
Francis, Jr., Aug. 8, 1940; B. Elaine, Oct. 11, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Francis McHugh, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Government economist, chief, National Feoneoniues Dis wen

Office of Business Economics.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles in: Survey of Current Business (othicial US. Commer e

Dept. monthly publication); contributor, Studics m= Brusttess barns
National Bureau of Economic Research.

BASICALLY, there is little change since I came to federal service
in 1943 from teaching at Harvard. I am now in the proces of
leaving federal service, to go into a position with a private rescareh
organization.

All the family are well, and either growing up or older, TP hase
a son whom I thought I had primed for Harvard, but he’s noe there.
He had other ideas! But perhaps my daughter will choose (and be
chosen by) the next best school — on the other side of the Square,

BRUCE TORREY MaclL VEEN

 
 

:
=
x
.
§
&
&.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3010 Crescent Cirele, Huntsville, Ala.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Redstone Arsenal, Ala.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936, DEGREE: S.B, 1036,

MARRIED: Dorothy De Paul, March, 1943, Reno, Nev. cnarners
rey, Nov. 27, 1945; Robert Bruce, Feb. 25, 14>, Chrastepice Noe

March 4, 1957.

Joris tos

[ 8y9 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

occupation: Budget administrator, Army Research and Development Center

(Army Ordnance Missile Command).

MY life has been good, on the whole, since graduation (and before,
for that matter). Not successful by the standards of Main Street —
but good. I have been blessed with the best in parents, wives, chil-
dren and surroundings. I have eaten and drunk to the fullest — and
lived in complete ease and comfort. I have done rewarding work. I
have all my hair. | have grown fat. I am pleased.

Upon leaving Cambridge in 1936, I went, of course, to work, |
spent four years in banking and four more as a credit manager with
a manufacturer of building materials, all in New York City. I then
went into the woodworking business on my own, in Vermont. |]
failed. Miserably. This brings us up to about 1947, at which time
I went back to being a credit manager for another manufacturer in
New York City. Well, it’s a living.

My biggest difficulty through this entire period was that I could
never really bring myself to care whether the stockholders ever got
another dividend. I was not interested in profits. It will come as no
surprise to anyone, therefore, to find that large-scale enterprise did
not consider me an ideal employee. I tried, really I did, but I saw
that I couldn’t make it. My tendency to grant large amounts of
credit to the people who really needed it weighed against me —
because, of course, they very often could not pay as agreed, and
sometimes never did.

Turning over a large group of delinquent accounts receivable to
my successor, I left the manufacturing and the credit businesses
forever — and went to Thule, Greenland, as an administrative officer
for the Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army. This was a very consider-
able change in almost every way, for me, and a most satisfactory one.
I was associated with what was then (1952) the classified project
“Blue Jay” — which is located about 90 miles south of the true
North Pole. Since then, of course, the role of Thule in our far-
flung radar defense network has been publicized. The project was a
marvel of achievement in many ways, when completed, and was an
immensely rewarding experience for me.

I went south and west in 1953, to Anchorage, Alaska — still with

the Corps of Engineers. I remained in the Territory of Alaska as
the first comptroller for the Alaska Engineeer District, until 1957.
Alaska was rough, tough, formative and a man’s country. My three
boys and I had a wonderful time — though my wife found the life
a little confining.

[ 900 ]

Sy rede ETT

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A yearning for milder winters and sunshine, and the face that guy
wife threatened to leave me if we didn't make a chanye, bro.
us, in 1958, to Huntsville, Alabama. I am still with the Department
of the Army, but with the Ordnance Corps this tne. We are
settled now on a marvelous mountain-top in Huntsville, We have
built a home that has a fifty-mile view from the back porch -~ and
which is large enough to cause me to speculate a little wistfully on
the desirability of the return of slavery. OV Massa could sure use
some help.

In between lawn-mowings and magnolia tree plantings Pam the
budget administrator for the Army Ordnance Missile Command at
Redstone Arsenal. Redstone is the missile research and devclopment
center for the Army and is a fine progressive place to be,

I am getting a little old, I think, and my wind is a good deal shorter
than it once was. It would be nice to say that I shall stay put and
retire in comfort here in the deep south — raimng juleps — banjos
plunkin’ in the background. I would like to. This is a fast-moving
business to be in, though, and change is the order of the dav, so |
don’t know what the future will bring, or when it will come,

One thing I can say —it keeps a guy from getting too scutfy,
Y’all come see us. Hear?

DONALD WILLIAMS MchKEE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 225 Hancock St., Everett gy, Mase

[ gor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN THOMAS McLOUGHLIN

 

HOME AbprEss: R.R. 3, Moffett Lane, Evansville, Ind.

orrice Appress: Mead Johnson Laboratories, Evansville, Ind.

BORN: July 12, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT; Stuyvesant High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., Magna cum laude, 1936.

Marat; Harriette Cox Hollis, July 6, 1946, Memphis, Tenn. cHitpren: John
Thomas, Jr, May 4, 1948; Hollis Samuel, July 4, 1950; Harriette Hollis,
May 13, 1954; Peter Cox, Feb. 26, 1957.

OCCUPATION: President, Mead Johnson Laboratories (pharmaceutical, nutritional,
infant formula and vitamin products).

orFicrs HELD: Director and first vice-president, Princeton Y.M.C.A.; trustee,
Princeton United Fund; vestryman, Trinity Church, Princeton, N.J.;
member, board of directors, Buffalo Trace Council, Boy Scouts of
America. ,

SINCE 1936 my business preoccupation has been with the field of
marketing, primarily the marketing of both proprietary and ethical
drug products. All in all, it has been an eventful, interesting and
challenging experience. It is a business which is never static, but
alwavs changing and on the move. It has required considerable
travel and moving about. And over the years it has involved work-
ing with a great many fine, talented and stimulating people whose
friendship has meant a great deal.

My present position is that of president of Mead Johnson Labora-
tories, one of the two autonomous domestic operating units of Mead
Johnson & Company. Mead Johnson Laboratories is responsible for
the planning and marketing of ethically promoted products. Before
assuming my present assignment, I was involved among other things
with the planning and market introduction of Metrecal Dietary for
Weight Control, and with its sale and promotion for the first nine
months.

[ go2 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My previous assignments in the drug business involved the se
and promotion of such varied items as surgical dressings at Jobin
& Johnson; deodorants and depilatories at Carter Products, arid
shampoos and dentrifices at Procter & Gamble. Before jouer
Mead Johnson & Company, I had an excursion out of the drug fel
when for two years I was marketing vice-president for a fountain
pen company. Prior to all this, in my first three years out of college
I was in the actuarial and group insurance departments of an m-
surance company when, almost by chance and most happily for me.
I was offered an apprentice marketing job.

There have been a lot of trains and planes in my Ife. At enc
time it was as a traveling salesman covering roughly one-fourth of
the country in an area ranging from Duluth to Burte, and fren
Dubuque to Grand Junction. Always there have been fichd trips
throughout the United States; on occasions, market studios 4
Canada, England and Mexico, and more sales meetings and conven.
tions than I care to remember. [ still find traveling samulinny and
refreshing, and I thoroughly enjoy the contacts it offers with new
people and with varied points of view.

On one of my trips I had the good fortune to mect a beautiful
redhead from Memphis on a tennis court in Florida. Shortly there-
after we were married, and life has been more wonderful and more
meaningful ever since.

We have four fine youngsters, each very different from the other,
who separately and collectively keep us on our toes and. in fact.
gasping to keep up with them. Johnny, aged twelve, is an ardent
Boy Scout and thinks he wants to be either a surgeon or an en.
gineer. Hollis, aged ten, is our competitor and sports fan, andl he
seems determined to be a clergvman (hopes to make binhop, he
says). Harriette, aged six, alone of our children has her mother's
red hair, and fares well to emulate her in many other desirable wave
Peter, aged three, is our human dynamo. .

For the past two years we have lived in Evansville, Indiana. Wee
feel very much at home here because of our extremely hospat alte
and considerate friends and neighbors. During the previous cloven
years we lived in Princeton, New Jersey, where | acquired a very
considerable respect for our sister university and for ats grades,
Farlier, we had brief stop-overs in Larchmont. New York, and iy
Cincinnati, Ohio.

As the years go by, my fecling for Harvard grows ever iheres

I respect Harvard for what it is and what it stands for, and ay

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ticularly because it refuses either to stand still or to become confused
in an ever-changing society and world. I feel deeply grateful to
Harvard, as well I should. Throughout my four years there I was
fortunate enough to be a scholarship recipient. Harvard gave me
much and has served to enrich every facet of my life.

One of my happy experiences was the opportunity seven years
ago to renew contact with Harvard and to gain new insight into the
University. The occasion was my attendance at the Business School
as a member of the 25th Advanced Management Program. It was a
thrilling experience eighteen years after college to return to see the
University in operation, and to sense the dedication and high pur-
pose that continue to guide it.

DONALD FREDFRICK MacMANN

 

HOME Aporess: 298 Main Se. Franklin, Mass.

orFick apparss: Wayland Lab, Raytheon Co., Wayland, Mass.

Born: March 2, 1910, New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

marriep: Marion E. Fuller, July 22, 1939, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN: Michael
Donald, April 23, 1944; Jeffrey Fuller, Aug. 5, 1946.

occupaTIoN: Electronics; contract administrator of spares on Hawk Missile
Program,

AFTER brief positions in a shoe factory (six months), a soap fac-
tory (three years) and an auditing firm (two years), I joined the
Raytheon Company in 1942 and have been with them ever since.
During the war I was their cost accountant for radar equipment
and subsequently have held positions as staff assistant to the manager
of the Government Marketing Division, administrative assistant to

[ 904 ]

SOREL

canes iaeien deletes oaademaateeem RTE eenaae aaeaenae eel

TT

ee |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the plant manager at our Bristol, Tennessee, plant and now as a

contract administrator.
I am now residing happily in Franklin, Massachusetts, with my

fine wife and two boys. My hobbies are woodworking, refinishing
furniture and playing at chess and bridge. Summers we spend our
vacation in New Brunswick, Canada.

PHILIP McMORROW

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 15154 S. Carson Ave., Tulsa 19, Okla.

JAMES CORRY McNAMARA, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 2525 Hillcrest Rd., Dallas, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 5221 Locksley Ave., Dallas 9, Texas.
BORN: Feb, 26, 1916, Dallas, Texas.

>REPARED AT: North Dallas High School, Dallas, Texas.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1936(37).

[ 905 ]

_——_—_—— L_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MARRIED. CHILDREN: Patrick Daniel; Timothy O'Brien; James Corry, 3d; Nancy
Shannon.
occupation: Physician and surgeon.

SINCE 1936, when we were cut off from the wine of college years,
and booted out to earn the skim-milk of the world, I have tried to
find my way back to the good life. This was my path. . . .

Medical school was said to be a grind and, believe me, it was. In-
ternship, however, is worse, so that a job generously offered by
Uncle Sam in 1942 looked to be a breeze. I became a first lieutenant
in the Paratroops, Medical Division. I also learned how the Troops
could promise M.D. volunteers that walking would not be necessary
— running was the mode of travel! After running several times
the distance between the U.S. and Europe, I was sent there on an
army transport ship, Several years later, I enjoyed a return voyage
—the same courteous service, but a different M.D.

A natural desire to learn what women and children looked like
as patients sent me to Chicago in 1946. I studied and practised and
froze there for five years. I no longer discuss those years.

Back to Dallas in 1951, forever, I hope. A new practice is always
casy to start, so three years later, I broke even. In 1952 I married
and after Patrick Daniel, Timothy O'Brien, James Corry, 3d, and
Nancy Shannon, I am trying to break even there, too. Somehow,
I have also ended up as president of Smith-Berry Electric Company
and a director of Bauer Aluminum Company. I play golf (about
as well as I soldiered).

From crew cut to crew cuts in twenty-five years.

JAMES CURPHY McNAUGHTON

op pen RR PETE OR IE omen

   
 

wep aia han adh caadinlssn acta

 

HOME appRESS: 3428 Binkley Ave., Dallas 5, Texas.

[ 906 ] i

_____

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: McNaughton Insurance Counselors, 34:4 Binkley Ase. Dee

Texas.
BORN: Feb. 28, 1913, Racine, Wis.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Flint, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).
MARRIED: Lillian Young, Wellesley ’37, Oct. 21, 1937, Carlsbad, NoMlew cate

James Curphy, Jr., July 15, 1946.
OCCUPATION: Owner, McNaughton Insurance Counselors, fire, autonmetals,

casualty insurance.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant Scoutmaster, 1958, 1959, Scoutmaster, tofe-4i, Bees

Scouts of America.
MEMBER OF: A.F. & A.M.; Blue Goose.

I FOLLOWED my girl, Lillian, from Wellesley College to Dallas.
Texas, and started to learn the oil business, literally, from the greund
up, by being a “roughneck” in New Mexico, Several months after
our marriage I joined the Texas Inspection Bureau, as a fire preven-
tion engineer. When the war became “official” in tggt, Ewas specu
agent for the National of Hartford Group Insurance compantes
Although too young to be accepted as a fire prevention engincer,
I was just the right age for my draft board and in late aggs Was
tapped for membership in the Army. College chemistry placed me
as lieutenant with Chemical Warfare Service, but 1 got a front row
seat in the South Pacific as forward observer with a 4.2 Mortor
Battalion. In the Philippines I earned a Purple Heart and a top
home via the hospital route. By the war's end I was a member of
the faculty of the Army Information and Education School, at
Washington and Lee University, in Virgima. Later, Powas on the
faculty of the first peacetime Army Information School, at Carliste
Barracks, Pennsylvania. My job was to teach others so that thes
could teach, in turn, what we had learned the hard wav in World
War II, and in retrospect, it seems too many have forgotten Chose
lessons.

In the summer of 1946, I returned to the fire insurance business
traveling Virginia for a group of companies, and later came back
to Texas doing the same work. As our only child grew, wo chido
desire to be home nights with mv wife and our son. New bers
and motels lost their glamour, and no restaurant really oers betes:
cooked food. Two years ago I formed my own tire and qaeniy
insurance agency here in Dallas, and now Pin part ef my fis os
and our community, instead of the man who comes home weeker '
to refill his briefcase and take off again. Pim scoutmaster et toe bee

(my scouts all say so, too) Boy Scout Troop in these purrs asf

[ 907 ]

L_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

with about fifteen years of scouting behind me, I’m looking forward
to at least another fifteen years. I’m teaching the American Way of
life to the young men who will be a part of the future of this coun-
try. Right now they are Boy Scouts, but in them I see tomorrow’s
leaders. We are members of the Episcopal Church, but my Boy
Scout troop is sponsored by the Methodist Church, at the end of
the Southern Methodist University campus, and several of our
strong supporters are on the faculty of the university. I must admit
that the Methodist missionary program is making great gains with
our family.

To Harvard College I say, “Thank you for teaching me how to
think.” Certainly I don’t know all of the answers, but I do know
where to find some of them; and from my knowledge of the past, ]
better understand the present.

+ JOHN McNEILL

 

BORN: July 1, 1914, Haddonfield, N.J. parents: Arthur Yates McNeill, Isabella
Batten.

PREPARED aT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

piep: Oct. 2, 1939, Haddonfield, N.J.

t
\
t

AFTER three years at Harvard with our Class, McNeill was forced
to leave in the fall of 1935 because of illness. In 1936 he entered
the University of Pennsylvania Medical School and had to leave
at the end of his sophomore year because of illness. After a year
spent in Florida and Maine, he had resumed his work at the medical
school when he suffered a severe attack of pneumonia and died
after an illness of only a few hours,

[ 908 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEO JEROME McNULTY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Crest St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

Born: Nov. 14, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRiED: Lucille Barbara Carey, May 31, 1947, Chestnut Pit, Mass cou: pass
Lucille Barbara, July 19, 1948, Lester Randal, April g, 1961, Sasan FE hieabeth,
June 16, 1953; Deborah Lenore, Feb. 24, 1958.

AFTER twenty-four years in the Navy Supply Corps, decided our
four children needed a home of their own — so reared on twenty
and bought them one.

Since the Twentieth Report, made captain in 1956, and went tu
the Naval Supply Center, Norfolk, Virginia, where [served for twa
years as officer-in-charge of the Ships Supply Depot. “This deport
did a hundred-million-dollar business in clectronics and ships parts
— mostly by mail order. Then assisted in the reorganization ot the
Naval Supply Center along functional lines to a centrahzed cou
puter operation. Set up the Material Department and later became
director of the Inventory Control and Fiscal Department. Nerved
last year in sunny Florida as staff supply officer and comprreter
for the Chief of Naval Air Training, the Navy's largest shore based
command. This was a wonderful experience and it was a hard dear
sion to leave early in order to start a new career In private entce-

prise.

[ gog ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HENRY KANE McVICKAR

 

; se i 3
ths
HOME appress: Tuxedo Park, N.Y.
orrice Appress: Fidelity Union Trust Co., 755 Broad St., Newark 1, N.Y.
Born: April 7, 1913, Roslyn, Long Island, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.
UN MARRIED,
Harvarp BROTHERS: Malcolm McVickar, 38, Henry Lansing McVickar, Jr., ’51
occupation: Security analysis, Trust Department, Fidelity Union Trust Com
pany.
orFices HeLp: Trustee, Village of Tuxedo Park (currently).
MEMBER OF: Tuxedo Club.

 

ELMER PAGE MADSEN

 

HOME Appress: 788 Forest Ave., Palo Alto, Calif.

BoRN: June 5, 1914, Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1936; LL.B., 1941.

[ 910 |

aoeeninieneannnae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Martha Florence Armstrong, June 18, 1944, Washington, 10.0. tbe

vorced).

OCCUPATION: Attorney.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and Washington, D.C,

AFTER leaving school I engaged in private law practice in Wash-

ington, D.C. I joined the U.S. Navy shortly after the outbreak of

the war and was, for a while, connected with the Intellivence De-

partment. After a short period, at my own request, I was promoted
to the rank of lieutenant. After termination of the war I was placed
on the retired list. I continued to attend classes given by the Navy
Department. My present status is that of a licutenant commander,
inactive service.

After the close of the war I was employed as an attorney in the
municipal court of Washington, D.C, and sometme later also was
employed as an attorney with the Court of Military Appeals in
Washington, D.C. I was so employed when I fell sick and under-
went surgery on Feb. 14, 1959. I have not yet fully recovered,
and at present am recuperating at the home of mY parents — +88

Forest Avenue, Palo Alto, California.

FRANCIS NICHOLAS MAGLIOZZI

 

HOME ADDRESS: 433 Valley Lane, Falls Church, Va.

OFFICE AppRESS: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

BORN: July 11, 1915, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, mMArurta ct latide, wit, vv

MarRIED: Raymonde Boudy, July 22, 1950, Neuenburg Wurttenberg, Gee
many. CHILDREN: Bernard, Dec, 13, 1ygt (adopted: stepson, PF awrerce,

April 30, 1951.
occuraTIoNn: Foreign service officer, Department of State.

[our]

~ tei t

_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
OFFICES HELD: Founder and first president (of at least two) of the Baseball

Leagues of Brazzaville, ex-French Equatorial Africa.

MEMBER OF: Fourth Armored Division Association; American Foreign Service
Association.

I HAVE spent only the first few and now the last two years of
the quarter-century in the United States. In the beginning, after
a year of study of the humanities in Rome and Paris, there were
three and a half years of teaching in Williamstown (Massachusetts)
High School. For these last two years I have been one of the
myriad locked into the fetid—in the literal sense, please —new
State Department building in Washington.

In between, there has been the fascination of the family of man
on three continents, in the 4th Armored Division of the Army, in
the French Zone of Germany with UNRRA, and fourteen years
in the Foreign Service of the United States. If there are to be
twenty-five years more, I could not wish them to be more satisfy-
ing, unless perhaps they were blessed with more money and children
— preferably together. . .

The early teaching years are a happy memory of the Berkshire
Hills, and as a pleasant link with that past, a former pupil of mine
has grown into a tall and, of course, Harvard-educated colleague
in the State Department. The lasting lessons gleaned from three and
a half years in the Army were not those of the necessary evils of
war. Can those who heard him forget Professor Kirsopp Lake’s
farewell lecture, watered with the tears of his belief that the history
of the Biblical peoples had not revealed any pattern or precedent
for bloodless change in the affairs of men. The Army, rather, offered
a precious course in the wonderful geography of America and its
more wonderful peoples. My UNRRA days brought me my very
Gallic wife and a stepson, now fully adopted. Raymonde and I
were both rehabilitation workers in Germany’s Black Forest. I had
finished my initial assignment in the Foreign Service, in Frankfurt,
when I returned to marry her in the local Rathaus. She has been
in many ways a better representative of the United States than I,
and surely I have never come across a more staunch supporter of the
emancipation of woman. Copenhagen, Baghdad, Brussels and Braz-
zaville followed Frankfurt, in that order, and encompassed pretty
much the traditional gamut of Foreign Service work. Except that
in my career, somehow, I have missed springing a fellow American
from the local jail. I am disinclined to write for my enlightened
classmates an apologia for the Foreign Service and the importance

[ 912 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
of its work. My wife tells me only to be sure to note that pepuls
tions are much alike, despite the color of their skins and pohtws
and there are good people and bad people among them all, but that

the bad ones are always more interesting.
Here at home we have become car-pool suburbanites in. northern

Virginia, and we stream over the Arlington Memorial Bridge daily.
My wife teaches French to a mixed lot of “D.C.” grade-schooler
We own our home for the first time in our lives. We do our bit

in Cub Scouting. We attend masses of ritual dullnesy compared
with the exotic devotions of Brazzaville and Baghdad. Law renee,
born in Copenhagen, is successfully suppressing his Brazzas ile
French in the third grade, and Bernard is completing his final vear
of secondary school in Williston Academy.

One hobby I still pursue and intend to until Tam as old as Casey
Stengel] — baseball. I manage a Little League team. After the hase:
ball league of Brazzaville this is tame but, at least, it’s better baseball.

I reflect with reluctance on this happy hodge-podge of a hfe.
My biennial changes in jobs present new bits of information, un-
suspected facets, differing approaches. I often feel hike the clasie
generalist, who increasingly knows less and less about more and
more. However, one belief grows stronger with the years — that
everything is ever to be redone and little is ever settled among men.
And humbling as it is to realize how little one man can da, its hfe
itself to contribute that particle in the desperate yearning to prose

Professor Lake wrong.

KENNETH FAUST MAGUIRE

r PSO CEES RI SO Pe aM oo me a,
t "

weeny SEITE SEN

  

&
&
SS

x

 

OME ADpRESS: 1423 Beaver Rd. Sewickley, Pa.
FFICE ADDRESS: Radio Station WAMBA, 304 Dus Ave, Ainbentee, Pa

[913]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

porn: Feb. 10, 1915, St. Nicholas, Pa.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: S.B. cu laude, 1936.

makrriep: Phyllis Bowman, May 5, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHitpreN: Kenneth
Bowman, Oct. 15, 1945; Marian Moore, May 17, 1950; Phyllis Bowman,
Sept. 29, 1952.

occupation: Radio broadcasting, corporation secretary, Miners Broadcasting
Service, Inc.

MUCH of our personal histories will no doubt be economic

history. Certainly this has been true for me. My introduction to

the Harvard Class of 1936 came as a sophomore after I first attended

Lehigh University for two years, Lehigh is and was primarily a

college for engineers, | made the change to Harvard and economics

after I found myself so interested in the subject in a Lehigh course

that I couldn’t resist reading ahead of the class assignments.

After our graduation in 1936, I took a job as teacher of economics
and other related subjects in a private business school in my home
town in eastern Pennsylvania and used the opportunity this job
afforded to begin to learn some of the bread-and-butter business
skills, such as accounting, to which the business world seemed to
attach more immediate value than to economics.

After a year and a half as a teacher, I bought a business school
and began what was for me a happy combination of the moral or
spiritual rewards of teaching interested young people and seeing
them grow quickly in occupational competence and the reasonable
financial rewards of being what in economics is called an entrepre-
neur. My work in the business education field continued for about
fifteen years, not counting several years during World War II, when,
having ‘been rejected for military service, ] participated in the man-
agement of an intercity bus company owned by other members of
my family.

A relativ ely small investment in a new radio broadcasting com-
pany in 1945, grew to the point that it became my primary occupa-
tion about five years ago. Our company now has three radio sta-
tions, all in Pennsylvania, Our people work very hard to provide
what we consider to be responsible adult radio programming to the
communities we serve. One aspect of this community service to
which we have devoted a lot of our efforts recently has been the
development of our news and particularly our editorial program-
ming. This news and editorial program development is needed for
two reasons. First, there is a tremendous amount of crime and
corruption in some of the areas we serve. Second, those other local

L914]

$s

_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

news and editorial media, the newspapers, so often lack either
conviction or the courage to speak out against this widespread (le:
to-home crime and corruption. We try to do our best to make cach
of the communities we serve a better place to live and raise a fari'y,
What more than this can be asked of any of us? .

RICHARD MAGUIRE

 

HOME ADpREss: 20 Ridgefield Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE apprESs: Maguire, Roche & Leen, 31 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 9, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B, 1939.

MarriED: Marian Grady, April 6, 1941, Boston, Mass. crumores: James Pub
ward, Nov. 4, 1949; Tara, July 24, 1952; Maeve, Feb. 22, 1963. Ruhard
Leo, May 9, 1954; William Charles, Feb. 19, 1955.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

AS I sit down to review the years since graduation, my tint
thought is how quickly the time has passed. My second thoughe is
that, while in 1936 I thought the then twenty -fiv evear © Lass tieast
be ready to retire, I now feel that in so many ways life and thers
to do have only just started.

My time since graduating from the Law School has been devoted
to practicing law in Boston. This, of course, excludes a fours ca
interruption for military service, forty months of which way spent
in the ETO. After the war, with a friend, I started a law torn
which has now grown to nine members, one of whom is our eliss
mate, Joe Maloney, We have been busy, and mose ipert mie, fave
been involved in a number of interesting matters. Alot tus expen
ence, I trust, has improved our judgment and common sense

[91s ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Meanwhile, at home, my affairs have prospered mightily. Marian
and I are very proud and happy with our five children, who are
very active and usually quite engaging. I try to spend all of my
too little spare time at home. My hobbies, accordingly, lie in this
area: reading, cooking, gardening and fishing with the boys. The
cooking and gardening are recently acquired interests, and I must
confess to a great pride in both fields— insufferable is the word
my friends use.

This year I worked in Senator Kennedy’s campaign and
thoroughly enjoyed the experience. I now plan to separate tem-
porarily from my law firm and work for the new administration.
This will mean moving the family to Washington and, of course,
such decisions always fill one with mixed emotions. I will be glad
to have some small part, however, in the new frontier. So it is with

considerable anticipation that the Maguires look forward to the
years ahead.

EDWARD CHARLES MALEWITZ

 

HOME AppRess; 4814 Braesvalley, Houston 35, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3618 Yoakum Blvd., Houston 6, Texas.

BoRN: Oct. 3, 1914, Lrenton, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Trenton High School, Trenton, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1936; M.D., 1940.

marriep: Melanie Levy, Oct. 12, 1946, Galveston, Texas. cumoren: Ruth,
June 22, 1948; Edward I. Oct. 28, 1949; Anne, April 27, 1953.

occupation: Physician; internal medicine,

oFFices HELD: Instructor, Baylor Medical School, University of Texas Post-
graduate School of Medicine; member of staff, Hermann Hospital, St.
Luke’s Hospital, Houston, ‘Texas.

MEMBER OF: Harris County Medical Society, Meyerland Civic Club (director,
1959-60); Meyerland Club (member board of directors, 1958-59).

[ 916 ]

ae

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WHY did this scared, myopic, astigmatic rabbit from New Jere
migrate to the plains of Texas? The Army sent him, and a bowels

brown-eyed Houstonian named, of course, Melanie Levy, kepe hirn

there.
This was fortunate in many ways. It relieved New Frngland of a

surplus doctor and it gave me a chance to serve friendlv peeple whe
were grateful for whatever I could do for them. [ have been ex-
tremely happy practising medicine in this young, vigerous cone,
munity, the climate, chiggers and school board notwithstanding
One thing I would like to point out: whoever writes the vitriohe,
slanted articles about Houston in Tire magazine is doing his com-
munity a disservice. We may have some biased reactionary people
on our boards and in our societies and legislature. but planned
parenthood is legal, private enterprise encouraged and federal and a
bad name in this part of the country.

Right now I have two electronic interests. We have a tranustor-
ized battery-powered electrocardioscope in the making. This should
be a tremendous help to physicians, who could then look at as well
as listen to all of their patients’ hearts. The other ts an organ, which
makes me happy I struggled all those years with the piano.

One more word about Texas. As I play golf in January PT keep
repeating, “How lucky I am to be here.” Age has partially cor-
rected my myopia, a Texas surgeon cured my astigmatism, and golf

has done wonders for my morale.

JOHN FRANK MALLEY

 

HOME AppREss: 82 Caribe St, Santurce, Puerto Rice,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 152 Tetuin St., San Juan, Puerto Rico.

BORN: March 9, 1915, Boston, Mass.

[9t7 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
WEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1939.
maraien; Sylvia Vega, Feb. 22, 1952, San Juan, Puerto Rico. cHitpren: Patricia,

Dec. 13, 1952; Jean Coogan, Dec. 17, 1953; John Frank, 3d, April 1, 1955.
OCCUPATION: Attorney, private practice.

orrices HELD: President, San Juan Country Club, 1953-55; Director, Junior
Chamber of Commerce, 1955-56, exalted ruler, 1957-58, district deputy
for Puerto Rico, 1959-60, San Juan Lodge of Elks; treasurer, Harvard
Club of Puerto Rico, since 1958, Puerto Rico Lawn Tennis Association,
iyo, secretary, 1959-60, president, 1960-61, San Juan Rotary Club;
secretary-treasurer, Harvard Law School Association of Puerto Rico,
11,60,

MeMBex oF: American and Puerto Rico Bar Associations; Dorado Golf Club;
Fl Morro Golf Club, Caribe Hilcon Swimming and Tennis Club; Navy

League (Puerto Rico Council); Society of Former Special Agents of
the F BI.

AFTER completing law school and a two-year stint in a Boston
law firm, | accepted an appointment as special agent of the F.B.I,
which drastically changed the course of my life. As one of J. Edgar
Hoover's ubiquitous and faceless young men, I explored most of the
United States, served as an undercover agent in Latin America
during the war, chased Russian spies in New York City and
eventually arrived in San Juan in time to have a ringside seat during
the Nationalist uprising of 1950. This phase of my life was marked
by irregular hours, frequent changes of address, occasional danger
and more than a little excitement.

The above ingredients which spiced my life as a bachelor proved
sour for a married man and I resigned from the Bureau in order to
resume the private practice of law. Having acquired a taste for life
in San Juan and mindful of Puerto Rico’s rapidly expanding econ-
omy, L selected San Juan rather than Boston or New York to hang
out my shingle and I have never — or rarely ever — regretted the
decision. Ten years, one wife and three children later, I am as
firmly enmeshed in the business, civic and social life of the island
as | was foot-loose and mobile during the ten years preceding.

There is no lack of Harvard men in Puerto Rico, both indigenous
and imported; we have a Harvard Club (on paper) and a Harvard
Law School Association; Bill Tabler designed the Intercontinental
Hotel in Ponce, Puerto Rico, and is frequently here on business;
Don Baker and Bill Hickey, to mention only a few, have been here

on vacation, but as far as 1 know, I am the only representative of our
Class to establish residence here.

Puerto Rico has had more than its share of publicity, mostly mis-

[918 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

leading, particularly during the past year. By now, evervone bas
read something about its great natural beauty, its political scariny
the migration to New York of its economically underprivileged, l
shall not attempt to clarify or add to the public reports. For me,
life in San Juan offers the congenial social life of a small town in a
thriving metropolis of one-half million without commuting. Do-
mestic servants are possible with only a moderate income. I play
golf twice a week all year round and can take a dip in the ocean
at lunch time if the weather is too warm. My children are growiny
up under the American flag but will speak two languages Huently
(right now, to the consternation of the paternal grandparents, they
speak only Spanish and broken English).

Of course, everything has its price: I pay more taxes and probably
get less for my tax dollar; I miss New England in the fall, driving
an automobile in Puerto Rico is as hazardous as it is exasperatiny,
just once, I would like to complete a telephone call on the first try

But in spite of these and other disadvantages, I recommend Puerto
Rico for business, for a vacation or, as in my own case, for life.

+ EDWARD MALLINCKRODT, HT

 

BORN: June 30, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Edward Mallinckreate. Jr
Elizabeth Baker Elhot.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Elliot Mallinckrodt, ’36 (deceased)
piep: Drowned Dec. 29, 1932, off Nahant, Mass.
EDWARD MALLINCKRODT, III, was in the freshman vcar with

our Class when he met his death by drowning. Ble had aaken Mveny
lessons and obtained a license at the Boston airport. Ele was prletins

:
tee

[919]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

a plane in which Classmate Donald McKay Frost, Jr., was a pas-
senger when it crashed into Massachusetts Bay and both lost their
lives. Mallinckrodt was survived by his parents.

+ HENRY ELLIOT MALLINCKRODT

 

BORN: Jan. 15, 1916, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Edward Mallinckrodt, Jr., ’oo,
Elizabeth Baker Elliot.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(38).
MarriED: Grace Jay Adams (divorced); Sally Slocum.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Mallinckrodt, 3d, °36 (deceased).
piED: July 20, 1945, New York, N.Y, ona

HENRY ELLIOT MALLINCKRODT interrupted his years at
college because of expeditions he made as official photographer with
a Harvard medical group to the Belgian Congo and to Greenland.
After graduation he took up the study of psychology for a short
time and then enrolled in Parks Air College at East St. Louis,
Illinois. Upon completion of this course he engaged as a private
flight instructor on the West Coast. Later he joined the Delta Air-
lines in Atlanta, Georgia, as a pilot and during the war flew for the
company’s military cargo division. Returning to New York, he
worked for many months to develop an air facility in New Jersey.
A short time before the airport was completed, he contracted

pneumonia and died in New York City. He was survived by his
wife.

[ 920 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN JOSEPH MALONEY, jr.

 

HOME apprEss: 6 Lincolnshire Way, Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. Cum Lrude, Igy, baw, ag ty.

MarRieD: Mary Edna Hickey, Oct. 3, 1942, Winchester, Mas, compass Var
tha Josephine, Aug. 21, 1943; John Joseph, yd. Nov. tA tugs. Willan
Hickey, Feb. 7, 1949; Philip Charles, March 35, to¢t.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Maguire, Roche & L.cen.

MEMBER OF: Winchester Country Club; Stonehorse Yache Chab, Plarw a byeree,
Mass.; Boston and Massachusetts Bar Associations.

IT is difficult to condense the activities and expenences of twenty:
five years to a few lines. In true lawyer-like fashion, TE have post.
poned trying to do it until the very last moment, but naw the fast
moment has arrived and I must do the best I can.

After a four-year hitch in the Army, most of it spent in sack
earthly paradises as Fort Bragg, North Carolina, and Camp Chartve,
Arkansas, but some of it spent in some very attractive barns ards a
Germany and Czechoslovakia, I returned to Boston to practive bie
For the past fifteen years I have had a fairly general practic 6
little trial work, a little corporate work, a little contact wit Ce
utilities field, considerable contact with the federal burcaucrm sv. @
connection with a small savings bank, and so forth and p base
enjoyed my work most of the time. For the past seven wears !
have been in partnership with our classmate, Dick Maguire, #8! i‘
is a little bit like riding a whirlwind on a brooms k or tev cfs
hold a tiger by the tail. By that Pmecan it is evening and wore es
conducive to getting bruised or scratched. But once in a aloe te
whirlwind gets you where you wanted to go and meses s Fs

[921 ]

el La

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

tiger has to sleep, so you get a rest. At the time of this writing, we
are in a difficult period of transition with Dick severing his connec-
tion with the firm to take off for the New Frontier. We are very
sorry to see him go, but we feel that the Nation should not be
deprived of his very considerable talents.

Family-wise, the vital statistics above pretty well tell the story.
Here again I have a strong class connection in that J married a sister
of one of our classmates, Bill Hickey. Our home life is a very happy
one I think, and it is fun to watch the children grow. To the extent
that time permits, we try to do some things together as a family — a
little sailing or an occasional ski weekend (skiing for the kids —
mommy and daddy just spending their time enjoying the bracing
winter air and the fancy ski costumes adorning the slopes). It is
with a bit of nostalgia that I realize that these family excursions will
soon be less frequent, for in the fall our daughter Martha will go
away to college.

On the whole, the last quarter of a century has been reasonably
happy and comfortable. I thank the Lord for the blessings He has
bestowed on us and say an occasional prayer that He will continue
to show us His mercy and that it may be quite a few years before
we learn about His justice.

JOHN DAVID MALOY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 30 Berwick Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

[ 922 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARTIN MANGELS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1310 Blue Rd., Coral Gables, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 401 Coral Way, Coral Gables, Fla.

BoRN: Dec. 31, 1912, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica High School, Jamaica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREES: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1gig. st (bar:
vard Univ.), 1938.

MaRRIED: Mary Lou Beekman, June 28, 19y1, Se. Johnsville, N.Y. cnt pass.
Merrilie, Aug. 23, 1942; Barbara, March 22, 1948, Nancy, Nov. g tyst,
Martin, 3d, July 21, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon, private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Medical director, Latin American Division, Pan Amerie an Warkd
Airways, Miami, Fla., since 1950; resident, Medical Seatf, Doctors Hosp t ol,
Coral Gables, Fla.

MEMBER oF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board af
Surgery (diplomate); Coral Gables Country Club; Riviera Country Chit,
Islamorada Fishing Club.

TRANSFERRED from Columbia College (Class of tor) ta Thar-
vard College (Class of 1936). Harvard Medical School, stg) is.
M.D., Harvard. Meanwhile received A.B., Columbia, 1934, in ab-
sentia (very mixed up!). From 1938 to 1942, four-year surgical
residency training, Roosevelt Hospital, New York City, amd Dhaval
County Hospital, Jacksonville, Florida.

From 1942 to January 7, 1946, Anny service — reached majority
— overseas thirty months in CB. Started private practwe of sur:
gery, 1946, Miami-Coral Gables area and stall in sane, now with an
associate. Am also medical director, Latin Amenecan Dr nen,
P.A.A,. since 1950.

Have lovely wife, three daughters, one son, two dk Ky acatande
monkey. Oldest daughter is a freshman at the Univeruty of Meese,
1960. I love my work —and a close sccond in my atfeenen mwas

[923]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

my weekend home at Islamorada in the Florida Keys (pre-“Donna”)
whence we fished and skied and appreciated piscatorial lore. “Donna”
blew house, furnishings, boat and gear away — shall rebuild as soon
as and by the grace of insurance indemnification.

LEON HENRY MANHEIMER

 

HOME apprEss: 5630 Alton Rd., Miami Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1680 Meridian Ave., Miami Beach 39, Fla.

BorN: Sept. 28, 1913, Warsaw, Poland.

PREPARED AT: Springfield Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1936, M.D., 1940,

MaRRIED: Sylvia R. Ross, April 7, 1946, Boston, Mass. cHitprEN: Joan, Jan. 8,
1947; Sandra, Jan, 12, 1950.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Associate attending surgeon, St. Francis Hospital, Miami Beach,
since 1948, attending surgeon, Cardiac Institute of Miami Beach, since
1948, Mt. Sinai Hospital, Miami Beach, since 1949, Jackson Memorial Hos-
pital, Miami, since 1955; assistant clinical professor of surgery, University
of Miami Medical School, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: American, Florida and Southern Medical Associations; South-
eastern Surgical Congress (fellow); American College of Surgeons (fel-
low); American Geriatrics Society (fellow); American Board of Surgery
(diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: “Appendices Epiploicae”,; “Massive Intraperitoneal Hemorrhage
from Appendix Epiploica”, “Phlegmastia Cerulea Dolens”; “Solitary Non-  '
parasitic Cyst of the Liver’, “Development of New Methods for the His-
tochemical Demonstration of Hydrolytic Intracellular Enzymes in a Pro-
gram of Cancer Research.”

AFTER graduation in 1936 came four stimulating and grueling
years at the Medical School on Longwood Avenue. My stay in
Boston afforded the opportunity of retaining my connection with
the New York Times, a most important financial consideration.

[924 ]

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

From the very start, surgery offered more of a challenve thin in
ternal medicine. Incidentally, it still does.

My surgical internship at the Beth Isracl Hospital of Boston, wis
somewhat curtailed by the tragedy of Pearl Harbor. | prompey
enlisted. The Navy would have none of me because of poor eve.
sight; I, therefore, got into khaki. The highlight of my army carcee
proved to be a nineteen-month stretch in Greenland, the last vear of
which I served as executive officer of the iksth Station Penpiral
] finally caught up with the Navy, in June of rggs. At thar ame |
met Sylvia Ross, lieutenant (}.g.) of the Waves, the greatest thing an
my life. I was returned to civilian life and the Beth Israc! Elospur at
in January of 1946; she was discharged from the Navy in February
and we were married on April 7, 1946

Residency training in surgery continued throughout June of
1948, and in September of that year (Joan had arrived on January §,
1947), we moved to Miami Beach, Florida, and hung up our shingle.

The years that followed have been most happy, producave and
satisfying. I must admit I've been enjoving the full ite. Sandra
arrived in January of 1950. Our happy family life has been auy
mented with a gratifying private practice.

Since 1952, I’ve been on the faculty of the University of Mine
Medical School as clinical assistant professor of surgery. This arhio-
tion has been satisfying my yen for academic hte. Approvinatels
one-third of my time is devoted to teaching and research. As I get
older, I envision a reduction in this proportion of service work
This would allow for more leisure time which FE expect to devote to
getting acquainted with my girls and to the cultivanon of hoblacs

[925 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ERICH WATKINSON MARCHAND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 192 Seville Drive, Rochester 17, N.Y.

OFFICE AbDpRESS: Eastman Kodak Research Laboratories, Kodak Park, Rochester
4, N.Y.

Boan: July 7, 1914, Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cU72 laude, 1936; s.M. (Washington
Univ.), 1941; pH.p. (Univ. of Rochester), 1952.

mMarRiep: Mary Campbell, Feb. 7, 1942, St. Charles, Mo. CHILDREN: Carol Grace,
Dec. 17, 1942; Pamela Jean, May 5, 1949.

occUPATION: Scientific research; research associate, mathematical analysis of
diffraction in photographic optical systems.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, American In-
stitute of Physics; Optical Society of America; Sigma Xi, United States
Chess Federation (vice-president, 1957-60); Rochester Chess and Checker
Club (president, 1945-60); YMCA.

pusiications: Co-author, “Image Error Theory for Finite Aperture and
Field,” “Tracing a Normal Congruence through an Optical System.”

QUITE a number of years ago I decided on the title of my memoirs:
“The Autobiography of an Ordinary Man.” Two things, however,
have tended to remove me a little from the common herd.

Firstly, thanks to a generous serving of good education (Exeter,
Harvard and postgraduate studies), I have achieved some recognition
as a mathematician, scientist and teacher. Particularly in this last
department, I have found considerable satisfaction. After leaving a
university teaching position eleven years ago for research in indus-
try, I continued to teach a night-school course in advanced calculus.
More than once letters have come from past students calling me
“the best teacher I ever had.” This type of response seems to make
the great expenditure of time and energy entirely worthwhile.

[ 926 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The other feature of my life which makes it a little ditferent =
my fanatical love of the game of chess. For over thirty years ft
have devoted considerable time to the study and play of thes gaine
For all of these years my chief hobby has been trav cling to compete
in various local, regional and national chess tournaments and alwo
playing in some correspondence tournaments. For over ten vearv tf
have written a column in the national periodical, Chess Life. What
measure of success have I had? Various minor victoerncs along the
line. But in the last two years came three long-coveted successes:
the New York State Championship, the U.S. Amartcur Championship
and the accumulation of enough rating points to gain the ttle of

“Master.”
Now how does one justify the investment of so much of onc’s

life in what many consider an idle pastime? A partial answer might

lic in considering how many other people spend their ume. Witness
such obviously unconstructive activities as plaving or watching
football, baseball, golf and horse-races, or going fishing, swimming
and boating, or producing or watching third-rate television pro»
grams, or designing and merchandising better corsets, cosmetics and
deodorants.

Furthermore, chess is not just an idle pastime. Its roots are decp
in the history of our culture. Its importance can be compared to
that of art and music although admittedly its appeal is restricted to
a narrower portion of society. There is a strong fecling of creation
in producing a beautifully played game of chess.

What is more, chess has something which art and music do net

and that is the competitive aspect. The struggle between twe
minds can be far more fascinating than one berween two bantics as

in wrestling, boxing and other sports.
One further point should be mentioned, the social aspect My

journeys to the chess wars have brought me again and ayain im

contact with the same people. In fact, I find that my bese fren

both at home and around the country are those who share my pie
) ‘P

sion for this game.

[927 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GEORGE HENRY MARLOW

 

HOME ADpRESS: 120 Plymouth Lane, Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Marlow’s, Inc., 867 Main St., Manchester, Conn.

BorN: July 15, 1914, Manchester, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Manchester High School, Manchester, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; LL.B. (Univ. of Connecticut),
1941,

MarrieD: Wilma R. Dubin, Wellesley, °38, Dec. 2, 1945, West Hartford, Conn.
CHILDREN: Bruce Abbey, Dec. 1, 1946, Joan Sara, Aug. 20, 1948.

occuPaTiON: Lawyer; secretary, general manager, department store.

OFFicEs HELD: Chairman, Manchester Retail Division, Manchester Chamber of
Commerce, 1946-53, Manchester Zoning Board of Appeals, 1953-54; finance
officer, Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts of Manchester, 1947-48, since 1958,
corporator, Savings Bank of Manchester, since 1949; vice-president, Temple
Beth Sholom, since i952; trustee, Manchester Memorial Hospital, since
1957; director, Connecticut Retail Merchants Association, since 1957,
Community Child Guidance Clinic, since 1957; member, organizing com-
mittee for United Fund for Manchester.

MEMBER OF; Manchester, Hartford County, Connecticut and American Bar
Associations; American Judicature Society; Harvard Club of Connecticut,

Ellington Ridge Country Club.

IN 1936 the “crystal ball” was not at all clear on the twenty-five
years to 61. It did not point to a wonderful marriage in 1945 and
a wonderful family beginning in 1946. This was and is a new experi-
ence, which has taught me so much in a fine way of life.

Prewar planning occurred as visualized, to the point of becoming
a member of the Connecticut bar two days before learning the ways
of a private in the US, Army. My previous preparation offered
nothing to reinforce my position several months Jater as a tank
platoon leader, assigned to a medium tank battalion in the 32d
Armored Regiment of the Third Armored Division, My command-

[928 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing officer could not accept the individuality of Harvard training.
which he found not only in one but in the only two Harvardites
in the whole division. There was little glamour in the z¢0 davs of
combat earning five battle stars, a Bronze Star medal or the Purple
Heart medal in the European theatre. Strangely enough, in my own
company, I did learn that the higher the I.Q. the lower the combat
casualty rate. To my own interpretation of this I attribute my safe
return to civilian life, in the face of my division’s yooo mortalines

and 8000 wounded in combat.

War, though an understandable crusade, taught me that people
were selfish everywhere but at the fighting front — that most real
heroes did not return alive — that killing a fellow man is a dirty
business in which few Americans really want to excel. Wars are

not necessary evils, they are just evil!
In the postwar period I have found that democracy often cncs

for dictatorship, because of inept leadership and the shadow of
“ward heeler” types of appointments to governmental bodies In
shifting from disfranchisement as an independent voter to a party
call, I rediscovered the selfishness that leads men in the pelineal
arena.

Within our community I have joined with my neighbors in many
charitable efforts. I have seen our hospital doubled in size and
efficiency, having served on as many as five separate committees
of the institution at one time. Nonfeasance of our local develop.
ment and redevelopment commissions has compelled me to privately
lead such efforts. In recent years, though I am a builder at heart,
I have been responsible for the remov al of fifteen buildings from
our local business district, in an effort to preserve consumer trathe
on Main Street.

Having grown up in the family emporium, after the war fT re:
turned to plan and execute a four-times-as-large construction pro-
gram, which has provided for more activity as well as greater
efficiency. My efforts have been justified by the resuley though
the field of distribution seems to be less profitable In fecene years
Competition still cries, “Do it better for less!

As a member of the Connecticut bar T have occasenally been
able to contribute a bit from my Iegal training. Five sears on
the Manchester Zoning Board of Appeals, In some 260 hears and

meetings, meant constant analysis of community prob terns oof
growth and development, coupled with the needy and answer for
individual residents. On the state level some excellent legr tari

[929 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

has developed from my legalistic efforts through the Connecticut
Retail Merchants Association.

In earlier reports I have mentioned the quest for the modern
interpretation of squiredom (pleasant living), I have found that
the search is never-ending, but if examined in the light of my fine
family experience, the hunting is often resolved by our working
together on family projects, on community charitable or civic
enterprises. The only lack here is sufficient time that is needed.
More recently we have adopted golf as a family activity, and
though it is time-consuming, it has provided our family with still
another means of communication — for good health as well. For
the next twenty-five the quest will continue!

ELIAS JOSEPH MARSH

 

HOME AbpREsS: 25 Cooper Rd., North Haven, Conn.

OFFicE ADDRESS: State Dept. of Mental Health, State Office Bldg., Hartford,
Conn.

Born: Feb. 24, 1915, Paterson, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Montclair Academy, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1944.

Maraiep: Harriet Hinchliffe Coverdale, March 16, 1942, New York, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Claire Coverdale, Nov. 4, 1945, Kenneth Lindsay, Oct. 7, 1948.

occupation: Medicine, psychiatry, Connecticut State Department of Public
Health. .

orFices HELD: Chief, Division of Community Services, Connecticut State De-
partment of Mental Health; director, Bureau of Mental Hygiene, 1947-55,
acting commissioner of Mental Health, 1954, 1957-58, State Department of
Health; lecturer in psychiatry and public health, Yale Univ. School of
Medicine, since 1950; president, Connecticut Society for Psychiatry and
Neurology, 1951-52, New Haven Skating Club, 1959-60; member, board

[930 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of directors, American Orthopsychiatric Association, tus 4 Meneal
Health Section Council, American Public Health Associaton, igs @t.
MEMBER OF: New Haven County, Connecticut State and Amerwan Mesa al
Associations; American Psychiatric Association, American Orthopeys ht
atric Association; American Public Health Association, Nanenal tcagce
for Nursing; New Haven Country Club, Yale Faculty Club, New Plaves
Skating Club; High Lane Club.
puBLicaTions: A few scientific publications in various specialty journals
THERE is a very direct, intimate relation between archacology and
psychiatry, and between anthropology and public health. This fact
would never have occurred to me twenty-five vears age, but it ts
very striking to me now, and in retrospect I am impressed bys
steady, almost straight progression from an anthropology major
and hopeful archaeologist to a public health psychiatrist. Luck has
played its part, including a part in my choice of a ficld of concentra-
tion. Anthropology, as it turned out, was a good preparation foor
psychiatry and public health.

Five years in Lebanon and the Near Fast, from 1936 to tyge, and

a return home by way of South Africa and Australia were more un-
planned and invaluable preparations for medical school A classic
case of serendipity brought me to Yale. One dav in September uf
1941, I came to New Haven with the sole purpose of visiaing a lovely
lady who had recently saved me from starvation, and by the follow.
ing day I had been admitted to Yale Medical School, with which f
have been more or less closely associated ever since, My sceund
Alma Mater requires of me no disloy alty to Harvard.

My archaeological background undoubtedly moved me teward
psychiatry. I simply switched from digging up the scerets of man's
past history to digging out the secrets in patients’ historic. But at
was pure chance, once more, that led me to a sub-specialization any
child psychiatry and to the past thirteen vears with the State of
Connecticut.

Working for the state government has a few drawbacks such as
low salaries, and a prohibition against active participation in polis,
but it also has tremendous rewards, chief of which ts the fechne of
public service. Appreciation of the satisfactions of working for att
the people of the state has come slowly. At tina Twas atractty a
child psychiatrist working directly and exclusively woth distirted
children in the traditional face-to-face relation of doe tor and pire ne
Some of the children I treated got betrer, but the more foauw vt
them — child after child responding in the same disturbed wae ns

the same intolerable psycho-social pressures the more aseare |

[931 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

not only cost the state thousands of dollars already but has been
literally and totally sacrificed to those too stingy to help his mother
in the way she needed it when she needed it.

I don't have to look to Africa, to southeast Asia, to eastern Europe,
or even to our own South to find gross human misery. It’s right
here in New England around any corner. My concern with it is
immediate and specific: I know that it gives rise as directly to mental
disorder as unsanitary physical surroundings a century ago gave rise
to the epidemic of infectious diseases of their times. I know that it
took enormous, prolonged efforts, sometimes involving extensive
community reorganization by the pioneers in public health, to eradi-
cate typhoid, cholera, smallpox, tuberculosis, and other great killers
of the past. Those efforts interfered mightily with the “rights” of
many private citizens who fought the public health movement
bitterly, but at least there are far fewer lictle gravestones in ceme-
teries today than there were a hundred years ago, thanks to public
health. Community reorganization on a similar scale to cut down
the toll of mental disorder is just as important as was community
reorganization for public health. It is probably even more difficult,
and the opposition is just about as strong and as ignorant. How true
is Gandhi's statement: “It is the reformer who is anxious for the
reform, and not society.”

What makes it all worth the effort is finding a public official from
time to time who is more interested in the needs of the people of
his city than he is in simply tearing down old buildings and putting
up new stores and hotels. A mayor who will fight the highway
planners in the interest of the common people. Another mayor who
is aware of human values and doesn’t balance his total city budget by
cutting his welfare budget. Or the police captain who came and sat
for six hours quieting, reassuring, helping the junkie who was home
kicking the stuff, cold turkey, and then took the lead in organizing
a service for other addicts. Or all the public health nurses — unsung
heroines in the front line of all public health and public mental
health activity. Sure I’m a reformer, but ’m not a voice alone cry- |
ing in the wilderness.

When things do get tough, the wilderness is wonderful — the
vast, awesome wilderness of the far West, or the friendlier, worn,
old wilderness of the Adirondacks. (My knees don’t always share
my enthusiasm, but my children do.) Right at home, I escape from
reforming with interests that got their start at Harvard — ancient
Greek coins, my last contact with real archaeology, or music. My

[934]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fingers still won’t play Bach, but my children do sometimes con-
descend to play simple duets with me.

JOSEPH WILLIAM MARTIN

 

HOME Appress: 8 Old Town Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paine Furniture Co., 81 Arlington St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 17, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Aidan’s High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.B.A. 1938.

MARRIED: Genevieve M. Doubleday, June 1, 1940, Boston Mass. copars,
Genevieve C., May 26, 1941; Joseph William, Jr. Jan. 26. tog7, Na holas
D., Jan. 9, 1952; Clark A., July 7, 1954.

occuPaTION: Credit manager, Paine Furniture Company.

OFFICES HELD: Bank examiner, State of Massachusetts, 1938-42, heutenane,
USNR, 1942-45; vice-president, Metropolitan Sales Corporanon, Hoston,
1945-49; treasurer, Boston Host Lions Club, 1956-57; chairman, Ceedit
Managers Group, Boston Retail Trade Board, tos7-§8 crevutee com.
mittee, Credit Bureau of Greater Boston, Inc. t9<9-60.

MEMBER OF: Woodland Golf Club; Boston Club; Hlarward Busanew So head
Association; Lake Sunapee Yacht Club; National Retail Credit A ag tater,
National Association of Credit Management.

I FIND it difficult to realize that twenty-five vears have pone by
since June of 1936. However, a glance in the mirror and con:
templation of four children, ranging in age from six to ninctces
years, are enough evidence that the years have rolled by.

After college I went across the river to the Businew School to
become, so I thought, a “captain of industry.” Upon graduation |
became a bank examiner in Alassachuseces, traveling all over the scare,
until early 1942, when it seemed the time was near for me te enter
the Navy. There followed three and a half years in the wrowe

[935 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

when I visited way stations on a destroyer escort, both in the cold
grey Atlantic and the warmer but more turbulent Pacific.

In 1945, unharmed and well traveled, I was released from active
duty and became general manager of the Metropolitan Sales Cor-
poration, a local retail chain operation where I labored for four
years until August, 1949, when I joined the Paine Furniture Com-
pany, one of the oldest and finest furniture establishments in the |
country.

Here, I am not a “captain of industry” but still hoping. To be
sure, I have grown older and possibly a little wiser. Although no
indelible mark has been made on the pages of history, there have
been many happy associations and happy times during these twenty-
five years— a wonderful wife and family have made the years most
pleasant and far more rewarding than they otherwise would have
been. A happy Reunion to all.

Fae see aioaigeoepemne peeraiea rye NY”

RICHARD LINDEN MARTIN

 

HOME Appress: 1780 S.W. Ridgecrest Lane, Oswego, Oregon.

OFFICE apoREss: Richard L. Martin, Inc. 220 Foothills Drive, Oswego, Oregon.

BORN: June 18, 1913, Arlington Heights, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: aB., magna cum laude, 1936.

MarRieD: Mary Martha Streamer, Aug. 14, 1946, Pueblo, Colo. CHILDREN:
Polly, April 4, 1950; Richard Linden, Jr., July 29, 1951; Susan Robertson,
April 5, 1953; Cathryn Streamer, Aug. 7, 1957; John Yorke, May 20, 1959.

occupation: President, Richard L. Martin, Inc, general contractors, commer-
cial and industrial buildings, bridges, utility structures.

orrices HELD: President, Forest Highlands Water District, 1953~60, Uplands

Sewer District, since 1960, director, West Willamette Savin

os : gs & Loan
Association, since 1959.

[936]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Associated General Contractors, Structural Engineers Awox rst,
Portland, Oregon; Rotary International, Oswego, Oregon, Phi Beta Kappa.

AFTER five years with the American Can Company in New York
City and a four-year tour of duty in the Army, as A.1).C. to Major
General Francis B. Willy, Superintendent of the U.S. Mihtaev
Academy, West Point, New York, I went to Oregon to start a buu-
ness of my own. Married in 1946, to a girl who put her shoulder to
the wheel and worked for three years so we could secure that buw-
ness. We succeeded and today find ourselves the possessors of a
vigorous, challenging business. It typifies the American ideal of
free enterprise without subsidy. Its financial rewards are directly
dependent on the amount of attention I choose to give it. Tam
distressed by the forces at work in America which discourage peo-
ple from entering private enterprise.

My life centers about my wife and children, with few outside
interests. We have five healthy offspring. We are supplementing
their education outside the home with dancing, art, music and sw itn-
ming, and in the home, we strive to set single standards. We lead
comfortable lives with very little social life. We are interested in

music, art, astronomy, gardening and travel.

HARRY MARVIN-SMITEL

 

HOME aApprEss: Box 91, Route 1, Vienna, Va.

OFFICE AppRESS: Scientific & Technical Intelligence Center, Navy Depa, Wash.
ington, D.C.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1912, Old Forge, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: $.B., 1934,

MARRIED: Dorothy Roan, Nov. 6, 1943, Bremerton,

July 12, 1947.

Wash. enise Cee ge

[ 937 ]

_ | —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OCCUPATION: Naval officer.
OFFICES HELD: Captain, U.S, Navy.
MEMBER oF: New York Yacht Club.

FOR the first three years after graduation I attended the Graduate
School of Design at Harvard with architecture in view as a career,

In the fall of 1939, I realized that the war in Europe might well get

out of hand and that in time we would find ourselves active partici-
pants, so [ picked up my dormant commission in the Naval Reserve

and volunteered for a year of active duty. Long before that first

year was up I found that my tour in the Navy would be extended

for the duration. The result was that for the next three and a half

years my home was the USS Wichita. In this ship I visited South
America, Iceland, Scotland and too much of the Pacific. In 1943 I
was transferred to Destroyer Fscorts and commanded the Reynolds E
for a year prior to going to the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School at
Annapolis in July, 1945.

I was in Miami at school in the summer of 1943. There I met
Dorothy Roan and not long afterwards we were married in the
Chapel at Bremerton, Washington.

Shortly after my arrival in Annapolis, the war in the Pacific ended
and I had the choice of “getting out” or “staying in.” After consid-
erable thought, I realized that I had enjoyed the past six years, en-
joyed the responsibility and the people with whom I had served. i
As a result I chose the Navy as a career. Following my year of
postgraduate work in Annapolis and a promotion to commander, I
was assigned to the Naval War College at Newport, Rhode Island,
as a student in Strategy and Tactics.

My post World War II duty has been varied and satisfying and
is summarized below.

1947-49 Staff commander, Marianas, Guam.
1949-50 Office of Naval Research, New York.
1950-52 Command USS Ault DD 698, in the Atlantic and

Mediterranean.

1952-54 Officer-in-charge, Navy Special Weapons School,

Norfolk, Virginia. (I had to start this one from scratch.)

1954-56 Command USS Fort Snelling LSD 30. (I put it in
commission in Pascagoula, Mississippi.)
1956-58 Field Command Armed Forces Special Weapons

Project, Sandia Base, Albuquerque, New Mexico, as an inspector

general,

[ 938 J

ae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1958-59 Command of USS Guadalupe AO 332 in Pacitic and
Far East.

1959- Office of the Chief of Naval Operations as coord
nator for Scientific and Technical Intelligence and otheer-in-
charge, Scientific and Technical Intelligence Center.

GEORGE ARNOLD MATTESON, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 151 Mathewson Rd., Barrington, R.1.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1913, Providence, R.I.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; MBA. (Massachuscers bse. af
Technology), 1953.

MARRIED: Rose Grinnell, Aug. 4, 1945, Providence, RJ. compass: Charhes
July 3, 1946; George Arnold, 3d, March 29 1948.

DAVID MAYER

 

1E ADDRESS: 277 Windover Ave, Vienna, Va.

[ 939 ]

ee L_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICE omnes: International Cooperation Administration, Washington 25,
D.C.

BORN: Jan, 4, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; S.M., 1937.

MargieD: Pamela Symington, Sept. 7, 1946, Cambridge, N.Y. cuicpren: Eliza-
beth Lloyd, Dec. 4, 1947; Michael David, Nov. 26, 1950; Ann Syming-
ton, Dec. 14, 1951, Rebecca Lee, March 11, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Myron Leo Mayer, *39.

occupation: Foreign aid; senior staff, research administration and planning.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and research associate, Mass. Inst. of Technology,
1937-39, Princeton University, 1942-44, operations analyst, Army Air
Force, 1944-45; Foreign Aid Program (ECA, MSA, FOA, ICA), 1948-54,
1960-61 (in various capacities in U.S., The Netherlands and points East);
long-range planner, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, 1956-6o.

MEMBER OF: American Association for Advancement of Science; Volunteers
for International Development; Society for International Development;
Harvard Engineering Society; Vienna World Affairs Committee, various
local groups; American Civil Liberties Union.

ONCE I decided to make the effort to report on the backward look
over the past twenty-five years and realized that space and the
patience of others were limited, it became an exercise in brevity. I
am surprised that all these years, places and activities have amounted
simply to being an interpreter. At M.LT., it was interpreting
between architects and engineers; at Princeton, between physicists
and military types; in India and Burma, between Americans, British
and Chinese; in the Marshall Plan, between Americans and Dutch,
and more recently between bureaucrats, businessmen and scientists; :
in AEC, between the make-believe world of Admiral Strauss and :
reality. In one sense Harvard is to be held accountable for my
ability to assume this role, and perhaps even for a part of my
desire to: if I hadn’t had the chance to gorge myself on such a rich
diet of survey courses, I probably wouldn’t have been interested in
doing so. I started these twenty-five years fascinated by the variety
of things people were doing; 1 was bothered that more weren’t at
all interested in their neighbors; and somewhere along the line I
became convinced that there really is an underlying unity. The
more I saw, the more I’ve become involved, and the greater sense
of purpose I am getting. After all, as the mathematician said, “God
only made whole numbers; man has done the rest.” It seems to me
that we are trying very hard, especially in the overspecialized U.S.,
not to be the whole men we were made. And, truncated specimens
that we are, we are losing both the ability and the will to relate to
people outside our culture.

mr ge te

SPAR NRCP PUTS TERE PRET HEAR EE REN HEE =

sar

[ 940 |

a ee ee ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Fortunately, my wife has gone more deeply into the ewential
nature of things — people, and children, especially — and so is con-
siderably less appalled by what is going on than Lam. And she has
been able to communicate some of her certainties to me. I've
received or achieved others in turn, some of which have grown to
unify past and present, some of which have had to be discarded
when their narrowness would have clamped down part of the
horizon. The present lot of certainties I now hold add up, really,
to the sum of these twenty-five years (plus those that went before)
which is just one thing: a sense of purpose, or mission, if you
prefer: to live concern-fully.

P.S. We should be headed out for one of the less developed
countries before too much longer.

EDWARD MEILMAN

 

HOME aAppRESS: 449 East Shore Rd., Great Neck, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Long Island Jewish Hospital, New Hyde Park, N.Y.

BorN: April 6, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1934, OP. mage
cum laude, 1940.

MarrigeD: S, Rhoeda Berman, March 6, 1936, Aver, Mass. conmomrs. Crete,
Dec, 26, 1948; Henry, Nov. 25, 1951.

occupaTion: Chief, Department of Medicine, Long Wand Jewrsh Phe oagrer ad,
full-time hospital work, teaching and research.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant, instructor, associate in medicine, Pfarvand leuk of
School, 1947-53; clinical associate professor of medicine, Seate Univerury
of New York, Downstate Medical Center, since tg¢4, permanerd gan
chairman, Physicians Division, Federation of Jewtsh Philanthropuea wee e
1954; co-chairman, Nassau Physicians Division, United Jewssh Apye ed,
since 1956; president, medical board, Long [sand Jew wh Pagers wane

[ o4t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

1958; member, Scientific Advisory Committee, Nassau Heart Association,

since 1959; member, Sub-Committee on Public Health, Queens Division,
New York Heart Association, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega Alpha; American College of Physi-
cians; American Federation for Clinical Research; American Heart Asso-
ciation; American Rheumatism Association; Harvey Society; New York
Academy of Medicine, New York Academy of Sciences.

pustications: Thirty publications in medical and scientific journals on hyper-

tension, veratrum alkaloids, toxemia of pregnancy, collagen chemistry
and structure.

HAVING spent the last seven years as a full-time hospital physician,
it is pertinent to review how I arrived at this position. The scientific
influence in my life began in the College under Dr. E.. P. Kohler
and Dr. Max Tishler, and was continued at Harvard Medical School
under Dr. Yellapragada Subba Row with whom I worked evenings
and summers during the first three years of medical school. The
clinical direction of my professional life resulted very naturally from
my good fortune in being exposed in succession to Drs. Edward
Bland, Maurice Strauss and Herrman Blumgart at the Medical School.
This orientation toward science and clinical medicine remained with
me through four years in the Army as a flight surgeon. Four years
of service offered me little medicine but I saw a great deal of Europe
and learned much about planes and pilots.

I got married on the same day I was released from the Army and
shortly thereafter returned to the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston
where I completed my residency training and became a member of
their research staff. At Harvard Medical School I taught once
again in clinical pathology, in pharmacology under Dr. Otto Krayer’s
tutelage and in clinical medicine. Life seemed quite good. I had
rewarding teaching duties, I was conducting research in high blood
pressure, seeing a few private patients and starting a family. The
professional and intellectual stimulation of Boston medicine was not
readily given up when I was offered the opportunity to develop my
own department as chief of medicine at the Long Island Jewish
Hospital, then under construction. But in 1953 I made the big transi-
tion to New York and a different life, In the seven years that I have
been here, I have seen the hospital and my own department grow in
reputation and scope. I am now transmitting some of the medical
heritage I acquired in Boston to a new generation of doctors.

My research activities of the past few years have turned toward
the chemistry of connective tissue proteins and we have an active
program in this field. I am on the faculty of the State University

[ 942 ]

 

|
|

fa PARAL

RRO AREA RRA AT MRI

resis peat gt RON

At De A AO RI MOIOIE!| —”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of New York, Downstate Medical Center and am an attending phy s-
cian at Kings County Hospital. In spare time I have been active in
various committees of the Nassau and Queens County Heart Awe
ciations, persistent in fund-raising activities for the Federanon of
Jewish Philanthropies and the United Jewish Appeal, and during the
summer I act as my own gardener, specializing in dahlias.

EDWARD MELCARTH

     

HO ica
HOME ADDRESS: 41 W. 47th St., New York 36, N.Y.
BORN: Jan. 31, 1914, Louisville, Ky.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, London, England.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

MARRIED: Joan Beer (divorced).

OCCUPATION: Artist.

BOY! Was I “avant-garde” in those davs—in Dunster Elouse in
1934. A supremacist painting a la Malevich hung en one walk a
rather Freudian Arp on another, and under me, a Mies van dee Rohe
tubular steel chair! Today, the same kind of chair les rusting on
the junk heaps of Cairo, Illinois, and Rawhide. Malevich has been
given a retrospective exhibition even in the Soviet Unien while
ninety-eight per cent of the lamps in Greenwich Village vrtt she pepe
are based, so to speak, on Arp.

Intimations of this non-objective Gotterdammerung begin to
flicker before me a year or two before the war, when Eo was holed
up in a small town that jutted out in the Adriatic as tf held on the
hand of a saint, called Korcula, I wrote to a colleague in Parr che
I found myself becoming more and more interested an nanural
forms. He replied with acid contempt: “Next thing vou will be
trying to paint fingers and toes.” He wax of coure, myhe bs

[ 943 ]

A lL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

pecially about the “trying.” I found to my dismay that despite all
those vast technological improvements, a certain smile could stil]
fascinate an artist today as much as it did Leonardo; that wind-
tossed hair or sun spot-lighting masonry could be as poetic as it was
in the sixteenth century. And so I have tried for twenty years to
do for Coney Island and seamen, high-top steel workers and “ditty-
bops,” what Veronese did for “Germans and buffoons” and con-
vivial apostles, Unfortunately, I am not of the calibre of Veronese.
Equally unfortunate, the very rich today pour their fortunes into
printed certificates representing phone companies and chain grocer-
ies, rather than into resplendent murals celebrating the glories of
their city, More’s the pity. For it is most unlikely that two million
tourists will come to see the treasures of New York four hundred
years after its commerce and industry have fled to newer and richer
planets. New York will, I fear, not become a Venice.

But I am an optimist. I do expect the race to survive another
four hundred years. I also feel that for figurative painting the pros-
pect is bright. No sane man could wish to see depicted upon the
walls of his space station the same kind of cosmic abstractions that
he is forced to examine on his radar-screen, day after day — if the
word “day” applies in this instance.

And again is it possible that we shall go on being so lacking in
conceit as to permit our planet to be represented for eternity by
objects looking like billiard balls and cigar butts? Surely with no
problem of friction to contend with we shall throw up satellites
shaped like Apollo in his chariot, Aphrodite and Hermes. As long
as mankind remains within its present scale of, roughly, six feet of
height to one hundred and eighty pounds of weight, anthropomor-
phic art will flourish as our emotional measure for size, splendor and
power.

So, dear Classmates, as you will have gathered, I believe that |
am still avant tout — “avant-garde.” I hope that not all my Class-
mates, in the patron class, are complacently peeping from beneath
greying hair at their greying Mondriaans. For I am quite prepared
to undertake a vast canvas covering several acres, upon which will
be immortalized the entire Class of 1936, their wives, children and
grandchildren — life size, of course. If this will not make the “Night
Watch” of Rembrandt and the “Feast of Cana” by Veronese clutch
at their laurels, it might at least make them attach the leaves a little
more firmly.

[ 944 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RE PORT

HERBERT HEATH MELLUS

 

HOME ADDRESS: Route 1, Box 605, Miami, Ariz.
OFFICE ApDpREss: Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co., Inspiration, Artz.

BORN: May 29, 1915, Newton, Mass.
PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., 1936.
MARRIED: Isabelle Alice Smith, June 24, 1948, Rockford, UL catipars: Blieabeth

Ann, July 14, 1950; William Edward, Oct. 18, tost.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Gardner Mellus, °33.
occuPATION: Mining; assistant chief mine engincer, Inspiration Conwllated

Copper Company.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Frgincers, Cobee
Valle Country Club (director, 1959-60); Globe Community Concert Aw
sociation (president, 1958-60); Community Television Project: (direwtne >,
Silverton Rotary Club (1938-40); Sigma Gamma Fpulon, Company 1,

593d EB&SR (western secretary).
PUBLICATIONS: “Carryall Scraper Application to Open Pit Mining st lovpire-

tion,” Mining Engineering, 195}.

OUT here in the deserts and mountains of the Southwest, Elarvard
and its environments seem far away in distance, time and niuagnitude.
The move from Massachusetts to Arizona, necessitated perhaps OCiyey-
nally by my field of employment, has involved a deep chinate
change for me — both in mind and body. From the trahnonshun
of New England to the progressiveness of the Southwese, from the
narrow confines of the city to the broad expanses of the country,
from the evaluation of who you are to what vou do: these have been
the important changes for me in the past twenty-five vears

My introduction to the warmeh and friendliness of the West
came shortly after graduation when [ custled a job ina gold: nuce
high on the western slope of the Rockies in Colurade, PP waated
experience in mining and my chosen educational tichd of peob gy,

[ 945 ]

_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I gained in addition a wealth of information on human nature and
the goodness of mankind. The little town nestled in the valley be-
tween the majestic peaks held out a welcome hand to the stranger,
Initiated here into the satisfaction that comes from engaging in
worthwhile community projects, [ have since found it difficult to
say “no” when asked to help.

When war was declared I was engineer for a copper mine in
Utah, and being single soon enlisted for the duration plus six. Most
of my four years in the service were spent as an engineering officer
with an amphibian engineer outfit in the South Pacific theatre of
operations. My association with that fine group of men has con-
tinued to the present time, as my family and I look forward with
pleasure to the annual reunions of “Company D.”

Arizona with its large deposits of porphyry copper, its magnificent
climate and unlimited scenic beauty attracted me after the war and
since 1946 the Globe-Miami mining district has been my home.
Shortly after joining the company that I am now associated with, it
converted from underground to open pit mining methods. Since
then I have been actively engaged in the engineering and operation
of one of the nation’s larger copper deposits. Arizona supplies 52%
of all the copper produced in the United States, of which Inspira-
tion’s share is 11%.

My marriage in 1948 to a school teacher from Iowa, who came to
this district to teach in a segregated Mexican and Indian school (a
practice that now has been abolished), has been the culmination of
my life. Now, with two children in the grade schools, we have be-
come involved in those activities and affairs that parents somehow
say they will not be a part of, but end up doing anyway.

Politically, 1 have transplanted a little bit of conservative Republi- '
canism to a normally Democratic state. With the vigorous leader-
ship of our junior senator, Barry Goldwater, I have high hopes that
the socialistic trends of the past thirty years can be halted and that
individualism and private enterprise can once more be elevated to
their rightful positions in our country’s tenets.

Materially, my New England background is reflected in the home
that I designed and had built several years ago. While corresponding
on the exterior to the ranch-type of the Southwest, its interior
blends with the colonial furnishings and knickknacks that we have
inherited from our families. Sue and I never grow tired of the view
of the Pinal mountains from our backyard patio, especially coupled
with those intense Arizona sunsets,

[946 |

scomegec MEATY OT TAT AY

RAT STEERS

 

AN Ay

hte MEMO OTE 9

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ninety miles to the north of Miami lies one of the largest stands of
virgin ponderosa pine in the nation. This mountainous areca with
its trout-stocked lakes and streams affords a quick retreat in the
summertime from the desert heat. Fishing with my son (who scene
to be the only boy in Arizona born with a Harvard accent) or yuse
enjoying the relaxation of a picnic along the stream with my fanuly
helps keep me young in heart if not of age.

GEORGE EVERETT MERCER

 

HOME appREss: 490 Worcester St., Wellesley, Mass.

BORN: June 17, 1914, Sharon, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.
MarRIED: Phyllis Anne Straus, Sept. 1, 1954, Quincy, Mass,

HARVARD BROTHER: Douglas Mercer, ’40, LL.B., ‘43.
OccUPATION: Artist; teacher, Art Department, Concord Academy, Cancornd,

Mass.
PusLicaTions: Exhibitions of paintings since 1946, Brookline Society af Vrtesey,
Wellesley Society of Artists; De Cordova Muscum, Lincoln, Pan P00

School, Wellesley.

AFTER college I decided to become an artist. TE studied for four
years, in Chicago and New York City. IT enlisted in the Adiy an
March, 1941, and was discharged as a captain in March, 1444. Mine
of my duty had to do with camouflage — practising at amd teas hing
it. I-went back to painting after the service and was able to work
for four years before running out of savings Since then | have
been teaching art and painting during vacations and summen. Bourg
married to an exceptionally w ondertul person has made a geese ht:

ference in my life. What I can achieve in the future wall be hue

largely to her.
[ 947 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILLOUGHBY MERCER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Staff C i i
uN ommand, Naval Air Station, Atlantic F leet, Norfolk,

+k BERNARD FRANCIS MERRIAM, II

 

BORN: Dec. 23, 1913, Framingham, Mass. parents: Bernard Adolphus Merriam,

’09, Elsie MacDonald.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.
marrieD: Polly Dudley, Sept. 4, 1937, Wellesley, Mass, CHILDREN: Judith, Oct.

23, 1939; Robert Stevens, Nov. 20, 1942; William Dudley, July 18, 1946.
piep: April 16, 1947, Texas City, Texas.
BERNARD FRANCIS MERRIAM, II, was project engineer for
the Monsanto Chemical Company, with whom he had been 4sS0-
ciated since graduation. He spent five years at their plant in
Everett, Massachusetts, and short periods in St. Louis and Dayton
Ohio. Since January, 1941, he had been in Texas City, as designer
of a plant to produce styrene used in the production of artificial

[948 ]

MAILING ADDRESS

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

rubber. He became project engincer as the plant went inte pers
duction. He was killed in the Texas City, Texas erplowon Tie was

survived by his wife and children.

ROBERT NICHOLLS METCALF

 

: 450 Plymouth St, Bridgewater, Mass.

DANIEL WOLFF MFYER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Stonehouse Rd., Scarsdale, NY.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boudin, Cohn & Glickstein, 1974 Beste oy, Sew Pork rg SF

Born: March 31, 191g, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarmdale, NY.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. ODFGREES: AR, mesging game Lede, oy it, we ob ae
lumbia Univ.), 1939

OccuPaTION: Attorney,
MEMBrR oF: Association of the Bar of the City of New Yok

[ 949 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT CLARK MIDDLEBROOK

 

MAILING AppRESS: Town House Apts., Topeka, Kans.

MALCOLM STUART MILLARD

 

appreEss: Pebble Beach, Calif,

sppreEss: Sixth and Dolores Streets, Carmel, Calif.

larch 22, 1914, Highland Park, Ill.

At: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; J.D. (Northwestern Univ.),

Margarce H. Wentworth, Aug. 5, 1937, Berkeley, Calif. (divorced
Ann W, Waldorf, Sept. 20, 1952, San Francisco, Calif. crip: Anne
orth, July 27, 1940.

HER: Everett Lee Millard, ’31.

Lawyer,

: Chairman, Bay School District Board of Trustees, 1952-55, Carmel
Is Advisory Planning Commuttee, 1953-60, Monterey Peninsula
ce on Alcoholism, 1957-59, board of trustces, Montercy Institute of
studies, since 1958; Iecturcr in real estate law, University of

[ 950 |

fgg ine AO Set . tre ee gs,
eA NP we” be 4 Re ane a Re ee 8: .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

California, 1953-55, 1959-60, president, beard of posers Viceeey

Peninsula Wine and Food Socicty, ig¢s-¢4) Ob) Capseak Chat Ute res

Calif., since 1959; president, Monterey Peninsula Ceapmuroty Chea ngs
MEMBER oF; Monterey Peninsula Wine and Ford Sewicey, OX © ayerd Choa
THE simplest characterization of my twenty-five van wre grad
uation would be to say that they have been busw. chailering and
rewarding. Nobody can lay claim to having achicved all brs asec us
life, especially at the twenty-fifth annivenury Maye, witht Gor.
ceding that he had none of any consequence to begin with, We are
lucky if we can take a look now and say: so far, so goed.

I had the good fortune of varied and iIntcreang navy dun a4
year of intelligence in gND, a vear as an armed guard uthece in the
South Atlantic, ending with a trip to Archangel and Marian in
the White Sea just after the last Luftwatfe convey attacks, then ws
months’ duty as legal officer in charge of the Scparanen Center at
Great Lakes, Illinois.

I've had the satisfaction of success — at lease according to my
own lights —in the practice of law, After five Veary pratwe on
Chicago before and after the war, I moved to Cahfornia and started
all over again, once over the tough hurdle of the Cabfornsa bear
exam. It’s as general as a practice can get — vau're supped te be
an authority on everything — and it calls for Hity- ard wvty hes
weeks, but it’s all mine and the rewards are commensurate, as al
sonal satisfaction of useful service and financially, ton.

Pve had the reward of community service in mest of tty eet,
the pride and pleasure in wife, daughter and home, the fun of trys
abroad; winter skiing in the Sicrras, enjovment ef ear meounnin
cabin in the Coast Range overlooking the Pacitic, seni pee the
local Bach Festival; and so on.

Thus [ take a look now and say: so far. se goo Phere a ale aye
more ahead and I'm grateful for what Ive had.

[ost]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HIARVEY WAYNE MILLER

 

mbrooke Ave, Wa iyne, Pa,
Ligh School, Radnor, Pa.
“adelphia, Pa.

7? School Radnor, Pa,

3. DEGREES. A.B, 1936; ED.M. (Temple Univ.), 1947.

‘1, 1936, Plymouth, Mass. cuitpren: Ann, May 31,
2,

elor.
> conumttee, Main Line School Night Asso-
ard of directors, since 19¢5, vice-president,

treasuret, St. Mary's Episcopal Church,

as and Counselors; National Rifle Asso-
Education Assoctation.

farge bank in Philadelphia, not
but that the almost invisible
W other necessities for sur-
1 my wife and I took off
nt School. Looking back,
The Japanese arrived 10

a Harvard man), and
tion camp. I do not
would try to swim

+ for instance, that

id: and that the

ned I joined
rhool, 1 find
MY efforts
are of the

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPOST
s of literature and of life, its essential optimian and gosninen.
valet mers we're in Maine, on an island in Caco Ray, euth tive
ea silly number for a family of four.
ae increasing interest in the real valucs of hfe and the undketant-
of truth has brought about a close assoc ution wah Se. Macy's
ewiscopal Church, where | have served on the vestry since teat, and
oeere Lact as lay reader. In a matenialisuc and often drabs ard con.
fused world, I find the vigor of Christianity and the chatalh's awet-
tion of fundamental truth to be the central realness.
Looking back at my Harvard days, V think lew about the trends
ad fellowship and more about the contact with such words as
a > . .
Kittredge, Lowes, W hitchead and Parker — that was the truce quite:
ment of college. I hope my son will have the same pleasure,

HOWARD PALMER MUATR

 

HOME appness: 502 Lindell Ave. Leominster, Mas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Miller Clothing Cay Ine, yey Marv Sedo Ma
Born: April 19, 1915, Fitchburg, Mas
PRepareD AT: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Was
VEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGRIES: 9 RQ 1Q\A, AER tty.
MaRRiED; Jean Betty Saul, Oct. & tg4s, Varstina, Wasa SM.
and Martin Edward (twins), 19g) Joouday Weed supa
HARVARD proruER: Benjamin Prank Mice, Wy)
occupation: Vice-president am awntant tartan, WY
Inc,
OFFICES FLD: Board member, Vansly Save Meee ye We

Children’s Mid, aggi-gyy chatamea meget

| . of rey
dren's Aid and Vamily Staieey way ah a

committees, board micmbet, Vee Ved ey aye
vice-chairman, Leominster Han Wether

Luin |

Roo,

Secondary Fiducation Survey, Pewierten Wasaga

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: Charles W. Moore Lodge, A.F. & A.M. Fitchburg American

Legion; Bnai Brith; Fitchburg Rotary Club (past member).
EVER since the request came from the Reunion Committee to sit
down and write some sort of autobiography, my mind alternately
draws a blank or jumps into trying to evaluate my claim to fame,
if any. Then so many details and events crowd the picture that it
becomes difficult to write them down in a few short paragraphs,
and I have no intention of boring any of my friends with volumes.
Twenty-five years— what have they been to me; what have they
done for me; what have they done to me?

Above all, the twenty-five years out of college have been a chal-
lenge to me to mold a pattern to enjoy this hectic life we live. The
war temporarily upset most of my ideals and ideas for the future.
At that time, it seemed ridiculous that I had worked for seven years
to obtain two degrees which qualified me for the outstanding posi-
tion as buck private in Uncle Sam’s best. However, with a little
fortitude and more good fortune, J lived through and enjoyed four
years of duty in the southern states, Australia, New Guinea and
the Philippines. So all was not lost for Harvard and me. During
the war years, I made a few important acquisitions such as a wife,
malaria, Command and General Staff School, rank of major, rib-
bons and medals, as well as a swell case of jungle rot.

As many of you no doubt experienced, the ending of the war
brought me back to the state of where-do-I-go-from-here? My dis-
sociation from the law was long enough to make me realize that the
general practice of law did not hold my future. With a family
business opportunity presented to me, I waded into the retail cloth-
ing business. It has been a reasonably happy choice. Also, at times
we wonder why a Harvard education is required to run a retail
specialty operation — and it isn’t. It has made life fuller and more
interesting and vital. In addition, I have kept most active and busy
in community projects and civic affairs,

These latter years have done much for me. We chose the pattern
of suburbia. We have three wonderful adopted children. Our twins,
Sally and Marty, are now nine. They are busy, active, alert fourth-
graders. Our little one, Johnie, is on the road to three and holds
the position of household manager. We are perfectly situated in
rural Leominster with our hobbies, pets, and family. Jean and I
are the busiest pair with never a dull moment and with days never
long enough to satisfy us. These years have done much to me —
in a physical way. In one large respect, I have reversed the usual

[ 954 ]

~~

295TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
with a loss of over two pounds a year and cughe trees Crone ge
1936 waistline. Then | have gone along with the nena bee
five hairs a year to the receding hairline and one wart on the hk im
temple. I have gained interests in gardening, pamitiny. Fokus and
waging the battle of do-it-v ourself. Pam a succesful vraduare af
the coronary occlusion socicty.

The rest is par for the course. As the past twenty Hye Vears have
flown, the future promises to move even faster with the Ghivteen
growing like weeds and the problems and challenges of there pyro th
requiring more effort, time, and encryy. As we yet obdce, Uteatice
more and more that the simplest enjoyments and pleasures of Parity
and social life add up to the joy of living. Plarvard certamly dha

teach me how to enjoy life completely. but it sure has helped gun
siderably to get loads out of it.

*- JOSEPH BOYER MILER

 

BORN: March 9, 1913, Detroit, Mich. pasests: Wilham Arthur ( amr Vt
Ruby Boyer.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Maw
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Arthur Cameron Vbbler, yl. “ga
pieD: April 30, 1937, Phoenix, Ariz.

JOSEPH BOYER MILLER Icft college during our wiphenne se
year, He was killed in an airplane acenicat at Phocnaa, Nrvseane

[oss ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT LEONARD MILLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1200 Forest Ave., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Luke’s Church, 424 Lee St., Evanston, Ill.

BorN: Nov. 19, 1914, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; BLS. (Univ. of Buffalo),
1941; B.D. (Seabury-Western Theological Seminary), 1947.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Priest and director of Sacred Studies, St. Luke’s Episcopal Church.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Diocesan Council, 1953-58, member, 1953-58, chair-
man, 1954-57, Department of Christian Education, member, Standing
Committee, 1956-58, Diocese of Chicago.

IN many ways the twenty-five years have seen for me a return to
the concepts, at least vocational concepts, that I held as an under-
graduate. The first year after graduation was spent in my family’s
business. Then I settled down in Buffalo, New York, my mother’s
original home. After eight years there, three of them spent in a
book store and five as a librarian, the idea of a vocation to the priest-
hood of the Episcopal Church, which I had considered in college,
re-emerged. Having never been west of Ohio, I decided on a mid-
western theological seminary, Seabury-Western, in Evanston, IIli-
nois, to which I was admitted in 1944. It was then my intention to
spend the necessary three years in the midwest, and to return to
New York State. But such was not to be my fate. In fact I have
seldom been in New York State since.

Receiving a B.D., cum laude, in 1947, and being ordained priest
in May of the same year, I was asked to continue at Seabury-
Western as librarian and instructor in homiletics. In 1950, I accepted
a call to become rector of the Church of the Atonement, Chicago,
where I spent eight busy and happy years, becoming more and more

[956 ]

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

involved in the activities of the Diocese of Chicagn, partecularty ey
the area of religious education. |

Perhaps the most exciting event of these years Was a twetnenrh
preaching and teaching mission to the Diocese of North Queendand
in northern Australia at the invitation of the Bishop whee Aimee.
ican commissary I am.

In 1958, L went to San Francisco to be rector of the Churvh of
the Advent. After nearly two years in that morse besutiful of cine.
[ returned to the midwest to take up, again, the cudycls for rehysotus
education as director of Sacred Studies for Se. Luke's Parnh on
Evanston, Illinois, the position | now hold.

Twenty-five years after 1936 finds me grateful for Plank
certainly more now than I was then, enthusasne about a vocatiens
which has brought me into contact with all sorts of people and
which has increasing promise of opportunities to be use ful.

RUTGER BLEECKER MILLER, JR.

 

HOME aAppress: 7o E. g6th Se. New York 2 N.Y.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: First National City Bank of N.Y. ¢¢ Wall Se, New Vork rg,
N.Y.

BORN: July 13, 1914, Nonquitt, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Masa

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1976. DEGREE: Aa, tgit

MarrieD: Marie Celia Dyckman, Dee. 1q 19061, New York, NY

OCCUPATION: Assistant cashier, South Amenean Drarmwt, Over at Dee nennt, Pio
National City Bank of New York,

OFFICES HELD: Sceretary, Uruguayan Amensan Awewrtin, Viewrewaton, Foe
guay, togi-ga; treasurer and director, Babe (bids af the Weald ppt mx

Southern Cross Club, tosh sa, both New Voek City, team veges, € ee
munity Service Secicty, New York, since tgif

{957 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936.

MEMBER OF: American Club, Buenos Aires, Argentina; Harvard Club of New
York; St. Nicholas Society of the City of New York; Ex-Members Asso-
ciation of Squadron “A,” Ninth Assembly District Republican Club, both
New York City,

FOR the first seventeen years after graduation, I lived out of a
suitcase. Having no material possessions, this was easy. After three
years in New York, working in seven different branches of the then
National City Bank of New York, during which time I shared apart-
ments with various classmates and friends, and put in a hitch in the
1o1st Cavalry —'New York National Guard, | left for Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

Following three years in the bank, about half in Argentina and
half in Uruguay, I returned on home leave only to receive greetings
from Uncle Sam, but not until I had had all of my furlough.

Like most of us, I spent a certain amount of time in various places
in the service. Basic training in the Infantry in South Carolina;
advanced training there, also, as a draftee. Then to become a ninety-
day wonder at Fort Sill, Oklahoma; because of a working knowl-
edge of Spanish, to the Air Force. Two years in India and China,
the last five months as aide to the commanding general of the Air
Transport Command in the China-Burma-India theatre, completed
my duty and I resigned as a captain. During this period I saw more
of the United States than I had in all my previous life and, of course,
saw a lot of other parts of the world I had never expected to see.
Shanghai, Canton and Hanoi, I doubt I shall ever see again. During
this stage of my life I was, of course, still living out of a suitcase
(though in the Air Force it was called a B-4 bag, for no apparent
reason).

Returning to the bank, I resumed my work with South American
countries in which we had branches, and in the fall of 1950, I again
returned to Buenos Aires for two years in our main office in that
city. Perdn was at the height of his dictatorship at the time, and in

1951, I witnessed an abortive attempt to overthrow him. It was
unsuccessful, as the cat had been let out of the bag before it ever
happened, but it was a sign that there were many who resented the
yoke which he had placed on the people,

In the summer of 1953, 1 returned to the United States on leave
and met my wife, whom I married in December of that year. Since
then, I have only lived in a suitcase when traveling on periodic trips
to Argentina and Chile, or on vacations in England.

Today, my athletic activities are confined to golf in the summer

[958]

ed |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and an occasional sail, We enjoy life in New York, with its marae,
theatres and many other attractions,

I find my work very interesting, as 1 feel that a berrer under.
standing of our neighbors to the south is esental toa weld on

which we can live constructively, [I hope to be able to continue yy
furthering these ends in my small way.

STANLEY RAND MILLER. JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 385 Heath St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Seaboard & Wrestern Airlines, N.Y. Intcensameal Asepese,
Jamaica 30, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 22, 1913, Winchester, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936, Aé.m4., tot
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan Miller, *42.

occupation: Assistant to vice-president, Seaboard & Ween Aithiees
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER graduation from college I continued my educatienal career
by moving across the Charles to the Business School grashusteny
from there in 1938. There followed a marvelous three monthe of
barnstorming through Furope, and then in the fall | oteok a po
with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company, ceratiod pubhe a coune-

ants in Boston.

With the fall of France in 1ggo, PE became convinwed the C nited
States both should and ultimately would gee into the war, we f
applied for the Navy and was ordered ty offers tranny w heed
in the spring of 1941. Shore duty at the Phaladetphas Nowe Ser
and later in the “Susquchanna Navy" at Pbarenburg trlbiwedk eral

[959 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

from will come the ability to meet the complex problems we face.
I think that that process is already in progress, and am therefore
optimistic as to what our next twenty-five years will bring.

+‘ HUGH MINTURN

 

porN: Dec. 27, 1912, Paris, France. parents: Hugh Minturn, ’o4, Ruth Winsor.
PREPARED aT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

piep: Dec. 28, 1941, New York, N.Y.

HUGH MINTURN spent four years with our Class. While an
undergraduate, he was a member of the Hasty Pudding-Institute
of 1770, D.K.E., and the Porcellian Club. The Secretary has no in-
formation concerning Minturn’s activities since leaving college.

JOHN McCLELLAN MITCHELL

 

HOME appress: 1060 Westover Rd., Stamford, Conn.
oFFice appress: Ebasco Services Inc., 2 Rector St., New York 6, N.Y,

[ 962 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: May 20, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs Cole.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1934. DEGREES: aB. (Columbia Univ t, tags, ave
1942.

mMarRiED: Barbara Jarzebowska, Dec. 2. tagz. New York NW ctisames
Andrew Clair, March 12, 1945; John Olgierd, Dee. staat, Paul Vevetes
June 20, 1948.

OccUPATION: Economic consultant with engineering aml managemene gis
sulting firm.

OFFICES HELD: Active in Boy Scout movement.

MEMBER OF: American Feonomic Association, Amerwan Sesrrem sl Nome cy
tion; Société d'Economie Politique (Parivi, New York Newey
curity Analysts; National Association of Business Ponneesots

PUBLICATIONS: “How the Economist Helps Business, Industry and the bi esene *
Analysts Journal, “Economics in the Service of Bawnew” Josernad vf
Spanish Management Association, “Feasbilty of @ Vacuum bactog nen
Plant for the Port of New Orleans,” Tulane Uaiveruty Pree,

hae k

od Nw

MY life since 1934 has been colored by various educational and foe.
eign experiences. After leaving Harvard J attended both Baty
College, Oxford, and Columbia College, New York. at which bie
institution I completed my undergraduate studies. In Leer veare |
did graduate work at Columbia Univ ersity and at the Univerucy of
Paris (Sorbonne) under a Fulbright scholaship. Duirarge teen siete
mers as an undergraduate I obtained certificates in French from the
University of Geneva, Switzerland, and in Spanish from the Univer
sity of Mexico, Mexico. Altogether I spent ax vears in Burepe as an
undergraduate and graduate student.

After more years than I care to state as a scholar gypsy, Point
that my present occupation of economic consultant with Pbosee
Services draws fully on my checkered career. Probably ne une fe
job in the Jast nine years with this firm gave me more qatiif na thes
than directing a large study for the Suez ‘Canal Company. The os
signment enabled me to return to Furepe with my entire farsi
and visit some of the places which TP had known wo well ae a stucfe ne
Geneva, Paris and London. It was a pleasure te speak Brena ho aa
and warm up my German of the presNasicra, [he shower tris jes
of living, the many man-made beauties of Purope, andi the wre of
history and continuity which is evident tn se much of what re wee
and heard gives life a broader meaning than it would hase wirtsa
such travel, It meant a great deal to me to meet wine] ef the bats
economists, bankers and businessmen both inthe United Sestes acd
Furope while engaged on that job.

Like so many New Yorkers Pomigratedd tu the wiburte afser f#

[ v4 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

war. My wife, three sons and I occupy a compact, modern home
with large thermopane windows in Stamford, Connecticut. Much
to my surprise, my wife and I were unable to find an architect to
build our home, so we designed the house ourselves. My sons are
all in high school now and I hope at least one will try for Harvard.

The lives of a commuter and his mate remain a riddle to my wife
and me. In spite of all our learning and seeming maturity, it still
does not make much sense. Maybe the trouble is that there is not
enough time for leisure pursuits after I return from the office and
have attended to my family chores and after my wife has finished
caring for the home and our children. In the end, my wife and I
wonder why we learned to enjoy literature, drama, music, the fine
arts, science and many other subjects if there is so little time for
them as we grow older. Maybe the trouble is that communications
in all their many forms have reached such a point that intelligent
and sensitive persons are figuratively bombarded with stimuli and
demands for their attention. Life is so busy, so demanding, so hur-
ried and so full of changes from new scientific discoveries that there
is little time or energy left to cultivate the tastes that we developed
as students and which we firmly believed and still believe make life
worth living.

It is impossible to write adequately and briefly about the last
twenty-five or twenty-seven years of my life. I can only comment
on certain impressions. I am indeed puzzled by the passing scene
and feel almost powerless in the swirl of the maelstrom of events in
this country and abroad. But my reading of history tells me that
it was ever thus. The values and virtues that have helped persons
in the past to find their way through the fog of almost innumerable
droplets of facts and events and remain undaunted by the confusing
physical forces of gradual or sudden destruction appear at least as
important today as they have ever been,

[ 964 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VINCENT JAMES MONTE

 

HOME AppRESS: 108 Collingwood Rd. Alexandna, Va.

oFFIcE ADpRESS: U.S. Dept. of State, Washington, 2.C

BoRN: May 12, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mae

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREES: A.B, Cire laude, PQiSi yt, OM, tie

marRRIED: Ruth S. Merson, March 25, 1042, Rochester, N.Y. gouneme ss Carcdve
Elizabeth, Aug. 13. 1946; Suzanne Ruth, July a2. 1044.

occuPaATION: U.S. Department of State — communi strom,

WRITE an account of my life since graduation? Tt toek afew cups
of strong, black coffee, several weeks of postponement, and mere
coffee to get on the right track and on my way. Plave (wenes fee
years really gone by? Am I so soon onc of thine tcturming grate
who, as an undergraduate, I thoughe looked quite eb? ferspeeweatt Ww
I must be lots younger than they were. (More wishful thinks 9
Imbued with a zest for the West. PE took off for Neveene ‘after
graduation and taught French and Spanish at the Evans Sa head ip
Tucson. What a wonderful experience that was Penjpovesd teas here
and also the scenic wonders of Arizona. Aftct a pleasant year there,
T returned to Harvard in July of 1938 in order te bepis alae fee
the A.M. degree. IT took German 1 that summer — what a ree cel
course that was, but even surpriscd myself at the armmwuns of Coenen
I had learned by the end of the course. Thea | epent the gnere cts
ately following academic year studving French and Spun sof
acquired the A.M. degree in June, 1939. Ebook bach pen thot eee
as a very enjoyable, busy one, taking counes under Profs Me
rize, Mercier, Rivera, among other. ‘The summer of eyiy teen
out to be a very interesting, suimulaning wheels: ecpenene fe
» Twas fortunate cnough to recewe a sheliedip en wren the
summer session of the French School of Midtebory Cateve, Vee

[ o45 }

_—____—1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

mont, This was a very rewarding experience and J can recall how
amazed I was at the amount of conversational French I learned in
a few weeks. 1 had planned to go to Europe that summer, but in
light of der Fuehrer’s activities I decided to go to Middlebury in-
stead.

After this summer session of study, I was offered a job teaching
Latin at the Allendale School in Rochester, New York. Me teach
Latin? Well, I did — for two years and enjoyed it. One may recall
that business conditions in 1939 Were not quite so strong as they are
today, and I was glad to count myself among those employed. It
may be of historical interest that my starting salary was $1500 per
annum. That was considered a fair wage in those days. I found
that Rochester had many charming inhabitants, one of whom became
my wife in 1942. She was a nurse in one of the local hospitals when
I met her. Ruthie, as you read this, do you remember how, when I
met you after work and the smell of ether was so strong on you,
I used to kid you that you were “knocking me out”? March 25,
1942, was the big day —a wonderful day, warm and sunny in the
Rochester winter.

In 1941 I went to the Choate School, Wallingford, Connecticut, to
teach Spanish. This pleasant experience came to a quick end as so
many others did that year. As soon as war broke out, I tried to
enlist but was turned down (ear difficulty) by the services, much
to my dismay. During this period, I was offered a job by the U.S.
Department of State as an assistant in their Division of World
Trade Intelligence. Ruth and I came to Washington for “the dura-
tion.” “The duration” turned out to be a long one, for seventeen
years later we find ourselves still here and I’m with the same agency.

Of course, there have been a few changes during this seventeen-
year period. We now have a home, two wonderful kids, a dog and
a rabbit. Other changes—TI find that whereas several years ago
Ruth and I used to do a great deal of reading and seemed to have
quite a bit of time to indulge in our hobbies, lately it seems as though
I barely manage to get through mowing the lawn, fixing bikes,
painting the house inside and out, etc., etc., let alone reading. Are
there others in the same carefree, lackadaisical boat? And so twenty-
five years have slipped by too quickly, but I find that most of them
have been happy, busy ones. The waistline is a shade larger, the
hair grayer, but you won't have any difficulty recognizing me next
June. I'll be that young-looking guy with the wife and two kids!

[ 966 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

DAVID LEWIS MOORE

.
$
le 4

 

HOME ADDRESS: 263 Bella Vista Way, San Francisco 2+, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hastings College of the Law, San Francnen, Calif.

BorN: Oct. 27, 1911, Peking, China.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1929-1932, 1935-1036. DEGREES: A.B. 1016. ELM (Coenegs
Washington Univ.), 1952; A.M. Cibid.), 19¢5; 1a.s. Gbidl, tees.

marrieD: Alice Wardwell, Dec. 27, 1952, Washington, D.C

occuPATION: Law librarian.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association,

ALLAN MORAN

 

HOME appress: 1 Circle Lane, Albany, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Investors Diversiticd Services, ggq Central Ave, Mifene NY
BoRN: March 19, 1913, West Hartford, Cann.

PREPARED aT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

Markirp: Sarah Steele, May yo, 1945, Albany, N.Y. conte Prev, De. bet

[ 947 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

occuPATION: Salesman, mutual funds, wholesale distributor for Nutri Bio, food
supplements.
MEMBER OF: Albany Country Club; 300 Club.

I AWAIT with trepidation the entrance of “Smiling Jack.” The
last time we were told we had a “rendezvous with destiny,” all hell
broke loose. ] may move to Ulan Bator. The only star on my hori-
zon is Barry Goldwater.

Aside from politics, my life remains pleasantly the same, with
its small rewards and small frustrations, mixed with great satisfac-
tions like my wife and daughter.

As I look back on my life I have accomplished what I set out to
do. I never became a cowboy or made that million dollars before
thirty, or wrote that best seller. But I may just do those things —
I may just do them. Ask me about it in 1986.

RICHARD JAMES MORAN, JR.

 

HOME ADpRESS: 125 Jason St., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 251 Massachusetts Ave., Arlington, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1914, Albany, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; Mp. (Tufts Coll.), 1940.

MarRieD: Mary V. Catton, Feb. 7, 1942, Arlington, Mass, cHiLDREN: Richard
John, July 6, 1943; Robert Walter, May 6, 1946; William Bruce, Jan. 30,
1950; John Thomas, April 24, 1953.

OccuPATION: Physician, private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Staff physician, Cambridge City Hospital, Symmes Hospital,
council physician (109), Knights of Columbus.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis; American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical
Society; American Academy of General Practice, American Diabetes Asso-
ciation; Guild of St. Luke,

[ 968 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLicaTions: “Successful Post-Mortem Cacsarean Scone” ps ae Nop y

land Journal of Medicine, “Oral Insulin” Carchendge City bheosom & 4

Journal, November, 1956.

History ANbD Prysicat Bwvstin vies

Chief Complaint — Insomnia.
Present Il]ness — This adult Caucasian male was tn relatively geet
health until June, 1936, when, while drewed apprepnarely aus ak,
he took an A.B. degree in the Hfarvard Vard tots ga tee dante y
About this time, he also received a letter of acceptance froin Lute
College Medical School and a request for a financial depart Irie
ing the next four years he became increasingly restions at tn,
especially before examinations, and was scen to burn the r,t: se
kilowatt consistently. While interning at Cambrilee City Phe petal
from 1940 to 1942, things went from bad to nurse.

In February, 1942, he married Mary V. Carton, the tail willows
blonde who lived next door. In 194: he also joined the dubs
munitions effort (but not in matrimony). In tog: he appied tees
commission in the U.S. Army (on our side) but woer heats pre
vailed and he was sent back to the high exphoives factory,

On July 6, 1943, Richard, Jr., was born, In recular presresoet
during the following years, new babies. all male, joined the menace
Robby, 746, Billy, ’50, J.T., "53. cach contnbuting in his own iene

way to the prevailing trend.
In 1945 he started in the private practice of medhoine in Veli ote,

Massachusetts, as a G.P., meaning general practitioner tree ys owed
paresis). Since that time there has been a progresave nna vs
his sleeplessness.

The police have reported sceing hin driving through the serve ts
of Arlington in the dead of night shining a tasbhyhe en her
“numbers. Hospital corridors have echoed hollow by te bee fectie
at all hours of the night. At times he was found inthe acantent ps
putting teen-agers back together or in the Obstetne Pk partcest
pulling another deduction into the world, Not infrespoentiy bas he
been up late delving into medical tomes and pournals teva st kes,
up with the “scientific explosion.”

Because of the steady decline in his comdinon he alent Bite we 4
medical assistance.

Habits: Smoked all 1953. Doesi’e drink anv rere ior bos!
also Kinsey Report.
Occupation: 1. Does odd jobs for Mes Moran.

2. General practice of medione.

af

2

[ 94 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Phystcal Examination:
Head and Scalp: Grey at the corners, fuzzy on the inside.
Eyes: Large and rheumy. .
Nose: Frequently in other people’s business. Sense of smell is
greatly diminished (due to multiple outrages suffered in the past).
Mouth: Large enough to hold a foot in it.
Neck: Protrudes too often.
Heart: In the right place.
Lungs: Still working.
Abdomen: Well rounded and portly.
Extremities: Falling arches, varicose veins and arteriosclerosis.
Diagnosis:
1. Insomnia caused by Tinnitus Aurium (ringing in the ears).
z. Tinnitus Aurium caused by a trigger-happy telephone.
Treatment:
Dominus vobiscum.

ALBERT HUGH MORGAN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: R.R. 1, Box 76, Rialto, Calif.

[ 970 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD MORGAN, IV

 

HOME ADDRESS: 196 Fern St., West Hlanford 9, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hamilton Standard, Div. of United Atrerafe Cop. Wonhee
Locks, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1915, Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Avice M. Anstey, Jan. 2t, 193 West Hartford, Cann, crm pees
Richard, sth, Aug. 6, 1941; Joan, April 33, toga; Fruly Aswe, Mont rt,
1947.

OCCUPATION: Systems and computer analyst. working with dis mamal prow erharee
and integrated data processing through the use of an TBM sug eranqeere
OFFICES HELD: Cubmaster, Boy Scouts, t9g2-$4; ditret cosmmmaeoer, Wee

Hartford, 1955-57; president, local property owner avewretern tute 4).
director, 1954-61, vice-chairman, t9¢§-§6 United Workl Pederainee od
Greater Hartford, director, 1955-61, president, taae 41. berg Pein
Association of Greater Hartford, president, Looouy Chapter, Arena et

Field Service, 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: Delta Upsilon Fraternity; Loomis Alums Aves seen od Plies.
ford; Harvard Club of Connecticut, Plartford Gailf Cbste, Dbseafeand See
Club (president, 1956-57); Watch Flill Vache Club, Week sgenng Ve
Club (commodore, 1957).

THIS Report deserves far more introspection and arte wu! stereos
than has gone into it. As a justification for all thar has been ee
pended on my behalf by family, friends institunons of bearing ant
commerce, it does not appear to be sufficient. Soll, the effort ne
be made, and may serve to bring into focus theme ehsuve patie nw
and aims which too often are lose sight off in daily beinvey

After graduation from. the College, 1 attcrules! Hors wl fox
School for a year and a half. Te was dunny this tune that foes
Avice, a nurse at the Infirmary. A prowing reslewswee and he
satisfaction with further study Caused) me to fearn, a fae wha hk

[971]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

a gain of ten pounds since 1936, fairly well controlled but distributed
a bit differently, and varying loss of wind, hair and eyesight. A
growing lack of eagerness to volunteer for strenuous activity is also
in conflict with a willingness to acknowledge the change in status.

There is a healthy difference of opinion in the family on all con-
troversial subjects. Religiously, we vary from agnostic to firm
Episcopalian (the word most often misspelled on college freshman
records, according to President Dickey of Dartmouth). Politically,
we are all fairly liberal, and unite in a hope that internationally a
future world state will emerge which will provide a workable com-
promise to the present threats of continued existence.

STANLEY GRAFTON MORTIMER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 149 E. 73d St. New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 370 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: May 12, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MarrieD: Barbara Cushing, 1940 (divorced 1946); Kathleen L. Harriman, Oct.
11, 1947, Arden, N.Y. curtpren: Stanley Grafton, 3d, Oct. 1, 1942; Amanda
J., Jan. 18, 1944; David H., October, 1948, Jay L., September, 1950; Averell
H,, 1956.

HARVARD SON: Stanley Grafton Mortimer, 3d, 64.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Tilford Mortimer, ’39; Richard Mortimer, ’54; John
Jay Mortimer, ’58.

occupation: Aviation consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, USNR; account executive, Advertising
Agencies; advertising director, Pan American World Airways; trustee,
National Art Museum of Sport.

MEMBER oF: Racquet and Tennis Club, Tuxedo Club, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.

[974]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK RUSSELL MOSELEY, JR.

 

HOME ADpRESS: Oyster Bay Road, Jericho, Long Idand, NY.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. t40 Broadway, New York, SY

BORN: July 13, 1913, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mav

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MARRIED: Leslie McGregor Bremer, Feb. 13, 1937. Milton, Slew. (ibivarv esl
1952); Lilias AI. Kent, Nov. 28, t954 Brookville, Pong tent, NY
CHILDREN: Frederick Russell, 3d, Oct. 7, 1937 (mt. Susanne Nowea Mow pa
1959); Christopher Livingston, July 3, tgyo, Leshe McGeregue, Aped ts.
1942 (died July 6, 1956), Danicl Grace, Feb. 22, 19¢4 Cadopecds. aa eem
cHILp: Frederick Russell Moseley, ath, Dee. 34, t9sy

HARVARD SON: Frederick Russell Moseley, 3d, "sg.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Clark Moseley, "44.

occuPaTION: Commercial banking, vice-president.

OFFICES HELD: Former director, Harvard Alumni Asacisten, member, heard
of governors, American Institute of Banking, tars, truene, tyat 4
treasurer, 1953-56, Greenvale School, treasurce and direwte, og Plesend Se
Corporation; member of Commirtce ta Veut Harvard College - WV os
Memorial Committee; member, board of manogery tyat tt. charms
Scholarship Committee, 1949-54. Harvard Club of New York, trues,
president, Beaver Dam Winter Sports Glut, Long bland tet ta. trevere,
Madison Square Garden Club, New York Catv, member, New Viek (ey
Cancer Committee.

MEMBER OF: Meadow Brook Club; Piping Rock Club, Plarvard Chib of Now
York; Huntington Country Club, Mind-Ovecan Club. Bers s

I HAVE lived and worked in New York sinve grahunon, Pfcce,
school and college were in and around Boston and PE owas gta tes
Jeave this area, temporarily T thought, ta start work with J Me
gan & Company. With the exception of three sears in the Neorns
during World War IL, T have been here ever unee. Joti, fier rhe

most part, I have been involved in perenne! work. My employer,
originally a partnership, incorporated in tggo and, as a feast of 6

[975 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

merger in 1959, we are now the Morgan Guaranty Trust Com-
pany of New York.

On the personal side, a major event was my re-marriage in 1954,
which involved five stepchildren. We have an adopted son and, in
addition, we are also grandparents. If children help keep you young,
we are trying.

My outside interests are covered in the statistics above. Harvard

is certainly one of them and my belief in what it stands for was
never stronger.

EDWARD MOTLEY

 

HOME appress: Carr Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADRESS: Boston Management & Research Co,, 111 Devonshire St., Boston,
Mass.

Born: March 22, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS iN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cu? laude, 1936; M.B.A., 1938.

marrieD: Margaret Mason, June 9, 1941, Weston, Mass. curpren: Margaret
Bliss, Feb. 8, 1945, Harriet, Feb. 10, 1947; Susan, March 10, 1951; Edward,
Jr., June 1, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Motley, zd, °38; Herbert Jaques Motley, ’go.

occupation: Security analyst, Boston Management & Research Company; in-
vesrment adviser to Boston Fund, Inc., and Canada General Fund, Ltd.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, since 1954, chairman, Concord Chap-
ter, 1958-60, American Red Cross; member, board of directors, Concord
Community Chest, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club; Ski Club Hochgebirge; Boston Society
of Security Analysts.

AFTER graduation from the Business School, a brief sojourn in the
brokerage business marked my initial attempt to dazzle the financial
world. My progress was rapid and having received a small raise,

[ 976 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

followed by two large cuts in quick succession, TP decided that the
munificent rewards of Uncle Sam's Naval Reserve scenes iment
attractive. A Mr. Roberts-ty pe navy cargo vewc! was ru heated
for most of the next four years, and in tgys. f was returnesd tee tet:
active duty with only a wife and child to support me.

Following a couple of false starts T went to work for Denton
Fund, Inc., in 1951, and have been there ever unce as a wourty
analyst. This entails keeping track of a group of leading toshunt road
companies in the U.S. and Canada, and talking with the men whe
manage them. It is a fascinating job, but Joe. the shog shane bev,
has better hot tips on the market.

How to raise and educate four littl Motlevs is an eeqpualty abe.
sorbing occupation. It has kept Margie and me hopping for vears
and is likely to continue to do so for years more. Tes a gay group,
however, and doesn’t leave much time to dig bomb sheltemy, whah
is yust as well. Hobbies include talking a very good game of tenn
sailing, skiing, etc. It gets tougher and tougher for the olf man eo
demonstrate his superiority over the younger generation amd sell
get to the office without crutches. Monday morning — Oke?

JOHN KNIGHT MOULTON

 

HOME appress: 16 Pine St., Wellesley Hills 81, Maw.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brookline High School, Brookline, Maw

BORN: July 8, 1914, Hartford, Conn,

PREPARED AT: \Wellesicy Pligh School, Wellevicy, Maw

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936, DEGRERS: A.B, 1Q145, BP SE, pogex

MarrieD: Miriam Hoagland, June 24, 1947, Waltham, Vis spas oes
Anne, July 29, 1910; Deborah Riughe, Oct. a regs.

OCCUPATION: ‘Teacher of mathematics.

4 Lircwes

( 977]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics; Phi Delta Kappa,
Tota Chapter; American Educational Research Association.
pusLicaTions: Articles in educational journals.

IT is comforting, after a quarter-century, to return to the confines
of Sanders Theater to listen to the Boston Symphony Orchestra,
You do not feel that you are really any different from those days
when, as an undergraduate, your pretense of ushering people to their
seats let you hear the concert for free. And yet — Koussy is not the
conductor, and the Harvard Glee Club is no longer led by our
esteemed Woody. And you ask yourself: is it possible that twenty-
five years have passed?

For me, they have passed relatively quietly, with no spectacular
successes but a general feeling that they have been well spent. The
crises have been either personal (younger daughter received skull
fracture in bicycle accident, recovered) or minor. Likewise the
achievements, non-spectacular but satisfying. If I could turn back
the clock twenty-nine years and start again, it would certainly be
Harvard. With Harvard’s present admission policy, I wonder how
many of us could make it now?

Most of my professional time has been spent teaching mathematics.
There have been a couple of deviations: statistical work with the
New York State Department of Education and with the Harvard
Graduate School of Education. And for several years the firm of
Nichols & Butterfield, school architects, engaged my services on a
part-time basis. For me, though, the main interest was — and still is
— preparing boys and girls for college in mathematics. These are
interesting times in this field. Two new programs have taken hold:
the Advanced Placement Program and the School Mathematics
Study Group. The former, under the auspices of the College En-
trance Examination Board, provides for a year of calculus for high
school seniors. The latter, led by Yale (pardon me), is doing a
thorough job at revising high school mathematics. I have been busy
enough on both to forget that time is slipping by rapidly.

Our elder daughter graduates from Connecticut College this
June. She has also been engaged in the summer program at Jackson
Memorial Laboratory, Bar Harbor, for the last two summers, being
a zoology major. (Thus does a scientific spark kindled by Profes-
sor George Howard Parker in 1933 finally ignite.) Our younger
daughter is a long way from collegiate life, being Wellesley High,

Class of 1965. Wonder if there will be any room for her and her
classmates in college by that time?

[978 ]

_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Music and the coast of Maine are sall my dominant bettie
and there is sufficient interest and beauty in both to tase a hte.
Our Maine address is Chebeague Island, cight miles due eau of
Portland. Three hurricanes haven't blown us inte the bay. but tees
sure have changed our tree line. These sxe spruces don't roe very cloags

Not like Harvard ideals.

ALBERT JOSEPH MOYLAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 397 Lincoln Ave., Saugus, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1914, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREFS: A.B, crem Lrude, iit, ase oi Dem bog

1950.
UNMARRIED.
occupaTIoN: Librarian at Saugus High School.
OFFICES HELD: President, Saugus Secondary Teachers Gaul eact c@ Seog

High School Alumni Association, tgsy-61.

JULY, 1936, to July, 1937, passed quickly for a second heurinace,
F.A. Reserve, training with the peace-tine Arniy ot pert fea

North Carolina. (When he mentions mancuvers with heew shoot
artillery, the younger generation links this to the fine Wolf Woe,
if not, perhaps reasonably, to the Civil War.) The Gere at Ih)

sion under which we had gone to high school and eall oe quanti eo '
during a four-year experience teac hing i I a preparater y se bem pe:

Philadelphia. ‘At this time started a love atfar with tie peu

which still draws me frequently from Boston te New Vock fee e
latter city, I seem almost more at home thanan rhe foccee a!
certainly can understand better the drawing babies ef New Soe:

[ory]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

than [ can those of Massachusetts drivers, whose disregard of signals,
white lines, and speed limits never ceases to raise my blood pressure.
And that is bad.

From 1941 to 1957, a series of kidney ailments called for eight
operations, and resulted in a permanent increase of blood pressure.
Any continued increase above this level can be disastrous, as in
1960, when my whole summer was lost by an uncomfortable hos-
pitalization at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary.

Having taught English and run a high school library for more
years than I care to be reminded of, I cannot be as tactful as Mr.
Conant, or so outrageously misleading as Dr. Gallup’s educational
poll about the status of our public secondary education. If we
adults are prone to over eat and under exercise, how comparable
are the habits of the young in seating themselves before television or
behind the wheel of a hard-earned or weakly-presented car and
scandalously under-exercising both mentally and physically.

Unlike, perhaps, many of my classmates, I did not feel after the
November elections that we would somehow survive. I believed,
and hope, that the example and leadership of our new President,
strengthened by a good Harvard education, will help us, surely,
to lift ourselves from the lethargy of the past eight years.

A statement, printed in Life back in November, about the author
Lawrence Durrell, may apply, I think, not pretentiously, to me:
“The notion that ‘everything becomes true of everyone’ is so richly
exemplified by ... (him) ... that his whole personality seems
to be built out of interacting cross-purposes.”

RICHARD KENNETH MURDOCH

  

HOME apprEss: 205 University Drive, Athens, Ga,

[ 980 |

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFICE ADDRESS: History Dept., University of Georgia, Athens, Ga.

porN: May 8, 1913, Ancon, Panama, Canal Zone.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; A.M. (Univ. of California at
Los Angeles), 1940; PH.D. (ibid.), 1947.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Associate professor of history, University of Georgia.

OFFICES HELD: Faculty appointments, Carnegie Institute of Technology, tgy--
55s University of North Carolina, 1950-51, 1955-56, University of Georgra,
since 1956; summer positions, University of Denver, 1948, University of
Chattanooga, 1949, 1952, University of North Carolina, 1951, 1954, Uni-
versity of Maryland, 1960; director, University Center in Georgia, since
1959, member, Advisory Council, SECOLA, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association, Florida Historical Society,
Franco-American Alliance, Georgia Historical Society; Hispanic-Ameri-
can Historical Association, Kappa Alpha Alumni Society; Mississippi Val-
ley Historical Association; Newport Historical Society, Southern Eis.
torical Association.

puBLications: “The Genesis of the Genet Schemes,” Freach American Review,
Il, April-June, 1949; The Florida-Georgia Frontier 1793-1796, University
of California Press, 1950; “Mission to the Creek Indians in 1794,” Flonda
Historical Quarterly, XXXIV, January, 1956, “Benedict Ammold and the
Owners of the Charming Nancy,” Pennsylvania Magazine of History and
Biography, LXXXIV, January, 1960; “A Case of Salem Hospitality.”
Essex Institute Historical Collections, XCVI, April, 1960; numerous other
articles in historical publications and news magazines, book reviews and
critical essays.

WHEN asked to describe in detail my activities and accomplish-
ments over the last twenty-five years, what has always secmned to me
to be a full and fruitful quarter-century suddenly appears a bit bar-
ren and uninteresting when taken year by year and scrutinized under
the microscope of life. Belonging to that small group of perverse
nonconformists who remain bachelors and are thus doubly-taved for
this so-called luxury of solo existence, I cannot append a long lint
of family statistics although I am proud to be a godfather several
times over and thus the possessor of a ready-made family.
Graduating in the middle of the depression, it seemed wiser to me
to continue my education in the safety of the university's walls than
to venture forth and join the bread-line. Having studied Amenean
history, I harkened to Horace Greeley and crossed the country to
enroll at the University of California at Los Angelesx, where | bey wn
graduate work in history, Through no effort on my part. was
quietly shunted into the field of Latin American history as the pro-
fessor in that area needed a few more students in his seminar. Phase
never regretted this “choice” as T have found my work fascinatiog

[981 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

and have become an ardent booster of summer vacations in the
Caribbean and Central America.

As with many of our classmates, my quiet life at the university
was rudely shattered by the attack on Pearl Harbor and, shortly
thereafter, I found myself enjoying the dust and heat of West Texas
in one of Uncle Sam’s basic training camps. After going overseas
early in 1943, 1 was privileged during the next three years to play
a minor role in the joint RAF-USAAF Intelligence Headquarters in
the Thames Valley and then to take an active part in the occupation
of Germany until May, 1946. I found my work in the field of aerial
photographic intelligence of such interest that I have continued my
association with the Air Reserve to the present time and still “don the
blue” every Wednesday night.

After completing my doctoral work at UCLA, I entered the
teaching profession at Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pitts-
burgh, where I soon discovered that the engineering student is a
much harder person to deal with than the average liberal arts stu-
dent. After two years as a visitor at the University of North Caro-
lina, I decided to go the whole way and migrate to the Deep South
where magnolias bloom all winter and snow is as nasty a word as it
is in Los Angeles. In order to vary the academic atmosphere, I have
spent summers teaching in Denver, Chapel Hill, Chattanooga, Col-
lege Park and other places,

Being a New Englander at heart as well as by upbringing, I have
always attempted to maintain my ties with that part of the country
even when living far away. When my father died in 19q1, I in-
herited my grandparents’ summer cottage at South Orleans on Cape
Cod, where I had spent every summer during my youth. I still find
it to be an ideal location to relax and I try to get up there. at least
once every summer in order to enjoy the pine-scented air and the
peace and quiet of the front porch. My friends seem to think that
as a bachelor I lead a lonely life and need companionship, so they
often descend on me at the cottage in droves. When the spirit
moves me, I drive up to Cambridge and walk through the Yard and
the Square. I cannot help but marvel at the numerous new buildings
and the great changes that have taken place since our graduation.
I think that I miss the electric cars more than anything else although
I realize that the electric busses are a great advantage in the crowded
confines of the Square.

Living in a small Georgia town there is very little chance to talk
to other Harvard men and I am forced to get most of my Cambridge

[ 982 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

information from the pages of the Alummi Bulletin. In spite of “bry
time” football on this campus, I still get a great chrill in reading alot
the Harvard team as it battles in the Ivy League. I alvo get a thril
every time a student whom I have recommended from here
accepted by one of the Harvard Graduate Schools. In this way.

feel that am repaying in a small way some of the debt that | owe our
Alma Mater.

EVERETT BEACH MURPHY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1720 Santa Cruz Ave., Menlo Park, Calif.
OFFICE appREss: Western Liquid Gas Association, 1355 Market St. San Fran
cisco 3, Calif.
BORN: Sept. 28, 1914, Irvington, N.J.
PREPARED AT: Irvington High School, Irvington, N.J.
-YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934
MARRIED: Sara Frances Carmack, Aug. 14, 1948, San Francisca, Calif. con one.
Marion Louise, April 29, 1952; Edward Carmack, Nov. g, 1943, Sauces
Catherine, March 20, 1957.
occuPATION: Managing director, Western Liquid Gas Association,
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco, American Marketing Awan retnon.
VERY busy these days and loving every minute of it. Ie seems thae
this sums up the story of my life, since becoming a fugitive from
New York, following my return to that city after Work! Ware II
service.

[ 983 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JAMES THOMAS MURPHY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15463 Braile St., Detroit 23, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Business Research Office, Chrysler Corp., P.O. Box 1919, De-
troit 31, Mich.

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1914, Iron Mountain, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Iron Mountain High School, Iron Mountain, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Marian D. Gagnon, May 4, 1940, Nahma, Mich. cuHi_preN: Charles
James, July 3, 1941; Thomas Francis, Feb. 23, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bernard Boyed Murphy, ’28, Francis Dowling Murphy, ’33.

occuPATION: Manager, Economic Analysis Department, Business Research
Office, Chrysler Corporation.

orFicks HELD: District delegate, Republican Party, 1948-49; vice-chairman, Ex-
hibits Committee, American Statistical Association, 1956; committee chair-
man, 1957-58, scoutmaster, 1958-59, Boy Scout Troop 51.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association, Independent Order of Foresters;
Committee, Boy Scout Troop 51 and Explorer Post 51.

PUBLICATIONS: “Occupational Wage Structure, Manufacturing Industries, Grand
Rapids, Michigan,” 1944.

I PRESUME many classmates, like myself, faced extreme difficulty
in 1936 in finding a job of any kind, much less one to match the
prestige gained from attending Harvard. My first job, selling Fuller
brushes in Chicago, proved interesting but financially inadequate.
A try at selling education (a correspondence school course in ac-
counting) proved even less worthwhile. The school, however,
seemed to be very happy to have a “Harvard” man associated with
them.

After several months of unemployment and a brief stint at tending
bar in northern Wisconsin, I obtained my first full-time job with
the Michigan Unemployment Compensation Commission in Detroit
— two years after being graduated from Harvard. The hours were

[ 984 ]

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

long and the salary small, but I was self- supporting and able to score
paying off some of my college loans. Here, also, Tmet the girl whe
was to become my w ife less than two years later.

Promotional opportunities appeared. extremely linuced, so aftce
seven months at the M.U.C.C,, I cagerly accepted a jeb wath the
Federal Social Security Board to help administer the new old aye
benefit program. Here I had my first —and only — capencnee at
radio broadcasting and at giving bricf speeches to civic clubs in
various small Michigan towns. Some sleuthing was involved too -
secking out employers who failed to file the required Social Secunty
Tax returns, and widows who were unaware of their benctic ryhes
under the new laws.

World War II literally forced me into the ficld of ccononnes —~
in which I had majored at Harvard. I was transferred, in carly g44.
to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics to make wage and eccupa-
tional studies for the War Labor Board, under the job utle, fine of
field representative, then of associate labor economist. This job re-
quired considerable travel, but largely within the states of Michigan,
Ohio and Kentucky, and occasional trips to Washington, D.C On
one of the latter trips I renewed fricndship with my college room
mate, John G. Penrod, who was then a major with the armed serv.
ices in Washington.

When the Bureau announced in mid-1947 that it was moving ot
offices to Chicago, I decided I had had my fill of traveling. My
knowledge of statistical methods, gleaned from my work with the
Bureau, helped me considerably in obtaining a job as Statnouiun
with Chrysler Corporation in Detroit. Our-of-town trips here were
few and far between. My most interesting trips were ene when t
was called upon to represent the Corporation in a fraud suit ag since
a dealer in Arizona, and another when [ steed by in Washington
with Corporation data for the Senate subcommittee hearings on ants.
trust and monopoly.

After working at Chrysler for about five years TE began to realize
that further advancement was dependent upon a broader techn al
knowledge than I then possessed, particularly in the fich! of cess.
nomics, wherein much had been written since 1976. So Phase ame
taken some graduate courses in cconomics at Warne State Univeruts
and the University of Michigan and plan sell more,

Our first son, Charles, was born with a small head (nie ree plata d.
which condition our doctor (an osteopath) never ebb reseynice
When his condition finally was diagnosed correctly, at was tee bite

[ 98s ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

for surgery, and the prognosis was for severe retardation and a very
few years of life. Fortunately, we found a physician (M.D.) who
was willing to experiment with some of the newer drugs (and has
since done some outstanding research in this field). He was remark-
ably successful, so that Charles is now well advanced physically,
although still severely limited in speech and understanding. The
burden of caring for him has not been an easy one, but the knowl-
edge that the doctor’s experiments have enabled the profession to
help other children similarly afflicted has been some compensation.

Our hopes and aspirations, consequently, lie largely with our
younger son, Tom, now in his junior year at the University of De-
troit High School. His interest in Boy Scouts and Explorers has
kept me active in that movement also. Instead of a “golf widow,”
my wife has too frequently been a “Boy Scout widow.”

The automobile industry has been a fascinating one in which to
work particularly since it both influences and is affected by general
economic conditions. Speculation about the future of the industry
and the nation is our stock in trade, and we tend to be optimistic
about both, Certainly, remarkable progress has taken place during
the past twenty-five years. I think we can depend upon it continu-
ing into the future so long as we continue to strive for improvement.

JOHN FRANCIS MURPHY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 78 Lovett St., Beverly, Mass.

[ 986 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HENRY MURPHY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1675 Preston Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Overseas Service Corp, 1209 Dupont Circle Bldg. Washington,
DC.

BoRN: January 2, 1914, Malden, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, NEL

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

marriep: Mary Louise McDonough, Aug. 17, 1940, Boston, Maw cost nats
Paula Ann, Aug. 2, 1942; Barbara Louise, May 9, 1944, Lynda Ann, beb

29, 1948; John Ford, Jan. 25, 1952; Mary Esther, Aug. 14 to¢@
OCCUPATION: Account executive.

MEMBER oF: Charter member of the 8:nd Airborne; Joha Carrol Sawwty,
Army-Navy Club.

DIRECTORY salesman, New England Telephone & Telegraph

Company, 1936-42; married, 1940; Army, 1942 — member of the

82nd Airborne, 1943-45, separated as a captain, Scptember, tgs,

joined Middle Atlantic Distributor, Inc, November, 1946, feugned

as vice-president in charge of sales, 1948; joined Overseas Servwe,
Inc.

| 987 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

++ LAMBERT MURPHY

 

BorN: Dec. 1, 1913, Montclair, N.J. parents: Ray Dickinson Murphy, ’o8,
Elizabeth Chapin.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

pieD: Sept. 18, 1937, Montclair, N.J.

WHILE an undergraduate, Murphy was a resident of Eliot House
and took part in track athletics. After graduation he spent a year

at Columbia University in premedical studies. He was survived by
his father.

IRVING RUSSELL MURRAY

4
‘ sna

 

HOME appRESS: 5205 St. Albans Way, Baltimore 12, Md.

OFFICE Appress: First Unitarian Church, Charles & Franklin Sts., Baltimore, Md.
Born: May 18, 1915, Revere, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 19363 8.7.H., 1939.

[ 988 ]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Marion Vail, Jan. 29, 1939, Boston, Aas conipass  Dhavid feverg
July 25, 1942; Nanine Susan, Feb. 25, 1945.

occuPATION: Minister, First Unitarian Church, Baltirnore.

oFFICES HELD: Minister, Channing Unitarian Church, Newton, Mase, tous ar.
Unitarian minister to students in Greater Boston, iggt gg. murecere.
First Unitarian Church, Pittsburgh, 1944-61, execuave, Unitanan Wat
Service Council, 1942-45, executive, chairman, Unitanan Common of
World Order, 1944-47; regional director, Meadville Unitarian Comferenee,
1946-47; chairman, Joint Interim Commission on Unitarian Canversle
Merger, 1955-58, Pittsburgh Chapter, American Civil [ibertes Unaw,
1956-59.

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh.

pusLicaTions: A Religion of Their Own, Beacon Press, Benton, tyci, sures
ed., 1957; articles in professional journals.

IT has been a good twenty-five years, despite a bout with pebeo
in 1950, and another with coronary in 195g. Both ilnesey were,
in fact, instructive: they challenged certain naive compuluons
Polio, by threatening me with the prospect of not working ayain,
made me recognize the value of play. I was lucky enough ta ewape
with no observable paralysis, though the left portion of my lower lp
is without any musculature — so that I had to learn to talk out of
one side of my mouth, the right side, but that has not been a bad
discipline for a preacher. The coronary incident completed the yob.
I had to recognize play not only as a value but as a pemonal neers:
sity.

The ministry of a metropolitan church is both a gruclhng re:
sponsibility and a rewarding privilege. It takes something Ihe a
heart attack to put one in a position where one can adjust one’s wll
and one’s job to a schedule that will provide adequate rest and ree.
reation, unless one is wiser than most clergymen in fact are. The
pressures of pastoral duties, administrative choren public wevaey
and of the study necessary to preaching, are almost irrewstible. for
years | worked seven davs a week, morning, noon and niyht Now
that dear old heart attack has given me an exe une, the autherey of
medicine, and the personal necessity, to sav “ne” at feast ay atten
as I say “yes.” Blessed be the heart attack, for Phave had mere tine
with my wife and children in the last cighteen months DP think, een
in the previous eighteen vears! T recognize the sorry lyhe thes «acts
upon my intelligence, burt it is, after all, prnuble to recone de yess
from Harvard in history and in theology without has Ig, OF ae
quiring, any very great intelligence about onc’s self,

There is, however, another side to this profesuon, Pastorsh esau
selling, though terribly time-consuming and frequently frase se.»

[ vky ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

is sometimes deeply satisfying, always instructive. Who knows, one
might be able, someday, to see one’s own problems as clearly as one
does, occasionally, those of a parishioner. Church administration is
for the most part only a necessary evil; but there is some pride, sin-
ful or not, in a small business, more or less well run, expanding, open-
ing a branch or two, etc. It was fun to live in Pittsburgh during
its renaissance, and the association with the American Civil Liberties
Union there, where we managed to keep McCarthyism to the abso-
lute minimum, was worth the effort involved. I have had the joy,
also, of working with a congregation composed primarily of bright,
young scholars, scientists, and professional people. Their intellec-
tual stimulation kept my mind, in some degree, alive. They gave
me six months’ sabbatical leave every five years. On February 1,
1961, I became Minister of the First Unitarian Church in Baltimore.

Summers, since the polio business, we have gone to Wells, Maine,
for four to eight weeks. Life there is quite different: fishing, swim-
ming, baseball with a gang of kids every fair afternoon, nary a book
cracked, and only minimal attention to the mail, the news, etc. I
have often wished I were a Hindu, for then I would count on being
a marine biologist, somewhere on the coast of Maine, in my next
reincarnation. As a Unitarian, and rather more materialistic than
many of those who choose this religious identification, I am counting
on this present incarnation only, however, and learning increasingly
to enjoy it. A paradox: my compulsions of yesteryear — the addic-
tion to work, the “dedication” to the “religious” cause, etc. —
seemingly spiritual, were actually thoroughly carnal; whereas to-
day’s keen appreciation of the refreshment to be had from a regular
afternoon nap, the delights of the senses, etc., superficially carnal,
is at bottom deeply spiritual. Santayana tried to teach our fathers
at Harvard to look for spirit as the ultimate in the immediate. Where
else shall we find it?

My wife, a pianist, has always known these things, and has been
ever so patient while her doctrinaire husband took years to begin
to learn the lesson. Our son is a painter, and some of his canvasses
show that he has a good inheritance, in this regard, from his mother.
Our daughter, I sometimes think, knows more about life than all
the rest of us put together, but as she is so very young, at this writ-
ing, this has made her as vulnerable as she is lovable,

One of the best of the books of the Old Testament ends: “....
and also much cattle.” It can hardly be regarded as inelegant, there-
fore, that I conclude by referring to our dog and two cats. For

[ 990 J

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

they, too, are very much a part of the family. Their parents’ breed-
ing habits were nothing to brag about, but by a fortunate combina-
tion of genes and chromosomes they are, all three, handsome animals,
perhaps the best-looking of the Murray's, and not the feast valuable in
teaching us all “reverence for life.”

ROBERT EARL MURRAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Mackintosh Ave., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: B.B. Chemical Co., 784 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Mas

BORN: Sept. 22, 1914, Marlboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. Cte laude, 1936.

MarRIED: Ruth H. Morrison, April 11, 1939, Boston, Mass. campars: Joffrey
Wayne, Aug. 17, 1944; Linda D., March 3, 19473 Cyntha D, Aug. 2
1948.

OccUPATION: Director of research and development, Shoe and Leather Fineh
Laboratories, B.B. Chemical Company.

MEMBER oF: Show of the Month Club; Book of the Month Club, Basectssll
Haters of America, Boston Freeloaders Association, three underground
political groups; Association for the Elimination of Clubs

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on chemistry and business in numerous perme ale

MY career history: Once I started making over hfcy dollars a week,
I stopped counting.

My family: Growing. They all look down on me, beth phy u-
cally and ———. My psychiatrist has asked me not to say these
things.

My travels: Once we ventured out to Concord and Levingron te
see where the war started.

Social convictions: anti. Political convictions: vacillanng. Rel.
gious convictions: bigot.

[991 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN KNOX MUSGRAVE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: go Ardmore St., Hamden 17, Conn.

oFFice appress: Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn.

porn: Feb. 19, 1915, Harrisburg, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Mount Lebanon High School, Mount Lebanon, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1938.

MarriED: Elizabeth Cadbury, June 11, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. cH1LDREN: Doro-
thea, Nov. 26, 1949; Anthony, Aug. 23, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Homer Steffen Musgrave, 742.

occuPATION: Head, Oriental Division, Catalogue Department and curator, Far
Eastern Collections, Yale University Library.

OFFIces HELD: Clerk, New Haven Monthly Meeting, Religious Society of
Friends, 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; Association for Asian Scudies; American Anthropologi-
cal Association; Burma Research Society; American Library Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Burmese Glossary, co-author with W. S. Cornyn, American
Council of Learned Societies, New York, 1958; “Burmese Language and
Literature,” Encyclopedia Americana, 1960.

CONTINUING from the 15th Report: from 1952 to 1958, I was
by turns student, instructor in anthropology at Dartmouth, research
assistant in Burmese at Yale (working on a Burmese-English dic-
tionary), and part of the Burma Research Project at New York
University.

Since 1958, I have been working in the Yale University Library,
where, beginning last year, 1 have been head of the Oriental Divi-
sion in the catalogue department, and curator of the Far Eastern
Collections. The purview of the jobs includes Southeast Asia, in
addition to East Asia, and publications in Asian as well as European
languages. (I am in charge of acquisitions and processing of pub-
lications relating to, and in the languages of, Burma, Thailand, Laos,
Cambodia, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaya, the Philippines, China,
Japan, and Korea.)

[ 992 ]

~~

4

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Yale’s teaching and research intcrests in beth regions are of
some years’ standing but have recently been quickened by new
teachers and more money. Thus there are both more use of the
collections and also more need for expanded collections Adiing
and training new staff members, assessing the collectiony keeping
abreast of publishing, and acquiring both old and new tithes os sem.
ulating and satisfying, though at umes frustrating, especully in re-
spect to material from Southeast Asia, where there are virtually ne
bibliographies, no book reviewing and no organized book trade.
During one of the two past years, I taught a course on the anthro.
pology of Southeast Asia, and during the other | was kecturee
Burmese in the Department of Indic and Far Fastern Languages
Although we have recently moved to a suburban town, | am net
certain that I shall ever be a proper suburbanite or cxurbanite. Mv
hobbies, if such they are, are closely connected with anthropology
and my work — learning more about the peoples of Southeast and
East Asia, their languages and literatures, and about the history of
the book trade and libraries in the West. 1 have not been active in
politics, but I have performed a number of tasks in our church.

JAMES EDWARD MUTRIE

 

HOME appress: 18 Woodcliff Rd, Wellesicy Hilly, Mass.

OFFICE aporess: P, B. Mutrie Motor Transportanen, Inc, Waltham, Vise
BorN: June 15, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: 4.8, 1954

Maraifp: Laurice A. Jennings, 1941, Charleston, S.C. catenes  Jeawe Bibe ard

Jr., Feb. 1, 1944; Robert J, Oct. 1, 1997, Witham P. aed Ban P few wens.
June 12, 1950.

occupation: President, P. B. Mutrie Motor Traasportaton, Inc.

[993]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R., 1945; director and treasurer,
Willys New England, Inc., 1946-56; president, Mutrie Truck Rental, Inc.,
since 1951; trustee, Income Foundation Fund, since 1958; director, Indus-
trial Polymers & Chemicals Company, since 1959, treasurer, Pilgrim Broad-
casting Company, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Algonquin Club; Blagdon Bulls; Oyster .
Harbors Country Club; Charles River Country Club; Beacon Society.

GORDON STEINBACH MYERS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Sutton Rd., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cardiac Laboratory, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Mass,

BORN: May 18, 1915, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., CU laude, 1936; M.D. 1940.

MarrigD: Anna Greenleaf Swift, June 21, 1939, Chestnut Hill, Mass. CHILDREN:
Christopher, May 19, 1941; Alexander, March 12, 1943; Deborah, July 25,
1946; James, Oct. 23, 1953. .

occupaTION: Associate physician, Massachusetts General Hospital, clinical
associate in medicine, Harvard Medical School.

MeMBER OF: Aesculapian Club; Alpha Omega Alpha; American Heart Asso-
ciation; American Federation for Clinical Research; New England Cardio-
vascular Society; Massachusetts Heart Association; Clinical and Climato-
logical Association,

PUBLICATIONS: Ten papers, mostly related to heart disease, in American Journal
of Physiology, American Heart Journal, Circulation, New England Jour-
nal of Medicine, British Heart Journal.

FOUR years at medical school, three years of internship and resi-
dency in medicine at the Massachusetts General Hospital, two years
in the Navy, mostly at Pensacola, Florida, and at Cherry Point,
North Carolina; then in the Cardiac Department with time divided
between practice, teaching and clinical investigation.

[994 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER EDWARD NAUGLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 165 Terrace Drive, San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1914, Hyde Park, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.D. AND OM. (MeGull Univ i,

1940.
MaRRIED: Gertrude Wilbur Paist, 1938, Wayne, Pa. cainoass: Walter Fd-

ward, Jr.; Frederick Paist,; Douglas Fraser, Barbara.
OccUPATION: Physician; internal medicine.

I AM practising internal medicine in San Francisco, with a spool
interest in the rheumatic diseases. During the past cighe years |
have been moderately active in research and teaching in this spe-
cialty. I am now assistant clinical professor of medicine at Stanford
University. Special interests have been in national and local Arthe-
tis and Rheumatism Associations and hunting.

Now that the children are almost grown up, my wife Gertrude
is able to devote more time to writing. Her fint novel went inte
a second printing and the first chapters of her sccond are now in
the hands of her agent. My eldest son, Ted, is in his fourth vest
at Stanford; Fred is in his fourth year at McGill, Douglas expects
to enter McGill next year; and my daughter, Barbara, no in hee
first year of senior high school.

[995 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GEORGE LARSEN NELSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 79 Gloucester Rd., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Bird Machine Co., South Walpole, Mass.

BorN: April 1, 1916, Woburn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Woburn High School, Woburn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREES: S.B. (Mass. Inst. of Technology), 1943;
s.M. (ibid.), 1949.

marriep: Mary Faulkner Flaws, April 17, 1943, Woburn, Mass. CHILDREN:
Patricia, June 19, 1944; Margaret, Aug. 30, 1947; Richard Cutler, Sept, 28,
1951.

occupation: Development director, pulp and paper machinery, filtration and
centrifugal equipment.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor, M.LT., 1950-51; development engineer,
1951-57, development director, since 1957, Bird Machine Company.
MEMBER OF: Tau Beta Pi, Sigma Xi; Pi Tau Sigma, Massachusetts Registered

Professional Engineer.
PUBLICATIONS: Analysis of the Four-Bar Linkage, Technology Press, co-author
with John A. Hrones.

INSTEAD of becoming one of the youngest of Harvard’s three-
hundredth-year grads, I finally managed to wind up, seven years
late, down the river as about the oldest recipient of a sheepskin at
M.1.T. This memorable year of 1943 found me rewarded with an
S.B., a MRS., and a USNR.

The USNR lasted three years, long enough to forget what the
S.B. meant, so back to M.I.T. for an S.M., mixed in with being an
instructor, then an assistant professor, days at M.LT., plus instruct-
ing nights at Lincoln Tech. and Lowell School, to keep the wolf
from the door of an expanding family.

After a dozen years of college, I dared to venture out into the
business world, choosing Bird Machine Company, a small company
in a small town. It was a wise choice —I’m still there, and happy

[ 996 ]

—_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with my lot as development director — even when sometimes te.
ferred to as a “birdbrain.”

The year 1961 finds me eying a dozen more years of college ~~

this time split among the three children, just four years apart in
school.

WILLIAM HENRY NELSON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 144 Mount Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1914, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mlass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. Clemt laude, 1916, 12.8, 19 be

MARRIED: Harriet J. Allen, Oct. 7, 1948 New York, NV. aanosrs Jean

Wellington, May 26, 1950; Harrict Ax Jr. Doe. §. tata, Lorraine Re Jon
9s 1957.
occuPATION: Lawyer.

MEMEER OF: Edgartown Yacht Club, Harvard Club of Banton, Harvard Vee.
sity Club; Boston Bar Association,

1 AM still in business in Boston.

[ 997 )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ARTHUR EMLEN NEWBOLD, III

 

HOME apprEss: 408 W. Moreland Ave., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia 18, Pa.

oFFIcE appress: Barnes, Dechert, Price, Myers & Rhoades, 1600 Three Penn
Center Plaza, Philadelphia 2, Pa.

Born: May 15, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1940.

MarriED: Mary Lee Keister, Jan. 16, 1942, Harrisburg, Pa. cumpren: Arthur
Emlen, qth, Oct. 31, 1942; Mary Lee, June 9, 1944; Christopher H., Jan.
24, 1947.

HARVARD soN: Arthur Emlen Newbold, qth, ’64.

occupation: Lawyer, member of firm; general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, North Chestnut Hill Association,
1947-55, Chestnut Hill Academy, since 1954; member, Committee of
Seventy of Philadelphia, since 1953; member, Twenty-second Ward Re-
publican Committee, 1954-56; chairman, Chestnut Hill Community Asso-
ciation, 1955-57.

MEMBER OF: American, Pennsylvania and Philadelphia Bar Associations; Juristic
Society; National Association of Railroad Trial Counsel; Lawyers Club
of Philadelphia; Philadelphia Club; Philadelphia Cricket Club; First Troop
Philadelphia City Cavalry, AD Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia;
Academy of Natural Sciences; English-Speaking Union.

GUIDED by the sure and certain knowledge that the proofreader
and I will no doubt be alone in admiring my prose style, I shall
elect the course of brevity in availing myself of this unique auto-
biographical opportunity.*

Graduation from college in the carefree (for me) year of 1936
was followed by the sobering experience of my first job — which
I held only long enough to decide that [ would prefer the irre-

* Proofreader’s footnote: “Who, me?”

[ 998 ]

_——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sponsible life of the student for a while longer and consequently
entered law school at the University of Pennsylvania in the autumn
of 1937- This postponed for three more years the serious business
of earning a living. By that time, my National Guard unit was
about to be inducted into the federal service. Along with others in
our outfit, I had taken an army correspondence course, so that
when the momentous event occurred in February of 1941, I found
myself in the unfamiliar role of second lieutenant. (Because of the

“mail order” origins of our officer training, we were known as
Sears-Roebuck lieutenants.)

I was commissioned in the Cavalry, and although Cavalry officers
were in oversupply the war years were very eventful for me from
a personal standpoint. I met my good wife in Harrisburg. Our first
child was born there (AEN IV, ’64). I was subsequently transferred
to the staff and faculty of the Cavalry School in Fort Riley, Kansas,
where my daughter, Mary Lee, was born in 1944. In due course,
in December, 1945, I was returned to civilian life in the rank of cap-
tain.

My law firm, which I had served but briefly prior to the war, was
very patient with me during the difficult period of readjustment
which resulted from almost five years of complete absence from
civilian legal practice. (I had had my share of extracurricular work
on courts martial, etc., in the Army but this was not quite com-
parable.) As time went on things shook down, apparently to the
satisfaction of my employers, because in the course of time I was
invited to become a member of the firm. I continue in the general
practice of law in Philadelphia and expect that there will be no
change in this situation.

Our third child, Christopher H., was born in January of 1947.
We have now reached the age where I regret to say that the chil-
dren are drifting away. My oldest started going to boarding school
in 1956 and as I have indicated is now in college. My daughter is
presently at boarding school, and Chris hopes to go next year. Like
most people similarly situated, as our family expanded we moved
into a larger house which will seem empty in the years to come.
We recognize, however, that life doesn’t stand still (as witness the
event for which these remarks are written). We try to keep our
lives full with outside activities and hobbies of various sorts, and
with the advancing years will undoubtedly increase this endeavor.

[ 999 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HOMER EDWARD NEWELL, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4401 Westbrook Lane, Kensington, Md.

oFFICE appRESS: U.S. National Aeronautics & Space Administration, 1520 H St.,
N.W., Washington 25, D.C, °

PREPARED AT: Holyoke High School, Holyoke, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1936; A.M. 19373
PHD. (Univ, of Wisconsin), 1940.

MarriED: Janice May Hurd, Feb. 12, 1938, Madison, Wis. cHiLpREN: Judith
Deborah, Sept. 21, 1938; Sue Ellen, Sept. 10, 1941; Jennifer Dianne, Jan. 21,
1947; Andrew David, Dec. 31, 1951.

occupaTION: Physicist; deputy director, Space Flight Programs, U.S. National
Aeronautics & Space Administration.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Rocket and Satellite Research Panel; chairman, Plan-
ning Committee on Planetary Science, American Geophysical Union.
MEMBER OF: American Association of Science (fellow); American Geophysical
Union; American Rocket Society; American Astronautical Society (fel-
low); Research Society of America, Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi, National

Geographic Society.

puBLicaTions: High Altitude Rocket Research, Academic Press, 1953; Vector
Analysis, McGraw-Hill, 1955; Space Book For Young People, Whittlesey
House, 1958, rev., 1960, German edition, 1959; Guide to Rockets, Missiles
and Satellites, Whittlesey House, 1958, Window in the Sky, McGraw-Hill,
1959; Sounding Rockets, McGraw-Hill, 1959. Chapters in Compendium
of Meteorology, American Meteorological Society, 1951, Physics of the
Upper Atmosphere, Academic Press, 1960; Exploration of Space, Mac-~
millan, 1960. Several dozen of scientific articles and papers, including one
on atmospheric sounding for Encyclopedia Britannica, articles on space
research for Americana 57, 58, 59 Annuals, article on space for 1960 Col-
lier’s Yearbook,

I BEGAN my professional career in my chosen field of mathematics
by joining the Department of Mathematics of the University of
Maryland in 1940. The war, however, dislodged me from mathe-
matics into the field of physics, where I have remained ever since.

[ 1000 }

_——

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The second half of World War III spent working at the U.S. Naval
Research Laboratory, where I was introduced to rockets and mis-
siles. In early 1946 the Laboratory began a program of rocket sound-
ing of the upper atmosphere,

Toward the end of 1947, I became head of the branch at NRL
that was carrying out the upper atmosphere research program. In
this position it was my privilege to share in the early development
of high altitude rocket research, a development that has now ex-
panded into the exploration of outer space by means of rockets,
satellites and space probes. My branch was responsible for the de-

‘velopment of the Viking rocket. While we did much of our rocket
work at the White Sands Proving Ground in New Mexico, never-
theless we carried our activity to far corners of the earth. Members
of the group fired research rockets in the Arctic, the Atlantic, at
Fort Churchill in Canada and from the Pacific Ocean. In fact, we
took the Viking to the middle of the Pacific Ocean, where in 1950
it was launched from the deck of the USS Norton Sound, near
Jarvis Island.

The. NRL group took a very active part in the rocket program
of the International Geophysical Year, firing large numbers of
sounding rockets at Fort Churchill, at sea, at White Sands and
from the California coastal island of San Nicolas. As part of the
IGY effort NRL was given the job of developing and launching
the Vanguard satellites. I acted as Science Program Coordinator
for this effort. It was a source of some gratification to me that all
of the satellites built by the science group worked perfectly and
steadily through all the launching preparations and during Highe
unless destroyed by some missile mishap. Those that were placed
in orbit performed as they should.

Toward the close of the International Geophysical Year, when
the National Aeronautics & Space Administration was sct up, [ left
the Naval Research Laboratory to join NASA. My position at
NASA has to do with the use of rockets, satellites and space probes
for the exploration of space, including manned flight from the
earth, and with practical applications of space technology as illus-
trated by the weather satellite Tiros. In this position TE continue to
have a share in guiding the unfolding of the new and exciting ficld
of space research.

The close association with and participation in rocket sounding
and upper atmosphere research led to my writing my tint book on
high altitude rocket research. Since that time I have managed to

[ roo1 ]

oo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

turn out a number of additional volumes, including some for younger
readers.

Hobbies and recreation have included dancing, swimming, fishing
and some piano playing in the confines of our own recreation room.
Like many another, I long ago started to build up a collection of
color slides, 35mm. In this project I was aided by the traveling
that was a necessary part of my job both at NRL and now at NASA.
The collection now contains photographs from Christmas Island
and Japan on the Pacific side of the world, to Moscow on the other
side.

The best thing I ever did was to persuade my wife, Janice, to
marry me. Her patience, help and endurance have made many things
possible: a fine family, the writing of books which is enough to tax
the fondest of wives, and a measure of professional success.

** CHARLES HOMER NEWTON, JR.

 

Born: April 4, 1915, Little Rock, Ark. parents: Charles Homer Newton, Bess
Trieber.

PREPARED AT: Ihe Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1936.

MarrieD: Kathleen Frances Wallace, Jan. 9, 1940, St. Louis, Mo. CHILDREN:
John Harrison, March 10, 1943; Lida Wallace, March 17, 1945; Charles
Homer, 3d, Dec. 27, 1948; Kathleen Tirrill, April 7, 1951.

piep: Feb. 22, 1959, Armonk, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. Charles H. Newton, Jr., RFD. 1, Armonk, N.Y,

AFTER graduation, Newton spent a year at the Law School and
then served briefly as a reporter on the Los Angeles Examiner. In
1938 he joined the script department of the National Broadcasting
Company in New York City. Since 1945 he had been associated

[ 1002 }

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the advertising firm of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc.,
where he was a television account executive. He was credited with
an important “break-through” in the early days of TV when he
induced the first major film star to come into the medium with a
program of his own, which resulted in the hour-long program,
“Robert Montgomery Presents.” Newton had been supervisor of
the “G.E. Theatre” from its beginning in 1953. During World War
Il, he served in Washington as a civilian radio public relations
specialist for the War Department.
He was survived by his wife and children.

ALFRED MICHAEL NITTLE

 

HOME AppreEss: Central Avenue, East Bangor, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Committee on Un-American Activities, Room 227, Old House
Office Bldg., Washington, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1915, East Bangor, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Bangor High School, Bangor, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 19363; LL.B. 1939.

MARRIED: divorced. cuitp: Jeremy John, Feb. 17, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Counsel, House of Representatives Committee on Un-American

' Activities.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant District Attorney, Northampton County, Pa. togh-¢4&

MEMBER OF: Northampton County and Pennsylvania Bar Associations.

UPON graduation from the Law School in 1939, I entered private
and general practice of law at Bangor, Pennsylvania, and, except
for the period of service during World War II in the U.S. Army
(1942-46), continued in such employment (with service as Assistant
District Attorney of Northampton County, 1948-56) until August,
1960, at which time I received appointment as Counsel to the Blouse
of Representatives Committee on Un-American Activities,

[ 1003 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I find that this Committee is engaged in work of great value to
the Congress and the Country in the important domain of national
security, and that it proceeds fairly and with due deliberation. I
am very happy in my position and would welcome visits from class-
mates when they are in Washington. I can be found at the Com-
mittee Offices in the Old House Office Building.

I close this brief account with kindest regards to all, and with
the fondest memories of Harvard to which all of us owe so much
and for which I am sure all of us are deeply grateful.

CHARLES LORING JACKSON NOBLE

  

HOME appress: Lowell Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 721 Huntington Ave., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1913, Prides Crossing, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.B.A., 1939+

MARRIED: Susan Means, Sept. 19, 1936, Topsfield, Mass. cxiLpreN: Susan Weare,
Feb. 19, 1941; Eleanor Gray, Sept. 27, 1942; Charles Loring, May 10, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Noble, ’30, LL.B. 734.

occuPATION: Assistant treasurer, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital.

MEMBER oF: Eastern Dog Club (president, 1957-58); Middlesex County Kennel
Club, Poodle Club of Massachusetts, Old English Sheepdog Club of
America.

EVALUATION of the past twenty-five years breaks down into
two sections—those things which I have not done and those
which I have done. I have not traveled widely, had anything pub-
lished, entered the political arena, or become a captain of industry.
Further, I have not been able to retire, nor have I added many
pounds. In the second category, I have acquired a wife and family,

[ 1004 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a house and mortgage, several engrossing hobbics, and a kennel
full of dogs. The balance of this report will deal with the plus
factors, since the minus elements provide matcrial of interest only
to the Monday morning quarterback.

We have been fortunate in living, for the past twenty years, in
what is still mostly country. This has permitted a succession of ani-
mals commensurate with a growing family, from ducks, geese and
chickens, through ponies and a horse, with always one or more dogs
and cats in residence. It has also fostered at least two worthwhile
hobbies — care and improvement of our place, including construc-
tion, maintenance and gardening, and the breeding and showing of
purebred dogs. This type of life has also been good for our chil-
dren, who are compiling much better records in school and college
than either of their parents. The two oldest are in college, Sukie
at Bouvé, majoring in physical education, and Nonie at Wheelock.
Charlie is in high school, soon to face the problem of college appli-
cations.

Our activities outside of family life have centered on dogs, ken-
nel clubs and dog shows. Both Susan and I have been and are cur-
rently involved in several clubs and shows, and we have raised and
shown our own dogs with moderate success. It is hard work, both
physical and mental, but the pleasure and satisfaction of close asso-
ciation with magnificent animals more than repays the effort put
into their care.

My activities in the business world have not been spectacular.
After twenty years in industry and officiating at the demise of one
company, I became associated with the Brigham Hospital. My only
regret is that it did not happen much sooner. The satisfaction of
being connected with an institution that does so much good for so
many people is something which I believe cannot be found in any
commercial enterprise.

Writing this report emphasizes only too clearly how quickly the
time has passed and how different from our dreams and plans of June

"36 reality has proved to be. In retrospect, I can sce many things

I should like to change, but only if the end result were to be about
the same.

[ 1005 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PHINEAS E. NORMAN

 

HOME apprEss: 183 Allerton Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Watertown Arsenal Laboratories, Watertown, Mass.

Born: May 18, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: S.B. (Tufts Coll.), 1939.

maraizD: Shirley R. Cline, Jan. 23, 1943, Newton, Mass. cuitpreNn: Eliot, June
30, 1948; Amy Lee, April ro, 1951.

OccUPATION: Chemist. .
OFFICES HELD: Leader, Great Books Discussion Group, Newton, 1956-60.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Society for Applied Spectroscopy;
Boston Power Squadron; Blue Water Salling | Club; South Boston Yacht

Club; “Kopf” Skiers.

FRANCIS STANLEY NORTH, JR.

@
NOY

 

HOME AbDRESS: 363 Stockbridge Rd., Atherton, Calif.
oFFice Appress: Palo Alto Clinic, 300 Homer Ave.,, Palo Alto, Calif.

BorN: April 7, 1913, Winnetka, Ill.
[ 1006 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepared AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B. 1936, sap. (Columbia Urawit, ryge

mareieD: Eleanor Wolfe Kochler, Aug. 12, 1944, New York, NY. cate
Penny, stepdaughter (72. Charles Jennis Dye, May ts, tocee. eaynn.
CHILDREN: Lindsay Anne Dye, Feb. 23, 1957; Jetfrey North Dye. Apel

7+ 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Stanley North, °34.

OCCUPATION: Physician in private practice; specialise in internal medieine.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Palo Alto Medical Clinic, assistant climeal profexsee
of medicine (pulmonary disease), Stanford University School of Medicine,
past president, Santa Clara County Tuberculosis Association, consaltant,
Stanford University Student Health Service.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (certified in tg¢t), Amer
ican College of Chest Physicians (fellow); American Thoracw Sowiety,
American Alpine Club; American Veterans Committce, Amerivan Casi
Liberties Union; Harvard Club of San Francisco, Menlo Cireus Club,
Stanford Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various scientific papers, mainly on clinical aspeces of cardio.
pulmonary diseases; also scientific exhibits in this ficld, currently engaged
(with several colleagues) in writing a textbook on pulmonary diwaws

TO summarize and put in proper perspective the events of the past
twenty-five years is an impossible task. Therefore, I shall merely
try to set down chronologically some of the events of these vears
which seem to me significant.

After graduation in 1936, I spent the following vear at Harvard
completing the premedical requirements and then entered the Cal-
lege of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia Univernity. PT grad-
uated in 1941 with an M.D. degree, having worked a littl: harder
and wasted a little less time than at Harvard. There followed a year
of internship, mainly internal medicine and gencral surgery, at St.
Luke’s Hospital in Chicago. The educational value of this Vear was
considerably impaired by the outbreak of the war in December.
Having volunteered on December 8 1941, I was commissioned. as
first lieutenant, Medical Corps, A.U.S., in March, rags. but was
not ordered to active duty until July, 1942.

The years 1942-46 were unquestionably the most saynine ant
period of my life. I think it fair to say that these veary and par
ticularly the months from February, 1944. to September, 1og¢. were
the decisive influence in my life te date. The Sccond World War
was, for me, an education beside which my pleasant vears at Plor-
vard seem trivial.

Briefly, I trained with the rath Armored Division from ity acti a
tion at Camp Campbell, Kentucky, in September. rags, throw

[ 1007 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

EOIN MacDONALD NYHEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1637 N. Greenbrier St., Arlington 5, Va.

orrice avpress: U.S. Dept. of Commerce, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: June 14, 1913, Brookline, Mass.

PrePARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; Chauncy Hall School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936, M.B.A., 1938.

marriep: Patricia Jane English, Oct. 23, 1948, Hinsdale, Ill. cuttpren: George
English, July 27, 1954; Patricia Frances Cameron, March 16, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Government service; assistant director, Electronics Division, Busi-
ness and Defense Services Administration.

OFFICES HELD: President, Washington Audio Society, 1958-59, chairman, Wash-
ington Chapter, Professional Group on Audio, Institute of Radio Engi-
neers, 1959-60; lieutenant colonel, Air Force Reserve; commander, 9463d
Air Reserve Squadron.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and Washington; Harvard Business
School Club of Washington; MILT. Club of Washington; Alumni Asso-
ciation of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces; The Institute of
Radio Engineers and its Professional Groups on Military Electronics,
Engineering Management and Audio, Washington Audio Society, Fort
McNair and Bolling AFB Officers’ Club.

THE years since 1936 have passed swiftly: the Business School,
radio broadcasting in New York; the war years in Europe; back to
New York, this time with industry, marriage; Washington during
Korea; back to industry, this time in Massachusetts; then once again
to Washington; and in the interim, two fine children making their
contribution to a full and happy life. Prosaic? Perhaps, yet enor-
mously satisfying as a prologue to the years ahead!

By the middle of our senior year, the Business School seemed
essential to bridge the gap between college and the world of indus-
try and commerce. In retrospect, it still does, for nowhere else is
a man given as comprehensive an introduction to the challenges a

[ 1010 ]

_——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

manager must meet, and to the many areas in which he must be
skilled if he is to be a leader in industry and the community.

Then came the siren call of broadcasting, an activity that had
taken much vacation and spare time during college. Television way
only emerging from the laboratory, and radio was the glamorous
powerful medium of mass communication and entertainment. I
began in technical operations at CBS in New York, with some
continuity writing and news on short waves as a sideline. | alo
started the study of law at Fordham in 1941.

Orders to active duty came early in 1942, and July, 1942, found
me with the Eighth Air Force in England, as a communications
officer. A few months later came the invasion of North Africa
with the Twelfth Air Force, followed the next year by Sicily, Sa-
lerno and the Italian Campaign. Then came Southern France and,
ultimately, Germany and the end of the war in Europe, all told:
eight campaigns (four amphibious landings), a grade of lieutenant
colonel and the Bronze Star.

Inevitably, war alters one’s sense of values and point of view.
After the war “show business” no longer held the appeal that it
formerly did. I seriously considered the full-time study of the lw,
and the Law School was kind enough to consider my application
favorably. Finally, however, I chose industry, and joined the for-
eign manufacturing and sales subsidiary of IT&T, International
Standard Electric Corporation, as assistant manager of radio and
telephone sales.

It was in New York in 1948 that I persuaded Pat to give up the
world of fashion advertising for domesticity, and eventually two
lovely children.

The year 1951 found us in Washington where I joined the Na-
tional Production Authority. The next two and a half vears pawed
quietly and very quickly. I resumed the study of law, this tune at
Georgetown. With the end of the Korean War, we moved to
Brookline, and I joined the National Company in Malden.

However, we had underestimated the lure of Washington andl,
in 1955, we returned to the Capital where I joined the Business and
Defense Services Administration of the U.S. Department of Com-

merce. “We?” this time included our son George who was born in

1954.

During the academic year 1957-58, I was designated by the De-

partment to attend the ten months’ Resident Course of the Indus
trial College of the Armed Forces. The college, under the dirceneon

[ 1011 ]

Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, conducts its Resident Course for senior
military officers and civilian executives of the federal government.
It is devoted to a study of the military, industrial, economic and
political aspects of national and international security.

In 1959, our daughter “Penny” was born, complete with a mind
of her own!

Some call it ‘Potomac fever”; whatever it is, we find that govern-
ment service in Washington has its attractions and satisfactions.
This is particularly true as the tempo of the struggle between the
Free World and Communism for the allegiance of men’s minds and
souls on the one hand, and for the enslavement of their minds and
bodies on the other, mounts.

With a young family, one cannot help but look forward with
anticipation to the challenges that the future holds for all of us.

GILBERT OAKLEY, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: Ducley Road, Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Educational Services Inc., 16q Main St., Watertown, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 8, 1913, Portland, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1933.

MarrieD: Margaret Ellen Pickman, June 15, 1946, Bedford, Mass. CHILDREN:
Beatrice Mary, March 17, 1948; Elizabeth Martha, April 28, 1949; Gilbert,
3d, April 27, 1951; John Patrick, Jan. 23, 1953; Stephen Pickman, Jan. 21,
1955:

occupation: Vice-president for administration, Educational Services, Inc.

MEMBER oF: Royal Bangkok Sports Club (life member).

AN earlier Class Report, our Sexennial, listed me as missing. Until
now, I’ve done nothing to dispel any impression this may have
created, hoping against hope that I might escape solicitation. De-

[ 1012 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

land, Bartlett, Perkins, et al. have found me out long since and |
must admit that I’m very glad to recognize that I’m alive.

There are twenty-eight rather than the usual twenty-five years
to account for, as the depression suggested that I leave college a
freshman in good standing. Three years in a Boston bank convinced
us both that the engagement should be broken and, as often happens,
I was caught on the rebound by my first love, boats and boat build-
ing. This affair lasted another three years, when it became clear
that one cannot live on love alone.

In 1939, I went to the Woods Hole Oceanographic to go on a
cruise on the Atlantis. I intended this as a vacation between jobs; in
a sense ['m still on that vacation. Not counting the war, the rest
of my life has been spent trying to aid and abet the scicntist in his
efforts to extend knowledge, implement scientific breakthroughs
and, most recently, to improve and broaden science education. The
war gave me a chance to explore the coasts of Greenland for two
years, as skipper of a converted Boston trawler for the Coast Guard.
Then exec. and C.O. of a frigate in the North Atlantic, until V-F
day, and finally a chance to bask in the Pacific sun as a final stint.

The Oceanographic’s Atlantis lacked a captain when I returned
there after the war and so I took her for a short year, while a per-
manent captain was selected. As I had located a permanent wife
at the end of the war, I was anxious to come ashore for longer than
the wedding. We stayed at Woods Hole in an administrative ca-
pacity until 1951, when we moved to Bedford so that I could begin
work at the Lincoln Laboratory, a defense research lab established
by MILT. In 1957 and 1958 I went to Southeast Asia, aking my
family, to act as project manager for a communications engincening
survey of the area. Bangkok was a wonderful place to live and we
would do it again at the drop of a hat.

Since we returned I’ve been associated with Fducational Servicex
Inc., a non-profit corporation spun off from M.LT., supported by
National Science Foundation, Ford and Sloan Foundations Elave
been primarily concerned with the development of a secondary
school physics course which is now established in about roeo school.
While my principal efforts since 1939 have been administrative, I
have had a chance to get my hands dirty on the technical side, but
above all I’ve had a chance to work with lively and stimulating
people. I’ve not been bored, and look to the next Years with curs
osity.

God willing, our Fifticth will be time enough to ruminate at length,

[ 1013 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

advise the young and say how I'd do it if I had it to do again. God
not willing, the Boston Herald may take note; I doubt I’ll make the
Times.

DAVID FRANCIS O’BRIEN

 

HOME appREss: 4 Coolidge Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 44 Summer St., Somerville, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 26, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Dorothy Frances Collins, Feb. 14, 1942, Somerville, Mass. CHILDREN:
Judith Ann, Feb. 19, 1943; Brenda Jean, June 18, 1945; Ruthellen, Feb. 1,
1951; Dorothy, Jan. 31, 1954.

occupATION: General practice of medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Staff president, Somerville Hospital, president, Somerville Medical
Society.

FOLLOWING graduation, I submerged into the private world of

medical school where for the first time I found what it meant to

really hit the books. Working nights in a hospital completed the

total seclusion, and it wasn’t until several years later that I emerged

into the world of living people, that is people who had had time

to be aware that something was going on over there. To my chagrin

I found after a prolonged struggle that Uncle Sam didn’t want me,

on any terms. Thereupon I opened an office for the general practice

of medicine in the city where I was born and had lived all my life.

It has been rewarding in terms of fellowship with a fine group of

colleagues, and in making one or two friendly friends. The auxiliary

activities have also been interesting. Six years on the local Board

of Health gave an insight into this division of medicine, but the most

enjoyable association of all was found when I became affiliated with

[ 1014]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the local high school as team phy sician. Following these bevs
through their carcers and on into college has been fascinating to this
frustrated athlete. It might be that L have an unusual interest in these
boys because my own happy marriage has been blessed with four
lovely daughters, and home is strictly a feminine world.

On the whole, my life has been that of the average “fanuly doctor”
in New England with the added advantage of proximity to Benton,

If the old adage about the rolling stone gathering no moss be true,
then I am now a certified moss-back having spent all my years be-
fore and after 1936 within three miles of Harvard.

GEORGE FREDERICK O'BRIEN

 

HOME apprESS: 57 Samoset Ave., Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1400 Hancock St., Quincy 69, Mass.

BORN: December 17, 1914, Whitman, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rockland High School, Rockland, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1934; Ma, lote

MARRIED: Elaine Helene McCarthy, June 21, 1947, Fdgewood, RJ. csmtness
George Frederick, Jr. April 8, 1948 Elaine Maric. Oct. 3. 1e¢0, Pal

Joseph, Nov. 15, 1952; David Michacl, Nov. ta. 196, Chinwopher Joba,
Sept. 12, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Attornecy-at-law, general practice.

OFFICES HELD: President, Quincy Bar Association, Quincy Harvard Club, Mer.
rymount Association; president and director, Quincy Viuting Nurw As
sociation, chairman, Quincy Community Councd, member, couned Noe.
folk Bar Association, committce assignment, Mawachuvests Rag Awsa ne.
tion, finance committee, Rockland, Mass., board of zoning appeal, (umn y,
Mass.; legislative counsel, Quincy Chamber of Commerce, mancqutnared
representative, Our Lady of Good Counsel Church

MEMBER OF: Quincy Boy Scout Council, Quincy Council Nea. ot Raighes of

Columbus; Our Lady of Good Counsel Holy Name Socsty, Harverd
Varsity Club.

[ 101g J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

THE quarter-century can be divided roughly into two phases. The
first period covers 1936 to 1947, during which I acquired my law
degree, under the stern discipline of the Law School, commenced
the practise of law, and served an interlude of military service.

From 1942 to 1946, I became something of an expert in the mat-
ter of naval ship control, as Port Director, New York, and later as
an operations officer on the staff of Commander, South Pacific. At
the former station, I performed the accomplishment of boarding the
Queen Elizabeth in mid-stream to deliver orders, and at the latter,
[ received a commendation from the admiral.

Finally came duty at Davisville, Rhode Island, during 1945-46,
and the wonderful event there was meeting my lovely wife, Elaine,
who was a navy nurse stationed at the hospital there.

A year later, after the usual pains of re-establishing my law prac-
tise at the same old stand in the Granite Trust Building, Elaine and
I were married at Saint Paul’s in Edgewood, Rhode Island. Since
then, we have been happily and always busily engaged in caring for
and nurturing our five wonderful children, four boys and one lovely

irl.

° Parents Guild at St. Ann’s School, the Neighborhood Society,

professional associations and community drives, too numerous to

name, make evenings busy beyond any preconceived belief. Added

to all this, a natural parental interest in our children’s homework, and

the necessity of constant censorship of TV violences and amorality,
- make the home life hectic, but full and splendid.

In the professional field, I have participated in the various projects —

and offices of the local, county and state bar associations. I must
say that the profession of law is forever satisfying. For example,
I am sure that when I conceived the purpose of becoming a lawyer,
and even when I became associated with J. J. McAnarney, one of
Vanzetti’s trial counsel, | was headed for great heights at the trial
bar. However, the acquisition of the Shipbuilders’ Co-operative
Bank as a client turned my practice toward conveyancing, corpora-
tions and probate. These have provided more than adequate mental
stimulation and a goodly share of profit, too.

If there is any great void in today’s America and the world, it is,
I feel, deeply seated in an ever-increasing concern with materialism
and a lack of vital faith in the spiritual truths. A reaffirmation of
spiritual faith constitutes a weapon which all of us can wield to the
betterment of this planet.

[ 1016 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL DOWNER O'BRIEN |

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2231 Henley St., Glenview, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6500 N. Lincoln Ave., Chicago 45, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1913, Carlstadt, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: $.B., 1936, MBA. 1938.

MARRIED: Lois I. Herr, Oct. 11, 1940, East Rutherford, N.J. cantp: Paul Downer,

July 9, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Victor Duncan O'Brien, "34 (deceased).

occuPATION: National manager of installations of bowling equipment and
customer relations, A.M.F. Pinsporters, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Glenview Park Golf Club.

FIRST job was with United States Trust Company of New York.
In January of 1937, returned to Harvard Business School and re-
ceived an M.B.A. in 1938.

Joined Brunswick Balke Collander Company as a salesman in
1939. Entered military service as a second licutenant in January,
1942, and after a brief training period joined the 3ogth F. A. Rat-
talion of the 77th Division. Fought at Guam, Levte and Ohinawa.
Left the service in November of 1945, as a captain.

Joined A.M.F. Pinspotters in 1946, as a sales representative, ard
with the exception of five years during which I sold other products
for other organizations while A.M.F. straightened out devclop-
ment and production problems, have been with A.ALF. ance that
time.

Married in 1940. My wife Lois and T have one son, Paul, bern
in 1942, who made us very proud last year by winning a Natenal
Merit Scholarship.

My only hobby seems to be golf and Tain on the course every
chance I get.

[ 1017 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

* WILLIAM REDMOND O’BRIEN

 

porn: May 29, 1914, Willimantic, Conn. parents: Patrick Francis O’Brien,

Bertha Kirby.
PREPARED AT: Franklin High School, Franklin, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (South Texas Coll. of

Law), 1946.

DIED: Sept. 25, 1958, Belmont, Mass.

HAVING graduated from Harvard after four years with our Class,
O’Brien joined the firm of Anderson, Clayton & Company in Hous-
ton, Texas, dealers in cotton, as tax research assistant. He studied
law at the South Texas College of Law, receiving an LL.B. degree
in 1946, and practised law in Houston. In 1956 he passed the Massa-
chusetts bar examination, and was residing in Belmont, Massachu-
setts, at the time of his death. He was survived by his mother
and a sister.

DERIC O’BRYAN

 

HOME appress: Casitas del Rio No. 2, East Alameda, Santa F e, N.Mex.

[ 1018 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
orFicE AbpRESS: P.O, Box 1447, Williamsburg, Va.
BORN: Feb. 13, 1913, Paris, France.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: se. cum Lande, 1gy4, parma. COW oed
Univ.), 1939.
MARRIED: Pamela Milligan, Aug. 27, 1940, Montreal, Canada. cainess Paw.

rence, Sept. 28, 1944; George, Sept. 18, sgyt, Anne, Feb. ae. tase. Mary,
May 16, 1958.

occupaTION: Area analyst and consultant, Department of Defense,

OFFICES HELD: Assistant director, Gila Pueblo Archacological Foundsoon, Ghibe,
Arizona, July, 1946, to August, 1949; chicf, Desert- Prope Sceoon, Arvo
Desert-Tropic Information Center, Research Studies Investute, Okedber,
1949, to May, 1950, Arctic Section, June, 1950, to October, toc, UNE,
Maxwell AFB, Maxwell, Alabama; consulrane to Assiseant: Secretary of
Defense, Experimental Training Center, Williamsburg, Va. November,
1955, to January, 1958, since September, 1960, Consul, Amenean Conmvalste
General, Nairobi, Kenya, March, 1958, to July, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Royal Anthropological Institute; Arctic Institute of North Armee.
ica,

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles and reviews, and two monographs on anthropes
logical subjects.

HARVARD'S exceptionally fine and enthusing triumvirate af
Dixon-Tozzer-Hooton did its best to prepare me for a carcer as a
professional anthropologist, along the classical and functional lines
of thirty years ago. The following three years at Oxford, devoted
academically to graduate work in anthropology and human ceoloyy,
continued and concluded my formal instruction in limited subjec \
but ones having broad scope. Archacological research in Mevweu
and in the southwestern United States was almost inevitable, con:
sidering my schooling and homeland. Continuous ficht work was
interesting, fun and adventuresome with my prewar British bade.
After the war we spent several years trying to recapture the mend
necessary for specific research on the annals of the past, bue that
happy, healthy and isolated pursuit scemed lew attractive. At beast
other needs and new desires appeared more important. We had to
keep up with the rising cost of living (the fint-born had arrived,
We wanted to live a more active part in postwar change and
development. Then started a scrics of applications of education and
experiences to defense problems and to international rclanonms Ve

signment, focus of attention, address change frequenely

Tite om
often unsettled, never dull.

[ 101g ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WALTER FRANCIS O'CONNOR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 18 Whittemore Rd., Framingham. Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: B, F. Goodrich Footwear & Flooring Co., 36 Nicholas Ave.,
Watertown 72, Mass.

BorN: March 29, 1914, Holyoke, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1936.

MARRIED: Frances M. LeBlanc, March 29, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Alice
Louise, Dec. 27, 1935 (a. Edward C, Gorman, March 21, 1959); Ellen
Frances, Dec. 19, 1947.

OccuPATION: Accountant; supervisor of sales accounting.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, B, F. Goodrich Footwear & Flooring Company
Charitable Fund, Inc.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants.

AFTER twenty-five years I still have the same wife, still work for
the same company and still live within twenty-five miles of Boston.
Are these the ingredients for the “normal” life? —They must be, for
as | sit here reflecting on the last quarter of a century I find I have
nothing startling to report.

I have seen one daughter graduate from college and marry; if
all goes well, she will have made my wife a grandmother by the time
the Reunion is over next June. (I, naturally, am still too young to
be a grandfather.) My other daughter, who has just reached her
teens, is rapidly blossoming into a nice young lady who faces the
eternal problem of understanding her parents and her teachers.

In 1955 we joined the exodus to suburbia and have been able to
observe the population explosion without participating in it. Now
I too can enjoy the pleasure of comparing the merits of various
fertilizers, weed killers, insect sprays, etc., recommended by the
host of horticultural experts that mushroom in every new com-
munity. The crabgrass is still winning. There is one thing I like

[ 1020 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

about winter. After a six-inch snowfall my lawn looks as geet as
any other in the neighborhood. ,

We own part of a small pond which forms the boundary be.
tween ours and other properties. In the winter, when there ts
skating, it draws the neighborhood children like thes dunng the
daytime. But in the quict of evening, after the mudding crowd
has dispersed, it has afforded my wife and me an Opportunity: te
test our skating legs a few times cach winter.

In the summertime, when the crabgrass will let go of me. PT enpow
playing golf with a few understanding friends. By now TPve cons
vinced myself that the score is not the most important thing. It's
getting out into God's fresh air and sunshine that really counts
Then there are those pleasant side trips into the woods that bordce
the fairways and what greater thrill is there than watching 6 golf
ball plop into the middle of a pond. But enough of my athicue en:
deavors.

It is obvious that I have been satisfied with my job and employ ce
for I now am in my twenty-fifth year with the BF. Goedingh
Company. My health has been good and I am sure thae if TP can
continue to survive the first fifteen minutes of cach dav I shall be
around when the Fiftieth Reunion is held.

RALPH SIGURD ODE-GARD

     

“eB RRO Pagar RE ORME URNRRpRIETS

 

HOME AppRESs: $4 Fuller Drive, Madison q, Wis,

OFFICE AppRESS: 5637 W. 63d Pl, Chicago 3& HL

BORN: Sept. 28, 1913, Madison, Wis,

PREPARED AT: Webb School of California, Claresmune, Cabf
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1910, DEGREES! S.8, 1016, SORA, opie

marriep: Mary Flizabeth Carcy, Aug. 19. toga. cnt Mary Pletema fate 04,
1947.

{ roar]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARVARD BROTHER: Holtan Peter Odegard, ’45.

occupation: President, United Aircraft Supply & Electronics Corporation,
since December, 1960,

OFFICES HELD: President and general manager, Menomonee Falls Telephone
Company and Lisbon Telephone Corporation, Menomonee Falls, Wis.,
September, 1949, to December, 1959; director, 1950-61, president, 1953-
57, Wisconsin Locally Owned Telephone Association; director, Wisconsin
State Telephone Association, 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: Madison Club; Maple Bluff Country Club; Madison Curling Club,
Mendota Yacht Club (former member), all of Madison, Wisconsin; Rotary
International, Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin.

pusLicaTions: A number of technical papers on telephone operating problems
before the Wisconsin Locally Owned Telephone Association and Wis-
consin State Telephone Association.

AS A. E. Housman once said in his Last Poems: “The troubles of
our proud and angry dust are from eternity, and shall not fail. Bear
them we can, and if we can we must. Shoulder the sky, my lad,
and drink your ale.”

This, it seems to me, is as good a summary of my last twenty-
five years as can be made. I might add just one more ingredient,
however: the more troubles or problems one has, the quicker time
seems to pass. I make no claim as a philosopher, but over the years
since our graduation on the 300th Anniversary of Harvard College,
I imagine a number of us 36ers, including myself, have experienced
a full measure of stimulating activity with its rewards and its frus-
trations, as well as periods of wondering concern and restless im-
mobility.

As a retired telephone executive, | believe I can say, with some
authority, that patience and forbearance are qualities which, when
coupled with know-how, tact and sincerity, will enable one to
shoulder the sky as well as bear all those troubles from eternity.
But watch out for your stomach, because it has no built-in escape
valve! (Thank you, mine is still in its original state, although it
has had its moments of balanced decision, and now carries just a
few more pounds than in ’36.)

In the fall of 1936, after returning from Europe, I found myself
in the none too gentle hands of the “Dear Firm,” and at Purdue
University. There I was studying, not history, but electrical engi-
neering, and working at all hours as a central office repairman on
dial equipment at Lafayette, Indiana. (The “Dear Firm,” you see,
was founded by my father, and is known as the General Telephone
& Electronics Corporation which according to Fortune Magazine
in 1959 was the 13th largest industrial firm in the country from

[ 1022 |

_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the standpoint of invested capital.) You should be alone some nig
in a large dial telephone central office during a thunder storm. You
should be that lucky! No thank you. The “Dear Firm” taught me
the telephone business from the ground up: Lafay ctte, Indiana, in
central office maintenance and repair, Madison, Wisconun, in tele:
phone plant maintenance and control as well as toll and central
office trafic engineering; Lexington, Kentucky, in telephone trathe
operation and management. At this point, 1 felt, in spite of my
“Concentration” in English history and the prods from Proofer
Merriam while in the College, that I should go to the Buuncs
School. In June of 1939, after many more mental gvinnasacs than
I thought would be required, I was fortunate enough to receve
an M.B.A. Then I was qualified to be a junior executive in the
independent telephone industry!

In June of 1940, when all we 36ers were in a turmoil and won.
dering what was going to happen next, my wonderful wite, Elza.
beth Carey, and I were to be marricd, and would have been on
June 7, but for one of those untoward last minute factors — she
had to have her hair fixed that very forenoon! On her way home
she wound up in an automobile accident which pestpencd our
wedding until August 29th. Present from our Class for the June +
date were Charles Carroll (best man) and Frank Jewett, Only
Frank was able to be present for the second wedding. CHlow many
of you fellows were lucky enough to have two cddlings to the
same gal and have all the guests attend twice?) On the o¢eauen
of both these wedding parties, I was sorry that my wife's father was
not present, but death took him awav in 1933 before E had the oppor
tunity to know him — he must have been quite a person, for during
the Hoover regime in Washington, Mr. Carey was president of the
Chicago Board of Trade, w hile his brother-in-law, Julius Barnes
who was to give the bride away, was president of the US. Chan.
ber of Commerce and is now known as the “Father” of the Se
Lawrence Seaway.

When May of 1943 came along, I was a junior telephone esecu
tive, and also had just become a private in the AUS. but an the
Ordnance Department, noc the Signal Corps! (Gilawes now >) Afeee
seventeen months, Army Ordnance finally recognized my woeth
and promoted me to T/Corporal, only then to bose me te the fib
tary Intelligence Service where subsequently Po recewed a dices
commission for killing Japs with a lead pencil When the wot
ended, I was in the Pentagon Building working ona “I op Seuret)

[ 1023 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Corporation, Metuchen, New Jersey, whose prime activity was
processing chemicals for smoke pots for chemical warfare service.
Post-war adjustment was anguished, and led, finally, to closing all
chemical operations in 1948.

A two-year attempt to revive a failing ladies’ pocketbook factory
owned by my wife's uncle produced, besides grey hairs, a convic-
tion that if one’s life activity must be an endless headache, the
source of the aggravation must at least be closely associated with
one’s basic interests. I returned, therefore, to the chemical industry
as manager of a small multi-product enterprise. Business volume
quadrupled and profits increased six-fold during my six years’
association, but the highly precarious status of all small businesses
in this field remained. The personal cost was not justified by the
gains and the prospects.

In 1957, I returned to Gulton Industries, which has grown from
the twenty-employee organization of 1948 to,an 800-employee,
nationally recognized manufacturer of electronics and specialized
ceramic components. The activity is satisfying and challenging.
Exploitation of materials properties by the electronics industry is
literally on the outermost frontiers of scientific advance. It is most
stimulating to be a part of such endeavors.

A chemist is always occupied and preoccupied. The concern
with advances and changing technology is a fully occupying activ-
ity. While I have twinges of conscience over a lack of activity in
the public benefit, I am personally satisfied to be fully occupied
by my employment.

Raising a family of two is satisfying only in the observation of
achieved results. The endeavor has been an uneasy and precarious
process the final results of which only time can assess. One supreme
futility is now apparent. With my children at an age when they
could be partners in a multitude of activities such as mountain-
climbing, tennis, skating—the moment for which I have been
waiting —I am now no longer one whit interested in developing
muscular soreness.

[ 1026 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS JOSEPH O'KEEFFE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 83 Woodledge Rd., Needham gz, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: WNAC-TV, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 26, 1913, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Anselm’s College High School, Manchester, NH.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREE: s.B. (Boston Univ.).

MARRIED: Catherine McDonald, Nov. 29, 1941, Newton Center, Masa con -
DREN: Thomas Joseph, Jr., 1944; David E.. 1946; Kevin J.. 1943.

OccUPATION: Engineer, Engineering Dept. WNAC and WNAC.- EV,

MEMBER OF: Point Independence Yacht Club; Watertown Yacht Club, US.
Power Squadrons.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I took an S.B. degree from Boston Uni-
versity. On graduation I went to work for Cadillac Automotule
Company of Boston, in new car sales. I remained here for about
a year, after which I joined Radio Station WESX in the engineer:
ing department. I remained at WESN for six months, leaving to
join the engineering department of WWNAC and WNAC-TV. This
was in May of 1940. I have been in their employ ever since, as an
engineer.

On the 29th of November, 1g4t, I marricd a very sweet girl,
Catherine McDonald of Newton Center. We have three sons
Thomas Joseph, Jr., age sixteen; David F., age fourtcen and Kevin
J., age eight.

In July, 1942, I was commissioned as an ensign in the US Naval
Reserve and was on active duty until May of 1946. My overseas
duties were performed on a submarine tender in the South Paine.
I have kept an active interest in the Naval Reserve and am presently
a commander.

After the war, Kay and I bought a house at 843 Woollede Red
in Needham where we still reside. [ have hepe the sca aemy hediby

[ 1027 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

and am enthusiastically joined by my family. We live on our 32-
foot Chris-Craft Katom IV all summer at the Point Independence
Yacht Club in Onset, Massachusetts, and enjoy our Cape cruising
from there. I serve as naval aide to the Governor of Massachusetts
and am on the Governor’s Safe Boating Commission.

STANLEY L. OLINICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2120 Yorktown Rd., N.W., Washington 12, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Suite 405, 5410 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington 15, D.C.

BoRN: May 1, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., #agna cum laude, 1936, M.D. (Univ.
of Buffalo), 1940.

marrieD: Katherine Perry, June 14, 1943, Washington, D.C. (divorced 1959);
Yvonne van der Reyden, Sept. 20, 1959.

occupation: Physician: psychoanalyst, private practice and teaching.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1953-57, president, 1959-61, Washington Psychoanalytic
Society; training and supervising analyst, Washington Psychoanalytic In-
stitute; clinical associate professor of psychiatry, Georgetown University
School of Medicine; consultant, Washington Institute of Mental Hygiene.

MEMBER OF: Washington Psychoanalytic Society, Washington Psychiatric
Society; Medical Society of District of Columbia; American Psycho-
analytic Association; American Psychiatric Association (fellow); American
Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow).

pusLicaTions: Articles in the field of psychoanalysis in Journal of the American
Psychoanalytic Association, in field of psychiatry in Journal for the Study
of Interpersonal Processes, etc.

I WOULD guess that each of us of the Class of 1936 epitomizes
some aspect of the variety of conflicts in the world today. For
myself, I should like to have been able to cultivate my own garden
quietly, with time for study and the indulgence of curiosity. No

[ 1028 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one could have forescen, twenty-five years avo, the wast expansions
of scope, influence and prestige (positive and negative) that pouches
analysis would accrue to itself. The head-shrnker of soothover
today meddles in quite a few gardens other than his own.

But on balance, and I hope without hubris or deceit, it has gone
well. I've been shaken up often cnough, by my patents and ochery
to have learned some humility, and thereby to have been able to
acquire some wisdom and achieve some happiness, Pam enjes ing
the continuing quest for the meanings of living. And as te wah
quests for meanings— which are what cvery prvchoanalyus ns
about no less than every life —the answers I think reside in the
continuing acts of questioning. In any cas, I have w fac found
nothing more satisfactory than the response given by an oller,
wiser psychoanalyst. Freud, when asked what was the purpune of
life, is said to have replied, “To work and toa love.”

MELVIN AUGUST OLSON

 

HOME Appress;: 19 Landmark Lane, Rockport, Mas

OFFICE ApprEss: Chester C. Stewart, Chemical Fngincen, § Beason Se, Becton,
Mass,

BoRN: May 28, 1915, Rockport, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rockport High School, Rockport, Maw.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1934, 193§-1937. DEGREE: BB, MEAT EtF,

MARRIED: Elizabeth Janette Cruickshank, May te saga, Revelew. Sisen cons
DREN: Sigrid Elizabeth, Sept. 12, 1996. Peter Harton, Jan oa, yg?

occupaTION: Manufacturers’ agent, sales enginece.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1946-50, chairman, rgea, Finanwe Caoanrnecre, Powe
of Rockport; director, since tgs, chairman tute te. Rew kpewe Ob seer
American Red Cross, chairman, Coownittee te Saaty Town (cee rrnnncse,
1957-60; corporator, Granite Savings Bank, ance tye, commrmuicntes, (NN

[ 1029 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of North Shore; Sandy Bay Yacht Club; Ashler
Lodge, AF. & A.M,

MY professional career has been in the field of industrial chemistry,
which [ indicated to be my choice some twenty-five years ago.
The first decade, with a four-year interruption in the Navy, was in
industrial research. Since then, I have been employed as a sales
engineer. This activity is much less confining and far more to my
liking. Productivity can be directly measured — and rewarded —
and the contribution to process technology i is not insignificant. My
current activity is the representation in New England of the Mixing
Equipment Company, Inc., of Rochester, New York, a leader in
the manufacture of fluid mixing equipment, with a sound record of
investigative work into the scientific fundamentals of mixing, which
has so long been regarded as an art.

For four years during World War II, I was on active duty with
the Navy. After the usual indoctrination courses, I was assigned
to the Amphibious Force and saw action in the Mediterranean as
commander, first of an L.C.T. group and later of a flotilla. These
commands participated in the occupation of Tunisia and the inva-
sions on D-Day of Sicily, Salerno, Anzio-Nettuno and Southern
France. For the action at Anzio I was awarded the Legion of
Merit by the U.S. Navy and the British “Mention in Dispatches”
by the Admiralty.

Betty and I were married early in the war and spent our first two
anniversaries separated by the breadth of the Atlantic. After
almost nineteen years we have shared much happiness, two typical
teen-agers whose futures I am sure will be much more exciting
than ours and a home overlooking Sandy Bay. We have been in-
volved in the usual preoccupations of Scouts, music lessons, church
and civic affairs. Sigrid and Peter enjoy life in Rockport as much
as we do. It is somewhat “small town” in terms of adequacy of

schooling and recreation, but this can be a challenge to personal
improvization. When summer comes we each grow another web
between our toes, and along with the children, who have become
enthusiastic sailors, the old man is finding time to do a bit of sailing
himself.
Politically, 1 am an Eisenhower-Nixon Republican by persuasion.

In action, my contributions have been nonpartisan on a local basis.

In retrospect, life over the past two and a half decades has been
exciting and interesting. I am sure that the future will be even
more so. A happy family life, unity of interest and purpose, a firm

[ 1030 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

conviction that serious devotion to sound religious principle, tex
ether serve to insure that what is yet to come wall be worth f awry
with confidence.

CHARLES BARTHOLOMEW O'NEILL, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3544 Burning Bush Drive, Birmingham, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1200 Penobscot Bldg., Detroit, Mich.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1915, Provincetown, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambrulge, Masa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cit laude, 1936; 84.8. 1919

MARRIED: Jane Walton, Dec. 19, 1932, Detroit, Mich. cunones: Chuck, toes,
Jeff, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Land development and building.

A RECITAL of what has happened to me since 1934 would never
make a good “This is Your Life” program, since nothing of particu.
lar moment or consequence has taken place.

On the other hand, regardless of its not being an inspiration 0
others, my own “happy as a clam” feeling is that E wouldn't
ticularly want to swap places with too many of the TV) subjcets
By way of a synopsis sketch, here goes:

For the three scholastic years following 1934. 1 attended and
graduated in undistinguished fashion from the Law Schoul In the
summer of °39 I migrated to Detroit in pursuit of @ love which was
soon mutually determined to be a “three-summer romance” —- with
no future. Having returned to Massachusetts with the intention of
entering the field of law, but then thinking that [had flunked the
Bar exam, I took a plane back to Detroit in January, rogen tee cept
a ninety-dollar-a-month “position” with a mortyaye company,
After the usual several months of wainng for the exam resilea |

[ 1038 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

has accomplished nothing whatsoever except a feeling of complete
satisfaction with the world —and no problems.

JOHN RICHARD O’NEILL

 

HOME appREss: 15 Cross Ridge Rd., Chappaqua, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Campbell Sales Co., 2 Overhill Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

BORN: March 29, 1914, Arlington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

Marrigp: Rita McCarthy, June 29, 1940, Arlington, Mass. cuipren: R. Laraine,
Sept. 17, 1942; John Richard, Jr, March 31, 1947; Cathy, Aug. 9, 1951.

occupation: District sales manager, Frozen Food Division, Campbell Sales
Company, Metro, New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Westchester.

LOOKING back to 1936, one wonders how twenty-five years could
have passed by so quickly. I would like to think that I haven't
changed much, but a quick glance in the mirror dispels that illusion.
Frankly, not too much has happened to me since I left Harvard.
Beyond some mandatory training in the Navy, I have done little
to further my education. I married in 1940, and have three children.
My elder daughter graduates from Horace Greeley High School
(Chappaqua, New York) in June and expects to study for a nursing
career. My son enters high school next year and my younger
daughter will be in the fifth grade.
_ My entire business career has been with the Campbell Soup
Company. After spending three years in the Navy in World War
II, I lived in Arlington, Massachusetts, until 1950. We lived in
Albany, New York, for a few years, then moved to Cleveland. For
almost three years I have been working in New York City, and

{ 1034 ]

een

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

living in Westchester County. Commuting to and from New York
City can be difficult, especially when trains are Lite. blowcever,
one learns how to live with antiquated transpertanon and cold din.
ners. Recently our office was moved from Manhattan to Searmalale,
so life once more is more pleasant.

For the most part, I am and have been very happy during the
past twenty-five years. I like my work, my employer and mv
business associates. [I have been very happily marned fur over
twenty years and have a fine family. I hope sincerely: that my
next twenty-five years will be as rew arding as the hase.

LEE WOLFF OPPENHEIMER

 

HOME apprEss: 161 W. 75th St., New York 23, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York City Housing Authority, 2g9 Broadway, New York,
N.Y.

BorN: March 27, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston High School, Riverdale, New York, “NY.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: a.B. (New York Unuv..

MaRRIED: Ruth Sussman, Dec. 24, 1941, New York, N.Y. cratsese Jerre
Aug. 6, 1952; Peter, April 5, 1957.

occupation: Management of public housing projects.

[ 1035 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

LOUIS HERBERT ORR, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Sequams Lane, E., West Islip, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scaltest Foods, 808 Seventh Ave., New York 19, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Katherine Snyder, Sept. 15, 1939, Garden City, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Louis Herbert, 3d, Nov. 13, 1940; Stephen Halsey, Feb. 11,
1945; Mary Villers, Noy. 7, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thompson Decker Orr, °43.

occupation: Sales promotion and advertising manager, Sealtest Foods, dairy

products.
OFFICES HELD: Member and vice-president, School Board UFD 9, West Islip,
1949-51; member, Advisory Council, Southside Hospital, Bay Shore, New

York.
MEMBER OF: Babylon Yacht Club (commodore, 1957, 1958); South Bay Cruising
Club; Great South Bay Y.R.A. Race Committee.

IT has been a good twenty-five years, almost without exception,
and the busiest part of it seems to be right now with fast-growing
kids, lots of sailing and a hectic and exciting job. Visiting a hockey-
playing sophomore, at coeducational Middlebury, is a real eye-
opener, checking on a fourth-former at St. Paul’s is nostalgic, but
frightening to find classmates now senior faculty members; just
living in the house with an eighth-grade daughter is a terrifying
experience all by itself.

Recreationally, we all seem to sail on something. The tuition
squeeze retired me as a seven-handicap golfer long ago and switched
me into a race committee whistle blower and an available crew on
anything from a frost-biting Penguin to a deep-water ketch. Libby
and I crew as a couple in our local shallow water cruising club,

[ 1036 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

watch our oldest hike out as a Star crew, and tow or trail a hoe
built Blue Jay skipper and crew to weekend regattas.

During the week it’s a long commute on the much maligned Le
\sland railroad, to hustling and huckstering of packaged dairy pr
ucts, as sales promotion and advertising manager of Scaltest, in N
York. Twenty-one years of pushing consumer products has ob
erated all memory of three earlier years on Wall Strect, along
two quick years in little amphibs at Okinawa.

Though my family does not necessarily agree, there has rea
not been too great a physical change. I still have hair and did js

manage to survive my annual challenge squash match with numb:
two son, without the aid of oxygen.

GEORGE ARMSTRONG OTT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 261 Grove St., Wellesley, Mass.
Born: July 11, 1914, Fort Worth, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19321934.

Maraiep: Sarah Corwin Mead, July 17, 1937, Dayton, Ohta. omnes Jenne
Thomas; Sarah Griffin; Nancy Maxwell; Manta Diauons Henry Meas.

FAMILY life excellent — wife, four daughters and a son — phuw a

sizeable group of immediate family and amenable in-laws Have

enjoyed a full range of community activities. Business life at Girnes

difficulr, but on the whole satisfactory — providing, at beast to date,

an adequate return. A fair amount of interesting foreyn travel, ancl

a lot of fun at various sports— now confined pretty much to on

erratic and unreliable game of golf. All in all, s guod ewenty-five

years,

[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

DOUGLAS WILLIAM OVERTON

mm |

   

      

HOME ADDRESS: 1270 Fifth Ave., New York 20, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Japan Society, Inc. 112 E. 64th St.. New York 21, N.Y.

porN: April 9, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTION: Executive director, Japan Society, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, American History and English, St. Paul’s University,
Tokyo, Japan, 1936-41; director, Institute for American Studies, 1939-41;
US. Foreign Service officer, 1945-52; executive director, Japan Society,
Inc., since 1952; vice-president, American Council for St. Luke’s Interna-
tional Medical Center, Tokyo, Greater New York Council on Foreign
Students; trustee, Council on Economic and Cultural Affairs, Inc., The
Asia Trust; member board of managers, The Overseas Mission Society,
Inc.; member of council, American Church Union, Inc.; member, Visiting
Committee on Far Eastern Civilizations, Harvard College; vestryman,
Church of the Resurrection, New York.

MEMBER OF: Century Association, University Club, Nippon Club (all New
York City); Council on Foreign Relations, American Committee for
KEEP; English-Speaking Union; China Society; Japan-American Citizens
League; American Foreign Service Association; National Association of
Foreign Student Advisers, Association for Asian Studies.

PuBLicaTions: A Documentary History of the United States (in Japanese);
An Introduction to Japan, with Herschel Webb and Hugh Borton;
decorations, Legion of Merit, US. Army; Order of the Sacred Treasure,
Japan.

HARVARD, for me, led to Japan, largely on the whim of the then
master of Lowell House. It is a step I have never regretted, for it
has led to a twenty-five-year involvement with that country and its
people. The years 1936-41 were spent in Tokyo teaching in a
large university. I learned a lot, though my only honor from that

[ 1038 ]

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

period is the rather dubious one of having been the fire aed bet
American history teacher in Japan before Pearl Plarbor,

The year 1941 saw me back in the States, signed up for some
graduate work at Yale, a development rather unsympathencally cut
short at its outset by Local Draft Board No. 9 ‘of Concord, New
Hampshire, which had other plans for me. The plans went a bit
askew in those confusing days, for I was set to studving Portuguese
rather than using my Japanese. Since we never went to war with
Portugal or Brazil, this all came to naught. I did, however, end u
in a unit which needed my Japanese, and the end of the war saw
me a good deal trimmer than ever before (or since), a@ major in the
Signal Corps, and the somewhat confused possessor of a Legion of
Merit — referred to by my enlisted men as the officers Canad
Humor Bar.

In 1946 I joined the Department of State as a foreign service
officer and was assigned back to Japan, this time as vice-consul in
Yokohama. Later I moved on to Tokyo as Sccond Sceretary at the
American Embassy, and from 1950 to 1952, [served in Washingtog
as deputy Japan Desk officer in the Department. This axaynment
led to a certain amount of involvement with the Japanese treaty
negotiations and a warm friendship with two of the principals:
John Foster Dulles and John D. Rockefeller, 3d. Their views nibbed
off on me to a considerable extent, and after two vears I was teady
to leave Government and strike out for a carcer ina field that we all
passionately believed in as the wave of the future: international
cultural relations.

In 1952 I left the Department of State to join the Japan Newrety
in New York, as its executive director. [T shall moe decal all) oes
activities — its fellowships, grants, work with secondary webrs mechs arted
art activities — suffice to say, it has proved to be the mene cvitny
and demanding job I have ever undertaken, for the rcltiondup of
Japan and the United States today is a decp onc. Sooner of beer,
every important American group gets entangled with Japan, and
my job is to create the kind of climate to facilitate that conte
for each country needs, and has much to offer to, the other.

Some years before the appearance of The Ugly Awrican, |
reached the conclusion that the world has had enough of the kerrer-
day missionaries of secularism from the West, be they gevcenine rsd
functionaries or foundation bureaucrats. Actually, fer all the ree
takes of the past, only the Church — in my Case the BP preg eognal
Church — knows where it is going in Asia and in the world pater,

[ 1039 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

and my extracurricular activities have been largely devoted to help-
ing in that mission. At present, I serve on the boards of several
church organizations. It is a privilege to give that time.

What did Harvard give me? Nothing that I can exactly measure
in terms of knowledge, but something rather precious in terms of
security and sophistication, I think. Excellent as many of the uni-
versities of America, Europe and Asia are today, I have never
regretted the choice of Harvard. None of my benefits are really
definable. Harvard gives one a state of mind, one that is real, mean-
ingful and important. I shall never be able to repay my debt.

DAVID HUBERT PABST

 

HOME appreEss: Route 5, Oconomowoc, Wis.

OFFICE appRess: Pabst Farms, Inc., Route 5, Oconomowoc, Wis.

BORN: May 11, 1913, Milwaukee, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.,; Milwaukee Country Day
School, Milwaukee, Wis,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1936. DEGREE: §.B,, 1936.

MarrieD: Yvonne Giliuson, Sept. 1, 1937, Crown Point, Ind. cHmpren: Yvonne
Maxine, Dec. 13, 1940; David Hubert, Jr., March 25, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick August Pabst, Jr, Bus. Sch., 1922-23; Rudolf
Pabst, Bus. Sch., 1924-25; August U. Pabst, ru.p., '28 (deceased); Robert
Erwin Pabst, M.z.a. °31.

occupation: President, Pabst Farms, Inc., 1400-acre dairy farm.

orrices HELD: President, Pabst Engineering, Milwaukee, 1938-39, Pabst Farms,
Inc., since 1946, instructor, Ground School, N.AS., Corpus Christi,
executive officer and captain, PC-610, executive officer, DE-350, U.S.N.R,
1941-453 director, School Board, Summit State Graded School, 1950-56;
director, Oconomowoe National Bank, since 1953, International Dairy
Show, Chicago, since 1953, National Tax Equality Association, since 19583
director and member executive committee, since 1957,

resident, since
19595 University Lake School, Hartland, Wisconsin, P

[ 1040 ]

—-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Oconomowoc Lake Club, Milwaukee Club, Milwaukee & arrrery
Club; University Club, Milwaukee; Oconumowoe Rotary Club,

pusLicaTions: Manual, “Aerial Photography.” Naval Ate Sestmen Corpers
Christi, Texas.

AFTER graduation, immediately went to work for McCullagh
Engineering Company (now McCulloch Corporation, workl's
largest manufacturer of chain saws) as apprentice machinist, janitor
and personnel manager — there was one other emplovee in the
shop and the boss was afraid to tell him he had B.O. As the organs-
zation grew an office was added, and after some months a conwlila-
tion took place between the two divisions — shop employee number
one married office employee number onc. After a year or sa,
decided to go into business on my own and after several months
found myself looking at the want ads for a job.

Finding my Harvard education sadly lacking — an S.B. in geogra-
phy didn’t seem to impress anyone — I took up chemical engincer-
ing at Marquette University. By the following June | was the proud
possessor of a good set of gradcs, a six-month-old daughtce, and
a brown manila envelope containing an invitation from the US
Navy for a get-together in Corpus Christi, Texas.

My first blunder upon reporting for duty was to acknow ledje
that the difference between a gasoline engine and a diesel was that
the latter required no spark plugs. This technological astutenes
qualified me as instructor in high-powered, two-bank, fourteen:
cylinder aircraft engines — my inability to start my own Len,
mower seemed inconsequential. My sccond blunder was to mention
that in the course of studying geography at Elurvard, U had once
held an aerial camera. My next assigninent was to write a manual
on aerial photography!! After a year of teaching my one qlee
daily, and playing ping-pong for “cokes” the reve of ‘the tune, I
had reached two hundred pounds and gained promotion to bew.
tenant (j.g.), both fully qualifying me for sea dury.

The following twelve months were spent as Free. amd CO) of
a PC boat cruising the balmy sub-ridden waters of the South
Atlantic, with headquarters in the PC Otficer’ Club, Veinsted
Highlights of this escort duty were relayed sun baching (PC's are
too small and shallow of draft to merit a torpedo), the pin mille of
Recife, and depth-charging two excellent sonar contacts what
turned out to be a sunken wreck and a school of tuna. The only
blight on my record during this period was at the tune ef a mae
overhaul in Charleston where the captain of the Nav ¥ yard reawneet

[ 1098 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

our “modus operandi.” The evening before our departure, we had
given the night-shift foreman ten pounds each of coffee, sugar and
butter, in exchange for which he had his crew cut all the bulkheads
from midships forward, completely install a destroyer-type wash
machine (had to use a sink up to this time), reweld the bulkheads,
and cover the crime with a new coat of paint. Believe it set an all-
time efficiency record for the yard.

My next assignment took me back to Miami where I was most
pleasantly surprised to find Jim Kilbreth, my skipper on the DE-
350, which we were soon to commission. The following months
were spent in training in Bermuda and making several escort runs
to the Mediterranean, followed by a year in the Pacific escorting
convoys to places already tranquilized by others. The Kilbreths
are, by the way, our most frequent contact with the Class of 1936,
getting together on a more or less semi-annual basis for a round
of fun.

Since my (honorable) discharge in December of 1945, I have
thrived on government price supports, via the medium of dairy
farming in America’s dairyland. Our main products are purebred
Holsteins and manufactured milk products produced in a plant here
and one near Madison. Unfortunately, we cannot match Carnation’s
motto “From Contented Cows,” since we use only artificial breed-
ing. Recently, have been in touch with Paul Sturges and purchased
an excellent heat exchanger he invented for heating water with the
hot gas produced by a refrigeration compressor and normally
wasted. Since 1946 we have had several most enjoyable visits with
Ernst Teves — twice here, once at his home in Frankfurt while on
a tour of Europe and Great Britain, then here last summer when he
and his charming bride, Paule, were on their honeymoon.

Still occupy my spare time with machine shop work and photog-
raphy, although the latter has suffered considerably as a result of
Yvonne’s recent attitude: (1) Since my camera collection became
rather unreasonably large, she rationalizes that any new equipment
enutles her to a new fur coat. (2) She resented my making color
prints, merely because the length of the process required spending
every and all weekends and most evenings in the darkroom. Lack
of space and education necessitates a short answer to your inquiry
as to my social, political or religious convictions: few friends;

shattered on November 8; none.

[ 1042 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN PAGE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Glen Green, Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ark-Les Switch Corp. 51 Water Sc, Warcrewn, VWaw

BORN: May 27, 1913, Winchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mfass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Fowle, May 1, 1936, Winchester, Maw. crutpass. Joba
Eben, 2d, Aug. 30, 1938; Lucy Ann, Feb. 7, togz. Andrew Jock, Sepe. &

1945-
HARVARD SON: John Eben Page, 2d, 60.

occuPATION: Purchasing agent.
MEMBER OF: Masons; Winchester Country Club.

AFTER beating Dean Bender to the door after mid-vear of the
second year, I went to work for my brother sclling Ford carn
After a year at this I went to work in the Sales Departinent of the
Holtzer Cabot Company, and stayed with this until igig At thot
time I moved to New Hampshire with the idea of buying a hard-
ware store in either New Hampshire or Maine. “This lister't ren
out, so I came back to Winchester in iggo and went to work fog
Ark-Les Switch Corporation, Have been with them for twenty cone
years and last year took over as purchasing arent.

Iam happy that my elder son was able to graduate from Poe.
vard last year, and enjoyed watching hockey even though it was on
a JV level. My chicf hobbics are fishing, hunting, golf, ant eurhag
—am happy to say my good wife joins me in all of these activites
Still working hard to help finish educating three children.

[ 1043 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MILTON ZELIG PAISNER

 

HOME AND OFFICE appRESS: 706 Pontiac Ave., Cranston, R.I.

BorN: May 20, 1915, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriep: Martha Gloria Kaplan, Radcliffe °38, Sept. 14, 1941, Providence, R.I.
CHILDREN: William Lee, March 25, 1943; Robert Joseph, Feb. 11, 1945
(died Sept. 10, 1946); James Michael, Dec. 17, 1947; Susan Roberta, Feb.
16, 1950.

HARVARD SON: William Lee Paisner, ’64.

HARVARD BROTHER: Isadore Paisner, ’33, LL.B. 36.

occuPaTION: Manufacturers’ representative, electronics industry.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Rhode Island Committee for a Direct Primary, 1948-51,
board, Miriam Hospital, 1950-53; director, Rhode Island Home Rule
Association, 1953-55; co-chairman, Cranston Citizens’ League for Home
Rule, 1955; secretary, Rhode Island Citizens’ Association for Public Schools,
1960-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rhode Island (Schools Committee, since 1958);
Providence Jewelers Club.

ON this my twenty-fifth year of graduation, I have come full
circle! If all is well, I shall graduate again by getting a Master’s
degree in French at Brown University, this June. Why should a
manufacturers’ representative in the electronics industry find him-
self studying Voltaire, Proust, Sartre, etc.? This, in a nutshell, is
the story of my life!

During the war I studied Japanese at the Army Language Schools
in Michigan and Minneapolis. I later served as a cryptanalyst in
the language, at the Army Security Agency installation in Wash-
ington, D.C. I was discharged in 1945 with the rank of first lieu-
tenant.

After the war I entered business (retail jewelry, a most short-lived

[ 1044 ]

_—_s

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and unprofitable venture). Because of lack of pracuce, TP soon un-
Jearned much of my Japanese and began to get involved with ocher
interests. I ran local study groups, became interested in my cunt
munity and headed a citizens’ committee for home rule, “This was
five years ago, and so slowly do reforms take etfect that we are not
yet operating under a home rule charter! In the pase three veary
I have enjoyed working on the Schools Committce of the Plarvard
Club of Rhode Island, and serving as a member of Joe Procece’s
re-reunion activities committee.

For the past eight years I have been a manufacturers representa.
tive, a line of work I find extremely challenging. My terntory in
New England and is concentrated mostly in the scmi-conductor
section of the electronics industry. From time to time T have run
into several of our classmates who, too, have thinning har and
“laugh lines” around the eyes.

Since graduation I have done a tremendous amount of reading
(my hobby — just as others fish, golf, or go to mectings), but tn an
undirected manner. Three years ago I approached Brown Univer:
sity and requested permission to take graduate courses in French,
leading eventually to a Master’s degree. They were nent ayrecable
(our Alma Mater was not!), and I have taken one course a scmestcr,
sandwiched in between earning a living, doing my buuness paper
work, and acting as an authority on my children’ $ tangled alycbra
problems, Latin and French translations, ete. If I complete my theus
on Maupassant on time, I shall get the degree (get my tules
changed, my wife says) in June. Studving French hrerature ts both
my avocation and a possible plan for retirement. If PE continue to
study, and if after the next ten, busy years (putting three children
through college, etc.) I should decide to teach, shall have a founda:
tion on which to start! I agree, at this point, with George Iernard
Shaw, who claimed that education was wasted on the soung. Fromm
my perspective and years of expericnee, I] find thie I gee much
more out of all my academic reading than do the young green grad.
uate students!

As to my family — my son, Bill, is a freshman at Plarvard thos
year. His interests are in the Math-Physics-Plectronus held and
he is a musician, playing piano and clarinet. Currently, he's pred
to be part of the Harvard-Radclitfe orchestra. Jimiis in the seventh
grade at Moses Brown School in Providence, and is an enthuse sites
Boy Scout, armchair philosopher, and Ivy League in his arnberiens’
Susan is almost cleven and in the fifth grade, buw with Corcd Ne este,

[ 1046 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ballet and piano—an omnivorous reader like her brothers and
most lively company. I have been the patient husband of an ex-
tremely active member of the League of Women Voters through-
out our nineteen years of marriage and fee] that I deserve a life asso-
ciate membership. This dedication to the community, along with
PTA, Scouts, and Sisterhood work (I am at present Mr. Sisterhood
president! ), makes this house an unpredictable place to be. But I
am thankful for one thing —I married her after women got the
right to vote, or she would have been in and out of jail fighting
for that privilege (in bloomers, no doubt). Living with a feminist
is an education in itself!

During the past several years, while changing diapers, playing
numerous games, buying, washing clothes, dishes, etc. — and watch-
ing the children grow up — we have tried to set for ourselves and
them high standards in scholarship and ethics. We've done this by
teaching brotherhood by example; this has its reward when a twelve-
year-old, in studying the subject of “Apartheid” in Africa, is ap-
palled at the injustice and cruelty of the segregation. We have tried
to expose the children to all kinds of discussion about the society in
which they live, and have pointed out repeatedly that all the scien-
tific advancement in the world won't help us, if we are not human
beings first.

All of this brings me to the conclusion that a liberal arts education,
no matter what one’s field of interest, is our best guarantee for the
future peace of the world—and what better place than Harvard
to get the best possible liberal education!

AARON PALEY

 

HOME appress: 6415 Montview Blvd., Denver 7, Colo.

[ 1046 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE apprEss: 1725 High Sc. Denver 18, Colo.

porn: Aug. 4, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Adclbert College, Cleveland, Oho,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DeGares: sm, magne cums Lamde, wait, wan
(Western Reserve Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Evelyn Stager, Dec. 25, 1942, Denver, Colo, cantpass, Robert Alan,
Feb. 25, 1949, Judith Ann, Sept. 3, 1958.

occuPATION: Psychiatrist in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Mount Airy Hospital, Denver, unce rasa, alteenare
chief, Psychiatric Service, Denver General Plospital, sgqr-én, durweme,
Denver Tuberculosis Association, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha, American Medical Awavtation, Amore on
Psychiatric Association; American Orthopsychisenie Asoc taen,

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on psychiatric subjects in profexwonal pournsh,

A PROFESSIONAL listener to the stories of other people's hives
finds it harder than most to narrate the story of his own. The facts
are simple enough — and of scant interest, except perhaps to thine
who already know them. The heart of the matter — the why and
the real why — seems too intricate for bricf summation, ton pemonal
for publication, too presumptuous to detail at length.

All of which any colleague and most amateur poychologizers will
instantly recognize as sheer rationalization, Nearee the truth
(though doubtless still rationalization) is that, although the veare
have been mostly quite kind, interesting and rewarding, still to ¢e-
trace a quarter-century step by step is a lugubrieus buunce

My social, political, or religious convictions? Well, that's more
fun. Suffice it to say, I am not immersed in gloom and forclsahog
The ills of the nations and the world, like the ils of indhvadualy are
potentially curable. That's as much of a break as we can ak fie as
individuals; I think it will have to suffice us as a world.

[ 1047 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GORDON PALMER

 

HOME ADDRESS: Box 308, Osprey, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Palmer First National Bank & Trust Co., Sarasota, Fla.

BORN: June 15, 1914, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MarriED: Janis Hardage, June 8, 1946, New York, N.Y.

occuPaTION: Owner, Palmer Nurseries, Osprey, Fla.; director, Palmer First
National Bank & Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Florida Lychee Growers Association, 1952-54; director,
United Appeal of Sarasota, 1960; crusade chairman, Sarasota Unit, Ameri-
can Cancer Society, 1960; trustee, New College, Inc., Sarasota.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Sarasota (president, 1958-60); Chicago Club;
Shoreacres Club, Lake Bluff, Ill; Field Country Club, Sarasota.

IN the fall of 1936 1 went to work in Chicago for the Commerce
Clearing House, Inc., publishers of loose-leaf law books. I left there
after three and a half years to go into the soft drink bottling business
with my brother and remained with that until December, 1941,
when I received an ensign’s commission and was ordered to report
to Washington, Navy Department, Bureau of Aeronautics, Plant Fa-
cilities Section. I stayed in the same office until released to inactive
duty as a lieutenant commander in April, 1946. It was there that I
met Wave ensign Janis Hardage who was assigned to our office. We
were married in June, 1946, and returned to Chicago in the au-
tumn.

My brother died that autumn, so I spent the next three years with
the bottling company, paddling upstream against rising costs with
a fixed selling price. In 1950 I had the opportunity of disposing of
the business and straightaway moved to my family’s property at
Osprey, Florida, to live, something I had always longed to do from
the time we used to spend our Easter vacations there as children.

[ 1048 ]

I «nc eR NET ET A Te Tr REET

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I entered the family bank in Sarasota in the Instalinent Loan De.
partment but soon figured I would never make a banker, beng omy
much of a sucker for a hard luck story, PE became interested an
tropical horticulture and began collecting and planting at the fanuy
place. I decided I had better know something about what PE was
getting myself into, so in 1952 I left the direct employ of the bank
and took a six weeks’ summer course in elementary botany: at the
University of Miami. Eight hours a day and half-day Saturday ~~
nothing at Harvard was ever as rough as that.

We had already planted at Osprey a grove of Iwchee trees which
bear a wonderful tropical fruit much relished by the Chinese ance
ancient times. In conjunction with this, I decided to start a plant
nursery and engaged a young man to manage it and began building
inventory. Thanks to a disastrous freeze a few years ago anf vars.
ous hurricanes and other difficulties, the nursery is stl not wholly
out of the woods but the prospects are now most encouraging |
never knew what I was getting into, having visualized an interesting
small business with a few people to run it. Now we employ about
eighty persons.

I kept my desk at the bank, along with a directorship, and now
work principally from there. With a competent manager thing
care of the nursery, I have had time to get mixed up with varrous
civic projects. One of the most interesting interludes was the ew
hibition at the bank last year of the Dali Jewel Collection. Another
exacting interest has been the presidency of the Ficld Club for the
past two years. This is a new country club organized in ges which
has gone through all the usual heartaches and growing pame of a
new club until now at last it is getting otf the ground.

Also, my wife and I have been lucky enough to be able te take
time’ ‘off during the summertimes, when here in Florida Ntpruase
becomes monotonously hot and September depresungly pany, We
have traveled a good deal with several trips to Purope and ethers
to Hawaii, the Fiji Islands, and to South Africa. A Preeceupatien
with horticulture has made these latter most interesting, and we are
looking forward some day to going to Australia and Japon

The family property at Osprey ts located about ten miles wrarts
of Sarasota. There we live in a house on a narrow and hie chet
for Florida — twenty fect) ancient Indian shell mound sei king eat
a quarter of a mile ‘into Little Sarasota Bay. Peas a heli! hefuak aol

beautiful site with water on beth sides, off the beaten parts anh we i
away from the hustle of the nearest highway,

[ 1049 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

The way of life on the west coast of Florida combines the recrea-
tion of a year-round resort and the interest of a busy business com-
munity, always with much to do but with few driving pressures or
ulcerous deadlines. With a population that doubles about every
eight or ten years, in many ways we live in a pioneering atmosphere
offering plenty of opportunities. With so many new people com-
ing in, there are always new friends to be made. Old friends on
vacation stop by all the time. There seems little chance of one’s
getting into the rut so often threatened by a static community.
Though we know many of the winter colony who live in Sarasota
for only a few months of the year, most of our friends are among
the year-round residents, expatriates from all sections of the North.
No one seems to have much of an axe to grind and everyone stays
pretty much busy, even the retired ones who soon find idle time
heavy on their hands. Our happiest times are in the late spring
and early summer months following the rush and excitement of the
“season.”

There is an absorbing fascination about the whole atmosphere of
life on Florida’s west coast. If I had to do it all over again, the
only change I would want to make would be to move to Sarasota
earlier in my life.

JOHN RICHARD PAPPENHEIMER

    

Speer NY
Po .
: '
Neil
¥

 

If

HOME appress: 15 Fayerweather St., Cambridge 38, Mass,

OFFICE apprEss: Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass,

BORN: Oct. 25, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.; Loomis School, Windsor,
Conn,

 

[ 1050 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: $.B, 1914, pup. Univ, of Carntentye,
England), 1940.

MaRRIED: Helena F. Palmer, Sept. 2, 194g, Tyringham, Mass. cruinass Cte
Alwin, April 21, 1953; William deRay, July 27, 1a¢g. Rosamond Gil tee,
June 5, 1957; Frank Richard, Jan. 30, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alwin Max Pappenheimer, Jr, "29, ren, °33.

occupaTIon: Professor of physiology and career investigators, Ameowan Peart
Association.

OFFICES HELD: Demonstrator in pharmacology, Univeruty College. London,
1939-40; instructor in physiology, College of Phystcrans and Surgeony
New York, 1940-42; fellow in biophysics, Johnson Foundanen, Can cours
of Pennsylvania, 1942-46; associate in physiology, 199% qa asustane pro.
fessor, 1949-53, Career investigator and visiting profewor, ume rycy,
Harvard Medical School.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Amerwan Phywokge al
Society; Harvey Society; Biophysical Society, Society of General Phyve
iology.

PUBLICATIONS: Some forty technical publications in sciennfic magannes, ehene,

Handbook of Respiratory Data in Aviation, member of several editesral
boards.

WE go the Way of All Flesh but Samucl Buder wrote compasaon-
ately, “It is not by what a man has actually put upon his canvay nor
yet by the acts which he has set down, so to speak, upon the canvas
of his life that I will judge him, but by what he makes me fccl he
felt and aimed at.” A comforting thought for this day of judgment,
but it is easier to describe acts than feelings.

I left Harvard to study physiology at Cambridge Univeruty.
There I was most fortunate in finding a sympathene preceptor whe
introduced me to exciting problems and gave me cnourh momentum
to pursue studies of my own. There were no crxaminationy ne
formal curriculum — rather a close personal asocutuion which may
best be described as an apprenticeship. T have tried to retain wore.
thing of this approach in dealing with my own graduate students
and fortunately the rules at Harvard are sutficiently clastic to make
this possible.

During the war some scientists were busy inventing new methests
of destruction; others were busy inventing new methods of amet.
ating the effects of destruction. Physiologists contnbuted te beth
aspects of this efficient process. In tggo PE jomed forces with G4
Millikan to start work on oxygen equipment for airerafe. Ne thas

time, only a few people were equipped to tackle the theeretne al ant
practical problems involved in designing OW ECR apparatus for beh
altitude operations. Milhkan had the viven to antipate the ey

[ tose |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

mense requirements of our slowly developing Air Force, and he
also had the unselfish desire and courage to act. We worked very
hard indeed, always with a sense of urgency, for almost six years.
After the war, | came to Harvard to serve as assistant professor of
physiology and to resume prewar studies on the physiology of the
capillaries. Public support for fundamental studies in medical science
began to expand. In 1953 the American Heart Association made
available funds for several professorships carrying lifetime endow-
ment for research, and I was fortunate enough to be selected for
one of these. I have worked mostly on kidneys, capillaries, and
lungs, but lately we have become interested in the fluid environment
of the brain. We have chosen to work with goats (for non-capri-
cious reasons) and if you fly over the Harvard Medical School on
a fine day you may see my horned colony capering on the roof.
Professional life has its moments of elation, but fundamentally I
am a domestic animal not averse to washing dishes, weeding the
garden, and changing diapers. 1 was fortunate in escaping several
potentially wrong marriages and even more fortunate in not escap-
ing the right one. My wife is an excellent violinist and musician;
she has many devoted pupils from Harvard and Radcliffe and man-
ages mysteriously to continue teaching in the midst of our large
and active household. I still fumble along on the cello, and we play
string quartets when we can. Mostly Haydn, Mozart, Brahms,
and Beethoven, with occasional daring excursions into Bartok. We
have four energetic offspring young enough to be my grandchil-
dren. I still cycle from Cambridge to the lab in Brookline and enjoy
the morning ride alongside the River and the new Harvard build-
ings. Return in the evening is sometimes cold and windy, but this
makes our evening cocktail in front of the fire even more attractive.
In summertime, my family moves to the Berkshire homestead and
I visit weekends, often with a bevy of goats and guests from the
lab. 1 have been abroad several times; in 1957 I was invited to lec-
ture at several Swedish universities and chose the time to overlap
with Easter skiing in Norway, thus recapturing the joys of a pre-
vious (1937) expedition to the wild and magnificent Jotunheimen.

It seems to me that the greatest of the many postwar political
tragedies is the rift with China. I think the people of our country
will have to adapt to the inevitable crescendo of evolution in Asia.
The United States is, after all, a relatively small country with limited

resources. Logically, it should end up as the third or fourth most
productive region of the globe. It seems to me that the things we

[ 1052 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dislike about Communism would not long survive the achievement
of a high standard of living in Communist countries. At feast this
should be our hope and guide in foreign policy.

Harvard, however, will retain its lead. IT think it has improved
in several respects since our day. But one has to be extraordinary
mature to understand and enjoy a full undergraduate hfe at Har.

yard. I do not feel mature enough, but I know some undergraduates
who are and I envy them.

EDWARD CODMAN PARISH, JR.

 

HOME ApDpDRESS: Lincoln Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE appress: P, O, Box 1605, Providence 1, RI

BORN: June 15, 1912, Elbson, N.J.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB. 1936.

MARRIED: Joan deForest Brush, July 21, 1935, Dublin, N-H. cm_nasx: Dasvel
Seymour, Feb. 1, 1938; Suzannah B, July 26, tggo (mm. William Weston

Brown, Jr., Nov. 8, 1958); Mittie T., April 4. toy7. cassoose: Bleabech
B. Brown.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Parish, 2d, °26.

OccuPATION: New England district manager, Leesona Corporation, tevtsle me-
chinery.

OFFICES HELD: Past secretary, Emmanuel Church, Dublin, NLEL, vestevinan, Se
Anne’s Church, Lincoln, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Wamsutta Club, New Bedford, Mass.

1 AM sure that a very large percentage of our Classmates feel alinene
as appalled as I do, faced with the prospect of reporting on the lw
twenty-five years, It is fortunate that we do not really remember

all the details. Prob: ably it Would make the Years scem even shuster
than they do looking back at only the high lights,

[ 1053 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I have always been interested in education and, for my first three
years after graduation, taught on the elementary level, believing
that these years were the most important in helping children prepare
for life.

Since that time, I have been in various endeavors that, strangely
enough, do not seem as different from teaching as I had expected
they would. I have sold everything from ball-bearings to textile
machinery and find that it is an opportunity to have many happy
friendships with a large group of men throughout New England
and the Midwest, where my present travels carry me.

After living in New England, Pennsylvania, Georgia, and then,
finally, New England again, I have been happily settled for the last
ten years with my wonderful wife and family in Lincoln, Massa- .
chusetts. Joan and I were married before my senior year in college
and have already had our twenty-fifth anniversary.

Our son has graduated from Colby College and is now at grad-
uate school at the University of Chicago. Our elder daughter is
married and we have a granddaughter. Our younger daughter is
thirteen and still at home, to our great joy.

I enjoy skiing and sailing and mowing the lawn. Two of my
indoor sports are reading Bernard Shaw and repairing dilapidated
furniture, of which we have an endless collection.

GEORGE DEMING PARKER

 

HOME abpreEss: 3695 Ivy St. Denver 7, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4919 E. 38th Ave., Denver 7, Colo,

BORN: Oct. 24, 1913, Everett, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREE: D.M.D., 1938.

MaRRiED: Virginia Hewitt, 1945. CHILDREN: Janet, 1948; Russell, 1950,

[ 1054 |

mere eR Tee

PSTH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM STEWARE PARQUL UT

 

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Cann

BORN: Oct. 1, 1915, Salem, Afass.

PREPARED AT: Salem Classical High School, Salem, Viaw

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. Demers: sm, tgy6, ane (Une. af Cosmas tee,

1956.
MARRIED: Rosemary Dorothy Tubini, March t1, tags, Ieanteal, Tucker ene |

DREN: Linda Jeanne, July 16, 1946, William bugene, Joos gr, tyes, baw,
rence Stewart, March 21, 1952.

occuPATION; Teacher; head of English Department, Pomfret Sheed

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Christ Fpiscopal Church, Pomfece, © osu

AFTER graduation I fumbled a bie untl | decaded te po ts the
School of Education and work toward the new deyree, VME a
Teaching. I found the study of education, after the somulatury veare
at the College, fairly dull, ‘and quit the program at the end a sane
year without the degree. After vears of teaching, DP woult ay se
young people to teach a few vears fine and then po aftrr aah a
degree.

I tried the insurance busines for a bricf tine, but was wo abe per cel
with the idea of dedicating my hfe to a desk andite paper Goat ld
fled in a frenzy to teaching. ‘T have never reserettc dd pha lee racus
although at times there are frustrations eneurh, Domta ath
1938, they (the talent scouts) were noe treatin thew nt glwora an
college placement offices. In fact. one could have a mere cheers
time in a morgue,

In the fall of 1938, P began a three-year teachin aro ae Be
College, Istanbul, Turkev. These were wonderful versa ef ts
ing, meeting new people, writing, reading and of crave arcaoed 3
I marricd the daughter of the head of the cleat aber uween cn te
partinent out there. In to4gt, Rosemary and Dteek the Pesce tee

[ tog }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

rian Express on our honeymoon trip, for what was the most bizarre
honeymoon ever, We shared our compartment with an O Gay
Pay U man, and a fellow-American.

We eventually wound up teaching in Manila where, in 1942, the
Japanese provided us with free lodgings and little board for the
next three years. After internment, we came home in May, 1945-
I joined a Russian Language Program, but resigned from it when
the Japanese capitulated. Since then, I have taught at Millbrook,
St. Louis, and for the past eight years at Pomfret School, where I
am head of the English Department, adviser to the Pontefract, col-
lege counselor and track coach.

Our school sponsors a unique educational venture called the
Pomfret School International Affairs Seminar. Last summer (1960),
Rosemary and I took ten students selected from schools throughout
the country on a study tour of India. The trip was a shattering
experience for all of us in the sense of our witnessing one of those
titanic efforts in sheer survival that history offers. And it was
reassuring to me as an educator to see how well our American
students could steer a course through the brilliant paradoxical life
that is India’s.

Much has been done lately to romanticize a teacher and to plead
his cause in the market-place. A grateful Amen, I say to all that.
But the real reward comes with that one student whose vision has
broadened and whose curiosity has been aroused. Ever dying, ever
reborn, a teacher must remain a perpetual student.

GEORGE ARREL PARSON

 

HOME Appress: 22 Louisburg Sq., Boston 8, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass,

[ 1056 ]

_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
BorN: Oct. 28, 1911, Youngstown, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Masa

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: $.B. 1936.

marRiED: Katharine S. Bolron, June 30, 1936, New Vork, NOY. cretanss

Arrel, Aug. 20, 1938 (a. Picter Greef, Harvard 's8, June sa, tgegi, Ann
Bolton, Aug. 25, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Parson, Jr. ‘40.
OCCUPATION: Investor.
MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Somerset Club; Tennis and Racquet Chob,

SINCE college I have noted with dismay the political trend toward
socialization “and centralization in W ashington. *Laberalisan” has
been distorted to mean “controls” and “big government.” We all
work a large part of our waking hours to support this Welfare
State which, with foreign aid, has become global in scope. Hoth
major parties have furthered this trend.

“Liberalism” can only be fought by “Conservatiun” — a new
party of people, both northern and southern, who believe in the
Constitution and the philosophy of the Founding Fathers.

DONALD WHITMAN PARSONS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 92 Hollett Se., Scituate, Mass

OFFICE ADDRESS: 173 Front St., Scituate, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 19, 1914, Saugus, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Scituate High School, Scituate, Masa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1933. DEGREE: DALD, 1958

MaRRIED: Zilpha Rose, July 8 toi, Milford, N.Y. capers Susen Chork, ORG

1§, 1942; Jane Whitman, Dee. 3, 944 Bradford Denwkh Islip 2. rate

OCCUPATION: Dentist.

OFFices HELD: Dircctor, Scituate Federal Savings & Loan Acurrseam, peoedene,
Greater Boston Endodontic Scudy Club.

[ 1057 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: New England Society of Clinical Hypnosis; Greater Boston En-
dodontic Study Club; Massachusetts Dental Society.

I AM still very much engaged in the practice of dentistry on the
South Shore. My special interest in dentistry is periodontia (gum
diseases), and I am currently serving as an instructor in this subject
at Tufts Dental School.

Probably my best contribution to society was to head a success-
ful fight in our town for water fluoridation. This was five years
ago, and the results now coming in are very encouraging. As a
diversion, I serve as a director of our local Federal Savings and Loan
Association. Helping people to obtain mortgages and homes, I
find most interesting.

For a hobby, we used to raise Labrador retrievers but when the
children demanded more time the dogs had to go. I have gone
back to playing golf after a lapse of many years, both for pleasure
and for occupational therapy.

HAROLD MEAD PARSONS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4224 Dupont Ave., S., Minneapolis 9, Minn.

OFFICE apprEss: Graybar Electric Co., 824 5. Fourth Sts Minneapolis 15, Minn.

BorN: Dec. 14, 1913, Springfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.; Kingswood School, West
Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: §.B., 1936.

MarrigD: Elise M. Burroughs, May 28, 1938, New York, N.Y. cuicpren: Jef-
frey Mead, April 20, 1940; Peter Robertson, July 11, 1942; Mark Winsor,
June 29, 1944; Roger W., Jan. 27, to51.

occupation: Salesman, Graybar Electric Company, wholesale distributors of
electrical appliances,

TWENTY-FIVE years of selling, building hats and airplanes,
[ 1058 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

working at publishing, selling, living in Massachuscrtsy, Penney by ara,
New York, Maine, Rhode Island and finally Minnesota, and sil
selling, have made me a part-time father, part-tune husband and
lousy writer.

Wife, Bunny, does wonders making a home and ratung four beows
throughout it all. Number one son has NROTC scholarntup at Uno-
versity of Minnesota. Number two son is a freshman, sans whole.
ship — same place. Number three enjoys good marks as a yunier in
high school and number four divides his time between fourth grade.
Cub Scouts and momentous and imaginary battles (in miniature)
on the living room floor.

These are my career history, family, travels, hobbics, war record,
and social, political and religious convictions.

CARL ANTHONY PASSARO

 

HOME apprEss: 79 New St., Shelton, Conn.

OFFICE AppRESS: Housatonic Dyeing & Printing Co, Derby, Conn

BORN: May 30, 1914, Derby, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Derby High School, Derby, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1976.

MARRIED: Constance Verna Lamson, Aug. 17. tog Sheltun, Conn ores ems»

Barbara Anne, Jan. 3, 1942; Verneve Angela, Jan. 1§. toes. Carl Anthony,
Jan. 27, 1953.

[ tasg |]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JACOB PATT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 17557 Wisconsin Ave., Detroit 21, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Magnus Products, Inc., 17350 Ryan Rd., Detroit, Mich.

BORN: April 28, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: AB. 1936(37).

MarRieD: Lillian Ginsburg, Nov. 21, 1940, Detroit, Mich. cHmpren: Stuart
Everett, Jan. 7, 1943; Hilary Susan, Oct. 21, 1946; Laura Madelon, Nov.

I, 1949.

oocupaTion: Chemicals, director of research.

OFFICES HELD: Commissioner, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Engineering Society of Detroit, Na-
tional Association of Corr. Engineers; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; American Society of Oil Chem.; New York Acad-
emy of Sciences; American Society of Lubricating Engineers; Technical
Association of the Paper and Pulp Industry.

IN twenty-five years, I have acquired: gray hair, a paunch, creditors,
one wife, three kids. In twenty-five years I have lost: some hair,
some verve, most of my starry-eyed idealism, contempt for the
crass coin of the realm. The above constitutes a fairly complete
summary of the disciplines inculcated by the postgraduate school of
“the world.”

The dolorous part of the Twenty-fifth Reunion is to look at
one’s contemporaries and realize how short is the span of years,
how little has been attained; to contemplate what wastrels we have
been of our most valuable possession — time; to consider the oppor-
tunities which were foregone and can never be appositely conjured
up again.

[ 1060 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RODMAN WILSON PAUL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 586 La Loma Rd., Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE AbDpRESS: Humanities Division, California Institute of Devhrudogy,
Pasadena, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1912, Villanova, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. miagna cum lande, woh, aM,
19373 PH.D., 1943.

Marrigp: Anne Thomson Spencer, July 21, t951, Las Vegay New. canspess
Rodman Wilson, Jr., July 15, 1952; Deborah Anne. Sept. tg tact. Jubeh
Thomson, Dec. 18, 1957; Susan Lindsay Spencer, July & soag (aeep-
daughter).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lawrence Oglesby Paul, °32, st.p.4.. “34. Oxley Pauk “1@
M.D., 42.

occuPaATION: Professor of history, California Institute of Technok gy.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; MMissassippi Valley Pbstnew al
Association; Pacific Coast Branch of Amcrican EPlistoreal eq ratnan,
Commonwealth Club (San Francisco); Athenacum (Pasalenass,

PuBLicaTions: The Abrogation of the Gentlemen's Agrecomcnt, Uarvard Ure
versity Press, 1936; California Gold; The Beginmng of Mosnag ia the ba
West, Harvard University Press, 1947; numerous anoles wy prod cenened
journals and book reviews; edited: Mark Twain's Rowghing tt, Ainehart
& Company, New York, 1952, The Afiner’s Own Book, Phe Heeok (lob od
California, San Francisco, 1949; “The Farmer’ Revolt.” Fredicoes pe
American History, Prentice-Hall, New York, tu¢2, tev. eth. me*,

IT would seem that I liked college life so much that | have never
left it. After the rest of you departed from Cambrudye, PE waved
on to do graduate work in history and occupy a vanety of pune
grade administrative and teaching jobs, the mest important of wha h
were assistant dean and tutor in history. The latter caused me by
return to Dunster House where I had lived as an undergesdvore,

If the war hadn’t come along, it night have been hard to cut the

[ 1068 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

THOMAS PAULL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 232 Salem End Rd., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 Linden St., Framingham, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 16, 1914, Barre, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Barre High School, Barre, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. 1940.

MARRIED: Dorothy Welch, Dec. 10, 1942, Lynn, Mass. cHitpren: Thomas, Jr,
Oct. 30, 1944 (died Sept. 27, 1953); Andrew David, Dec. 2, 1945; Nancy,
May 2, 1949; Johnathan Edward, July 13, 1950; Dorothy, Nov. 30, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Paull, ’38, LL.B, °41.

occupaTion: Obstetrician and gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Member, active staff, Framingham Union Hospital, visiting staff,
Boston City Hospital; courtesy staff, Leonard Morse Hospital, Natick,
Mass.

MEMBER OF: Obstetrical Society of Boston; New England Obstetrical and
Gynecological Society; American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Massachusetts Medical Society; National Board of Medical Examiners
(diplomate); Massachusetts Medical Benevolent Society.

I ALWAYS wanted to be a physician and have now been one for
twenty years. The glamor of surgery started me along that path
after I left Harvard Medical School. From the Third Surgical
Service, Boston City Hospital, the war led me into the U.S, Navy
as a lieutenant (j.g.), Medical Corps, USNR. I am still in the Navy
on a voluntarily retired status with the rank of lieutenant com-
mander. My naval service was with the Amphibious Service and
then the Marines. Before I stopped saluting the chief petty officer,
with plenty of hash marks, 1 was at sea (two weeks), and the in-
vasion of North Africa was already over before I knew enough to
be scared (one month). Surgeon for the USS Arcturus I lasted
through four invasions and five captains. Ribbons are given for the
various theatres of war and bronze stars for the battles, but nothing

[ 1064 ]

SRP cae mmm ann Pe “Pt NET ACORN LOG LT TR EIT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
for the captains outlasted nor for gerung marricd, which PE fab ateer

the Moroccan invasion.
In retrospect, the war was a great adventure, growing ust

retelling, until my children are only now doubanyg that EP woe at
single-handed. After Morocco, my ship was in New Caledonia and

Australia, then Sicily, Salerno and southern France. } came back te

Fort Pierce, Florida, amphibious training base, where Pominy Cater
killed on his bike, age ten) was born. Here 1 didi surgery for the
base of up to eighteen thousand men. My most Vivnd te Oey ne
of doing multitudes of hernia repairs. T hen P owas attached te the
Marines at Parris Island, South Carolina, where | evamened sa trans

men for hernias that my next step to obstetrics and ev neguteey

came from sheer protest.
Andy, born on Parris Island, now skis by me wath such ca |

know the years are passing. Johnathan and Nancy ale leave me
well behind, but Dottie, now eight, snow plows along with me
Three more years again at Boston City Hospital, bur this time on
the obstetrical and gynecological service, brought me to ning vears
out of medical school before I started practice in Pramingharn,
Massachusetts.

Countless moves have brought us finally to the point where we
have too much junk to make another move feasible. Junk ws ans
wife Dorothy’s word for a rather improbable collecuen of mfts
and ends, including an ice boat, three tractory a sgigs bre ery,
ten other cars (one an 1898 steamer), a fiberuloss aul beat anda
outboard (noted for its circumnavigation of Long Ian tase Niu
gust), a cider press, and fifteen hives of bees.

As a busy obstetrician and gynecologist, LE rarely de any chins bus
work. Last vacation, 1956, we spent a ‘few weeks in E Eope. None
then, the increasing pressure of a solo practice keeps me neacty,

with an occasional weekend in the summer ac W Catpert ar

Massachusetts, or a rare weekend of shiing.

[ 1065 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

++ LAZAR MENDEL PAVES

    

GLEE MR ONS 1

| ae
| vs

   

porn: Aug. 8, 1915, Detroit, Mich. PARENTS: Leonte Paves, Ruth Manners.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1936.

MarrieD: Dolores Marie Gensicki, Feb. 13, 1949, Detroit, Mich. cHipreEn:
Nina Marie, April 8, 1954; Leah, 1958.

piep: Nov. 9, 1960, Falls Church, Va.

wipow: Mrs, Lazar M. Paves, 728 Pioneer Lane, Falls Church, Va.

AFTER a short time in a local employment office in Detroit, Paves
worked in State and Federal employment security programs as a
labor economist and statistician until his death. He was first em-
ployed by the Michigan Unemployment Compensation Commission
and since 1949 had been in Washington. He was personnel author-
ity of the Department of Labor and deputy assistant director of the
Office of Program Review and Analysis of the department’s Bureau
of Employment Security. He had won recognition as an expert on
human resources and manpower development and in recent years
his effort in this field had included the improvement of job oppor-
tunities for youth entering the labor market and older workers
having difficulty getting jobs. He received an honor award post-
humously from the Department of Labor: “For his valuable techni-
cal and program achievements contributing to skill development of
manpower resources.”

He was past president of the International Association of Person-
nel in Employment Security of the District of Columbia, held mem-
bership in the Industrial Relations Research Association and was a
veteran of World War II, He was survived by his wife and chil-

dren.

[ 1066 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR RANDOLPH PAYZANT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 297 Audubon Blvd., New Orleans 45. La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: X-Ray Dept., Touro Infirmary, New Orleans ¢. Va.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; Mp. (Columbia Unuvii, agg

MARRIED: Helen Weschler, 1940, Milwaukee, Wis. (died Oh tober, mca,
Cora McFaul, Nov. 25, 1960. CHILDREN: Suzanne, Nov, 3, tegi, Porrn ra,
Dec. 20, 1947; Harriet McFaul, April 30, 1948 (ucpdaughter?, Pena
McFaul, March 26, 1950 (stepson).

OCCUPATION: Physician and radiologist.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor, Dept. of Medicine, Tulane Uaiveruey

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Radedegy,
Radiological Society of North America; Southern Medical Neon retn ny,
Metairie Country Club; Alpine Club; Carnival Organizatoon, Rossnd Palle
Club; U.S. Power Squadron (boating club).

AFTER graduating from medical school (Columbia, tagged. btn.
terned at Syracuse University Medical Center, where | dearned to
ski — out of a book. Started. specialty training at Leng and Col.
lege Hospital, Brooklyn, in obstetrics, but after about four months
was constrained to join the Navy, which service tramed meus ney
present specialty, radiology. Spent nearly two vears in Crest
Britain — Glasgow, Scotland, Milford Hlaven, Wales and Wes.
mouth, England, then back to the USS. for a year and a balf ae Wes
West, Florida. Total time at sea — three weekw Then pentyratoare
training at Temple University Hospital, Philadelphia.

Have lived in New Orleans since December, iyg8. Pbyh pecs
since then have been two cruises in the Canbbean and resian +
Europe with the family (liked it so much the first nie) MI we
interferes considerably with golf (high score) amb beans tr

{ 1067 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

foot Chris Craft cabin cruiser). Have taken two courses given by
U.S. Power Squadron, passing with flying colors.

My first wife passed away a year ago. Have just recently re-
married, and doubled the size of my family.

HOLLIS GLADDEN PEACOCK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2132 Stockbridge Ave., Woodside, Calif.

OFFICE Aappress: Utah Construction & Mining Co., 550 California St. San
Francisco, Calif.

BoRN: Aug. 4, 1910, Yakima, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Yakima High School, Yakima, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. 1934-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marrikp: Rosalind M. Serrat, Feb. 18, 1938, Brookline, Mass. cHiLpREN: Wil-
liam Eldred, June 5, 1941; Marsha Holly, Aug. 10, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eldred Giles Peacock, mo. °34.

occupation: Chief geologist, Utah Construction & Mining Company.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, Geo-
logical Society of America; Society of Economic Geologists.

PusLications: “Lead and Lead-Zine of the Bingham District, Utah” (co-au-
thored with R. N. Hunt); “Symposium on the Geology, Paragenesis, and
Reserves of the Ores of Lead and Zinc,” 18th International Geological
Congress, 1948; “An Outline of the Geology of the Bingham District,”
Mining and Metallurgy, October, 1948.

THE interesting active professional life of an exploration geologist
engaged in the fascinating search for new mines and mineral wealth
has left little time for retrospection. I do not feel, and probably do
not act, a full twenty-five years older than in June, 1936, which
was near the bottom of the so-called “great depression,” when I
left Cambridge for the gold fields of Alaska and the Yukon Terri-
tory,

After a period in the Far North, I was married in Brookline,
[ 1068 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Massachusetts. Since then my wife, a Wheaton graduate, has pa

tiently followed the path of a prospector. Although oar sure
sometimes she becomes a bit fed up, she has endured at all wich

Spartan courage. We have a daughter sixteen vears of aye -~ @
luscious blond “and an accomplished equestrian. My Nineteen: scar
old son, for reasons beyond my control, is attending Princeton.

I am pleased to report my hair, though on the grav sade, ev ev
sentially intact and my waistline a snug thirty-four. Profesaonal
work has carried me to many of the mines of North Amenea and
while I have not accumulated great wealth, | have had bets of fun
trying. My politics are definitely conservative. UT regret to report
at this writing, just five days before the clection, that it would ap-
pear the solid gains of the last eight years are to be sacrificed ard

we will again dance to the sweet, but stulafys ING, Siren sony of the
welfare state. I trust that the strong inner core of Amernea will
survive this onslaught and I look forward to the next tw enty five

years with as much enthusiasm as I had for che last.

JUSTIN PEARLMAN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2501 E. Cumberland Se, Philadelphia re. Pa

BORN: Jan. 29, 1912, Philadelphia, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Germantown and Gratz High Schooly Philadelptey Be

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.
UNMARRIED.

[ boty ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JAMES DOUGLAS PECK

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: % Mrs. S. W. Peck, 29 E. 64th St. New York 21, N.Y,

PECK has been carried as a “Lost” man on our records since 1960.

ROBERT MACLAY PEET

 

HOME ADDRESS: 203 Ridgefield Rd., Wilton, Conn,
OFFICE ADDRESS; 292 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y.
BORN: Aug. 31, 1914, Rye, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 7agna cum laude, 1936; LL.B. 1939.

MarRiED; Helene Marie Thomson, Oct. 4, 1941, Wilton, Conn, CHILDREN:
Helen Marie, Sept. 28, 1942; Robert Creighton, Oct. 12, 1944; Ann Jame-
son, Feb. 24, 1948; Janet Maclay, Sept. 16, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Creighton Peet, Jr., ’28.

OccuPATION: General attorney for New York, New Haven & Hartford Rail-

road Company.
OFFICES HELD: President, Wilton Library Association, Inc, six years, Wilton

Parent-Teachers Association, one year, chairman, Post School Building

[ 1070 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Committee, four years, Post School Addition Burling Comencree, there
years; treasurer, National Association of Railroad Counwl five wears
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Wilton Rading Club,

MY first three years following graduation, spent at the Paw Nobel
were a continuation and intensification of my carher as addertite

life. New intellectual horizons were opened and new tric rads erate
but the locale was still Cambridge and manv of the faces were sacl

familiar.
Getting out of the world of study into actual hw practive pee

vided an exhilarating change. My w “ork as a lawyer has all been in
New York City in the law department of the New Haven Rarlead.
The variety of problems handled has kept me stimulated. Terral ef
cases has been my specialty. I know of no activity more every
than the pursuit of truth in a courtroom, and of no proves wha

so astonishingly probes the seamy side of human nature.
I marked time in the Navy for three and one-half vears shartes

World War II, waiting to get out of a staff job that took me fron
Newport to the Mediterranean to Boston but failed to make me
want to stay on in military service. The high point of this capers:
ence was acting as aide to Admiral Hewirt in Naples and seuthern
France. This brought contact with many strange plac cs amd well-
known persons.

Marriage, undertaken before the war, has proved to be all chor
it should, and has brought three girls and one boy, ranging in prewne
educational status from Swarthmore to second grade.

Life in a small suburban community since the war has been
pleasant. Local civic activities have managed to consume tri hy of
my spare time. The schools are good. The social hfe ts relives
Tennis continues to be my favorite sport, Moourntaiy ein barre uy
the Adirondacks has been my most frequent diversion vhict: np sue
mer vacations. Reading and listening to muse remain Iawse

terests.

[ to7l }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN GUSTAVUS PENROD

 

HOME AppRESS: 1150 S, Pasadena Ave., Pasadena, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Southern California Gas Co., 810 S. Flower St., Los Angeles,

Calif,
BORN; Sept, 26, 1914, Riviera, Texas.
PREPARED AT: Naugatuck High School, Naugatuck, Conn.; James Madison High

School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.
MarrieD: Alexandrine Gertrude Ringers, June 9, 1939, Pasadena, Calif. (died

1952); June Maxine Guier, 1954, Pasadena, Calif. cHmpren: Carol Ann,

Jan, 1, 1943; Steven John, Oct. 7, 1957.
occupation: Cost Control Supervisor, Southern California Gas Company, a

natural gas public utility.

I LEFT school before graduation exercises to join an expedition
into the then unexplored hinterland of the Navajo Reservation.
Spent three months mapping, excavating archeological sites and
just plain exploring country where white man had never set foot.
Wound up by running some 300 miles of the Colorado River in
open boats as one of a party of ten. Surviving that, I joined Fair-
child Aerial Surveys, Inc., in Los Angeles. Spent two years doing
office, lab and field work in photogrammetry, little knowing it was
to shape my future military service. Left Fairchild and joined the
Texas Company as a scismologist. After six months of crawling
through orchards, barnyards and pig farms to record seismological
data, I joined the Southern California Gas Company in their civil
engineering department.

About that time I met and married my first wife, Alice. Shortly,
thereafter, Uncle Sam said “Greetings” and I found myself battalion
adjutant in the 57th Field Artillery at Fort Ord. Within three
months the Air Force found out I knew photogrammetry which was

[ 1072 |

We peas ones enna

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on their critical category list. I was prompdy jerked inte Nie Ds

telligence and wound up a lieutenant colencl in Phy Ary Nir
Forces, in charge of planning the Air Force Photoyraphie barter s
Program. Spent more than five years in Washington, PCL betore
separation. During this time our daughter Carol was born. ps Ries
New Year’s Eve for her arrival. After the war excitement, Cae
fornia and the Gas Company seemed pretty routine, ex cpewe!
had no place to live. So after purchase of a siw, hammer, wprars
and nail puller, I set to work on a do-it-yourself whopper amd bait
us a small three-room house. We lived there until my fist wite shel
of cancer. Then my daughter and I moved away to reargani€ eue
disrupted lives.

Some two years later I met and marricd my second wife, June
She had three children by a former marriage, and then we added
our latest, Steven, to the ‘family and settled down to make a gee
home for them. They seem to be very well en their wav in the
world, which makes us very proud. Diane, aye twenty-two, has
just been graduated from U.C.L.A., has her teaching creadengrsts
and is a member of Pi Lambda Theta. She is marricd to [icutersane
James C. O’Donnell, USN, son of Dr. O'Donnell of the UCT. N.
Business School faculty. Bill, age twenty, is doing has mistitars
service in the Army Security Agency. He has just completed there
Bulgarian language course and, having a flair for languages was top
man in the class. He is currently stationed at Fort Meade on crore.
fidential assignment. Virginia, eighteen, is now Min Geotfres
Saltonstall Palmer and is the first of our children abeour to teuake
grandparents of us. Carol, seventcen, is in fint vear at Pasadens
City College and plans to transfer to U.CH.A. neve vear. Last, bus
far from least, is Steven, a sparkling three-year-old that keeps ue
on the jump. He is all set for Harvard Clas of ‘+8. As foe me,
Pm still with the Gas Company after twenty-two years far nese
cost control supervisor handling their budgetary and cose Generel
activities and find the job a continuous challenge,

[ so73 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

+ FREDERICK PARSONS PERKINS

 

ay 17, 19ts, Camden, Maine, pareNts; Irving Clement Perkins, Marion

SPC.

wt: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

OLLEGE! 19}2-19}% DEGREES: A.B, 1936(37); ED.M. (Boston Univ,),
‘estine Fiermonte, Oct. 22, 1943, Roslyn, Long Island, N.Y. cep:

1956, Boston, Mass,
rederick P, Perkins, 320 Conant Rd., Weston, Mass.

¢ graduation, Perkins spent another year at Harvard
ork, then continued his musical studies at the New
rvatory of Music, specializing in the organ and

_ During the war years he engaged i in the manu-
fi for the armed forces. After the war he returned
Aurch organist and musical director and to the
pe organs for churches. He served as organist
In various communities, including Roslyn, New
also SUPCTVISOL of public school music.
od a Afaster of Education degree from Boston
wing year he assumed the position of super
¢ Worcester, Massachusetts, public schools,
tl hus death, He was a member of the Har-
or many years, the Lincoln Club Orchestra

He was survived by his wife and daughter.

[1074 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MALCOLM DONALD PERKINS

  

HOME aporess: §4 Bradlee Rd., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum, 293 Washington
St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1914, Milton, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 77ag7a Cte latide, 1936, LL.B. tyiv.

MarRIED: Sheila Delano Redmond, Feb. 1, 1944, Miami, Fla. ceitores: Malcalin
Donald, Jr., Oct. 1, 1945, Sara Delano, Aug. 14, 1947; Samuel, Dee. 14
1948; William H., May 5, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Forbes Perkins, Jr., 32, s.p., "36.

OccuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm,

OFFICES HELD: Director, Fiduciary Trust Company, Laboratory for Flectronicy
Inc., Boston Legal Aid Society; chairman, board of managersy Visiting
Nurse Association of Boston; trustee and secretary, The Isabella Stew art
Gardner Museum, Inc.; trustee, Milton Academy, Milton Savings Bank.
member, Proprietors of the Cemetery of Mount Auburn.

MEMBER OF: Boston and Massachusetts Bar Associations; Tavern Club.

CHRISTMAS has just passed. I got a fishing rod, an electrome
flash gun to go on a camera, a navigating device for laying courses
on charts, some records and piano music, a soldering iron, a socket
wrench set, a case of House of Lords Gin, a hand-made mahogany
table (built in school), a set of stainless steel cups in Teather case
(from third child, presumably for whiskey at football games),
William L. Shirer’s history of Nazi Germany, and Father Murray's
new book on Catholic political philosophy.

When I say that each of these presents interests and pleases me
very much, and that I would like to spend a Jot of time in the
company variously of my wife, children and friends, puting them
to good use, it may illustrate my dilemma, a pleasant one, but a

[ 1075 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

dilemma nevertheless. There are just too many things to do.
Maybe other classmates have the same trouble.

After law school I began working in New York, where I met a
nice girl who married me later, while I was in wartime service as a
transport pilot. For this reason alone, I still have warm feelings
for New York City, although it has changed since 1940, and I may
have got her out of it just in time. After the war I got a job in Bos-
ton and we took over from my parents the house in Milton where
I was born and raised, which we occupy in a comfortable, happy
and rather disorderly way. The children climb the same big oak
tree I used to, skate on the same ponds, go to the same school and
are taught by some of the same teachers.

In contrast, my work is not exactly peaceful, or much like what
it might have been in our fathers’ generation. A lot of my time is
spent working for companies which didn’t exist fifteen years ago,
and make products which were scarcely heard of then. People
have multiplied and so have the connections between them, so
that what we do seems to affect more people in more places than
it ever used to, and perhaps five people, instead of one, have to be
consulted, satisfied, persuaded or pushed, in order to get something
done.

I also am interested in the affairs of some non-profit organizations,
chiefly a school, a nursing association, and a museum. Fortunately,
I enjoy coping with twentieth-century complications, and if some-
one invents a time machine, you will not find me emigrating to any

other era.

ARTHUR PERRY, JR.

 

Home appress: Spencer Brook Road, Concord, Mass.

[ 1076 |

a LR erp
ai ok eam” RR mE EE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADpREss: F. S. Moseley & Co., 50 Congress St, Boston a, View

BORN: July 9, 1914, Nahant, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1934,

marrieD: Marjorie Delight Bemis, Oct. 14, 1939, Newton, Masa csnness
Susan Bemis, July 29, 1942; Arthur, 3d, July 1g. tusg. Fabwand Newthan
Oct. 14, 1946; Penelope, April 26, 1950; Stephen Bemis Now. a. vaer.
Samuel Gregg, Sept. 12, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Finley Hutton Perry, "39.

OCCUPATION: Partner in investment firm.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Middlesex Mutual Fire Insurance Company, Com oed
Community Chest; trustee, Northfield Schools, Fenn Schanl) Conword
Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club, Union Club of Boston.

WITH the exception of a period during the war, when [worked
in the production control department of a machine tool company
in Providence, Rhode Island, I have been in the investment buuncsy,
since graduation. After two and a half vears with Plabev, Seuart
& Company, Inc., in New York, I went to Providence im agen
where I represented Arthur Perry & Company. In 1g4¢ P returned
to Boston with F. S. Moseley & Company, with which firm Arthor
Perry & Company had merged.

Among extracurricular activities | have enjoved my aseeianons
as a trustee of the Northfield schools for the past nine vearn. For
several years | was treasurer of Emerson Hospital in Concord, which
was an enlightening and rewarding experience. Several vears aye
the doctor told me when I complained of ailment * ‘Sou lead a
rather sedentary life and your stomach is probably shipping” te
probably is — hence, to the amusement of my family (who are for-
tunately asleep at the time), I usually begin my dav with setting up
exercises.

Since we moved to Concord our life has been comsaderabts
changed by Mardi’s acquisition of three hore. For one thin
the manure has to be spread at least every other day. Mother and
children — one, two and four — spend a good many heures at
Pony Club activities, hunting in the fall, on the show cireut fer
a while in the spring, and generally caring for and enjoying the st
mounts, twelve months of the year. Father and children | thes,
five and six (I claim him for my team) -~ are interested is acter
more common-place pursuits such as tennis, softball, weer, hanes
etc. We all enjoy the hills of South Tamworth, New Ebayer
in August, and also, after Christmasy when we have been alle to
get off together for winter sports,

[ 1077 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN WEIR PERRY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2206 Steiner St., San Francisco 15, Calif,

LEWIS PERRY, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

Born: March 4, 1913, Williamstown, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,
N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.a. (Oxford Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Florence Chapman Dalton, March 15, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHIL-
DREN: Margaret Lawrie, Jan. 21, 1942; Fleur, Oct. 23, 1945, Lewis, 3d,
Sept. 2, 1947; Jonathan Dalton, Sept. 29, 1955.

occupation: Headmaster, Fountain Valley School.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, USNR; trustee, Miss Fine’s School,
Princeton, 1952-58, member, executive committee, Secondary Education

Board, 1954-56; president, Association of Colorado Independent Schools,
since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club, Boston; Century Association, New York, Harvard

[ 1078 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Club of New York; Torch Club, Cheyenne Mountain Counery Obit ant
Broadmoor Golf Club, all Colorado Springs.

FROM the viewpoints of marriage, carcer, and general well berry.

I am finding the mid-forties a most satisfactory time of life. When

I was in college I could scarcely imagine the enjoyvments of having

a family of four children, the oldest girl now a freshman tn college,

the youngest boy earnestly pursuing his coloring and cut-outs in

kindergarten, with another boy and girl in between. Florne and |
last summer solved the logistical problem posed by this happy group
and took off for Europe “a deux” and we recommend this.

With any sort of luck one should by this ume have found what
one wants to do and be doing it. In my case, I wanted ta be the
headmaster of a boys’ boarding school. This is what I now am, with
the added pleasure of being able to teach one class of Faglsh. |
also preside over a small ranch operation in connection with the
school.

I find we are still young enough to enjoy sports and juse old
enough to renege on the third set, the second nine, of the free
parachute drop, if we want to. I have taken up golf and skung snce
the age of forty. I tend to lie about my golf, but FE can truthfully
say of skiing that regardless of how I do it! find it the mest wonder-
ful addition to family life.

After twenty-five years I have developed a few hardy dishhes
such as buffet dinners and bureaucratic red tape. Such college en-
thusiasms as books and the theatre are undiminished. 1! have cote
to feel deeply committed to the cause of independent education,
and I feel that in many ways the best years are still ahead.

J tory ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

THOMAS PERRY, JR.

 

HOME appress: 631 Angell St., Providence 6, RI.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 154 Waterman St., Providence 6, R.I.

porn: Aug. 31, 1914, Westerly, RI.

PREPARED AT: Loomis Institute, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D., 1940.

MarriED: Katherine Bushnell, July 12, 1941, Weekapaug, R.I. cumpren: Caro-
line Freeman, Jan. 25, 1943; Margaret Watson, June 27, 1946; Katherine
Stone, April 21, 1949 (died Oct. 6, 1953); Phebe Foster, Oct. 9, rg50.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon,

OFFICES HELD: Assistant surgeon, Rhode Island Hospital; consulting surgeon,
Woonsocket and Westerly Hospitals, Providence Lying-In Hospital;
member, board of trustees, Moses Brown School, 1950-57, United Fund
Inc, (Providence), since 1957; member, board of trustees, since 1950, vice-
president, 1954-60, Lincoln School; secretary, Rhode Island Medical So-
ciety, 1952-59; president, Harvard Club of Rhode Island, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: New England Surgical Society; New England Cancer Society;
Review Club; Agawam Hunt Club; Harvard Club of Rhode Island (presi-
dent, 1959-60).

PuBLications: Half a dozen articles in surgical journals.

WHEN we all left Cambridge in 1936, it seemed that the College
had given us a pretty fair start. Yet, if one includes the interruption
of army service, more than half my time since then has been spent
in completing an education. In 1949, my wife, by then the mother
of two, heaved a sigh of relief when the white uniforms of a surgi-
cal resident were left behind and I began coming home every night.
A capsule summary of my professional career since then shows
concentration of activities, both care of the sick and teaching house
staff, at one hospital. I would not have it otherwise.

Our family activities, together, center largely in the out-of-doors.
Travel and camping are popular. Our summer home in the woods

[ 1080 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

and fields, beside the Pawtuxet River, is near enouch for Sunday
trips the year round. Five families, with nineteen otfspany, own
little over sixty acres there. Swimming, boating and now hore.
back-riding are regular fare. I, myself, sall enjoy working in the
woods and a little bird-watching. My particular pride. in the laeter
line, is a telephoto motion picture of nesting humming binds aken

a couple of years ago.
This all sounds like a pretty idy llic existence, and it in, toes oo some.

times. Unfortunately, the desperately Hl stall) distress men an
like everyone else, I am chronically submerged by innumerable

meetings drives for money and the long array of scemunyly tits

portant obligations.
Aside from these purely personal problems, the nearly unsols able

stresses of our time are always of concern, On the chance thie
world leaders will scan these reports for the kev to civilization’s
difficulties, I record that we have not begun to scratch the surface
of the two basic problems. First, man is no nearee than he was
100,000 years ago to cooperating with his fellows and underseand-
ing their needs. Second, the world is, or is soon to be, overpopulatedt
The combination of these factors is unpleasant to contemplate
a tight little planet crowded with bircterness. T do not knew the
answers, but I do believe that these problems must be attacked at
their roots, not by arguing whether small plots of occame real ev
tate are to be defended, or when and where to apply ceonotnay
sanctions. This has been the unsuccessful approach for centuries.
It seems a pity to think that if a few score leaders from teth udes
of the Iron Curtain could only work together on these matters we

would be well started toward Utopia.

BERNARD BARTHOLEMPFW PHIEENY

MAILING ADDRESS: 175 Burgess Ave. Westwood, Mas

[ 1o8t J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROMULUS AUGUSTUS PICCIOTTI

 

HOME appress: 485 Wellington Ave., Rochester, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 123d Signal Bn., 3d Infantry Division, APO 36, New York, N.Y.

BorN: April 6, 1915, Rochester, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., ¢U7 latide, 1936; LL.B. 1950.

MARRIED: Flora D’Ambrosio, May 12, 1951, Rochester, N.Y. CHILDREN: Romulus
Augustus, Jr., April 28, 1952; Isabella Maria, Sept. 14, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph D. Picciotti, M.p.,’28 (deceased).

occupaTion: Lieutenant colonel, U.S. Army.

OFFICES HELD: Professor, Military Science and Tactics, Clarkson College of
Technology, Potsdam, N.Y., 1957.

MEMBER OF: Theta Xi (Beta Kappa °49) Fraternity; Harvard Club of Rochester.

THE greater part of my twenty-five years since leaving the under-
graduate school has been spent in military service — sixteen years
of it, actually. The remaining nine years were divided among at-
tendance at the Medical School for one year, attendance at the
Law School, post bellum, for three years (where I did obtain an
LL.B), and the practice of law. At this time, having completed a
tour in Korea, I am stationed in Western Germany and assigned to
the most decorated division in the U.S. Army — the Third Infantry
Division. My wife and two children are with me, and having been
exposed to Italian, French and German for many years, both before
and after attending the undergraduate school, I find this tour of
duty a most enjoyable and rewarding one.

We are able to visit Italy frequently and this last summer were
indeed fortunate to be there during the Olympic games. During our
stay here, we do intend to see most of Europe, every bit of which
has held a particular fascination for both my wife and me. After
this tour and a short one in the United States, we intend to return to

[ 1082 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Rochester, New York, and pick up our lives where we had then
interrupted by the Korean affair. Even though we de not plan te
attend the Twenty-fifth Reunion, will be thinking ef our cloeanates
and especially those whom we saw at the Fiftcenth, in race. Ebere’s
hoping that our our life span has been inercased by thedheal wreme
to the point where we should no longer feel that the Pwenty-hfth
Reunion is the last possible one for our Class. Sie transit.

WILLIAM STANTON PICHER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 401 Belvedere Ave. Belvedere, Calf.

BorN: Feb. 5, 1914, Joplin, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, NEE.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; AM. 1914

GARDINER PIFR

 

HOME Appress: P.O, Box yo, Squaw Vallew, Placer Co. Cahdf
OFFICE appreEss: P.O. Box 68, Truckee, Calif,

[ sony |}

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

BorN: May 30, 1913, Lawrence, Long Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. 1943.

marrieD: Emily Dick, June 17, 1939, Ipswich, Mass. (divorced 1956); Penelope
Converse, 1957, Reno, Nev. cHiLpreN: Susan, Dec. 30, 1940; Joan Tucker-
man, March 8, 1943; Michael Roy, Sept. 26, 1947; Kimball Converse, March
Il, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Stanwood Pier, ’38, LL.B., "qt.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon, private practice.

orFices HELD: Chief of staff, Tahoe Forest Hospital, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Marin Surgical Society,

AS I write this, looking out the window at the evergreens climbing
the mountainside and fading into the falling snow, Harvard years
seem remote indeed, regardless of their daily significance in my
life here.

When I left Cambridge that bright June day in 1936, it was with
confidence that my formal education there was complete and that
my vocation was set. Thoroughly prepared with a Fine Arts major,
I embarked on an aviation career as an apprentice engineer with
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Company in East Hartford, Connecticut.
For two years I toiled on turret lathes, assembly lines and in thun-
dering test cells, emerging each afternoon greasy and pungent, to
pursue the enigma of thermo-dynamics at Trinity College —a
science that ultimately eluded me completely.

Meanwhile, college friends Brad Simmons, ’34, and Bob Hepburn,
’35, had introduced me to the world of the medical student and
I became convinced before long that this profession held far more
potential than the world of inanimate machines. The summer of

1938 found me back again in Cambridge, buried in Mallinckrodt

and the unknowns of chemistry. That winter I completed my pre-
medical requirements and, somewhat to my surprise, was admitted
to the Medical School for September, 1939.

The summer was memorable. Bicycling through Europe with
new wife Emily, we were among those who narrowly escaped in-
ternment by the Nazis. A few weeks later, zigzagging home across
the Atlantic, our ancient Aquitania was constantly threatened by
these same villains’ torpedoes. Fortunately, each “U-boat” that sur-
faced turned out to be a whale. Recalling those months at the
war’s beginning, I wonder what became of the laughing lieutenant
of French Infantry we encountered at the Maginot Line who con-
fidently told us that the Germans would be driven home, tails be-
tween legs, in six weeks.

[ 1084 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFE PORE

Then followed four absorbing years of medical schol oa bese
surgical internship and three years in the Army, distingunshed only
by an enlightening ten months in Japan. Here 1 found a lands iN
and a people as intriguing as their art had led me to Imagine,

After the Army, while I acquired my surgical training in New
York City, the family and attendant problems and responmulilines
multiplied. Finally, at the ripe old age of thirty-eight, Twas reads
to pick a spot and go to work. My home ground of New P nyland
seemed at the time to offer less opportunity than the West Coast,
and a single visit to the lovely hills north of the Golden Gate con.
vinced me.

In January, 1952, I drove west to San Rafach Cahfornta. and
began my work as a surgeon. By happy coincidence, Brad) Ser.
mons had also recently settled in ‘the same community and for ay
good years we shared an office and built a surgical practice toyether.
At times we happily hunted and fished the surrounding hills and the
nearby Pacific.

As time went by, domestic vicissitudes called for a change, and
a visit to Classmate Cushing, happily battling monumental snows in
Squaw Valley, provided the obvious answer for a pair of long time
skiers. With Penny’s untiring help, we pulled up stakes in tgsy
and moved to the relative peace of this valley. Elich on a hilludte
we built a house in which we hope our daughter Kim will grew up
without the need for any further moves.

Although I find work in a mountain and lake community gratify -
ing in many ways, I look forward to being able to spend more time
at surgical meetings around the country. In partnenhip with two
good men, we cover this mountain terrain with three wolels :
separated offices. A year ago, with Alex Cushing's help, we este
lished my office here in Squaw Valley Lodge. which offers a unipoe
opportunity for mixing business and pleasure.

Penny keeps busy in the wavs of all good mountain wivey tn
cluding shoveling tons of snow. She also augments our menme wich
her excellent photography, explores the back country on hee hearse
in summer and leaves me wallowing in her pow dery wake ov the
winter. We like the fecling the V alley gives us that we ean afipe
ourselves at our own pace to these ever more Papedly ghar st
times. Conformity is largely ignored here, and independence av aos
form a virtue. But here, or anywhere, it is inereaungly appre

that my present enjoyment of life derives laryely from the vere l
spent at Harvard.

[ 1oO8s )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CHARLES ELIOT PIERCE

 

HOME appreEss: Lincoln Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass,

BorN: Dec. 15, 1914, Milton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarrieD: Dora Redway, Sept. 14, 1940, Springfield, Mass. cHmpren: Charles
Eliot, Jr, Dec. 25, 1941; Edith, May 2, 1944; Joan, March 1, 1947; Ben-
jamin Redway, Feb. 2, 1952.

HARVARD SON: Charles Eliot Pierce, Jr., ’64.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Roger Pierce, Jr., 739; Daniel Pierce, ’56.

occuPATION: Banking; trust representative, public relations department.

WONDERING what to report—staring at the blank page —
dissatisfied with the whole job — but then a stream of faces and
events: some pleasant, some gnawing, some laughable, some sad, but
through them all a warm sensation that although others may have
done other things and more, each of us has done the best with what
he has,

My memory is not always chronological: I see a gorgeous, cloud-
less day in September, it was 1940 when Dodie and I were mar-
ried — days of bachelor abandon and fun, before then — friends in
Springfield, Massachusetts — those who beagled on Sunday morn-
ings — Pearl Harbor on the radio that Sunday, drying dishes —
night work in the mill —son Charlie arriving Christmas, 10 4.M. —
my boss calling on us in Park Place — the Bishop for supper, losing
his hat on the clothes line — finally locating a house in Delaware —
Edna’s “stop in for tea” for Dodie —the colonel’s bathing trunks
dripping purple in Lydia’s poo] — the trees in bud when Edie was
born — the aircraft carrier’s wash going up to “Philly” with the
broken bow — Sundays to the power house at the mill — Mosquito

[ 1086 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY KEPORT

netting around the bed — the acting out of plays | wartime aos

mer at the Corner Cupboard at Rehoboth — sherry on the acon.
balcony at 2 The Strand — Packet — Allev tenis .. a waenh ett
new house with four sides (our own), On a knell an che sow

then India — filth and stench of Calcutta — clamiminess of the Pha

Windamere in Darjeeling — Ispahanv S press house at Nargis og
— the long straight road south from Memphis am the “Nous Carey

— Wisconsin hemp fields — worry over the children’s heseh send

problems (mumps for me) — leaving the old) job. a start biaras
with books — then the challenge of another job (the new new of it
b

the opportunity, the hard work) — the eyatement and then the ates
faction of being an accepted member of a wonderful ony sere ate
—the hand-written note “congratulations R. Cader” | keters
from Dodie and the children camping all summer in the West
pumpkins growing through the hedve — hurricane sawing. wage
that summer with popovers at Jordan Pond — swampers iy the

twelve-footer entering Somes Sound — the Hhunyarian qouple work
us for a month — Benjamin’ S dream of glory we TI Cronae biaheowe rie Bev
himself — Joanie playing the flute. Such are sme of the teensy
glimpses — the flash-backs that seem to mean more than the events
themselves.

The current bald facts are that Dodie and Po bove oun heane uy
Lincoln. Charlie is a freshman at Harvard where bis untercste are
the humanities and tennis. Edie has a year vet te prahiate fron
Concord Academy and keeps us all on the straycht and matte pars
Joanie, aged thirteen, in her more carefree momenty plive te ke
with nine-year-old Ben and me on the hving-reom fone Percy
tremendously my work at the Old Colony Trust Creeps

The call of the Maine coast still strikes a respemave wl kate e
and my trip together to Europe hasn't materualived vet (ate
lion dollars” has escaped me, but perhaps it weg we nrpeertace a

all. Mine is a most grateful heart.

[ress ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

SAMUEL WATTERS PILLSBURY

  

HOME ApDbRESS: 173 Hickory Ct. Princeton, N.J.

orrice appress; The Building Center, P.O. Box 175, Princeton Junction, N.J.

gorN: March 1, 1913, Brookline, Mass.

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936, DEGREES: S.B., 1936; M.B.A. 1938.

MARRIED: Katherine H. Harrington, Nov. 4, 1950, Providence, R.I. CHILDREN:
Hope, Jan. 29, 1953; Samuel Hale, Oct. 24, 1954; Katherine S., July 10,

1957+
HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Watters Pillsbury, ’so.

occupation: President, The Building Center, retail lumber, manufacturer of
component homes,

THE past ten years have been busy ones for me. First came marriage
on November 4, 1950, to Katherine Harrington, daughter of Car-
roll Harrington, ’24; then shortly thereafter a move to New Jersey
where I established The Building Center in Middlebush, five miles
west of New Brunswick, New Jersey.

Fight years and three children later, I bought the Conover &
Emmons Lumber Yard in Princeton Junction and for one hectic
year I had to run two businesses at once. In late summer of ’59,
I found a good manager for our Middlebush operation, which en-
abled Kathy and me to move to Princeton in time for putting our
children in the good Princeton schools,

Princeton is a fine place to live in, with New York and Philadel-
phia close by, many good local concerts, plays, etc., at McCarter
and stimulating lectures, clinics, etc. going on in connection with
the university. In some ways, however, Princeton is a difficult
town in which to live. For example, though connected with the
building and real estate business through our Building Center,

[ 1088 ]

5 AOD FRIST OREN? ROE POO ORESISU, CW SOS Fico YET

CO RP SILO AON NIRL NA PIED. rt

 

TT

ed

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Kathy and J are having as difficult a time finding a lot and getuny a
house built as any other would-be Princetonian.

The election, though only two weeks off, leaves me cold. Tam
giving lukewarm support to the ticket of Lodge and Nixon, but
only because Ike is not far in the background.

As far as business is concerned, I can’t help but think we are
in for some real trouble in the next year or two, and I'm not at all
sure that a good depression’ would not be a good thing for the
country as a whole. There is a softness, a laziness, a carelessness
about doing business today that leads to higher and higher costs
and lower and lower values to the public. All of this makes us vul-
nerable to the hard-working competition of the Japanese, the Rus-
sians, the Italians and others. Whatever the state of business, how-
ever, I expect to be back in Cambridge with my family for the Re-
union. Princeton men have a reunion once a year every Junc, I'm
hoping that this June at least, on our Twenty-fifth, we'll forget
our “Harvard Indifference” and show up in full force.

CHARLES PIPER

rename eam ernment cacisen
= a
4
aad b
; 5 ;
awn .
( ae >
: y a
* ip

   

. 6D

HOME aApprEss: 16 Wayside Lane, Wantagh, Long Island, N.Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brown-Harter Cadillac, Inc. 316 N. Franklin Se. Plermpate add,
N.Y.

BORN: June 6, 1916, Trenton, N.]J.

PREPARED AT: Trenton High School, Trenton, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. ctr latte, gt.

MarrieD: Alys Krohn, July 18, 1942, Charleston, S.CL caitome~ Charles
Edmund, June 30, 1947; William Krohn, May 26, 152.

OCCUPATION: Accountant, assistant secretary and office Manager, Hrown Hares
Cadillac, Inc., automobile dealer.

IT comes as something of a shock when you try to put something

[ 1089 ]

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

like this on paper that the twenty-five years since our graduation
cover something more than half the span of our lives. That is far
too much to cover in minute detail, so let’s just skim over the high-
lights. When it comes to career mine has been relatively stable.
By virtue of a relative in the insurance line and the generally miser-
able state of the economy, the first fledgling steps in the business
world were in the insurance community. Too much commuting
and too little progress led to a switch to the automotive industry
in 1940, where with the exception of the war years I have remained.
Like most of us, that condition known as the draft caught me in
early 1942. A severe distaste for KP and dishpan hands led to OCS,
and in ninety days of effort on the part of the Coast Artillery
School, voila — a brand-new second lieutenant. By then there wasn’t
too much need for the type, so after a year and a half in the New
York area they sent me to Puerto Rico and the Finance Department
where I spent the rest of my service time. Stayed long enough to get
that terminal promotion to captain.
In 1942, a really big year, came the biggest change — Alys and
I were married while down in South Carolina. Luck was with us
though, and we had a couple of years before leaving the country.
Then in 1947 came our first child; he’s the one who almost but not
quite looks at me eye to eye without standing on tiptoe. Five years
later came the second, and both of us can still stand up to him.
Hobbies, surprisingly enough, haven't changed too much. Records
and music are still high on the list, although the fidelity has improved
immensely. Cars are not only an interest but a vocation. And one
of these days when the household chores get all caught up, maybe
there will be some time to set up the model trains. In all it’s been a
pretty wonderful period — enough to make me anxious for another
twenty-five. I can only hope it has been as good to all of you.

[ 1090 ]

 

Lo

GANS RONNIE RA LE AEE NIM TIRE”

Pee NUR SES ELS EMS

 

sg) TIRECY DAE ERIS IE SE NS p

sfetecngt amen rine

eRe be PS

LE RI AO TIRE ELT EAL PETG ATE 8

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN GALT PIPER

              
       

= ee

     

HOME AppREsS: 490 Hollow Tree Ridge Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pepperell Manufacturing Co., 111 W. goth St, New York, NY,

BORN: May 5, 1915, Winnipeg, Man., Canada.

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marRiED: Cornelia Macy Walker, Feb. 16, 1938, Brooklyn, N.Y. comomse:
Heather Anne, Feb. 21, 1948; Cornelia Macy, June 10, 1949, Joha Gale,
Jr., Dec. 10, 1952.

occupation: Merchandise manager, Blanket Department, Pepperell Manuf x-
turing Company, textile manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and New Canaan, Wee Burn Coun.
try Club, and Ox Ridge Hunt Club, Darien, Conn., Weavers Club, New

York; Canadian Club of New York.

THOMAS FRANCIS PIPER

 

HOME aAppRESS: R.D. 1, Lock Haven, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Piper Aircraft Corp., Lock Haven, Pa.
BORN: Aug. 13, 1914, Portsmouth, Ohio.

[ 1091 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

prePareD aT: Bradford High School, Bradford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE:. 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marriep: Margaret A. Booth, Sept. 2, 1939, Plattsburg, N.Y. cHitpren: Thomas
Francis, Jr. Dec. 29, 1941; John Richard, Feb. 4, 1944; William H., May
30, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Francis Piper, Jr., ’63.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Thomas Piper, Jr., ’34; Howard Piper, ’39.

occupation: Aircraft manufacturing, vice-president and director, Piper Air-
craft Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Lock Haven Trust Company, Lock Haven Y.M.C.A.

MY life since graduation has been shaped predominately by certain
events which took place before that time and, therefore, must be in-
cluded in this storv. I was brought up in Bradford, Pennsylvania,
where my father (W. T. Piper, ’03, engineer) was engaged in various
aspects of the oil production business, Shortly before the “crash,”
a small airplane company then known as Taylor Brothers Aircraft
Company had been brought to town as a part of an industrial ex-
pansion program by the Chamber of Commerce. Dad became in-
volved originally on the board as one of the representatives of the
city. When this company folded in 1929, he took an active part in
a reorganized company now named Taylor Aircraft Company — to
which, among other things, he contributed financial support. It was
he who was largely responsible for the idea of building a small, low-
cost airplane.

And so, after having already performed work in the shop during
school vacations, it was significant that on my sixteenth birthday in
the summer of 1930, I was sitting in the wooden mock-up of the
cockpit section of the first CUB. This was one of the first big
openings of the door to the aviation field and provided an oppor-
tunity not available to many people, the chance to get in on the
ground floor of a big new industry. Indeed, it started a new career
for my father, who had already attended his Twenty-fifth Reunion,
and became a complete family affair with my two brothers (W. T.,
Jr., 34, and Howard, °39) also in the business. This aspect was
further solidified in 1936 when Dad bought out Mr. Taylor and in
1937 when the name of the company was changed to Piper Aircraft
Corporation.

In the past thirty years, about the only thing of note that I can
remember having done not associated with aviation in some way
was spending some time along the banks of the Charles with about
1000 members of the Class of 1936 —a fact which I have not at all
regretted. And even then, some of my classmates will remember

[ 1092 ]

pPrtecesaiomnimcines tee vee

ore iS SHAR ARETE gE

el

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that my last couple of years at school I had an airplane in use out ar
Wiggins in Norwood.
My flying started in 1930, but due to a shortage of available

airplanes I did not solo until 1931 in an early model CUB, then in
production. In those days, you could get a private license and haul
passengers after ten hours, a limited commercial at tw enty-five hours
to carry passengers for hire locally, and a commercial at roo hours
for passengers for hire anywhere. In addition to the perpetual prots.
lem of selling the product, we also had an educational problems in
its use, which was reflected by the almost exclusive production of
training type planes through 1946. I suppose that Twas the guinea
pig for many schemes in exposing the public to our airplanes. We
attended Sunday afternoon air shows in our area, entering spot
landing, “bomb” dropping, and balloon busting contests. We hauled
passengers at county fairs. I was on an Indiana air tour in wges. In
the spring of 1937, I was on a “barnstorming” tour in Georgia with
three planes and a house trailer when I received word that our tac-
tory in Bradford had burned down and my plancs were needed fur
sales. This brought about a move to Lock Haven, Pennsylvania,
where we continued designing, building, testing, and selling in-an
expanding business.

In the summer of 1941, in another “selling” program, PF was on
army maneuvers in Texas showing how our airplane could be uwd
practically for observation purposes. So it was a fairly logical can-
sequence that in January and February of 194: I should be invited
to instruct at Fort Sill in an experimental program teaching some
Army personnel on CUBS. Here was another ground floor epper.
tunity which I followed by becoming a part of the fine Ariny
Aviation School at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, in the summer of tage.
There I progressed (?) from civilian to first lcutenant to captain by
mid-1945. Then on to the Philippines and Korea, Icaving there ava
major in May, 1946, and back to the airplane busines in June.

Following some rough postwar readjustment, we finally yet
started on a line of airplanes which fitted the travel requirements of
a variety of business concerns and individuals. “This ¢laun a eet
stantiated by the fact that our gross sales rove from four mili i
1950 to forty million in 1960. During this period, [have oecepint
the position of vice-president in charge of operations. Recentty, we
established a Development Center in Vero Be ach, Plorada, whats os
being expanded to include a production facility scheduled Por acti a
tion early in 1961.

[ 1093 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Turning to the more personal side, in the past few years my
wife and I have become involved in a square dance activity which
has provided us with a fine source of exercise, relaxation, and en-
tertainment. The third Piper generation is beginning to make its
appearance on the Harvard scene and includes my son, Tom, Jr., who
is a member of the Class of 1963. I have been making arrangements
to find more time for travel and recreation. As a part of this plan,
this year we acquired a house in Pompano Beach, Florida, where we
are looking forward to spending considerable time enjoying the
well-publicized standard activities under the warm Florida sun.

++ ROBERT SMITH PLAYFAIR

 

BORN: June 4, 1913, Fort George, B.C., Canada, Parents: Wilfrid Ernest
Playfair, Harriet Maria Smith.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MargieD: Marjory Baker, October, 1939, Hingham, Mass. (divorced 1941);

Kathryn Barnum, 1944, Woburn, Mass. cHitpren: Susan; Jonathan; Judith.
piep: Aug. 14, 1948, Boston, Mass.

ROBERT SMITH PLAYFAIR spent four years with our Class.
While at Harvard he was a star miler and two-miler on the track
team and captain of the cross-country team. After graduation he
entered the writing field, specializing for a time in juvenile fiction,
and wrote three books on college life with Harvard as their setting.
He was also an instructor at Yarmouth High School. Later he
worked on the reportorial staffs of the Boston Globe and other New
England newspapers. For a time he was associated with Carl Byoir
Associates, New York public relations experts, and then opened his
own office, Robert S. Playfair and Associates, Inc., in Boston. IIl-

 

 

Pen ois pap tert tem namo tamt ngaeraainee hs

   

[ 1094 ]

eee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ness forced his retirement from this company sv months te fore bes
death. He was survived by his wife and children.

FRED FRANCIS PLIMPTON

 

HOME apprEss: Calle 72 g-10, Bogota, Colombia,

OFFICE appREss: Pan American World Airways, Carrera 10 29 4t. Peogeee
Colombia.

BorN: March 11, 1915, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: A.B. Cte laude. 19th, ab. tate

MARRIED: Joanna Blumenstein, Nov. 14. 1942. Washington, 0). «sees «
Conrad Austin, Aug. 26, 1943; Jonathan Fred, July 2. roa®

HARVARD SON: Conrad Austin Plimpton, ‘64.

OCCUPATION: Aviation; director for Colombia, Pan’ Amerwan Ni ove

OFFICES HELD: Finance chairman, American Club of Boerne Arres, bees tee,
American Society of Bogota, El Prado Horch Rarranyuile

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Bogota; American Society of Rogues, Aaghs Nawen.
can Club of Bogota; Colombo-American Chamber of Cammane, Ragoes,
Country Club of Bogota; Skal Club.

IN the past twenty-five vears the distinguishing feature of inv bite
has been travel — first as a school teac her, then as a Navy offace,
and finally as a representative of Pan American Woehl Sirwave Vio
first trip abroad was to Ruston Academy in Havana, Cates, the ve se
I graduated. Before then, I had never been outade Now Piglet,
since then (except for bricf visits to my folks in Worcewer, Mise
chusetts), I have been away all the tine. Only when my elle wet
began attending Mount Hermon did | really return te the place of
my boy hood. Now that he has been accepted ava Pbsevov dt feet
man, it looks like the traveler is about two come hone.

My field of concentration in colleze was Pnybsh hressture  Vfrce

[ 1095 J

J | —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

receiving an A.M. I continued to teach, this time in the American
University of Beirut, At least three months a year I traveled — over
Western Europe in 1938, Eastern Europe and Russia in 1939, and,
in 1941, on my way back to the States, South Africa, Australia, New
Zealand and the islands of the Pacific.

After Pearl Harbor I found myself a Middle East research analyst
for the Navy in Washington. It was an interesting job but already
I had begun to prefer a more active life. The result was a tour of
duty in Trinidad, nine months in the Navy School of Civil Affairs
in Columbia, a few more months at Monterey, and, finally, orders to
run the military government of Olangapo in the Philippines.

By the spring of 1946, the war for me was over and so was teach-
ing as a career. There was an interim period of selling medical and
nursing textbooks for Macmillan, but by May, 1947, I was on my
way with my wife and child to Damascus and Beirut, where I began ~
working for Pan American with travel as my business. Our younger
son, Jonathan, was born in Beirut, while I was general sales manager
of Middle East Airlines. In 1951, I became the traffic sales manager
of the company in Buenos Aires and, four years later, the director
for Colombia with headquarters.in Bogota.

During all this time when I have not traveled on business, my wife
and | have traveled for pleasure—between Latin America, Europe
and the Near East, last year around the world, and for a month this
year with all the family in Torremolinos in Spain. There are philo-
sophic moments when I wonder whether all this travel has served
any purpose and usually I decide that it has. For one thing, it has
forced me to understand and accept the differences between North
Americans and particularly the peoples of the Near East and Latin
America who really try to be our friends. It has educated me to think
in international terms; if I cannot really qualify as a citizen of the
world, I do believe I know within myself the essential requirements
for a United Nations or a hemispheric defense. I know how much
good American free enterprise can do in underdeveloped countries.
And even though it is immodest to say so, as an American business-
man abroad, 1 am proud of the little I have been able to contribute

personally to this end over the past twenty-five years.

SLRS: NIPRINT ROI

PRTC MCRL APE E Rp  SDIRN N

e

ae

[ 1096 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH HUDSON PLUMB, JR.

 

==s: % Dorr, Hand, Whittaker & Watson, 6: 2
—Y.

WILLIAM GRAY PLUMMER

 

- P.O. Box 122, Mone Vernon, N.EL.

( boys ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GEORGE RICHARD POAGE

a
.

[
ee
s

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1421 W. 18th St., Cedar Falls, lowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Iowa State Teachers College, Cedar Falls, Iowa.

BoRN: July 25, 1914, Gallatin, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Hamburg High School, Hamburg, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREES: A.B, (lowa State Teachers Coll.), 1951,
A.M. (State Univ. of Iowa), 1952; PH.p. (ibid.), 1954.

marrigeD: Patricia Anne Lowe, May 20, 1946, Hamburg, Iowa. cuitp: Susan
Kathleen, Aug. 31, 1947.

occupaTiIoN: Associate professor of history, Iowa State Teachers College,
teaching a course in freshman Humanities and advanced courses in Ger-
man history.

OFFICES HELD: Cryptanalyst, War Department, 1941-42; instructor in history,
State University of Iowa, 1952-53; president, local chapter, Association of
American University Professors, 1957-58, member, lowa State Board of the
Westminster Foundation, 1958-61; usual college committees.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; American Academy of Political
and Social Science; Conference on Central European History; American
Association of University Professors; Masonic Order; Harvard Club of
Northeast Jowa; Cedar Falls Arc Association; American Association for
the United Nations; four honorary societies,

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1933, I worked several years for my
father, acquired a pilot’s license and almost married a girl I had
known at Radcliffe. In 1941 I entered the Intelligence Service as a
cryptanalyst (it had been a hobby) and in January of 1942 I enlisted
in the Army Signal Intelligence. My itinerary included service in
Washington, D.C., North Africa, Sicily, Italy, Austria and France.
J returned from Europe, in the fall of 1945, with five battle stars, a
unit citation and three good conduct medals, During the Italian
campaign, I ran into Roby Cook in Rome. Over a bottle of wine we
founded the Harvard Class of 1936 Enlisted Men’s Club of Rome,
and I think I elected him president.

[ 1098 ]

el

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the spring of 1946, I married Patricia Anne Lowe of Ortunrs a,
Jowa, and in the late summer of 1947, our daughter was born. Uhad
considered teaching as a career and with encouragement from mv
wife I again entered college as a freshman, in January of agay. Bs
taking the maximum load, attending summer school and Narre
out of some courses, I managed to complere the A.B. AM. and
Ph.D. in about five and a half years. Upon graduation in 1974, [was
fortunate to find a position here at lowa State Teachers College.

I have found the rewards (other than monctary) of tcac hing te
be greater than I had expected. We have a student body of aboot
3,500, an excellent undergraduate library and a congenial staf In
my department there are eleven historians, three of them with
undergraduate or graduate degrees from Harvard. An inereaung
amount of funds is being made available for research and the future
appears promising. Also, our liberal arts program is one of the bese
in the state, but there is much room for improvement.

In addition to teaching, I have been the Director of our annual
All-College Conference on International Affairs for the past four
years, and have been appointed Director of the new International
Student F und, which has been established to aid our ncedy forcin
students. During the summer of 19595 I was invited by the German
government to visit some of the universities in West Germany aril
to take part in discussions of their problems. One of the members of
our group whom I enjoyed meeting and talking with was Profesor

Henry Hatfield, Chairman of the German Department, at Plarvand.

Perhaps my most interesting hobby is worrying. Try additions tee
collecting the usual worries, ‘T Worry some about other people's
children, but more about the quality of public education. Pbeheve
that, despite all of the so-called advances in education (many of
these are useful gimmicks), we still manage to undereducate our
children and often avoid teaching them self-discipline and respect
for excellence wherever it is found.

After twenty-five years, my religious convictions are more firmly
based and better understood. I have taught the New Pestainent te
an adult Sunday School class for two years, and T have fovnaerel at es

citing. Time and experience have mellowed but not materially
changed my political belicfs. I look forward to the neve adiunistss
tion. I have no succinct statement on the meaning of life, Nether
am I certain about the meaning of Hfarvard, but PE teheve ity bee
life, a good thing. May there always be a Elarvard?

[ toyg ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOSEPH JOHN PONCHALEK

 

MAILING AppRESS: R.D. 4, W. King Rd., Ithaca, N.Y.

HENRY VARNUM POOR

 

HOME AppRESS: 43 Summit Rd., Port Washington, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New York State Housing Agency, 270 Broadway, New York 7,
N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.; Hun School,
Princeton, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),
1942.

MarRiED: Elizabeth C, Durham, Nov. 14, 1936, Winnetka, Ill. (died Dec. 26,
1946); Elizabeth Neal, May 9, 1947, New York, N.Y. cyipren: Henry
Varnum, Jr., April 24, 1939; Roger Merrill, Feb, 5, 1948; Geoffrey Steven-
son, Dec. 3, 1949; Susan, July 27, 1952; Edith, July 25, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Daniel Sidney Poor, ’42.
occupation: Director and general counsel, New York State Housing Finance

Agency.
[ 1100 ]

1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: U.S. Vice Consul, 1937-39; associate econonmuec analyst, Beoserd of
Economic Warfare, 1942; ensign — licutenant, USNR, togg- at, prewdene,
New York Young Republican Club, 1948; executive director, The Repritie.
can Advance, 1950; Republican candidate for Congress, roth Congres wna
District, New York City, 1950; Intelligence Othcial, Central tneclbgeewe
Agency, Washington, D.C.; chairman, Fund-raising Campaign, Anwew ae
Red Cross, Port Washington Chapter, 1954, Port Washington Ream bh,
Nassau County Republican Finance Committee, 1959, 1y40, member, Board
of Overseers’ Committee to Visit Harvard Summer School of Arty arn
Sciences and of Education, since 1954; counsel, Division of Hlouwng, New
York State Government, 1959-60; president, Se. Christopher's Se hoa,
New York City and Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. 1959-60, Juror warden, Ne.
Stephen’s Episcopal Church, Port W ashington, N.Y. since i968, truvee,
American Committee for Liberation, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: American, New York State, Nassau County and New Vork Cay
Bar Associations; The Century Association; Council on Foren Retstnsen,

Harvard Club of Long Island.
PUBLICATIONS: “What It Costs to Run for Office,” Harper's Magazine, May, tote

AS I look back over the past twenty-five vears, I am startled that
my interests, activities and outlook have changed so littl. People
are supposed to develop as they grow older — but not L.

As to interests: domesticity came early to me, and T have been
fortunate indeed in this area. W. C. Fields once remarked that na
man who hates children and dogs can be wholly bad, Pin noe sure
what to make of the fact that I have five of the former and two of
the latter.

As to activities, the record is at least unusual. Not for me the
consistency of the steady job, the patient progress up the Ladder of
success: I’ve had no less than thirteen separate emplovers Binet
tions or partnerships since 1936. The extracurricular record iv much
the same as it was at Cambridge.

The key to these activities, the link among thens all, and the base
of my outlook was foreshadowed in something to which | desotcd
much time at Harvard: the creation of a Elarvard Pohncal Union
It never really got off the ground, and it contributed belle te Carn.
bridge life. But it exemplified an outlook Pve held these many years
with growing conviction: means must be devised for attracting inte
public life people who show leadership potential. barn gratefull for

our large corporations, thankful for our churches appreciative of
our civil services, admiring of our professions -— but these are net
the activities which are going to determine the awewnne ‘pester
of human survival in a world rene by political turmenit UP fete the
way in 1935 — but far less clearly and intensely than Pde wt nyte

[arot ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

are going to have to devote a great deal more time and effort than
we've done so far, I trust that many graduates of our Class who
have pursued the more accepted paths in other fields during the past
twenty-five years will turn to the political arena during the next
twenty-five. In the truest sense of the phrase — you are needed.

HUSTACE HUBBARD POOR

    

HOME ADDRESS: 3827 Sheringham PI., Lynchburg, Va.

OFFiIcE apprEss: Babcock & Wilcox Co., 1201 Kemper St., Lynchburg, Va.

BORN: Nov. 9, 1914, Yonkers, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Barnard School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; S.M., 1938.

MarrieD: Katharine Littlefield, Nov. 1, 1947, Providence, R.I. cumpren: Mar-
garet Hubbard, Dec. 6, 1952; Bancroft Russell, Dec. 19, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederic Hedge Poor, Jr., ’34, LB. 37.

occupation: Power engineering, project manager, nuclear reactor projects.

OFFICES HELD: President, Linnaean Society of New York, 1945-47; chairman,
Nuclear Energy Division, 1950-55, treasurer, 1956-57, ASME Metro, Sect.;
director, New Canaan Chapter, 1956-57, American Red Cross, American
Cancer Society, 1959-61; trustee, Seven Hills School, Lynchburg, 1959-
61; treasurer, N.C.-Va. Sect., American Nuclear Society, 1960-61, Nature
Conservancy, Va. Chapter, 1960-61; vice-chairman, Va. Sect., ASME,
1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, American Nuclear Society, Newcomen Society of England,

National Audubon Society, American Ornithologists Union; Boonsboro
Country Club.

pusLicaTions: Articles and reviews in engineering and ornithological publica-
tions,

WHEN we graduated, the place for physicists was not what it is
today, so (after the first of three summers in the Rockies) I entered

 

[ 1104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
the Harvard Graduate School of Fngincering, getting a Master's
degree in mechanical engineering in 1938, and joined the Rube k &
Wilcox Company as a student engineer. TE held various jotes an the
engineering department in New York, associated with deayning and
testing steam generating equipment, traveling to all parts ot the
United States. In 1956, when I was chief results engincer of the
Boiler Division, I transferred to the Atomic Frergy Divison, to be
project manager of an advanced type of nuclear reactor which the
company was to build for the Atomic Frergy Comminuon, and
have been project manager for several other AE-C-conneeted reactor

projects.
In 1947, I married a Radcliffe alumna, and moved onto Manhattan

Island, which it was fun to explore by ourselves or with vracny
nephews and nieces. The arrival of our daughter prompted Out eve
to New Canaan in 1953, and a very different life of commun,
grass cutting and public school acuvities. New Canaan ts a buss,
attractive community full of civic-minded, thoughtful people. ber
these and other reasons we found it hard to pull up our roees ard
move again —now with a son as well as a daughter — to Lynchburg
where B & W’s atomic activities are centered. The pace in the
South is less frantic than in New York City (though my busines
hasn’t yet recognized this fact). Also, many charactersmes ef an
earlier America — emphasis on the individual, courtesy, as well as
easy access to the outdoors — have been successfully preserved here
During college and for many years thereafter | pursued mv inter-
est in bird study and conservation through a couple of snall expesh-
tions to Arizona, activities in a number of secicties publiaanen of
papers and reviews in technical and popular journals of ormtholors ,
and editing, in part, some of these journals. In recent veary how.
ever, business, civic and parental activitics have occupied pene of
my time. Like many of us, I have served on the boards of local gh pe
ters of the Red Cross, American Cancer Society, ete, and have aes
worked on various committees of the American Society of Mechs
ical Engineers and American Nuclear Socicty. |
I used to feel that the course of one’s life could be lryely plinse £
but in retrospect it scems that major decisions are otter mate by
accident or corporation directive. This puts the cmphasas on woes
ing out the here and now to reasonable sansfaction, and teaceaes
ing as much flexibility as possible. With the universe Cupeando es ae f
the world shrinking, while man's social des clopment per Se eg
glacially, I think we'll need all the Hlevibiley we can these’

[ tr0s ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ALFRED POPE

 

Home anoness; Longwood Towers, Brookline 46, Mass.

orrice aboress; McLean Hospital, Waverley 79, Mass.

Boan: Jan. 24, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.

parearen at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGES 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B, Cum laude, 1936037); M.D., Cum
haude, 1ggt.

Marnito: Mary Valle Fwing, July, 1939, South Bristol, Maine (divorced 1949);
Dr, Marta Lorenz, August, 1950, Chicago, Ill.

occupation: Medical research; neuropathologist, McLean Hospital; associate
professor of neuropathology, Harvard Medical School,

offices neta: Special consultant, National Insticuce of Mental Health, 1951,
National Institutes of Neurological Diseases and Blindness, 1957, member,
Neurology Field Investigations Scudy Section, Division of Research Grants,
1957-61, National Institutes of Health, USPHS; member, editorial board,
Journal of Neurochemistry, since 1955, Neurology, since 1959; vice-presi-
dent, Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Disease, 1960;
member, Advisory Board, Commission on Neurochemistry, World Federa-
tion of Neurology, since 1960; member, Panel on Neurochemistry, Inter-
national Brain Research Organization (IBRO), Council for International
Orgamzations for Medical Sciences (WHO and UNESCO), since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha (honorary medical society); American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science; New York Academy of Sciences;
Boston Society of Psychiatry and Neurology; Association for Research in
Nervous and Mental Disease; American Society of Biological Chemists,
American Association of Neuropathologists, American Academy of Neu-
rology; American Neurological Association, Harvard Club of Boston.

evatications: Author or co-author of approximately forty-five scientific ar-
ticles dealing principally with aspects of the biochemistry of normal and
diseased nervous system with special emphasis on the microchemical pa-
thology of the cerebral cortex of man.

[ 1106 ]

__—_______]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MORTON ALDEN PORTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 531 E. 20th St., New York 10, N.Y.

OFFICE ApprEsS: Atlas Hardware Co., 51 Warren St., New York 7, N.Y.
BORN: Nov. 4, 1915, Framingham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(40).
MARRIED: Sylvia Fisdell, Nov. 27, 1948, New York, N.Y. curtpren: John

son, April 5, 1954; Franklin Alden, May 10, 1956.
OCCUPATION: Sales manager, wholesale hardware company.
OFFICES HELD: President, Walker-Wall, Inc.

ROBERT JOSEPH VON VALAR PORTNER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2305 California St, N.W.,, Washington 8, D.C.

[ 1107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROCKWELL HARMON POTTER, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 26 Gardner St., Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Connecticut State Library, Hartford, Conn.

Born: May 26, 1915, Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

marrieD: Althea G. FE. Rathbone, Sept. 3, 1942, Woodstock, Conn. CHILDREN:
David Harmon, Dec. 20, 1948; Duncan Mairs, Feb. 21, 1951; Daniel
Romeyn, April 9, 1954.

occupation: Examiner of public records, State of Connecticut.

MEMBER OF: Hartford Civitan.

EDWIN HOWARD BAKER PRATT

 

HOME Appress: 16 Fayerweather St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1913, Glen Cove, Long Island, N.Y,

prePARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE! A.B, 1936.

Makniep: Ailcen Kelly, June 27, 1936, Pittsficld, Mass. comtoxen: Charlorre,

{ 1108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY KREPORT

Nov. 1, 1939 (7. S. Scott Sudduth, Aug. ra rgteni, Werls, Slants
1941; Edwin Howard Baker, Jr. Jan. tr. tags, Arteew Neary fom ne cea"

HARVARD BROTHER: John Tecle Pract, Jr. “35.

OCCUPATION: Education.

OFFICES HELD: Headmaster, Browne and Nichals School wwe teaser Seote eh oe
man, Mass. A.V.C., 1936-47; disaster chairman, Heaton Ohapere, Asn) ry en
Red Cross, 1947-49; administrative asustant to Govern Remtford mat ot
chairman, Membership Committee, Indcpemlent Sobeed Newent of

Massachusetts, since 1959.
MEMBER OF: Headmasters Association, Country Day Pleacdremmere an cereus,
Brookline Country Club; Harvard Club, Rattansett Club, Carmtentge (bo

Cambridge Boat Club.

EACH year I have the opportunity of writing the regerminen tire
of some thirty to forty young men to the college of Chere ahewe
To accurately and honestly evaluate the potential, hopen, separ ats rene,
and probable success of these young men is ne cay tak. Phea the

ear comes an additional task, nancly, that of eowhinys e atone pel.
vidual who has had twenty-five years to prove of disprove the pray.
ommendation that somchow allowed him to partake of four vere
of Harvard!

A scant three weeks after graduation, T marned the meng woaster,
ful girl — incidentally, she is lovclier now than she was then aud
after a trip to Europe we started off at law whool Phadl ma ites
what I wanted to do at that point, but as my father bad been a
lawyer, this seemed to be the most reasonable alternative Ey babe
ruary of that year, it became quite evident that | was moe heed
to sit on the bench of the Supreme Court of the Lind UP deaite ttt at
I wanted to teach and, with the exception of a five -veat break stir
ing the war and for three vears thereafter, [have been att ever any

We learned the ropes for SIX Vears at Westminsteg Sy ted tice
being ably led by our classmate Pete Revew These were pend yeas
and then came the war. Two Vears in the Nawv anibrovers pf
a brief swim in the China Sea added a grav hare or twa al dee “
a little more insight. After the war, it secre dn peert ace tes he wee
thing to avoid such foolishness in the future, Do thet qece rece
years in the political ficld, fine as state charnud ef WO ue Mia
chusetts, then as a member of the Planmay Peardia te Powe
Dedham, and finally as administrative awitint te the peered
Massachusetts. In addition, P held the pots ef abesee ahs ona ae
the Boston Chapter of the Nmerican Red Cres Geer boa
ford’s unsuccessful attempt at recclegtn bee fe pa ete.
active political carcer, and inthe springy of bay bass ete bh ag!

!

[ sae |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

mastership of Browne and Nichols School in Cambridge. Eleven
years have gone by and I am still at it and enjoying every minute
of it.

During these years, our children have grown up amazingly rap-
idly. Sharlie was married last summer to a third-year Johns Hopkins
medical student and is now completing her senior year at Goucher
College in Baltimore. Her marriage took her away from Smith
where her sister Wendy is in the middle of her junior year. Our
two boys are at Westminster, Teddy in his junior year and Andy
in the third form. Having inherited their mother’s looks and brains,

they are all doing well.

I find it hard to say what I have learned during these twenty-five
years. Perhaps a little wisdom in that I am not quite as sure of the
answers as 1 was in 1936. [ am quite certain that those verities at
which I tended to scoff twenty-five years ago have real meaning
and importance. My job has given me the opportunity to observe
the changes that have been taking place so rapidly and their effects
on human lives. I can see great progress, and when I look at the
young men who are now entering Harvard with a far more sensible
and serious approach toward this business of life than I had at their
age | can only say that my confidence in the future grows day by
day. That I have been lucky, I cannot deny — this business of liv-
ing has been, is, and will always be fun!

*k SHELDON ELLSWORTH PRENTICE

   

BORN: Jan. 26, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Bernon Sheldon Prentice, ’os,
Clare Ellsworth.

REPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, Mass,
ee _ EARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936,

a

[ 1110 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Sheila Potter. cHitpren: Clare; Sheila; Shelfea.
piep: Killed in action, March 19, 1945, in the Pacific.
AFTER graduation Prentice became associated with the investinent
banking firm of Dominick & Dominick in New York Catv and was

a partner in the firm when he left to enter the naval servswe. Pn
rolling as a junior lieutenant he trained at Quonsct Point, Rheate
Island, and was then stationed at Pensacola, Florida. Ele was kite
promoted to full lieutenant and in June, 1943, left for South Pacitic
duty. Returning to the United Srates for further traming, he was
promoted lieutenant commander and left again for the South Pacite
in December, 1944. He was killed in action aboard the carner bap

in the Pacific. He was survived by his wife and children.

JOHN CLARK PRESCOTT

 

MAILING ADpRESS: Sewall Road, Wolfeboro, NUL

forer]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANK LEON PRINS, JR.

   

HOME aporess: Fairlane Drive, Greenfield, Tenn.

orice appress: Greenficld Manufacturing Co., Greenfield, Tenn.

BorN: July 31, 1915, New York, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Southwest High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. miagna cum laude, 1936.

Marriep: Dixie Lee Eldridge, March 2, 1944, Galveston, Texas. CHILDREN:
Patricia Eldridge, Dec, 18, 1949; Julie Elizabeth, July 22, 1952; Jonnie
Lee (stepdaughter), May 9, 1937 (mm. Dan Ward, July 1, 1954). GRAND-
cHitp: Steven Frank Ward, Oct. 22, 1955.

occupaTION: President, Greenfield Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Weakley County (Tenn.) Chamber of Commerce,
since 1958; national representative and member executive committee, West
Tennessee Area Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1959; one of “Ten Men
From Tennessee,” Governor's Committee for Industrial Promotion for
Tennessee, since 1959; director, West Tennessee Industrial Association,
1960; county chairman, Weakley County Volunteers for Nixon-Lodge,
1960; honorary alumnus, University of Tennessee, 1959.

I LIVE now in a small southern community of 1700 people, located
in northwest Tennessee, and appropriately named Greenfield. Our
home, complete with woods and lake, is a ten-minute walk from
the plant, and I must confess that, after these twenty-five years, this
is a pleasant method of life for me. Our family at home includes
our two younger daughters, a black poodle named Louis, and three
geese who act as watch birds.

Immediately after graduation in 1936, I joined my father’s manu-
facturing firm in Kansas City, for which I had been preparing
through summer work during high school and college vacations.
I remained there until 1940, concentrating my efforts on production
management, labor relations, industrial engineering and cost con-
trol. In off-duty hours, among other things, 1 managed a pro-

[ 1112 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fessional Negro, light heavy-weight boxer (the road work almost
finished me), helped unseat the Tom Pendergast machine, and re-
settled refugees from Hitler, in small towns in Missouri and Kanus,
In 1940, under the compulsion to fly on my own, I left my father’s
firm, moved to New Orleans, and after some free-lance consulting
work, on a return to Kansas City established my own firm of man-
agement consultants. Under a unique arrangement which attracted
widespread interest, I handled all labor relations and engineering
for a group of manufacturers. I attempted night law school during
this time, but had to give it up when out-of-town clients kept me
away too much from preparing briefs.

The Air Force rejected me for pilot training because of my even
but in 1942 was pleased to accept me as a glider pilot private. The
glider program happily folded just after I finished training, and I
went to OCS and was commissioned at, of all places, Harvard. The
service continued to take me to interesting places over the country,
and by the greatest good fortune carried me to Galveston where
I met my wife. We were married early in 1944, and after a won-
derful year in the States, I went overseas — first to the Philippines,
then to Okinawa and Japan—and was finally separated at the
Pentagon, as a captain, in early 1946.

After trying briefly, and rejecting, hotel management and farm-
ing in Pennsylvania, we went to St. Louis where | went into bus-
ness with a former client. We started building factorics in smull
towns, which is how Greenfield came into the picture. After tive
rather hectic years in St. Louis, which necessitated constant com:
muting between Missouri and Tennessee, in 1951 we abandoned
metropolitan living and moved south. I shall never regret the deci
sion.

In Tennessee we have two factories which employ five hundred
people, and we are more a part of the community than is ever pes-
sible in a city. I spend a fourth of my time in New York and Chi.
cago and other scattered points, and am always extremely happy to
get back home. My hobbies include much reading, some hunting
and fishing, and even a little golf. The future, at this tune, looks
extremely promising to me, and there are not many thingy of

events in twenty-five years that I would change, had U the oppor.
tunity.

[ 1213]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOSEPH OSBORNE PROCTER

 

HOME ApbrEss: 1053 Brush Hill Rd., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 123 Water St., Watertown, Mass.

Born: April 5, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1936(37); M.B.A., 1930.

marrigp: Jane Pickman, April 26, 1941, Bedford, Mass. cumpren: Mary Eliza-
beth, Feb. 5, 1942; Joseph Osborne, Jr., Oct. 6, 1943; Jane, Oct. 26, 1946;
Dorothy Worrall, Feb. 3, 1950; Benjamin Pickman, April 27, 1959.

occupation: Partner, Colburn and Procter, distributors of packaging materials.

OFFICES HELD: Member, finance committee, Town of Bedford, 1947-50; chairman,
Milton Academy Fund, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Milton Hoosic Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club.

AS I look back over twenty-five years, there is little I can report of
my activities which is spectacular or unusual except, perhaps, for
an eighteen-month-old son.

I graduated from Harvard Business School fully intending to fol-
low a banking career, but after three and a half years of credit work
at the First National Bank of Boston, my course was diverted by the
war and a 4F rating to the Submarine Signal Company where my
efforts for four years were directed to working with the Navy and
Maritime Commission in handling contracts for underwater sound
equipment. . During the end of this period, I became a partner in a
small venture, manufacturing a novel and effective navigational in-
strument for use in lifeboats. That experience in my own company
influenced my subsequent business life.

I became a small businessman and in fairly short order found out
the following efforts were not for me; GOLD’N FOODS, proces-
sors of french dressing and salad dressing, both of which blew up

on pantry shelves throughout the East, BATES NU-MATIC
[1014]

et

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DRAIN CLEANER, a failure despite an awe- “Spin alereunste a.
tion in the delivery room sink of the Boston Living nn eee to
WHIRLWING KITES, publicized in Life, fabulous te thy, bur yn!
in a hurricane. With these somewhat costly expertences behind me,
I have been for the past ten years in a partnerstup, distributing pack.
ing materials throughout New England. Vhis ts inte resting work,
as the company we represent is progressive and the packing teld ny
a growing and fascinating one.

From 1952 to 1959, my partner and IT alo owned a wholoutle

aper house in Lowell, Massachusetts, which we finally sold atres
realizing that less than full-time management was not unsfactery in
that type of business.

I have been most happily married for twenty vears with five chil.
dren, ranging from a nineteen-year-old sophomore at Radehtfe ts
the aforementioned eighteen-month-old son. Since moving back to
Milton ten years ago, I have spent my outside tine working for the
Milton Academy Fund, United Fund and vanous club  acevines
But most of all, ’'ve enjoyed my work for the Class ef 1914 in the
past few years, as pre-reunion chairman.

I suppose we all are meant to philosophize at the end of this ee-
port about our lives, the government and the world, but Ethiek |

shall let the great thinkers of the Class handle that. [ shall only sis
that a happy and active life is something Tam lucky to hase.

WILLIAM WILLETT PROUT

 

HOME aAppress: Cherry Valley Road. Green ich, Case

OFFICE AbpRESS: Lever Brothers Co. yore Park Awe. New Viek, SS
BORN: April 9, 1913, Brookline, Mass,

PREPARED At: Noble and Greenough School, Dredham, Ses

[ eats }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MarrigeD: Virginia Marriott Uppercu, April 26, 1941, Long Ridge, Conn,
CHILDREN: Pamela Byrd, May 4, 1942; William Willett, Jr., Jan. 12, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Curtis Prout, ’37, M.D., "41.

occupation: Merchandising manager, Lever Brothers Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Brunswick School, Greenwich
Health Association, Greenwich, Conn.; director and president, Fathers
Association, Westover School, Middlebury, Conn.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club, New York City.

OUR graduating year book lists my intended vocation as “Medi-
cine” which is the only place it is ever likely to appear in a career
history. Immediately after graduation, I returned to summer school
and continued the following year to complete premedical require-
ments and, to my vast surprise, was admitted to the College of
Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University. However, dis-
couraged by a severe case of laboratory claustrophobia and a de-
pressing timetable regarding ultimate financial independence, I quit.
Thus, the winter of 1937 found me in an advertising agency, Ben-
ton & Bowles, New York, because I thought it an exciting career
and, additionally, I had vague notions of pursuing the profession of
writing.

I stayed in the advertising business, later becoming a partner in _

a small New York agency, until December, 1940, when my unit, the
ro1st Cavalry, New York National Guard (Squadron A) was in-
ducted into federal service.

Simultaneously, and in spite of a firm resolve to avoid any en-
tangling alliances in the face of the inevitable war, I had the great-
est fortune of my life in becoming engaged to Virginia Uppercu.
We were married in April, 1941, while I was on active duty at Fort
Devens, and shortly thereafter I departed from the domestic scene
to join the training cadre of the goth Infantry Division at Camp
Barkeley, Texas. I had only been there a few short months when
my commanding officer, Charles Ryder, USMA 1914, was promoted
to major general and took me with him as an aide-de-camp to
North Ireland where he assumed command of the 34th U.S. In-
fantry Division. Part of our Division, commando-trained, became
the nucleus of the Eastern Assault Force for Operation Torch and
made the initial landings in November, 1942, at Algiers.

I received a battlefield promotion to major and continued with
the 34th Division throughout the balance of the African campaign,
operating a communications/liaison unit which was used for ex-
tensive reconnaissance work against Rommel’s Afrika Korps. In

{ 1116 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
May, 1944, after participation at Salerno, the Voleurne River, Cas
sino and Anzio Beachhead, I was ordered back to the United Scares
on temporary duty to go to the Command General Seath S heed at
Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, having been in almost continual aq teens
for two years. Shortly after my graduation from Lcavenwerth, i
rejoined my commanding gencral who by this ume had been brow she
home to head up the Ninth Army Corps IN preparation for the
invasion of the Japanese mainland. My orders were suddents
changed within a week of arriving at the Ninth Corps and Bowos
relieved of assignment in the Army Ground Forces, detailed to the
Army Air Corps and assigned to Headquarters Army Are Borces in

Washington.
My next year and a half was spent in working on close coordina.

tion of air/ground attack and I was one of the planning group
which developed the organization and operation of the TPaecrnwal
Air Command and the Tactical Control Center. Almose five vears
to the date of going on active service I returned to envihan hte as
a Reserve lieutenant colonel.

My former business partners and I considered attempting Ge reser.
rect our small advertising agency which had pretty much fallen
apart during our absences but “felt that we had lost to0 much momen:
tum and, additionally, I wished to join the manufacturer's cod of
the business, For the next six years, 1 worked at General Paents,
starting as associate advertising manager handhng a prosduct greys
and ultimately winding up as associate director ‘of ady ertians and
promotion. From here, I was asked to join Lever Brothers 3 in June
of 1954, as merchandise manager of the Lever Division with mucket.
ing responsibilities for their major products. [continue bappes i
this post today after almost seven years in the thick of the bart's
of the soaps and detergents; mostly T like my jeb.

Our children, who were born in iggz and 1944 respectively, have
been a constant source of pride and sansfaction to beck of ue Poss
graduated with real distinction from Westover last spre wi!
shortly finish her business course at Katharine Gabbe ant ba ee
time this Report is published, expects to be busy workings She ales
expects to pursue an independent carcer Course and tcllia ane of fee

lans to share an apartment in New York with anocher ait We
shall miss her very much at home bue bow te the ineviratce as th
old familiar pattern repeats.

Bill, who is in the eighth grade at Brunswick, has bees ek -
good progress and chis winter nailed down the poboebi poate nore |

[ tres]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

junior varsity hockey team and is also substitute for the varsity,
which is a considerable achievement for a boy just turned fifteen,
He expects to go to boarding school next fall.

Ginny was desperately sick six years ago and spent a long, agoniz-
ing time in the hospital following a most complex cancer operation,
but today is in excellent health and vigor. Her recovery convinced
us of the fact that medical science alone and faith alone have hard
going but that working together there are great chances for suc-
cess. ‘She is extremely energetic and, as the children are growing
older, has been casting about for ways and means to occupy her
time constructively. ‘She worked long, hard hours as a census
enumerator last fall and this winter started working actively in a
retail shop of one of her friends. She has already moved actively
into a management function in this company and I shall be very
much surprised if within a year she is not operating a business either
of her own or in partnership with some other ladies.

We have now lived in Greenwich for almost fifteen years and,
while it took us a little time to find out exactly how we wished to
live and operate, we feel without being smug that we have struck
a very happy balance. We are not particularly associated with any
one group (which I mentioned in an earlier Report), but we see a
wide variety of friends, which is always stimulating.

I have been much interested in community affairs and in particu-
lar in education and currently am active as vice-president of the
board of trustees of the Brunswick School, a large boys’ day school
in Greenwich. We face the problem of what to do next in terms
of intelligent expansion to satisfy the needs of the community while
still maintaining and improving our educational standards and accom-
plishing all this within the framework of reasonable financing. It
is a neat and challenging problem and certainly not unique to us.
I have also been very active in Christian education and continue to
teach a Sunday School class as I have done almost from the time
I was in college. My Christianity is a weird mixture of Episco-
palian doctrine, the Seabury series, my notes from Kirsopp Lake’s
course in comparative literature and a stern Congregational back-
ground. I am sure I am learning more than my students but the
experience is certainly stimulating.

In an earlier Report I mentioned that our life seems ; conventional
and mundane and one which I would have considered “quiet des-

eration” as an undergraduate. However, conventional as it sounds,
it is in fact happy, stimulating and rewarding, I am also quite cer-

[ 1118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORE

tain that even though we are no longer young men there te stl
plenty of time to accomplish our earlier amiigens bevend the mere
maintenance of existence and routine of carning a bs annge,

Both Ginny and I have many ideas on the subject ant hope by
the next Report we shall have branched out into some of the bow
conventional areas of our ambitions and can furnish @ tere exciting
report. We all look forward eagerly to the Reumon in June ard

will be there en bloc.

GARDNER EDWARD PROUTY, JR.

 

HOME appreEss: Mirror Lake, Tuftonboro, NEL.

OFFICE appREss: Museum Lodges, Inc., Tuftonboro, NUL.
BoRN: Feb. 10, 1913, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.
MaRRIED: Jean Fuller, June 27, 1936, Gleasondale, Maw. fablivereed suet, Sete

Van Tresco, 1950, Miami, Fla. cpren: Gardner tdward id, Aug &
1941; Kyle, September, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Brown Prouty, "39, tte. “42.

OccUPATION: President and treasurer, Muscum Loalgey foe, rewet

MY last attempt at writing was a shore story for Englsty A nies
years ago. In the very first paragraph, Po got carmed away work
a vivid description of an object saving that it was one half wen
thing, one-half something clse, and one-half something che ay ven.
There was little marginal room for the instructor © Groce ta, eee
room enough for one word, underlined, “Confusuny "Este es eure.
fusing enough without my futile attempt te make it mere ws on
paper. I should enclose my portrait, and abide by the Chie ve

proverb.
At our freshman smoker, | beard theve wordy spoken by one ef

[ terg]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Harvard's great men. . . “Ninety per cent of your college educa-
tion is meeting people, and ten per cent is training your mind.”
That simplified the whole problem of the next four years for me.
All I had to do was go around meeting people. It wasn’t long, how-
ever, before I began to realize that perhaps I had taken the statement
too literally.

With the final “out” in the last game at New Haven in June, I
raced off the field, in and out of the shower, onto the train; and,
almost before I realized what was happening, I was standing at the
altar saying “I do.” Then began the first half of this confusing
twenty-five-year period. The whistle had blown to start the half,
and at that time I was not sure what position I was supposed to be
playing. In any case, | wanted to look the part, so I purchased a
fancy briefcase, and plunged in. Two years with a travel agency in
Boston convinced me that neither the company nor I was benefit-
ing from my vast experience. But I did meet some very nice people.

So, with briefcase in hand, I walked across the Common, down
Milk Street, and into the offices of a general agency of the New
England Mutual Life Insurance Company. At about this time, Jean
and I moved from a city apartment to a home in Weston; and I
became a commuter. A son was born, G, E., 3d, who went to
Middlesex, and is now at Marietta College in Ohio.

For three years 1 met people, in Boston, Providence, Worcester,
New York, and all the towns in between. Now I had a briefcase in
one hand and a suitcase in the other. And I became increasingly
aware of the fact that that little 10% was a most important fraction.
It was easy to meet people, especially if you belonged to the best
clubs and knew the right ones. But, it was another matter to con-
vince the people that inside that briefcase was something they should

have, when they couldn't see, smell, or feel the goods.

Two events occurred simultaneously in 1941 which were to alter
the course of events. A rather large business insurance case, on
which I had spent considerable time and money, did not go through;
a large amount of steel which this country had recently shipped to
Japan, suddenly and unexpectedly, came back to us. With a feeling
of frustration on the one hand, and a sense of patriotism on the
other (although I do not remember waving a flag), I joined the
Marine Corps. After three and a half (rather eventful) years, and

again meeting all kinds of people on the picturesque islands of the
Pacific, fortunately I was able to return home and back to the in-
surance business. But, the whistle would soon blow, ending the first

[ 1120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

half. In 1948, I was divorced, and I realized also that 1 was met
happy carrying a briefcase. I was brought up in the country, and |
couldn’t wait to get back to it.

In the fall of 1949 I bought a resort business on Lake Winnepe-
saukee, and, in 1950, remarried. Sue and I have operated the buuncs
together for the past ten years, and have many good frends fron
all over the eastern part of the country who come here cach ver
for their vacations. Our son, Kyle, goes to Carpenter School im
Wolfeboro.

In June, the whistle will blow ending the second half. 1 am quite
sure, now, that two halves make the whole; that one-half of twenty-
five is roughly twelve, that the first twelve years of mv hfe unve
1936 were one thing; that the second twelve quite another, | have
been very happy with the second, and am looking forward to the
next twenty-five with somewhat less confusion.

JOSEPH PULITZER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4903 Pershing PIL, St. Louts & Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Post-Dispatch, 1133 Franklin Ave, St. Lous 1, Meo.

BORN: May 13, 1913, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southbora, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGRFE: A.B, 1934.

MarRiED: Louise Vauclain, June 2, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa coma fome pd. ge
Dec. 21, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Michacl Edgar Pulitzer, “s0, ta. “¢4.

occuPATION: Editor and publisher, Sr, Louis Posut-Dirpor. b.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Advisory Board on Pulitsee Pricey Cofurmtas (as
versity; board member, American Prew Tusttute, Se fence Sympteey
Society, Little Symphony Concerts Awocunon of Se Poun, nwibae
Visiting Committee of the Board of Governor, Begg Nee ME pemsises,
Harvard; trustee, St. Louis Country Day School. .

[ crae]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER oF: American Society of Newspaper Editors; Sigma Delta Chi
(National Journalistic Society); International Press Institute; National
Press Club, Washington, D.C.; Press Club of St, Louis; Media Club of
St. Louis; Harvard Club of St. Louis; St. Louis Country Club; University

Club and Noonday Club, St. Louis; Bar Harbor (Maine) Yacht Club;
Arts Club of Chicago.

I ENTERED journalism as a cub reporter of the San Francisco
News, a summer job in our junior year, 1935. After graduation |
joined the staff of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, reporting from the
Roosevelt and Landon campaign trains and covering the campaign
in Indiana of the Socialist candidate, Norman Thomas. There fol-
lowed several years of training in all departments, with emphasis on
the journalistic side, developing a working knowledge of the tasks
performed in getting out a daily newspaper but, more importantly,
absorbing the atmosphere of public service, the sense of purpose
and the character of fearless independence and integrity which are
the unspoken ingredients of a self-respecting newspaper. ‘he war
interrupted in 1942, when I was commissioned an ensign in the Naval
Reserve, serving first in navy public relations in Washington and
at the 14th Naval District, Pearl Harbor; then transferring to sea
duty on a destroyer, U.S.S. Hailey (DD 556), the Fifth Fleet, Pa-
cific, taking part in the assaults on Kwajalein and Eniwetok, and
operating in the Solomon Islands and off Guam. Later I was trans-
ferred to the Joint Intelligence Center Pacific Ocean Area (JIC-
POA), and served with the 2nd Marine Division during the attack
on Iwo Jima. After the bomb sealed the fate of Japan and unleashed
incalculable political consequences still unresolved, I was released
for what seemed in prospect an interminable terminal leave, a sunny
stretch without responsibility,

Having been married in 1939, my wife and I took off to Mexico
for five months, where we acquired a deep affection for that
astonishing mixture of Spanish and Indian cultures. Returning to
the Post-Dispatch, 1 witnessed, within earshot of the presses, the
dissolution of America’s uneasy wartime relations with Russia, the
projection of American foreign policy to Europe with the North
Atlantic Treaty Alliance, the roll-back of Communist influence in
Iran, the Greek-Turkish aid program, the growth of the United
Nations, the Berlin airlift, the squalor of McCarthyism, the resistance
to aggression in Korea, the disintegration of colonialism in Asia
and Africa, and Sputnik — all the remarkable events parading across
the international scene and across page one of the Post-Dispatch.

[ 1122 ]

 

SARIN ict gi 2 RE ETE CID EOE ESTE MEE IA EEN OS OPO ELLE NIE IIT I

ARAM IMR SE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At home, the newspaper was crusading for the renewal of Se. Lani
under the banner, “Progress or Decay? St. Louis Must Chose”
a fight which the citizens are winning and to which have been
devoted countless hours of editorial labors.

Somehow, after the war, the national fabric scemed to grow

thinner and shabbier as corruption in government, in both Deme-
cratic and Republican administrations, bore witness to a nanonal
spirit of materialist self-indulgence, a weakencd political morality
in the climate of relaxation after the great exertions of World War
II and the Korean war. Faced with the challenge of Soviet power,
the Post-Dispatch continues to arouse its readers to the need for a
greater national endeavor. As an optimist, I believe that with a re-
awakened awareness of national destiny, with patience, resourceful
ness, unremitting efforts to negotiate and resolute preparedness to
defend principle, America will find the means to achieve security,
sanity and order under law in our troubled world.

At Harvard I developed a latent or inherited interest in art which
has been a source of profound interest and pleasure. Asa retlecuen
of the spirit of its time, modern art has parucularly held my interest.
My hobby is collecting drawing, painting and sculpture, and while

correspondence has grown fat and my pocketbook lean, TP have
enjoyed the friendship of artists, critics, collectors, dealery teachers
and museum men. Often their devotion to their calling hav wt ex.
amples of inspired professional commitment or involvement, which
could not fail as a stimulus to one who happily chose journal as
a profession, but who gravitated toward art as an avevanon. fn
1957 the Fogg museum published two volumes entitled Modern
Painting, Drawing and Sculpture: Collected by Louise and Jos ph
Pulitzer, Jr., to which I was an incidental contributor and. UP truse, a
helpful adviser and part-time editor.

Professionally, I am determined to carry on the bberal tration
of the Post-Dispatch. 1 would hope to have my stewardship of the
newspaper’s tradition of conscience judged approvingly in the per:
spective of time.

[1123]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT CONRAD PUTNAM

 

HOME Appress: 147 Boulevard, Mountain Lakes, N.J.
oFFice appreEss: U.S. Testing Co., Inc., 1415 Park Ave., Hoboken, N.J.

BORN: June 12, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; A.M. 1045; PH.D. (Boston
Univ.), 1951.

marniep: Lillian May Russell, June 24, 1944, Quincy, Mass. cHILDREN: Susan
Millicent, May 14, 1948; Roger Scott, May 31, 1950.

occupation: Research and testing, chief chemist; administration of chemical
departments.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Leather Chemists’ Associa-
tion; American Oil Chemists’ Society; Technical Association of the Pulp
and Paper Industry; National Association of Corrosion Engineers, Moun-
tain Lakes Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific articles in the Journal of the American Leather
Chemists’ Association.

HUMAN life is the intermingling of the real and the unreal. The
resulting apparent fusions and conflicts constitute the problem of
mortal existence. I find one’s progress may be measured by his
success in traversing the path from the unreal to the real in as
orderly a fashion as he can muster,

This divided sense of existence is present with everyone, but
clearer with some. At age nine I was put in Sunday School. At age
nine I was given a chemistry set and knew I would become a
chemist. This was my dual origin: the Bible and Beilstein. Ever
since, I have run on these two engines and I trust with a minimum
of maladjustment. The former fed me spiritually; the latter, mate-
tially. Harvard had not the slightest influence on the first; it pro-
foundly developed the second.

In twenty-five years I have observed that colleges are having the

[ 1124 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

greatest influence in the fields of science and thereby on meade en

outward living, but negligible effect on man’s moral and spuntuad

nature. There is no direct connection between the latter and mortal
knowledge. ‘The heaviest fiber in man its his spiritual berg. Mosterey
science and invention is his most recent and thinnest veneer.

I was a student before I entered Harvard. I was a student when I
left. Harvard provided the best of facilities for one whe really
liked to study. For me this was its great accomplishment. Brom
Harvard I went to Rohm and Haas Company to become a research
chemist, a B.S. among Ph.D.’s, As a bachelor | had my evenings to
myself and used them to bring my first engine even with the sceund.
I took a special course known in my church as Class Instruction and
added the degree, CS.

Longing to return to New England, I Ieft and went to work with
the United Shoe Machinery Corporation in Beverly, Massachusetts
in 1940. There I did research on tannins, leather, poly peprdes
plastics, and published papers and obtained patents. For fourteen
years I resided in Marblehead. The cool summers and pleasures of
boating and swimming will never be forgotten. There I was happily
married and there my two fine children were born.

During World War II, I worked on a governinent project and
was the chemist in charge of the development of a protective coat.
ing process now known as “mothballing.”” While at work To took
time to take courses at Harvard and obtained my Master's degree in
1945. Thus Harvard does not seem twenty- -five vears away. Pater
I again took courses and did research w hich led to my reeewing 4
Doctor’s degree at Boston University in 1951. This would have put
the second engine ahead except that concurrently TP served three
years as First Reader of First Church of Christ, Scientist, Marble.
head, occupied numerous church offices and served ay Sunday Sheol
teacher ever since leaving Harvard.

In Marblehead, the U.S. Power Squadron accepted me and |
coursed my way up to junior navigator, Fellow sulor saved me
more than once from being carried by thunder squalls to the stores
of Spain, for which I shall be eternally grateful.

In 1954 we moved to Mountain Lakes, New Jersey. This ie eee
of the most delightful suburbs in the whole country, Teas ae!
town inhabited by intelligent people. Our children attend at
public school system and enjoy lake swimming and beste eer ee
summer. ° ,

We have driven to Mexico, to the Rockicy to Blond vesa

[ 1125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

to Bermuda and now each winter spend a week in the Laurentians
where the children laughingly ski by us.

In order to relax I feel one should do something of absolutely no
consequence. Accordingly, I have prepared a history of the Putnam
family starang with Adam and ending with my children, which
requires only the filling of one missing link to complete it.

To keep steam in the first engine, I continue to occupy various
church offices, now as president, teach Sunday School, conduct a
private Bible course and do some healing work. The second engine
is powered by my position as chief chemist at the U.S. Testing
Company. It is a race between the Bible and Beilstein.

What are my pleasures? I am blessed with the most unselfish
wife in the world. As my son and I play chess we listen to my
daughter at the piano and my wife on the violin. Since 1936, I have
had twenty-five years of happiness, Next to God — home.

TIMOTHY PUTNAM

 

HOME ApprEss: 22 Berkley Lane, Ladue, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: McDonnell Aircraft Corp., St. Louis, Mo.

BorN: Feb. 18, 1914, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MarrieD: Evelyn S. Mills, Dec. 31, 1940, Portland, Oregon (divorced 1947);
Nancy Chase Lionberger, Aug. 13, 1949, Marion, Mass. CHILDREN:
‘Timothy, Jr., Dec. 7, 1942; Nancy Chase, July 11, 1950; John Winslow,
2d, Nov. 9, 1951; Leah Shepley, Oct. 18, 1955,

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Winslow Putnam, °33; Hugh Theodore Putnam, °38.

occupation; Manufacture of aircraft and missiles; administration of govern-

ment contracts.

TRAVELED around quite a bit since leaving college — Portland,
[ 1126 ]

——————

| 25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

Oregon, four years in the Army in the European Theatre, Minne-
apolis, Minnesota — before settling down here in Se. Lowe Thi
is strictly a Yale/Princeton town, so scldom sce any members of "yA,
except during annual vacation to the “Cape.” where T get a chance
to “touch base” with Pratt, Deland and Callaway. Sell manage to
keep my hand in playing hockey and baseball and yet great pleauire
out of coaching Little League baseball. Have done the usual seni
with P.T.A. and local Republican party (the latter, despite the fint
that Pulitzer is doing everything possible to put Misoun in the
“solid South” politically). Earned a pilot's license after the war and
would like nothing better than to fly the family east for the Reumen,
but children’s education bills are taking too big a bite out of the

budget.

JAMES WINFIELD QUALIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Goodwyn Pl. Memphis 11, Tenn.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1915, Union City, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Memphis, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DFGREFS: A.B, Ctr Litede, 1gi%, 086 EF edistebes
Univ.), 1937; a.m. (Memphis State Coll), tgs.

UNMARRIED,

occuPATION: Teacher (chiefly American hieory),

OFFIcEs HELD: Secretary, Memphis Atlantic Union Comenetre, taat te. pree
dent, West End Drama Group, West Find Metheshet ORor Sach ole,
Tenn., 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: National Council, Atlantic Uion Commarre anad Pactee sk (sss,
Inc; West Tennessee Historical Soviety, Tenneece Pbstore dl Sea ery
Southern Historical Association, Miskeuppe Valley Dbserrei ad San cera,
American Historical Association; Anveneand Seda Veen tatace

Puauications: Editor, lreaders® lrventory, toga, extetene a hoal, cyan, gemee care
editor, 1955, 1954 1967 and currently, Tbe Migee Pameecisg Pincers

[ sszz]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

self. Yet with all my wanderings over the face of the earth in the
past twenty-five years, I have never been back to Harvard — nor
even to New England, though New York has been no stranger to
me.

Well, that’s my quarter-century, gentlemen. I hope soon to begin
a new, if not better, quarter-century by teaching here in Memphis
at one of our fine colleges or prep schools, F inally, I am aghast that
the reporting of these annals has not been quite so short and simple
after all— another sign of advancing years.

What about every thing i in sum? It i is obvious that the years and
Providence have been kind to me beyond all deserving. However,
I lost my dear father a year ago. I should say that the high water-
marks, in life and work and friends, came first at a G.I. tent in
Ghisonaccia, Corsica (I think I have more reason than Napoleon to
remember his native island), and second, at the Graduate School
dormitory at Vanderbilt. This story, though, is too long and too
personal for recounting. Withal, I have remained a liberal Democrat
and rejoice that a Harvard Democrat is back in the White House
(virtually the ideal political prescription). JFK, first president born
in our century, was almost a Cambridge contemporary of ours,
arriving as we were departing back in 1936. Thus does the New
Deal bridge to the New Frontier, but what a stream of time has
carried us all under the arch into the challenge and the promise of
the Atomic Age. Our story —the human story — is not yet done.
At the culmination of history it is our destiny to keep faith with
God and man after all. More cannot be asked, and less must not be
done.

[1130 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM CARTER QUINBY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Brush Hill Lane, Milron 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Warren Bldg., 275 Charles St., Boston t4, Mass

BoRN: April 12, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGRFES: A.B. 1936, 309. (Johas Hopkin Unev ?,
1940.

MARRIED: Susan Whiteley, Oct. 2, 1948, Buck Hill Fally Pa. coupnaes VA diseen
Carter, 3d, Aug. 10, 1949; Marguerite Thayer, Apnl rs. itt, Semen
Starkweather, May 18, 1953; Jonathan Starkweather, Aug. 24. toes

HARVARD BROTHER: John Thayer Quinby, °34, Mp. “30.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Intern in surgery, 1940-41, intern in medicuwe, toer-en, fAve
Hopkins Hospital; ist lieutenant — captain, Medbeal Corp USN. Nevee,
1942-46; assistant resident, Surgical Service, Mawachuwtrs General Pew
pital, 1946-48; research assistant, Department of Boology, \fawun here tte
Inst. of Technology, 1948-49; chicf readent, Woe Surge al Serene,
Massachusetts General Hospital, 1949-50; asastand surgeon, Vi reun hance tre
General Hospital; instructor in surgery, Harvard Medial Ny heed, mess
ber, active staff, surgery, Milton Hospital, awocite vrunmg sarge fd
pediatric surgery, Boston City Hospital, school surgeon, Vile Xs berry

MEMBER OF: Schussverein Inc.; Milton-Hloosic Club, Benton Sargw ad Seqvery.
Johns Hopkins Medical and Surgical Society, Amernan Cele od
Surgeons, American Medical Associaton; Amerwan Board of Surgery.
Pithotomy Club (Hopkins); Spee Club (Plarvard), Pre Rees Kappe
(1940); Alpha Omega Alpha (1940).

PUBLICATIONS; Two book chapters and nine papery on inv ewig ive wel gfe of
surgical subjects.

EACH year the mandate goes out to a Harvand Claw asying. “Yeas
have had a quarter of a century to prove yourselves and are st the
height of your vigors and succeswes. Tell us-- amd the woell

what you have done and how vou did at We nil on che vated
statistics. But what else can we tell?

[rege]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I find doctors tolerant of and others bored by the peregrinations
of a surgeon — through training years at Johns Hopkins, war years
in Fiji, India, New Zealand and Burma, with the 18th General and
46th portable Surgical Hospitals and six months at Walter Reed
General Hospital and further “academic” and practice years at the
Massachusetts General. And who can set on paper the satisfactions
within the home where the lives of a lovely wife and four fine chil-
dren give one’s own life real meaning? Travels and hobbies are
viewed in the family or professional backgrounds, travels necessarily
restricted, and hobbies, thank God, still active in the out-of-doors.

Convictions are another matter, however. In religion, the Chris-
tian doctrine still seems sound. In politics, the two-party system can
evolve into something more effective. In society, the essential value
of a day’s work may yet be revived. In communication, the mass
media are largely vulgar and puerile, and even sports have become
a dirty business, but both areas are showing signs of improved con-
duct and performance. It is useless to deplore. Far better to “keep
sawing wood” and wait it out.

But what of 1936? Through depressions, war, and reconstruction,
our vintage appears to have rolled with the punches and yet to have
held to basic human values. Doubtless there is much more rolling
yet to come and still greater efforts and accomplishments for us
and our contemporaries. Furthermore, my contacts with the off-
spring of our age group indicate that “the word” has been passed
along to the next generation. And this, I find, is the most heart-
warming conviction of all.

THOMAS HENRY QUINN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 75 Woodside Ave., West Warwick, RJ.

[1132 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SYDNEY MELVIN QUINT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 110 Winchester St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 660 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BorRN: March 12, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRiED: Charlotte Segal, Aug. 24, 1941, Brookline, Mass. canta: Seaniey Davnl,
Nov. 14, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Ernest Quint, p.M.p., °22.

OccUPATION: Retail clothing.

MEMBER OF: King Solomon Lodge No. 236, 1.0.0.F., Congregation Rebaliaeh
Israel; Congregation Kehillath Isracl Brotherhood (secretary), KNOB
Glee Club (librarian).

. MY life these twenty- -five years has been that of the averaye city
dweller, preoccupied 1 in daily working habits, with ame foe (sete.
munity activities. Immediately after graduation, [ stepped inte a
family retail business and have remained in it since. [he daily
routine was varied somewhat during the war, when FU did velunecer
work for the First Interceptor Command in Boston, and did wane
work in a defense plant.

My lovely wife, Charlotte, and I have been and stall are active
in many community drives — P.T.A. and P.T.O. [spent five sears
with South Brookline Little League and found working with and
coaching the youngsters a pleasant task. Twas delighted a few verses
back when I was called upon to take part in the succewful ‘Bro.
gram for Harvard” campaign. Although my tclephene werk and
modest contribution were an infinitesimal part of the rand teak
received, I was very proud to have been part of the preegce arn

In recent years I have been a member of a kwal Vemehy case
mission of a National United Synagogue Vouth Org ane aricnn w hese

[1033]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

function Is to guide the cultural, spiritual and socia I gro
youngsters in the twelve to se venteen age group. My son Seen of
ve fourteen, Is an active participant in this grou P- He ha anley,
aurce of great pleasure to my wife and me in man y hon S been
din grammar school, at tts graduation exercises, ang in, - at.
ne

a lich school this year.
» years back I joined a glee club, unique in this Part of th,

the
UP Of ama-

1 that it 1s directed by a woman. We are a gro

orces, moulded into a lighly respected vocal] frou
various organizations at their social and business ;
unc.

the recent additions to our repertoire is the “Hal, of
A the opening lyrics of this song in mind that J
d anticipation, the coming Reunion in June:
Oh, we fove the Halls of Ivy
“hat surround us here today.
nd we will not forget tho’

be far, far away.

IRRISON RADCLIFFE

  

i

, .
€ * .
j -
} or
Z
i
muaneth i\

“ranklin St, Worcester,

CHILDREN: Anne

ber hull vt
chaurmal

ns.
ae,
> ee —

 

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MBER OF: Worcester Club, Worcester Country Club, Unnerasy Chet,
ME The Bohemians.
AFTER thirteen years of large city banking at the National Shas -
mut, I left Boston, in 1949, for Manchester, New Vamypshire, a

smaller city and a smaller bank. In 1957 came the next mayot more,
to a larger city, Worcester, but a smaller bank again, the mecotne
being, however, that I was elected its president. Vhe cultural and

% °
business atmosphere in Worcester have both been greatly to ws
liking and 1 had, frankly, always looked forward to running a bank

of my own.

During the years in Boston and Manchester, V furthered my edu:
cation in this field by teaching courses for the American lastitute
of Banking, the Vermont-New Hampshire School of Banking. and
a chapter of the Certified Life Underwriters, as well as attending the

Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers.
My assets are not great—a house, some investncaty waloadess

my bank; some life insurance; two cars, one old and very Largs, te
other new and very small, a collection of American coin at whats
I work in fits and starts; and a fair number of tems garnered ove

a period of years which have great sentimental value ta wie, Wd te

monetary value to anyone else.
Fortunately, both my daughters have become wreteted va soos t

and I have been able to resume my enjovinent af the soy Sips

(I find I am getting a bit old for some of the wore itctetee, Wa,

My best summer activity is lying on the flat ef wy Wak ova Ns ©:

beach, and occasionally building up cnough courage ta Vesnc vt

its frigid water. With all this comparatiwe lack of exctas VY

gained only anct of three pounds since \e WN chong wad

started to protrude much in front, a5 Vet.
The main thing I sccm to lack ts time == tre to dv ht A

would like to accomplish Inv Wrusiessy to devote Wy nace ey eee:
Ly

affairs; to do the reading, both profestonrd and or Yon

[would like to covers and even for alittle wore tees \y

tion, Rather than more, 1 seem to have les tug deg eg

the years pass, Qn the other hand, Wis te iateesc rey

get bored,

Lay |

yy.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CLARENCE WALTER RANDALL, JR.

Pre

    

HOME AppRESS: Rose Valley Road, Rose Valley, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2301 Packard Bldg., Philadelphia 2, Pa.

BoRN: Oct. 28, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y.

prepareD AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1939.

marrigD: Mary Margaret Moore, Aug. 10, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHILpReN:
Joanne, July 2, 1941; Sandra, July 2, 1945.

OccUPATION: Attorney-at-law, partner, Saul, Ewing, Remick & Saul.

OFFICES HELD: Past offices: chairman and trustee, Wallingford Chapter, Amer-
ican Red Cross, president, The Rose Valley Folk. Present offices: presi-
dent, Harvard Club of Philadelphia; vestryman, Trinity (Episcopal)
Church, Swarthmore, Pa.; secretary and director, Delbar Products Inc.,
Delbar Sales Corporation, Apex Mirror Company.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Meridian Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia;
Philadelphia Tax Group; Rose Valley Folk, Philadelphia, Nassau County
(New York), Pennsylvania and American Bar Associations, Phi Delta Phi
International Legal Fraternity.

PuBLicaTIoNs: Various technical tax law papers published in The Practical
Lawyer, and the official “Reports of the Proceedings at the Annual New
York University Instirutes on Federal Taxation.”

AFTER college, three years at Columbia Law School; then two
and one-half years as a law clerk with the United States Board of
Tax Appeals (now the Tax Court of the United States) in Wash-
ington, D.C. — moved to Philadelphia in August, 1942, as an asso-
ciate with my present firm. About eight years ago, 1 became a
partner in charge of our tax department,
My main hobby seems to be dabbling a little bic — but not too
much — into everything; but, after twenty years of married life,
Mary and I are starting to quiet down and lead a simpler, quieter

life.
[ 1136 ]

sv

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

All classmates (Harvardians of any class for that matter) are
welcome to drop in on our Philadelphia club, where a few members
of the Class of 1936 (Sargent, Roosevelt, Warwick, Dalton, et al)
infrequently lunch.

WILLIAM OXLEY RANDALL

 

HOME apprEss: 10 Canterbury Village, Columbus 21, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Columbus & Southern Ohio Electric Co, 21g N. Peon Ne,
Columbus 15, Ohio,

BORN: Oct. 29, 1914, Columbus, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; 12.8. (Univ, of Michigans,
1939.

MaRRIED: Ann Louise Edwards, June 15, 1940, Lancaster, Pa. campers Lewes
Edwards, March 17, 1942; Allison, April 27, 1944. Sheanan Bronwen, Feb.
26, 1947; William Thompson, May 25, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer and assistant secretary, Columbus & Seuthcen (tas
Electric Company, electric utility.

OFFICES HELD: President, Parent Council, University School tycg ¢4, tae
president (program chairman), DECO) (invesment chibi, ame ry,
trustee, Gladden Community House, 1940-63, deacon, Fine Congreg snnval
Church, 1960-63,

MEMBER OF: American, Ohio Strate and Columbus Bar A ean pats,

MY Harvard education left me with one unsolved problem — the
choice of a career. In August, 1936, [decided to become a bw yee
The law school of the University of Michivan was sell secepemng
applications for the fall term, and there TE studied for the neve there
years. After getting an LL.B. degree, P jomed she Liw tet a
Columbus now known as Porter, Stanley, Trethinger & Ploet.

The next sixtcen years were spent in the practice of law. sn
interesting, enjoyable and very educational Cipencme. | hiwew of

( 1837]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HIARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Hing more broadening. The law firm was, and is, enera]
ar the electric company which now employs me. cou

© major interests. In December, 1955, the electric ¢ ~
me to become assistant treasurer with the understand.
wd assume my present office on the retirement o f th '
4, 1959. Alter several sleepless nights —I hag :
the law —T1 decided to make the change. | hone
eoret the decision. So much for the career Whi h
Ta PA IV SICS, |
1 1940 was a Wellesley "37 graduate, whom |
/s Wellesley still one of the major benefits
Y) Shortly betore our second child, and
fe dratt board notified me that m VY num-
2 few weeks to straghten out family
ng those weeks German ly surrendered,
was advised that I was reclassified
angely, I am not yet a fatalist.
developing film in a bathtub in
! stl dabble in photogra phy,
> oldest and youngest of our
mechanics ftely roused my
1 4 cooperative venture to
by a second-hand lawn-
uns has been most suc-
Jur summer vacations

hiking, climbing and

red experience, |
mwa satisfaction.

2§TH ANNIV ERSARY REPORT

HORACE UPHAM RANSOM, JR.

 

ome appress: R.F.D, 1, Pine Haven Shore, Burlington, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 123 Church St., Burlington, Vt.

porn: March 31, 1914, Belmont, Mass.

prePARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, NAA,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: AB., 1936(45), MBAQ 1931.

warnieD: Elisabeth Albright, June 26, 1937, Allston, Mass. auirars, Jotah
Lee, Dec. 17, 1939; Patricia Bent, Jan. 26, 1941, Sally Elizabeth, June 24,
1944; Carol Allbright, Dec. 19, 1946. .

occupation: Commercial bank officer, executive vice-president,

AFTER graduation in 1935 and attending the Warvand Rane
School, I married and commenced going about supporting a wile
and family and furthering an unplanned business cater, Yoon ei

collecting for a finance company and MANANY a HAANCS CON} aN

ofice in Reading, Pennsylvania, 1 got into conmercat barking WA

1940. Going successively from credit department to affect Matas ON
thence to revolt against commuting and city Ike, V dhtex: wy Yt
in the ring with respect to a position in Butligton, V emmonr, Nov
ing here in 1958, we now have a small house on the Shore oh Lake
Champlain and live and work in bewutitul surtountings 1 a Soy
expanding community, About wo Yeats (ngyyah) Wee york
Unproductively in Uncle Sam's Navy,

Hobbies and pursuits, other than the quest Co enaly wos An
kee p all bills pad, are sailing, fishing, ont, NAAN, AMAIA,
home machine-shop work and forestry, Ny yale aoanredesss
ae deep-seated and conservative as the Kod iveannaatly, wary d

While remnauning ever fond of Wnevate, A tenn veny eaten. A

nl perl Dy contr, Wo Aoter News vn is Ways

Of Economie Which, Hapa by the ata anhiy wes AX

«Oey ul tev lation and INNA Aah

\ uy

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

econonuc tite of our people. I have great faith in the Collece: inches) who thinks mostly of football, skiing and Go-Kart
"dement of the Sons of Hlarvard and know that Most of ¢ hem Ctive clever Tv sionally, can be persuaded to glance at a book.
(much the same asf. Accordingly I find it hard to und Must ane . live in exurbia and, since travel is the burden of all wuly up-

these leachings are permitted to continue. I shall look fo Tstand ¢ businessmen, I see our house only in short spells. When nt
ching with others in our Class when we meet at our Tye itd ro-dat afield, I spend three hours a day commuting to and from
won in June, 1961, enty- fartne ork just to keep in training for longer trips. 1 feel that the

New t of time spent in moving my Carcass around both this coun-
Sad Europe has amounted to a larger single shce of time than
ay ne other activity. It sometimes makes me wonder’

TALBOT RANTOUL
a graduating, I began my apprentice to the carpet industry by

| pecoming a mill worker, a process which lasted three Yeats, Xx

roduced an excellent foundation of knowledge, but Was fnancially
I ttle thin at fifteen dollars per week. Almost simultancomly, ¥6
got married and I was promoted to New York, and exactly then
began the tripping which fortunately at first included my wile. .
The upward struggle through the management Werat chy Was WW:
terrupted by the War. In a spirit of great self-depreciation, 1 Xc-
clined a commision to learn from the bottom for a second tine,
After three months as a private, all 1 could think of was how ta get
to O.C.S. and how nice it would be to be an officer, Mt was accom:

plished and I got into the Air Force, and, in very litle tame, as 8

 

ew Coat, Conn, vont N major. My duties, of course, involved travel and soon 1 was asigned
2 L ve, ivew IF ° . ane

" on NT. to the Air Transport Command. The travel was virtually work
NH. wide,

After V-J Day, I was in a burning hurty to get aut of the service

Lum lide, 1036,
and get back to carpets where 1 was sure L would forge thad x

St. Louts, Mo. ceitpren: Diana,

bot Neal Nov, 25, 1946. least as fast as I did in the Air Force, A complete management te:
f spylng, designing and color- } organization in the late forties checked this upward course by tke
nning Commission, 1949-51 introduction of large numbers of NEW Vice-preanents Whe ways
brought in, shortly after thet arrival, large numbers of thet (ends,
they appear to have It got a little crowded as you can well see, 90 Vnoved Waa sadttg,
Y PP less-crowded company which was mich wore fin Nooo barter

) would interest my fnanciall
full years and ah og Ca

cA LUM ¥ In 1960, I joined the Roxbury Carpet Company as Lew al deey

owing new Product Development Vepartmrent and spent WWW AWE Wns

4 0 OV A , tes (0 produce carpets which wil rot only Wease Mis. Wwatvoahes

ter " 0 lof so have the necessary builtin apperl to the wrath ous gwd

d SC M0 Country so that they will show aut qualitesto her, We ken Ww

Her sixteen ation of industry with “wonwes’ an ore wed de
Occupation of industry with “wewwws’ AN hows veo

| for g function of greater importance than ever bekoteban sacri age

books ral cuedtiove se te ectethor the Swot" Koad ha

I questions as to whether the “wen” Wy ete ae
ie feet FS
| vi |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

and functionally than the “old.” For further documentation, please
see Vance Packard’s The Waste Makers, which, even if you're
not in product design, will interest you as an iconoclastic attack on
“built-in obsolescence” and the annual style change accomplished
only to increase sales,

And so the years have passed in great activity. Inevitably, the
question arises as to whether the hectic movements of the typical
businessman do as much for society as the more contemplative

and quieter activities of others. If I died tomorrow, I would think
_ a proper inscription would be:
“Was this trip necessary?”

IVER SOLOMON RAVIN

 

HOME appress: 33 Neillian Crescent, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1136 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.
BoRN: Aug. 27, 1915, Winthrop, Mass.
PREPARED at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., 1936; m.p. (Boston Univ.), 1940.
Marrigp: Bernice Y. Lewis, May 19, 1946, Boston, Mass. cHiLpren: Daniel
Lewis, Aug. 10, 1949; Richard Martin, June 5, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Physician,
OFFicEs HELD: Assistant professor of clinical medicine, Boston University
School of Medicine; associate visiting physician, Boston City Hospital;
associate in medicine, Massachusetts Memorial and Beth Israel Hospitals;

member, executive committee, New England Regional Board, Anti-
Defamation League.

memper oF: Americans for Democratic Action; American Medical Society;
American Academy of Allergy.
pusuications: Asticles in professional journals.

REFLECTIONS on the past produce, I find, a mixture of feelings
and facts; these arrange themselves as follows.

[1142 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I feel: that a quarter-century has passed is sobering, that P have
been able to survive and even to prosper is encouraging, that thes
hectic years have actually fallen into a logical and neat arrange
ment is surprising; that 1 was almost too young for somecung
(the Presidency of the United States) is exciting, that my chowe
for that office was elected is satisfying.

I have been: a medical student (Boston Universary), a battalion
surgeon (Army); a resident in medicine (Boston Catv Hospetaly
a research fellow in medicine (Boston Univerity).

lam now: a practising physician (internal medicine and allergy ),
a teacher (part-time at Boston University School of Mevicine), a
husband (of a political public relations practitioner), a father (two
young boys); an avid follower of poliucs (card-carrying Dene.
crat); a student of human rights (New England Anti-Defamation
League); a home-owner (non-do-it- -yourself varicty ).

Through all the facts and the feelings one thing has reused
‘constant: I have been a proud and loy al supporter of Hlarvand ad-

miring its courage in maintaining high standards of acadenue frre.
dom, as well as academic standing.

ARNOLD JOSEPH RAWSON

 

HOME AppRESS: 313 Copples Lane, Wallingford, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3600 Spruce St, Philadelphia, Pa.

BoRN: Nov. 26, 1914, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. Drenprs: sm. co heele. tert, sem (b edinerntine
Univ.), 1940; scp. (Univ. of Penmyhvaniat, tog

Marrigp: Mirjam M. Ketronen, Aug. 14 toe New Yack SY snusnew

David Wesley, June 1g, togt; Gale Alice, Ott, tgs, Philly § nc etats,
April 5, 1950.

[ 1143]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
occupation: Assistant professor of pathology, University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Experimental Pathology; American Associa-

tion of Pathologists & Bacteriologists; International Academy of Pathology,
etc.

puBLicaTions: Approximately 30 scientific papers published in various medical
journals dealing with various phases of pathology and immunology.

AFTER several false starts, I came to the realization that an aca-
demic environment was essential for the full development of my
own peculiar inclinations. My deep and all-important attachment
might be described as enjoyment and observation of the natural
world, whether in the wilderness or in my own laboratory. I place
the word “enjoyment” first, for without true pleasure the observa-
tions and experiments would have little chance of achievement. In
the laboratory my principal concern is with the exciting and rapidly-
changing field of immuno-pathology, and with the strange tendency
of some individuals to produce immunologically active proteins
which injure their own tissues, But just as meaningful to me is the
beautiful world of wild creatures, and seeing the graceful gliding of
the black skimmer over the surface of the waves in the cool of the
evening, brings me very close to the Creator.

EDWARD RAWSON

 

HOME aAppRESs: 4806 Old Dominion Drive, Arlington 7, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Cooperation Administration, Washington 25, D.C.
porN: Feb. 5, 1914, Flushing, Long Island, N.Y,
PREPARED at: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, cur laude, 1936, LB. (Yale Univ.),
1939-

[ 1144]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
marRiED: Elsa Emmrich, June 17, 1944, Kent, Conn. critomss bide sed
Emmrich, April 20, 1946, Rebecca Hobart, Aug. §7, tug>.

occuPATION: Assistant chief, Inter-regional Operations Neath, focernateead
Cooperation Administration.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Washington, DCL, Woashisgean
Golf and Country Club; United World Federalist, Sowsty of the
Cincinnati.

THE last twenty-five years have seen me become a member of a

new profession — an international bureaucrat — charged with um.

proving the lot of the have-nots (most of the world). This has
found me engaged in everything from getting bloodhounds for the

Jate President Magsaysay of the Philippines, to bunching Propet

Hope, a bold new concept for bringing medical know ledge to the

emerging countries of the world.

After law school at Yale and a brief sojourn in New York find:
ing out the over-the-counter market was respectable, Workd Woe
Il moved me to the Foreign Economic Administration in Washins.
ton, which is now home base. Overseas life started in rgét, in Vue
slavia, followed by Korea and the Philippines before “rotanng” back
to Washington, in 1958.

Two necessities, daily, become clearer in respect to “interna.
tional cooperation”: unless something is done to bring pepulatod
under control, per capita standards of living will deteriorate fascer
than any offsetting economic aid can raise them, and the grow iny ine

terdependence of the world is making Willhie’s “One World” a
must.

ROBERT HEY RAWSON

 

HOME appress: 2956 Manchester Rd. Shaker Bley aa, (iia

[ tags |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICE ADDRESS; Empire Plow Co., 3140 E. 65th St. Cleveland 27, Ohio.

porN; Oct. 26, 1913, Braintree, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB. sunzna cum laude, 1936; PHD.,
1939-

marRieD: Barbara Haas, Sept. 20, 1941, Cleveland, Ohio. cHi~pReN: Robert
Hey, Jr., Oct. 18, 1944; Susan Helen, June 15, 1947.

occupation: Vice-president and general manager, Empire Plow Company.

OFFICES HELD: Foreman, Cuyahoga County Grand Jury, 1952; president, Citizens
League of Cleveland, 1954-55; member, Community Relations Board, City
of Cleveland, 1954-60; chairman, United Negro College Fund, Cleveland
Campaign, 1956-57; trustee, Cleveland Council on World Affairs, since
1952, National Municipal League, 1954-57, since 1958, Cleveland Bureau
of Governmental Research, since 1958; vice-president, Cuyahoga County

Regional Planning Commission, since 1954; director, City Club of Cleve-
land, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Rowfant Club; Philosophical Club,

Racquet Club of Cleveland; American Political Science Association;
American Society for Public Administration.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Judicial Review of State Chain Store Taxes,” The Tax
Magazine, July, 1938; “The Formulation of the Federal Budget,” Public
Policy, Yearbook of the Harvard Graduate School of Public Administra-

tion, 1941; “A Layman looks at the Grand Jury,” Western Reserve Law
Review, fall, 1952.

IN 1939, after receiving a Ph.D. in political science at Harvard's
Graduate School of Public Administration, | took up a career as
planned in the civil service of the U.S. Government. In Washing-
ton, 1 met a Bennington graduate who was studying public ad-
ministration and promptly married her. This was the best move I
ever made. I had been with the U.S. Bureau of the Budget only
three years when the war broke out and I voluntarily left civil
service for military. For four years, I was something of a manage-
ment specialist for the U.S. Coast Guard, serving briefly in Washing-
ton and rarely seeing blue water or even the coast for that matter.
Discharged as a lieutenant commander, I found my civil service
career interrupted and developed a desire to learn something more
about life in the United States other than Washington and govern-
ment.

In Cleveland, I went to work as assistant to the president of the
Empire Plow Company. This transition was greatly eased by the
fact that Barbara’s father is president of the company and its prin-
cipal stockholder! I believe it can fairly be said, however, that the
job has been no sinecure. Our small-to-medium-sized company has
been buffeted by the economic winds, including a merger involving,

[ 1146 ]



*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

faz, he has an “A” average in his studies. Susan is in the eighth

t our new “showptece” junior high school. She is Pretty and Stade

us. She is a great family girl, even down to cleaning her br Viva~

thall shoes before games. The fact that final exam vaother’s

er coincides with Commencement Week at Harvard c cok at

our Reunion planning, but some or all of the family will ne
€

ORRAMEL REX READ

 

whsbury, Mass,

cator Food Co, 27 Jackson St, Lowell, Mass.
alls,

Boston, Mass,

, 1937, Belmont, Mass. cxmpren: Linda
mas Robert Lally, June 27, 1959); Mark

fegowen Educator Food Company.

6 AF. & FM, 1947-61, Tewksbury
member, advisory board, Wamesit
6-61, board of governors, Lowell
itor, Tewksbury Congregational

y Scouts and Explorers; notary

Men; Tewksbury Town Re-

ig life requires interest
-xistence but also in the
‘living. Towa rds this

2 fields,

h as the raising of

 

 

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
| fish, 35-™mM photography, and organ plaving,. arnh practise:
oO ica ahs

r woe
trop the activ!

ties of my children.
Jarly

WILLIAM FRANKLIN READ

ee
Vo
wa
hee \
t

 

HOME AbpRESS: Route 2, Neenah, Wis.
OFFICE apprEss: Lawrence College, Appleton, Wis,

porn; Oct. 18, 1915, Chicago, Hl.
pREPARED aT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREFS; AB, fmagna Cun laude. vy

(Univ. of Chicago), 1942.

marriep: Helen Woodrich, Sept. 26, 1939 Flossmoor, VAL ciaveass Vow 4h
Cameron, Oct. 25, 1942; Margaret Kirk, Nov. te tagg. Phetet i ja ak,
1948; William Franklin, Jr. Sept. 15, 1982.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Cameron Kirk Read, “ay.

occupation: Professor of Geology, Lawrence College.

Member oF: Geological Society of America, Asociuen vf Gesigy Veet

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles in scientific jourmals,

. , om ®.

I MAJORED in geology at Harvard, and went tev to grades se ok

in the same field at Chicago. By 1940, Vwaswell Mors wy her gal
to a Doctor’s degree and decided to get matted ele tes
teaching job. The job was at West Veras State (i Nerve We
rillo, T taught both anthropology and gout WN,

The following year, | switched to Lawrence Cotocc ge Qed:
Wisconsin — where 1 am sul. “Whe Gentes Woo voces
one-man affair in those days. “This aneant plan vid oy
freedom to experiment with new teaching yeethe',

In the carly ycats of the Second Wark Walia 4
took ona Vers Naval Training Miovam Wey 7"

professor of geography, metcorulogy yy Wives Va ou
ae AS a oe

| yy |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ton got me. I went into operations research for the Navy, under
the Office of Scientific Research and Development.

Then the war ended, and I returned to my old job at Lawrence.
The housing shortage in town gave me a good excuse for purchas-
ing an old farmhouse in the country, This required a lot of fixing
up, and I stayed home for a couple of summers getting the place
livable. After that, for three summers in a row, I taught at North-
western University.

What with the war, small children, and no money, I began to feel
at this point that I was in a bit of a rut professionally. Then an old
Harvard friend in the mining business offered me a job doing ex-
ploration work in the Lake Superior area. With the exception of
one summer in Alaska, ’'ve been a summertime explorer around
Lake Superior ever since.

My research hobby at present is meteorites. If anyone in the
Class of 1936 has a meteorite he doesn’t know what to do with, I
hope he'll send it along.

ROBERT WILLIAM REARDON

 

HOME appress: 35 Chestnut St., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 256% Essex St., Salem, Mass,

BorN: Oct. 22, 1913, Salem, Mass.

Preparep AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. 1939.

mareieD: Elizabeth K, Butler, July 19, 1951, Salem, Mass. cup: Jonathan
Almy, Feb. 4, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club.

I AM still practising law in Salem and enjoying life despite an ulcer

[ 1150 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

diet. Our four-year-old son has taken over our hves to a barge os.
tent. My only hobby is sailing and race committce work, Ome terns
on schoo] committee and on the Park Commision some years ayes
convinced me to let someone clse save the world.

RUSSELL JOHN REDGATE,

MAILING ADDRESS: 79 Coleman St., Bridgeport, Conn,

ROBERT DUNHAM REED

 

HOME ApDprREss: 30 Curve St., Waltham, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESsS: Raytheon Co., Bedford, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 28, 1914, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MARRIED: Cloyce C. Campbell, April 16, 1937, Nerthampenn, Maw ens cere
Rebecca, Dec. 19, 1940; Richard S. April 2g. toss. Warren C. Ob pa,
1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Crocker Reed, 12.0, “4g.

occuPATION: Engineer, manager, Reliability and Inspection Dyparinece, Kev
theon Company, missile systems.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; Appalachian Vinten Cheb,
Massachusetts Audubon Socicty, Masons, Prety Comer Clk

AT the time of graduation, a job with a chance to prove my wil
without regard for pay was all T wanted. After trying unsuceeetalls
to interest someone in my talents, E went to work for the tarteans. fe et
the Boston area (now nearly extinct) with only one es crangy fee Bey -
self every two wecks. I stuck with this for [Wo veare dhurseng whieh
time I married Cloyce Campbell who nist have had eresne rks

[stse]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

faith in my ability. Needless to say, my training and great store of
knowledge was given little opportunity to show its worth.

Four years thereafter were spent in the fuel business. During this
time, there was an opportunity to enter into community affairs in a
college town where intelligence was valued above money. One or
two can be quite happy without money, but the arrival of two chil-
dren meant that a drastic change in financial status was needed.
However, at this time the U.S. Government took charge of my life
for two years as an enlisted man in the Navy. They were glad to
use my training in the electronics field as a technician. My duty
took me to the Pacific Islands, ending in Japan. It was a pleasant ex-
perience and a valuable one.

After three weeks of unemployment, Raytheon took me as the
lowest type of electronics engineer. After a year of work in the
radar engineering field, 1 transferred to the Missile Lab where I have
remained through fifteen years while the Lab has grown from fifty
to a division of nearly ten thousand. At present, I am a department
manager in charge of several sections in the reliability, inspection,
and component parts areas. 1 am happy with my work, contented
with my pay, and convinced that big business has a heart if you
know where to look for it. I have turned down a number of oppor-
tunities for “great advancement” and shall continue to do so as long

as 1 feel I am making a material and appreciated contribution to our
missile program.

Cloyce has devoted her time to raising our children and to good
works in the community. Becky has graduated from Concord Acad-
emy and Bradford Junior College. She is now a junior at Wells
College. Dick is a junior at Waltham High School, looking forward

to college, major interest as yet undetermined. Gus is in the sixth
grade and extremely interested in ornithology.

1 am an independent voter, always considering only the best man
for the job. It does seem odd, though, that so many of the best men
are Republican. I have many hobbies. For just pure relaxation, saw-
ing down a few trees is first on my list—and I have a lifetime of
work ahead of me as I own interest in acreage near Plymouth, Massa-

chusetts, that was ravaged by fire in 1957 leaving many standing dead —
trees. I have recently taken up bird-watching and find it exhilarating
to track down and identify our feathered friends. I have spent sev-
eral vacations at the Appalachian Mountain Club camp on Mount
Desert Island (Maine) and have officiated as assistant program
leader. The climbing expeditions there are wonderful. Fishing,

[ 1152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but not hunting, is very acceptable too. As for indoor sports, bridye
is still tops and chess second. Renovating an old house has made re
fairly proficient at amateur carpentry, plumbing, wiring. painting,
and paperhanging — and I have a garden each summer. Travel has
always interested me, and | have had some fine opportunities to sce
remote areas of the continent. Probably the most unusual was Fort
Churchill on Hudson’s Bay which I visited in the dead of winter,
A less unusual but equally wonderful trip was one which Cloyce
and the children took around the country, covering 13,000 miles

and lasting eight weeks — two weeks of which I was able to spend
with them.

ROBERT GOULD REED

 

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Erdmann Lane, Wilton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Research Center, Fscambia Chemical Corp, Wilton, Conn,
BORN: July 30, 1913, West Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Minneapolis West High School, Minneapolis, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1936,

MarRiep: Margaret Johnson, Sept. 9, 1936, Minneapolis, Minn. consas~:
Carol Elisabeth, June 22, 1938 (72. Winthrop Smith); Robert Gould, Jr.
Aug. 29, 1946. GRANDSON: Nathan Winthrop Smith, Sepe. 23, 19¢e.

OCCUPATION; Business manager, Research Division, Escambia Chenucal Corpora-
tion.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Norwalk Wilton Chapter, Amerwen
Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: Wilton Playshop; Harvard Club of New Canaan.

THE faithful readers of this series may recall a previous ba of
deathless prose to the effect that it was most difficult in a prece of
this kind to avoid sounding either querulous or fatheaded. | don'e
Mean to sound either and, in fact, I have no reason to sound esther.

[1153]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILLIAM OLIVER REED

 

HOME Apress: 44 Radcliffe Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

orFicE aDpRESS: Edgerton, Germeshausen & Grier, Inc., 160 Brookline Ave.,
Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1913, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1936; S.M., 1937.

marriep: Florence Grace Willy, Dec. 26, 1949, Quincy, Mass. CHILDREN: Sally
May, Dec. 14, 1950, William Oliver, Jr, Sept. 2, 1952; Peter Willy, July
24, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Burgess Parker Reed, ’31, S.M., °35.

occupaTION: Scientific specialist doing project engineer’s work on phototubes,
X-ray tube, flash tubes; timing, control and photographic equipment for
the A.E.C,

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Institute of Radio Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: “Shutter Image Converter Tube for Multiple-Frame Photogra-
phy,” with Wilfrid E. Niklas, JS.M-P.T.E. 68, January, 1959; a “few
letters-to-the-editor”; twenty issued U.S. Patents,

I RETURNED to Harvard after the ’36 graduation to work for the
S.M. degree in communication engineering. Later I returned for a
few years’ work toward a Doctorate, the completion of which was
postponed when I elected to join the newly-organized M.I.T. Ra-
diation Laboratory. After five years of this stimulating work, I
went to Chicago. There I changed from the electronic circuit field
to vacuum tube specialization, viz.: photoemissive tubes and sur-
faces, television picture tubes, storage tubes and image converter
tubes. While in Chicago, I acquired seventcen U.S, Patents (com-
pany-owned), some excellent vegetables and fruits from the good
black earth in my backyard, but best of all a wife, a red-haired
daughter and two lively sons,

Upon returning to Massachusetts six years ago I found that the

[1156 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

earth was not so barren here, if vou had enough of ie. Phe lawn
has not been fertilized for four years but the grav all grows by
fact this about sums up my philosophy of Ife — sow sour wed on
good ground, tend the products while they are growing, then leave
them to their own devices and proceed to new fichix, Phe chruve
“big idea” appears quite often this way —in the distance — and
some day I hope to catch up to it.

My travels have been restricted by two-week Vacatiaiy to aut
trips to Colorado and Utah from Chicago, We certainly enyow that
country and look forward to going there again when the chiltkea
are older.

Grace’s interests are her family, flowers, people and theobay
Sally May likes 1) horses, 2) Brownie Scouts, 3) tclevimen, 9) swan:
ming. She is taking trumpet lessons, swimming and French bev
in addition to the regular school curriculum. Billy organises the
neighbor kids in his club, is a Cub Scout and ts about ready foe
the piano, swimming, etc. Peter has picked up some treachernes
tricks on ‘‘Dateline Boston” and throws his Dad for a fall every tame
they wrestle. He and his basset hound are about the surne use and
are boon companions.

My hobbies are 1) golf, 2) planning for the garden [hope to plant
some spring, 3) buying new books that appear to held clucs te one
of the big ideas, 4) dietary supplements.

ANDRE CLARE REGGIO

  

HOME Appress: Old Ayer Road, Groton, Mase.

OFFICE Apress: Nashua Corp, Nashua, NEE

BORN: Sept. 28, 1914, Beverly Farms, Maes,

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portwmoauth,

( tes7)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

marriep: Elizabeth E. Dowse, Aug. 2, 1947, Weston, Mass. cyiLpREN: Michael
André, April 10, 1949; Elizabeth Juliet, Jan. 25, 1950, Claire Means, July
8, 1951; Mary Louise, Jan. 11, 1953; André Nicholas and Charles Dowse
(twins), Jan. 10, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Reggio, '42.

occupation: Paper convertor; assistant to sales manager in flexible packaging.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Community Memorial Hospital, Ayer, Mass., 1952~58.

memper oF: Formerly Harvard Club of Boston; Longwood Cricket Club,
Chestnut Hill, Mass.

IT does not seem like twenty-five years. I don’t feel that old. To
what this is attributed, I don’t know, because I have a family, six
kids, a mortgage, two old cars and all the problems of raising a
family on a moderate income — but a wife who is patient and who
has helped me ride the ups and downs, over the past thirteen years,

Where am I now? In Groton, Massachusetts. What am I doing?
Working for the Nashua Corporation in the sales department.
Where and how have I spent the last twenty-five years? Here goes.

The printing business in Boston was my first employment. By
1941, when the war started, Nashua, New Hampshire, was my home,
where I was employed at the Nashua Gummed. and Coated Paper
Company, paper convertors. ‘The war changed all this. Eventually
] found myself in the Navy, O.C.S., destroyer escorts, APD’s and a
really good tour of the world at Uncle Sam’s expense. During the
latter part of the war, in planning for the future, I felt the urge to
embark on a career of farming — life in the country, outdoor work,
more independence.

Married in 1947, my wife and I spent the next few years in various
phases of agriculture — cows, chickens and apples. However, in the
long run we realized there was not enough in it. We felt we could
never attain what we wanted for ourselves and for our children.

By 1953 1 was back at the Nashua Corporation (new name —
same company), where I am still working. We live in Groton
which we think is a lovely town. No doubt most of you know of
the activities in such a community, There are plenty of “things to —
do” — too many to get too deeply involved. My only civic con-
tribution has been in hospital work.

In looking back, I have no regrets, although there are some things
I might have done differently — who is to say? It is what I have
now that counts, and when everything is added up I’m a pretty

lucky guy. If Harvard would win more football games, everything
would be perfect.

[ 1158 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* RAYMOND CORCORAN GFRARD REID

 

BORN: Nov. 25, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: John Joseph Real, Voren

Corcoran.
PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

piep: Aug. 25, 1939, Brookline, Mass.

AFTER graduation Reid spent a year at the Business School, Sane
then he had been associated with the Unitcd-Carr Fastener Cor-

poration in South Boston. He was survived by his parents.

ALBERT LESTER REINFR

 

HOME AppRESS: Ismacl Valdes Vergara 34% Santiaga, Chile, go Feriwey,
Chelsea, Mass. (mailing address).

OFFICE AppREsS: San Antonio 31, Santiago, Chile.

BORN: Dec. 14, 1916, Chelsea, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea Senior High School, Cheha, Vw,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. Decades: Am, merge gimme beads, iy yh, 8 MF,

1937; PH.D, 1g4t.
[ t159 ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MARRIED: Gladys Damon, Smith "43; Nov. 23, 1947, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Julie, Aug. 27, 1949; Laurel, Nov. 14, 1952.

oocupaTion: Marketing research.

mMemper OF: University Club.

pusLications: Criticism of French novels in American magazines; a bibliog-
raphy, New York University Press, 1941.

| ONCE thought that by 1944 I would be a professor and the author
of a few treatises with titles like “The Evolution of the Imperfect
Subjunctive in the Iberian Languages” or “The Jansenist Animosity
toward the Essays of Montaigne.” I have written none of these
works and I am truly sorry about it. What makes me sorry is not
so much that I deserted my chosen field after the war, but that no
book and no writing bey ond a letter now and then to a few friends
has shown the urge to come out of me.

When the war was over (I served in the Pacific as a Japanese
language officer, in charge of a special naval communications unit)
I decided to change every thing including, foolishly, my name. From
romance philology I plunged i into economic and marketing research
and I have been at it ever since, except for occasional surreptitious
leafings of my graduate school texts.

My words may give the impression that I regret the about-face.
In a way I do, but I am satisfied also that the years in which it has
permitted me to live abroad with my family have enriched my
life, and on balance I am not an unhappy man, just an abidingly
curious, perplexed and vulnerable man. Gladys and I and the children
have lived four years in Paris (our younger daughter was born
there) and we are now doing the same in Santiago, Chile. Buying
your groceries, catching your bus, and paying your gas bill in a
foreign country are trifling experiences, until you realize that little
by little they have put you into the skin of the other fellow and
made you understand a lot of things from his point of view.

Some day soon we'll be back and no doubt after the long absence
l'll have to make a similar adjustment. It may not be easy because
I don’t play golf, wear Bermuda shorts, or drink martinis (or water
either, for that matter — both superfluous when you have lived in
the two countries producing the finest wine in the world), but I'll
give it a try. And if I don’t completely succeed it won’t bother
me because outsiders —~ or rather insiders, because the one on the
outside will be me — will attribute any idiosyncrasies to the fact
that I am a Harvard man.

[ 1160 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEYER GEORGE REINES

 

é
é
B
e
&

HOME ADDRESS: 67—14 108th St., Forest Hills 75, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: National Labor Relations Board, 745 Fifth Ave, New York,

N.Y.
BORN: Jan. 11, 1915, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., ctimt laude, 1936; tpt. (Banton

Teachers Coll.), 1938.
MarRiED: Marthe Norton, Jan. 29, 1940, Boston, Mass. cuiuperen: Joel Ales.

ander, Jan. 6, 1948; Julie Sue, July 9, 1952.
HARVARD BROTHER: Bernard Jacob Reines, ’28.
OCCUPATION: Supervising Examiner, National Labor Relations Board, Secund

Region (New York City).

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Organizing Committee, Cub Scout Pack 283, New
York City; Queens County (N.Y.) co-chairman, Anti-Defamation League,
B'nai B’rith,

AFTER college there was nowhere in particular to go — no family

business, no funds for graduate school, and I had no special talent.

I recall the rather perfunctory interview with the job placement

office (or whatever it was called), something about sales being the

best field open. Four months later I was taken on for gencral fac-
tory labor in a distillery at forty cents an hour —and at that at
took a connection to get the job. I can still see the disbcheving
smile (sometimes puzzled) on the face of the foreman: A Elarvard
man on his factory line! The forty cents didn’t seem cnough te
my co-workers; there was a strike and I found myself on a picket
line I hadn’t made but which in middle-age retrospect T find it easy
to romanticize. Picket lines were something T was to come back te
years later but without the personal involvement of my proletanan

year.

In the fall of 1937 I returned to school, to Boston TPeachers Col-

[ 1161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

lege. I received an Ed.M. in June, 1938, but it didn’t seem to help
in getting a job. For my part I was not able to build a better mouse-
trap. I got a job with the historical records survey group in WPA
and was “on” WPA for about two years. All in all, these first
years out of school were frustrating ones, with consummation
largely in dreams. A melancholy flavor, though considerably attenu-
ated, still attaches to the period. Haec olim meminisse iuvabit. But
I didn’t think so at the time. In 1940 things began to pick up. I
met the pretty, vivacious girl who became my lady, the nicest and
most important thing that ever happened to me, and soon after
took the New York City teaching test that led in January, 1941, to
an appointment as a teacher-trainee in the New York City high
schools. The pay was $4.50 per day provided school was in session.
But at least I felt 1 was on my way.

Three and a half years of teaching social studies, and disillusion-
ment. I’ve often wondered what happened. I think the kids weren’t
really interested. The war was on and it overshadowed everything,
even in their youthful minds. There was none of that frantic drang
nach college which I think motivates so many today. In any case
I was glad to get out of teaching. We moved on to Washington
for a year where I worked as an economist with the War Produc-
tion Board. In 1945 I was hired as an examiner with the National
Labor Relations Board in Pittsburgh, and I have worked for the
Board ever since at several of its offices including Chicago, Cleve-
land, Knoxville, Detroit, and (permanently, I hope) in New York
City. I skim over these past fifteen years (1945-60) maybe because
they were generally happy ones. Many things, of course, hap-
pened, but what seemed important at the time now seems no longer
of much consequence nor worth recording. The only indelible im-
print left by those years was the arrival of the two sweet, luminous

-- young faces that I greet all too briefly at the breakfast table each
MOormng.

Along the line I have been forced by circumstance and my own
limitations to drop many illusions and hopes I once had; I no longer
bounce as high, nor is it as easy to shoulder the sky; my pretensions
are much more modest than when I started out; my conceit rather
deflated, and my hungers rather subdued. My physical plant is
beginning to slow, and I note that the obituary columns increas-
ingly memorialize “young” men in my age group, some of whom I
actually knew. Wasn't it a Harvard poet who spoke of seeing “the
skull beneath the skin”? In one’s thirties, one isn’s much concerned

[ 1162 ]

251TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with necrology. That’s for old people. But at forty-tive, one docan't
immediately discard the literature on burial plots found in the mat
on a sunny morning even if one doesn’t vet buy.

In the meantime, I still enjoy my work ‘after fifteen year, perhaps
because it has largely to do with people involved in the emotion:
packed field of labor-management relations, I have some “interests”
such as reading (almost anything), observing the world and its head
lines, though not with the detachment I should hike to practise, and
working with a group in the field of civil rights and prejudice. And
then there is the family — all-pervasive in its ranufications and de-
mands, never really housebroken, constantly throwing up new-vet-

old challenges, a major interest in itself. Allow: ing for some neces
sary reticences, that’s the tale so far.

JOHN IORWERTH FREDERICK RFPPUN

     

  

 

HOME apprEss: 47—410 Lulani St., Kahaluu, Kaneohe, Oahu, Paw ase.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 45-461 Pau Inia St., Kaneohe, Oahu, Elaw an.

BorN: Nov. 19, 1913, Tirljian, Russia.

PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: M.D. 1039.

MARRIED: Lillian Jean Engel, June #4, 1938 Homestead, Pa. conmss  WMarrhe
Engel, Sept. 5, 1945; Charles Frederick, July sQ. tags, PReercae Seaw ort,
June 15, 1949; Paul Simon, Aug. 219 1950; John Tewm, Aug 65, te9)
David Stanley, Oct. 19, 1954; Joshua Fngel, Oe 18, tga

HARVARD BROTHER: C. Eric Reppun, "38 (deceased),

occupation: Gencral practitioner of medicine and surgery.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lanai Lions Club, 193%, Ranewhe Pork feng, bay,
vice-president, director, Molokai Lions Club, agg 44. ene ed ober ne ren
Molokai Community Hospital, togo-363 Vice-prewdene, Derrwiersd Asien oo
tion Plantation Physicians, 1994; chief, Depantiment of Canerd Pree
Kauikeolani Children's Hospital, Honolulu, 1948 a0, see retery

[ 1163}

» pry Men,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

president, 1940-41, Hawaii Chapter, American Academy of General Prac-
tice, chairman, Maternity Mortality Committee, Hawaii Medical Associa-
ron, 1958, member, Medical Care Plans Committee, Venereal Disease
Commitree, Polio Committee, Honolulu County Medical Society; secre-
tary, Kaneohe Pop Warner Football, 1960.

aevare of: Windward Oahu Community Association; American Medical
Assoctation, Hawai Medical Association, Honolulu County Medical So-
ciety, Amencan Academy of General Practice.

pemtearioss: One article in Hawaii Medical Journal, 1959.

BEFORE | finished seven years in Boston, including four at the
Medical School, T married the girl from Pittsburgh, whom [ met at
Woods Hole while doing summer work at the U.S. Bureau of
Fisheries. While she gor her Master’s degree at Columbia, I nearly
flunked my first year at Harvard Medical School for making week-
end trips to New York in my fifty-dollar, nine-year-old Chevy.
My suit was successful in more ways than one (i.e, at least seven, as
sroven by current receipts, liabilities, personal social security or
whatever ‘else you might want to call them!), because she helped
putime through my last year by teaching at Carnegie Tech as a
hologist.

Following two years of hospital training in Pittsburgh, 1 signed
up for active duty with the Medical Corps of the AUS, hoping, as
dil millions of compatriots, to get my one year over with. Jean
chose the Army for me, because “the ocean is so dangerous.” Three
months after entering Fort Belvoir, in Virginia, I was at sea for the
longest: possible one-way voyage on the waves— New York to
Melbourne, Australia, with the American Division, in a seven-ship
convey loaded with beer, pretzels and ammo that didn’t fit the
Australian guns, My Ninth Station Hospital took in the wounded
marines and sailors from the invasion of Guadalcanal (we were on
New Caledonia), and after we moved up to the Solomons, the Army
Wounded from that campaign and those from Saipan and Guam.
T got back to the USA thirty-three months later and finally made
major, "

It was a rather natural thing to get back home to Hawaii after
the war, but a long tip by train, boat and plane from Baltimore
to Lanai (the island that belongs rs to the Dole Pineapple Company),
with our first-born only five months old, came first. Five kids and
ten vears later, we left Molokai (not the leprosarium part of the
island) and rural practice in an isolated community, to settle down
in a suburban community, only twelve miles and across the Pali,
trom the big city of Honolulu. We built ourselves a permanent

[ 1164 ]

 

F
f
t
;
z

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

home, complete with seven bedrooms, before discovering that
Joshua had to be fitted in. He was, and is, the pet of the entire
Reppun society.

I have never regretted going into general practice. Instead of
feeling inadequate in knowledge of the details of the many facets
of specialization, I feel competent to deal with any patient’s problem,
be it psychiatric or surgical, to the extent of being able to direct
and manage total care. It is most satisfying to have a busy practice
in a community of friends, a community in which my father once
was the only doctor.

A a large family we are self-sufficient socially. However, we
are deeply involved in all sorts of school and community activities.
This sounds local and selfish, perhaps, but our outlook is not re-
stricted. We are trying to remedy the fault in our educational
system, the national attitude of “let the school do it,” by under-
taking a large part of their education ourselves. We feel ourselves
duty bound to help with homework and to complement the efforts
of overwhelmed teachers. The fact that Punahou School, a private
school of some two thousand enrollment, is almost impossible to
get into, even if the child’s parent is an alumnus, is an obvious in-
dictment of our public school system. Whether the rest of our kids
enter Punahou, whether any or all might apply for Harvard later
on, is going to depend first on their intelligence and desire, of
course, but granting that, it will be a matter of financing. With a
$50,000 per annum gross, that depends completely on how hard I
press my nose to the grindstone, and with a net income therefrom,
after taxes, which is actually inadequate to meet current obligations,
I can only hope that the further, proper education of our seven can
be accomplished by a “study now, pay later” plan. The obliganon
that I felt most necessary to honor in my whole life was the loan
I was able to get from Harvard University each year that I needed
it to carry on. I am certain my children will so honor their obliga-
tions, if they assume any, for the sake of their own education.

It may be no wonder, then, that I have from the earliest tried to
repay Harvard through annual contributions. It may become in-
creasingly difficult to keep up the annual sums, as my brood starts
to cost me more and more tuition each year. However, once they
are all sped on their way, my health and activity permitting, we

shall attempt to resume our “repayment,” for inestimable value
previously received.

Finally, to summarize, and also to “widen the screen,”

[ 1165 ]

as thev

_ |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

say in the movies, I sent out a political letter to some thousand
patients and friends just before the recent election. We in Hawaii,
as you know, for the first time in history had our birthright — the
privilege to vote for President of the United States.

HOWARD HECKER REYNOLDS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Glendale Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Ludlow Corp., 145 Rosemary St., Needham Heights, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1916, Cambridge, Mass. :

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1936; 8.D. (Massachu-
setts Inst. of Technology), 1939.

marrige: Sarah Riley, Sept. 14, 1940, Belmont, Mass. cumpren: Howard
Langdon, Jan. 30, 1944; Jonathan, Dec. 25, 1945; Sarah, June 10, 19505
Cynthia, Jan. 18, 1957.

occupation: Vice-president of research and development, Paper and Plastics
Divisions, Ludlow Corporation,

OFFicEs HELD: Consultant to Rubber Reserve, 1944; chairman, local American
Chemical Society, local American Institute of Chemical Engineers, MIT.
Regional Solicitation, 1960, president, Lexington Toastmasters Interna-
tional 1475, Chenery School (Belmont) P.T.A.; regional director, United
Fund.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemical
Engineers; American Association for the Advancement of Science; Ameri-
can Institute of Chemists (fellow), Society of Plastics Industry; Society of
Plastics Engineers, Tech. Association of Pulp & Paper Institute; Sigma Xi.

SINCE last writing we have added another daughter, Cynthia, to
the tribe. We hope she will be a comfort (?) in our old age!

In March, 1960, I left the Cryovac Company, after fifteen years,
to become vice-president of research and development of the
Plastics and Paper Divisions of the Ludlow Corporation, Needham

[ 1166 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Heights, Massachusetts. Trying to keep up with the necds of four
active children, including tuition to preparatory school, sometunes
seems to require more than twenty-four hours a day! Looking
ahead to an aggregate of at least sixteen years of college expenws
hardly seems to lessen the load either!

Twenty-five years after graduation, the realization comes stow ty
that the mental desire to play five hard sets of tconis or twenty-
seven holes of golf is seldom matched by a corresponding deure
of the flesh! My only regrets at this advanced ave are that the
demands of earning enough money to support a family leave all
too little time for enjoying same; that the same demands leave much

too little time for friends. Perhaps the Twenty-Fifth Reunion will
remedy the latter!

ARTHUR HOPKINS RICE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2231 California St, N.W., Washington & DCL, as Mabtte
St., Portsmouth, N.H. (permanent).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Intelligence Department of the Army, Pentagon, W sbergtenn,
D.C. (pending reassignment).

BORN: May 22, 1914, Portsmouth, N.H.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1936039); ane, CU new. of Vesa.
sippi), 1948.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Intelligence analyst, Assistant Chief of Searf, loectingense Bde prove
ment of the Army, Pentagon, Washington, D.C,

OFFices HELD: Trustce, Richter Fstate of Pornmeuth Not) rua4, prreseke rd,
Potomac Assembly, Brotherhood of St. Andrew in the t pecegad Prue vse
of Washington, 19¢8-éo, Intclligence Chapeee, DC, Pepe, ROD, ease
59; national councilman, Fpiscopal Diocese of Wt ashargtan, Angee, sys;

[ 1167 J

—__—_—___|

 

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

chairman, 95th Infantry Division Assn, 11th Reunion, Shoreham Hotel,
August, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; St, Paul’s School Alumni Associa-
tion; Washington Committee, Newcomen Society in North America,
Civil War Round Table of the District of Columbia; church groups
associated with St. John’s Episcopal Church and Diocese of Washington
Brotherhood of St. Andrew; Reserve Officers Association.

puptications: “Propaganda Terrain of East Zone Germany,” series of papers
prepared for the External Research Staff, State Department, 1951, under
the auspices of the School of Advanced International Studies, Johns
Hopkins University; “Salient Changes in Land Tenure in Mississippi,”
AM. Thesis, 1948; “U.S. Assistance to Euratom,” pH. Thesis (in prepara-
tion).

TO summarize the last twenty-five years in a few paragraphs is
perhaps presumptuous, but a good start has already been made in
the previous four reports, dated 1942, 1947, 1951 and 1956.

With the death of my father, Captain Arthur H. Rice, USN,
Annapolis ’o4, in 1932 (he established the Harvard Naval ROTC in
1925), many problems presented themselves to me from 1936 on,
some of which have been resolved, some not. The first problem was
the settlement of my grandfather’s estate in Leipzig, Germany,
during 1936-37. By liquidating the whole estate and turning the
proceeds into necessities, we were able to enjoy foreign travel for
seven months, and return without harm in 1937. My glimpses into
Hitler’s Germany were enough to urge me to prepare for war work
from 1938 to 1940 by studying for the foreign service and business
subjects in Washington. The second problem was the rehabilitation
of my father’s property in Mississippi which has not yet been satis-
factorily restored, but a good start was made in 1939-40.

At this point, refer to the Sexennial Report, and omitting the
war years (Decennial Report), begin again with the postwar years.
The last fifteen years have been concentrated in four major fields:
intelligence work in CIA and G-2 in the Pentagon; public relations
in the U.S. Information Agency; in church work and family affairs;
and lastly in developing a career. The first two categories were
adequately covered in the Twentieth Report. Family affairs con-
centrated now more in New England than in Mississippi, keep me
traveling back and forth between Washington and New Hampshire
more than four times a year, so that I’ve acquired a northern accent
instead of a southern one. Church work has become a major con-
cern since 1956, with increasing interest in the Brotherhood of
St. Andrew, an organization of men and boys of the Episcopal

{ 1168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPOKE

Church. For the last two years it has been mv Fexponubrliey as
president of the Potomac Assembly of this group, th aleve! lop
programs to deepen religious faith and understanding in the Phe exe
of Washington. On my retirement as president on November ya

1960, I shall devote more time to my carcer statuy be switching

to a better job, and by finishing a PELD. thesis, discontinued: an
1955 at American University, here in Washington, at the School of
International Service.

With few mortgages to speak of, and some new fanmly obliga.
tions, at forty-six, I am looking forward to the neve tw CHEV fe
years with a little more assurance than in 1936. My hobbies remain
the same, that is, nothing exciting has been added: my tine for
glamorous girl friends has become limited to waltz cluby church
socials, etc., my clubs haven’t changed much, nor fundamental
drives, but I feel there is plenty of time for a change, and that 1
coming soon, because the rut can become pretty deep these dava
Fund drives since 1956 have exhausted any surplus cash, available
for travel; and committee work for the Harvard Club of W ashingtan
and other civic enterprises consume the rest of the free time, The
incoming Democratic administration in January, will be predorn-
nantly Harvard, if anything, and the turn-out from Washington
to the Twenty-fifth Reunion in Cambridge will be much greater
than in 1956, so for the short term I'm not too apprehenuve. For
the long-run, I’m selling speculative stocks and busing Cav evernpe
bonds, and buying real estate to offset any loses bound te be felt
by the stock market when the “New Frontiers” exhaust theivelees

BERT S. RICHARDS, JR.

HOME appress: 200 Islington Rd., Auburndale, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Esso Standard Oil Company, 1¢1 Bows Se, Bvereet, Mose

BORN: July 8, 1914, Oak Bluffs, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1933.

MarRieD: Brenda Howe, June 12, 1937, New York, NOV. tbiveried saan
cuitp: Diane, April 18, 1938.

OccUPATION: Petroleum marketing.

ENTIRE carcer, except for time in service, with Psa Sean dard On!
Present assignment, Massachusetts district manager.

[ 1149]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HAMILTON RICHARDS

 

HoMe AppRESS; 83 High Rock Lane, Westwood, Mass.

orrice appress: Vance, Sanders & Co., Inc., 111 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass,

BORN: Sept. 15, 1913, Groton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

Marriep: Edith Lewis, Oct. 8, 1937, Brookline, Mass. cHitpreN: Hamilton,
Jr, Feb. 14, 1939; James Lincoln, Oct. 22, 1942; Anne Hallowell, Nov. 7,
1946.

warvarn sons: Hamilton Richards, Jr., 60; James Lincoln Richards, ’6q.

HarVARD BROTHERS: Tudor Richards, 38; John Richards, 2d, ’54.

occupation: Investment banking, wholesale mutual fund distribution.

orrices HELD: Chairman, Club Scout Committee, 1952-54; member, Special
High School Survey Committee, 1953-54, chief, Auxiliary Fire Depart-
ment, since 1955, member, Sewer Commission, since 1957, Town of
Westwood, member of corporation, Robert Sever Hale Camping Reserva-
tion, since 1955; Perkins School for the Blind, since 1955.

TLIS cannot be a complete report on the twenty-five years which
have disappeared, who knows where? Our tyrannical Class Report
Chairman insists that we compose our biographies NOW, which
means that the trials and triumphs between the fall of 1960 and the
full completion of the quarter century in June must go unrecorded.
I make this point because of an abiding faith that tomorrow, next
week, next year, or whenever, all problems will evaporate, and
I shall bask in the rosy glow of contentment.

And vet, I have a strange feeling that contentment, in the usual
sense of “well- being w ithout worries,” is not the perfect goal. Is
a completely unrufiled existence the ultimate ingredient in happiness?
The answer stands out in bold-faced type: contentment is not only
here, but it has been here right along.

It all started a bit before graduation, when the world’s worst

[ 1170 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

salesman closed the deal of the century by selling a young lady
on a hell of a long shot. The salesman has since worn out several
dozen shirts patting himself on the back, while the still-vouny
lady seems (or pretends?) to be blissfully unaware that the bargain
she got wasn’t so hot.

In due course the partnership produced three highly satisfactory
dividends. Two of them, mirabile dictu, have turned into Harvard
men in their own right; the third may have to join the Elarvard
fraternity the hard way, as her mother did.

Speaking quantitatively, the major part of my business carcer
has been outlined in earlier Reports: a couple of months as an un-
skilled worker in a sheet-steel fabricating plant in South Boston,
five years in the general securities business, first in Boston, then in
New York; nearly nine years with Pan American Airways, mostly
in New York, but with a delightful (although by no means Icisurely )
year in Bermuda, finally six more years back in securities, back in
Boston.

Then in 1957, I was asked to join Vance, Sanders & Company,
Inc., wholesale distributors of mutual funds, and why it took me a
couple of days to make up my mind I cannot now explain. Sutfice
it to say that, had I known about the firm in 1936 what [ know
today, I should have been pounding on their door at 9:00 a.m. on
June 19th. My present job is to try to see that the commission busi-
ness resulting from the funds’ purchases and sales of securities is
divided up fairly among investment dealers and brokers all over
the country in proportion to their sales of fund shares,

Outside interests include a very modest quota of civic activities
(I am learning to pronounce the word “no” with extraordinary
clarity), a Utopian summer retreat on Squam Lake, New Hampshire,
and—the birthright of every suburban houscholder — running
battles with weeds, storm windows, peeling paint, reluctant appli.
ances, dead batteries and real estate taxes. In spite of a fecling of
having marked time for the first twenty-one years, life has been
good, and still is. The present problem is w hether we can geet the
next generation through Harvard faster than Harvard can raise the
tuition. Once that race is won-——and we Icad by a nose coming

into the stretch —I shall feel entitled to sit back and grow oll
gracefully.

[1171 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WARREN RICHARDS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4316 Roland Ave., Baltimore 10, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pharma Plastics, Inc, 205 S, Smallwood St., Baltimore 23, Md.

porN: March 21, 1914, Stamford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriep: Constance H. Babcock, Oct. 31, 1936, Harvard, Mass. CHILDREN:
Constance H., Feb. 6, 1939; Pauline B., Dec. 1, 1941.

occuPATION: Manufacturing; president, Pharma Plastics, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Past treasurer and president, Harvard Club of Maryland.

MEMBER OF: Society of Plastics Engineers.

I READ in the 1936 Class Album that I listed my intended vocation
as “manufacturing.” Except for two and one-half unhappy but
enlightening years as a real estate salesman and a short career as
an officer in the Navy, I have been in manufacturing all this time,
first with Proctor and Gamble, fresh (and boy, how green) out
of college; then in an abortive attempt to have my own business;
then with a company which unwittingly gave me a chance to learn
enough about plastics to have confidence enough to start again in
my own business, in 1954. Six bloody years later I have, I think
and hope, arrived at a point where, if 1 redouble my efforts and
act smarter than I sometimes have in the past, my career may be
said to hold a little promise. Not as much promise, perhaps, as a
graduating Harvard senior is thought by most to have, but a little.

Why manufacturing? Because of the three broad areas of activity
that create the goods that people must have or want to have —
agriculture, mining and manufacturing —I have no talent I am
aware of for the first two. Upon these three activities rests all we
call culture. Whether our national productivity or the elaborate
culture we are building upon it leads anywhere, I leave to the

[3172 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

philosophers and the metaphysicians, but it sunsties me to be ¢
participant in one of these areas.

It seems to take a lifetime to rear children part the baby-sittee
stage, but ours are substantially grown and we hope we stull be
able to range a little wider from now on. In general, if anv boty
cares, lam impressed with the artifacts of man, but Dhol as reserved
view of man himself. Men, on the other hand, I generally bhe. My
thoughts on women will be published serially ata later date.

CHARLES WESLEY RICHARDSON

 

HOME appress: 67 Giles Rd., Harrington Park, N.J.

OFFICE appress: Northern Industrial Products Inc, 241 Hudwo Se. Plat.
ensack, N.J.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1912, Southbridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Mas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MarrieD: Dorothy Barker Harnden, June 13, 1936. Portland, Mane. coon ones
Sandra Joyce, March 14, 1936 (#. Richard Hl. Gonion, Aug. ap. get,

Stephen Harnden, Aug. 9, 1938. Granpautnaes: Linda Maryorne Corstens,
Joanne Elien Gordon.

occupation: General manager, assistant to the prewdent, Northern lnhserrnsd
Products, Inc., All-Rire Pen, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, National Association of Cost Accountant, teeta
Sales Executives Club, 1939-53; member, promoton comenetes, | lend
writing Foundation, since 1959, coordinating commetce, Pountun Pea &
Mechanical Pencil Manufacturers Association, ance mon

AFTER spending a year and a half at Worcester Tech arkd three
years at Harvard, my moncy ran low, and mv cmetions overtlowesdt
Therefore, in June of 1935, 1 forsook the halls of Plirvard, mssresed
the girl of my dreams, and set forth to find my niche in the works

[1073]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

out of me without our going into social, political and religious
beliefs at this time!

LORNE CONRAD RICKERT

   
    
 

     
 

af,

ret

OD pee mt Tee,

 

HOME AppREss: Spring Hill Road, Salisbury, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wicomico County Recreation Commission, Youth and Civic
Center, Salisbury, Md.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1913, Kitchener, Ont. Canada.

PREPARED AT: Bryant High School, Long Island City, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., Cwm laude, 1936.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Marshall, Jan. 21, 1943, Arlington, Va. cHitpren: John
Marshall, Feb. 15, 1944; William Marshall and Elizabeth Conrad (twins),
Aug. 18, 1946; Anthony Hallman, May 28, 1955.

occupaTION: Superintendent of recreation, Wicomico County Recreation
Commission.

OFFICES HELD: Member, National Committee on Recreation Research, 1956-
59, National Committee on Recreation Administration, 1957-60; president,
Maryland Recreation Society, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: National Recreation Association, Maryland Recreation Society;
American Recreation Society; American Institute of Park Executives;
International City Managers’ Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Many research findings and articles for professional publications.

IF this account of my life since graduation is difficult to begin
(which it is), this may be because any similarity to the product
envisioned by the raw material twenty-five years ago is purely
coincidental. This would have been easier to write then because
I knew all the answers — now I am not so sure. My roommate and
I discussed getting a ghost writer to do this for us, but we decided
against it. If he satisfied us, people simply wouldn’t believe it.

I am not a howling success, but my life has been significant. My
government major headed me in the direction of public service.

[ 1176 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Three summers of work as a camp counscllor at Mowgiis pecens
well established which branch of public administration a would te
—as easy as that — public recreation. The reste took place av the
following sequence —a year of in-service traning in the Miu aiee
Department of Recreation and Adult Education ax a) National
Recreation Association fellow; three years as director of recreated
of Ocean City, New Jersey; three years and cight months in the
U.S. Coast Guard Reserve; after the war, a bricf peruat as the
director of recreation of Bexley, Ohio; and. for the pase thirteca
years, superintendent of the Wicomico County War Mermenal
Recreation Commission.

I traveled extensively during the war as the shipper of varius
subchaser vessels, commanding officer of a beach patrol barracks
and finally as the skipper of the FS-185, a freight and supply ships
of the “Mr. Roberts” class, carrying cargocs and men i varies
parts of the southwest Pacific. This was interesting experience, |
now admit.

We have a family of four children, including a bow of svtcen,
boy and girl twins of fourteen, and a boy of five who keeps us a
on our toes. If there is nothing else distinctive about our farts,
boy and girl twins occur, so I have been told. only once in appro:
mately goo births.

Since completion of our new Youth and Gavie Center, ms work
has been particularly interesting, sometimes downnyhe heene, We
have a county-wide recreation program in which we are convernes
with organizing people for a more satisfying use of losure tine
This is important because to a constantly increaung extent ponple
do their creative living during Icisure hours, On the pohneal «ene
— we are not hotly partisan, I have modified somew hat the dhetus
of one political science writer, whom we studied (mere of hast
in Government I, that America has only ene political parts. the
“Republican cum Democratas.” Ina general wav, Phave planed
some conclusions as to what our parties stand for, and they are nest
quite the same, The Democrats have a concern for the weltare
of the people; the Republicans a concern for the individual, ce
Democrats are less bothered about fiscal solvency than the Kepe.
licans,; the southern Democrat, old stvle, and the northe ry Rept
lican have more in common than the southern Dette rae at te
northern Democrat. The goals of the two partes are the on
but only if you can state their goals as being as brow das oboe pe
greatest common good.” This muse have been whoae Nien Padus

”

[177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

mind in one of the great debates when he stated that the Republicans
want the same things as the Democrats.

Question — Is the well-being of a people the sum total of the well-
being of all the individuals comprising it, or is there such a thing as
the common welfare of a people considered as an entity? The
answer to this question may very well determine how one votes.
Who started this harangue anyway? In summation, as my work
requires all kinds of odd hours, including Saturdays, holidays, and
some Sundays, I keep saying to myself, “This work (and it is
work) is truly significant (which it is).” With a loving and lovable
wife and satisfying children, lots of work, good health, plenty to
gripe about — what more can a man want?

BENJAMIN CLAPP RIGGS

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 Highland St. Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: May 11, 1914, Stockbridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB. 1936(37); Mp. (Columbia Univ.),
1940.

marriep: Norma Campararo, June 18, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHILDREN: Austen
Fox, Sept. 23, 1941 (died January, 1951); Charles McBurney, May 10,
1944 (died January, 1951); Benjamin Clapp, Jr., Sept. 29, 1945; Henry
Lawrason, Oct. 20, 1951; Malcolm Stewart, Feb. 12, 1953.

occupation: Psychoanalytic psychiatry; clinical associate in psychiatry, Har-
vard Medical School.

memper oF: A.M.A.; Massachusetts Medical Society; American Psychiatric
Association, Massachusetts Society for Research in Psychiatry; Aescu-
lapian Club; Cambridge Boat Club; Charles River Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Professional papers in medical, biochemical and psychiatric
journals.

IT would take too much space to say whence came the idea to go

[1178 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

into medicine. I think it was during junior year. In part Thad
before me a father and two grandfathers in the sume profession,
But | remember my father’s comment on the decision: “God help

you!” It was a point taken in wisdom, although by one whe loved
his work, to one who would certainly not change it now,

I ended my medical training at Columbia's Physicians and Sur-
geons with the vague idea of being a great surgeon. One vear at
Bellevue dispelled that thought in favor of internal medicine. |
could go on at some length about the old City Hospital internshup.
There was the inspiration of devoted teachers, giving their ame
as senior staff members. There was the unmitigated horror of
watching the ancient sewage lines plug up and flood the drevung
station of the surgical ward while flies poured in through unscreened
windows onto open wounds, and all this while a magnificent, marble-
fronted, tile-floored administration building was taking shape to the
greater glory of the city government. There was the warm, chase
teamwork with New York’s Finest (and I really believe the police

force was just that) on the ambulance service. Sometimes we even

felt useful, like doctors. But it was medicine. Intense, primitive,
strictly “in the raw,” but it was medicine.

I found I was not the Dr. Kildare type, and so, apparently, did
the Navy. Thus went another dream. I had had visions of an
exciting kind of usefulness, and had hoped for sea duty. Instead,
1 found myself at the University of Pennsylvania, in internal medh-
cine, waiting, and learning the more sophisticated aypects of the
profession. They were an extraordinary group, that whole Depart.
ment of Medicine. They included Greer Miller, Pete Abbott, Perry
Pepper, and many others. I drifted upstairs to the “rarched atria
phere of the sixth floor” and there made one of my deepest personal
and professional friendships with Bill Stadic, professor of revcarch

medicine. I had almost flunked out of medical school for wane of

capacity in biochemistry, but Bill taught me to love it and, warabile
dictu, that I could do it.
So the wartime uncertainty ended with an invitation, and finally

an assignment, to do research in biochemistry for the submarine

people, under and with Bill Stadie himsclf. It was a frusttul ome,

a learning time, a stimulating time. Then, for all hinds of slowly

growing reasons, the path took a different turn, toward a new

beginning in psychiatry. This meant five more years of reuse we
and the like, and my incredible wife, with number three boy on the
way, put up with the ninth move of household. Questioning. ¢ hang:

{1179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

our growth is not over, nor our wondering, nor our enquiry, nor
our Iearning.

LAWRASON RIGGS, III

 

frovtie apoeses: got Belden Ell Re, Wilton, Conn,

ores Apparss: St freeph [ead Co, 150 Park Ave, New York 17, N.Y.

was Aug at, tory, New Bedford, Mass.

verpaasp at. Se. Paul's School, Concord, N.BL

YEARS IN UEHIEGE FQUI-fQ}4 DeGAFES: AB, 1936; 5.8. and Ep.M. (Columbia
Univ), roy

Massisp: Anne Emerwn, Aug. a, rogt, Uneatena Island, Nass. CHILDREN:
Canulla Niddter, Oct. a. raga; Lawrason, gth, and David Emerson (twins),
Now. ap. tages Steven Daniel, Nov. 23, 1945; Raymond Emerson, Aug.
any tags, Peter, Sept. tayo.

matprtior: Abning, vice-president, Se. Joseph Lead Company.

acesipon on: Plarvard Club of New York, Mining Club; American Institute
of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, Canadian Institute of Mining
Frgincers, Mining and Metallurgical Society of America.

THE first great shock on graduating was to discover that Columbia
did not holla Harvard A.B. in the same esteem that I had imagined
it mht. The dream of one year of casually picking up credits for
an Engineer of Mines Degree turned into three years of intensive
stnlys, Outbreak of war in September, 1939, prevented my taking
a mining job in South Africa. Instead, Uncle Sam sent me to Diesel
School at Penn State, a most pleasant prewar interlude, followed
by five vears of varied duties in the Atlantic and Pacific.

Marriage in 1941 was blessed with a girl and five boys. The
boys arrived at two-year intervals (three birthdays on November
23) providing the statistically -minded with an interesting study in
Navy leave.

[ 1182 |

rape

afi sda

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Before heading for the wars, | packed all my belongings into the
rumble-seat of my Ford and said my good-byes in less than an hour,
After the war, it took two forty-five-foot furniture vans, a horse
van and a trailer to move us to our several locations in Missouri,
Canada and Connecticut. My wanderings about the countryside
have included trips to England, Sweden, all the provinces of Canada,
Northern Mexico, and several countries of South America. Al
though I still travel a good bit, it looks as though New York will
remain our base. After three years of commuting, I still staunchly
refuse to play bridge, read the newspaper or drink on the train,
and I have actually read better than a book a week. The family
spends most of its leisure hours with boats, horses or skates, depend-
ing on the season. We went through a rather hectic stage in Canada
of joining just about everything there was to be joined. It cured

us, for the present at least, and may have a marked effect on the
children’s future resistance to joining anything.

HERBERT RITVO

 

HOME appress: 15 Little’s Point, Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Center for International Studies, Massachusetts Inst. of TVech-
nology, 50 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 26, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935, 1947-1949. DEGREES: A.B, cium laude, 1936(49);
A.M., 1951.

MarRieD: Brigitte Rheinfurth, Feb. 14, 1952, Bonn, Germany. crmpren: Susanne
Janet, June 16, 1953; Barbara Anne, Jan. 31, 1955.
HARVARD BROTHER: Martin Ritvo, ’38, LL.B. qr.

occupation: Research associate, Center for International Studies, M.LT. ance
June, 1960, *

[ 1183 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 193 oO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
orrices HELD: Editor, Ostprobleme (Fr: ankfart/Bonn), 1951-54; analyst, 5... eR OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Appalachian Mountain Chub, Ruead
Affairs, Radio Free Europe, 1954-60. > MOViet MEM yorkers Fellowship Club of Episcopal Church.
pICATIONS? Miscellaneous works in various church papers.
pus

mICATIONS: magazine articles only.
HAT is absolutely unbelievable to me is that twenty-five years

Ww. . are
, one by and lam hardly cognizant of it. So much has happened
CHARLES WILLIAM ROBBINS ree al jn our years since graduation that 1 am sure our claw
members, aS well as those members of the classes in our general

eriod, have never had a chance to feel old.
First, there came the fitful years before the war, which V fuluiled

by going to the seminary in Alexandria. Then came five years of

war, in which I served as a chaplain in the 26th Divinon Arullery,.

That took a good eight years, leaving only seventeen Vears to Ect

oing and to do what we have found ourselves somewhat prepated
to do. In these years, I have given myself to a project which, at
times, is very fulfilling, and at other times exasperating. On leaving
the seminary, I had been sure that the Episcopal Church had much
to give to the whole country, and when, during the war, Vict men
from the Middle West, 1 was convinced that 1 should go west and

   

ng Park Road, Ridgefteld, Conn.
| work in a rural area.
Since 1946, I have been in Shenandoah, Lowa, in a Wile bred

church which now numbers some 250 souls, we started with filtcen.
I have not only been pastor of this flock, but 1 have aly made sone
attempts to discover what Christianity has to say in what has be:
come a most rapidly evolving rural sociology. “Wh has Ween a
fascinating field, and God has blessed me richly in the undertake,
In the course of events, 1 have spent some time work wih
and thinking about the problems of juvenile delinquency — which
is not alone a cancer in the big cities. \ have alw worked with

Some dubious success with seminary students ta show than Vc
value of the town and country work wherever they wight wry to

SELLOWS ROBBINS

attempt it.
What fascinates me about out present age Ws thar there ase 8

Many opportunities for so many people, The whole aspect of out
‘S¢ 1S for greater growth. There are yo many things wald's by
all sorts and conditions of men. Vt seems to mre that we "A tes ats
should be imbuing youth with the posstlilinies of eit ony ah.
po, (Virginia Theo- J vaceneny and also to be fighting others of owt MW wheats
F  PeCome “fearful in the lists.”
I am also concerned that there he a welt petspeanne oF UA yy
0) ‘ 6 488 * ;
U entrance into cach new scientific twoulvement, Wala

\ . ‘

Writte Havant NY Oy
‘itten recently about the philosophical Yaw An war micas y

[iss |

 

ah, Towa,

Iman Robbins, 4/1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

We all have been prone to take our religion for granted in the terms
in which it has been presented for the Jast hundred years. But
religion has much to say about our relationships to all the new
changes that are taking place, geographically and universally, and
there is judgment to be pronounced.

The next twenty-five years should be even more exciting than
the last. I hope we are all keeping young enough to enjoy them,
and to be able to contribute some little nugget more as these too
pass on,

JOSEPH FOSTER ROBBINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: Box 54, South Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: F. S. Moseley & Co., 50 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 9, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: AB., 1936.

MARRIED: Jane Ragle, March 30, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Lee, July 12,
1945; Susan, July 25, 1947; Joseph Foster, Jr, May 31, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Chandler Robbins, Jr., ’32.

occupation: Investment banking, manager, Trading Department, F. S. Moseley
& Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Health, Town of Wenham; executive
secretary, New England Group, Investment Bankers Association; treasurer,
American Red Cross, Hamilton-Wenham; director and secretary, Com-

munity Service of Hamilton-Wenham; member, Republican Town Com-
mittee, Wenham,

mMeEmzer oF: Myopia Hunt Club; Ski Club Hochgebirge.

AFTER graduation I went to work for the Procter & Gamble
Company in their sales department, as a trainee. After about six
months, I found that this type of work was not to be my future.

{ 1186 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I then explored the investment banking field and have cemamed oy
this business, with time out for World War FH, antl this weine -
In March, 1940, I married Jane Raule and we setrled In tg
Town of Hamilton, Massachusetts, until carly togs. at which tine
I was called into Uncle Sam’s Navy for training at Quooset Poros,
Rhode Island. After receiving a commission, 1 reported aboard te
USS Hornet and proceeded to the Battle of Guadalcanal anti
October, 1942, we were sunk at the Battle of Santa Crus. Ntter
being rescued, was assigned to various “Baby Carmen” and fbaais
returned to shore duty at the U.S. Naval Air Station ind Menreres,

California.

Our first daughter was born in sunny California in tags. Niter
being released from the Navy, we returned to New Prytand car!
in 1946 and settled this time in Wenham, Masachusctty and were
back to work in the investment banking busines. In pager. ove

second daughter was born and in 1949, our last child a won. gars

into the world.

For the past ten years I have been active in focal tow affaces
which include the Board of Health, Republican Town Coimsuteve,
the Community Service of Hamilton and Wenham (werctary >} and
the local branch of the American Red Cross (treasurer).

My hobbies are skiing in the winter and golf and gardening dares
Allin all, life has heen yen wt alan

the warmer months of the year.
with its normal ups and downs, but the last twenty-five vears have

been too short.

JAMES ADAMS ROBERTS

  

» gt, Alilton, Mass. pam sre Janes Vteoa Bobet

RN: Aug.
Pierce.

[ ris> |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B. 1936,
marrigp: Grace Ver Planck, Nov. 25, 1944, Waban, Mass, CHILDREN: James

Adams, Jr, Nov. 17, 1945; Peter Ver Planck, April 28, 1948; Nancy P.,
April 28, 1951.
HARVARD BROTHERS: George French Roberts, 38; Edward Pierce Roberts, 39.
piep: Nov. 30, 1959, Boston, Mass.
wipow: Mrs. James A. Roberts, 56 Canton Ave., Milton, Mass.

JIM ROBERTS led a wonderfully varied and full life, devoting his
time and seemingly endless energy to his family, his business and
sports.

Following his graduation from Harvard he worked for Simonds
Saw & Steel Company and then the Connecticut Mutual Life In-
surance Company. He entered the Navy Supply School in Sep-
tember, 1940. In February, 1941, as an ensign, he was assigned to
the hospital ship, USS Solace, which was in Pearl Harbor on De-
cember 7, 1941. Shortly thereafter he became supply officer for
the Ship Repair Unit in charge of salvaging the damaged fleet. In
1944, after a year’s course at the Harvard Business School, he was
assigned to the Bureau of Ordnance as liaison officer for the Navy
Material and Redistribution Administration and was released from
active duty with the rank of lieutenant commander in the summer
of 1945.

After the war Jim returned to the life insurance field, and for
the next five years was associated actively with the Merle G. Sum-
mers Agency of the New England Mutual Life Insurance Company
in Boston. In the fall of 1951 he purchased a grocery business in
Milton Village and a few years later opened a gift shop in the same
town. He also purchased and operated a small rubber specialties
distributing company.

Throughout his life Jim maintained an active interest in sports,
both as a participant and spectator. During the winters immedi-
ately following graduation from college, he played hockey with

the Boston Olympics. He was always an ardent tennis player and
later became equally enthusiastic about golf. He followed football,
hockey and baseball at the school, college and professional levels.

Between 1951 and 1954 he was hockey coach at Milton Academy.
During this period he initiated and conducted a successful campaign
to raise funds for the construction of their artificial rink which
now bears his name.

Shortly after Jim’s death in November, 1959, Harold Kaese in
his column in the Boston Globe wrote the following paragraph

{ 1188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

about him, which aptly puts in words the feclings of «> many wo hes

knew and loved him.

“A Prince among amateur sportsmen was hase when Jin Roberts
of Milton died this week. Nobody had a more pawonate hove of
sports. He played them, watched them, chased them. NX teme
moment in a Red Sox or Bruins game, and he would have to beave
his seat and walk around. He saw fewer Red Sow games than uot
last season because he could not bear to sce Ted Wiallaarns an ches bese

“He had a heart of gold. He traveled all over the country te
raise most of the money for the Milton Academy hockey nok. Phe
favors were many. Example: Three years ago he treated his ahd

Milton baseball coach, Reggie Nash, to the Braves-Vankeow World
Series.

“For several years he knew he had Iecukenna, but — cvuecpe when
in a hospital for transfusions — lived a normal, exubcrant Life. Adked
how he was feeling after a long drive off the tee, he’ d quip. Oh t
have my good days.’

“Roberts was delightfully temperamental. Playing doubles ay sews
him and his friend, Platt Spencer, and listening to thew haranyues
about how tennis should be played, was worth the pre ofa prac
court. He was a remarkable guy.”

GORDON FARQUHAR ROBERTSON

   

P ie sttion, My © remnant ose a

OME ApprEss: 65 Patterson Ave, Greenwich, Conn,
HFICE ADDRESS! 49 Lake Ave. Greenwich, Conn,
RN: Sept. 20, 1914, New York, NLY.

REPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Masa

[ tesy |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1Q4I.

eannieD: Virginia Dodge Auburn, June 23, 1945, New York, N.Y. cHILpREN:
William Douglas, Sept. 9, 1948; Gordon Kenneth, June 6, 1950; Alexander
Douglas, Feb. 3, 1953; Laurie Hadden, Jan. 5, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Kenneth Douglas Robertson, Jr. 29; William Aspinwall
Robertson, °31, Alastair Douglas Robertson, ’33, s.m., 34 (deceased).

occUPATION: Private practice of internal medicine,

OFFICES HELD: Personnel health officer, Greenwich Hospital; industrial phy-
sician, General Engineering Laboratory (Greenwich), American Machine

& Foundry (part ume).

MEMBER OF: Greenwich Medical Society; Fairfield County Medical Associa-
tion; Connecticut Medical Society; Field Club of Greenwich.

THIS reflection on life after twenty-five years deserves more than

these few paragraphs, and yet, when so much lies ahead, an auto-

biography seems premature.

The extra year at Harvard for the premedical courses, the four
years of medical school at Columbia University; the rotating intern-
ship at Worcester, interrupted by Pearl Harbor; five years in the
Navy, including sixteen months in Europe, in the First Beach
Battalion and three invasions; two more years of training in internal
medicine; and now, more than ten years of practice. All these
years and events have rushed by so quickly that I feel the greater
part of my life, and the best, is yet to be.

My greatest achievement was to persuade Virginia Auburn to
become my wife. She and our four children—three boys and
finally a little girl, now six years old—constitute my main reason
for being around. Housing, feeding, clothing and educating them
through the practice of my profession fill my life today, and will so
fill it for some time to come. It is interesting, exciting and worth
while.

I am currently engaged in the development of an ingenious
instrument, unique in the field of medical research. This invention,
the culmination of years of experimentation in endoscopy, is known
as the psychosomatoscope. The successful manipulation of this
tool, at present, requires knowledge of the basic sciences, a broad
background of literature and the arts, philosophy and religion,
combined with a gentle humor and a certain sense of sport, regard-
less of the choice of orifice.

Conceived as an aid in diagnosis, it soon became clear that this
versatile apparatus had therapeutic possibilities. With its full de-
velopment, a greater knowledge and deeper understanding of the

human animal is in imminent prospect. Soon there will be proof

[ 1190 ]

one

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the thesis that the one consistent thing alwous thas crearece rs
his inconsistency, that opposites coexist in the same andeideal asd
in the same nation, and that these Opposites inc the extreme efted
meet. (This may appear to some to be an appeal for neurrales, os
mediocrity, or ambivalence, or all three. On the contrary, we qe.
firms the existence of opposing forces, of balance, and ef hors
ostasis. It recognizes the need of harmony, tolerance and mural
understanding which are essential to progres. Tf oppeeams force
are given a common goal, their differences often wail be rewdecd
A part of the meaning of relativity is written inte the proves a
“What is one man’s meat is another man’s pepon” While on the
one hand “Many hands make light work.” on the other “Bae
many cooks spoil the broth,” and “He who hesitates tw bee? gee:
trasts with “Look before you leap.”)

Further study may indeed show that even tine isa Mewuble whiven,
sion, as the mathematicians have already sugvested, that by space
travel at appropriate speeds, presumably ac somewhat lew thar the
speed of light, turning back the clock as within the reaky of pes.
sibility, if not probability, and that these concepty far from bers
incompatible with religious belief, represent further growth and
fulfillment. Many years ago it was said that a thousand Vary are
but a day in thy sight. How much more wonderful and mir acub ens
is the story of the creation of man through a muthen veare ef
evolution, than the beautiful but simpler account given inthe bolle

These studies have brought about a firmer, deeper farts in the
human spirit and a belief ‘that freedom and hberty are nee toe
nopolies of one party or one society, but a fundamental busca
heritage which will often arise in a free SOCTCEV, bat ray aban gars
even stronger expression in the face of oppression, pesubly bey ee
of oppression.

The greatest challenge today is in the fichd of human relics:
Perhaps the most outstanding attribute of the pve mete otc
is its simplicity. Its application to individual profiles reay be
expanded to include family, community, National piterstiead ao
even interstellar relationships. There are equal clave thar rhc as
strument is notable for its sophistication and COM ple sity

While a great deal of good can be achieved when te ee’.
is placed in the right hands, in the wrong handy tke ates.
nuclear energy, irreparable harm can be wrote Phos ee ete
mind the opposing claims that nuclear ener as the prea.
for peace, and that it is the greatest power for war ent!

{ rigt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Are these apparently opposing claims the same? Is the destruction
of the world the road to peace?

It is hoped that this simple (or sophisticated) contribution to a
small specialty within the field of medicine may, in time, through
the conscience of mankind and by overcoming superstition, bring
us Closer to an understanding of the ultimate reality.

CHARLES ANDERSEN ROBINSON

 

HOME appress: Box 575, Delray Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 1185, Delray Beach, Fla.

BORN: June 14, 1912, Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, N.Y.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Columbia University, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1934. DEGREES: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1935; Mw. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1938.

marriep: Marie Robinson, December, 1941.

occupation: Surgery; chief of surgery, Bethesda Memorial Hospital.

E
&

[ 1192]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES WATSON BRYANT RORINSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 147 VW. 79th St., New York 24, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Frueauff, Farrell, Shanley & Johnsen, 60 Wall Se, New Voet

5, N.Y.
BORN: Oct. 25, 1914, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R41.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. Cte lade, tot%, tt. mse! wi)

M.B.A. (New York Univ.), 1949.
marriED: Mary M. Beckley, May 21, 1960, New York, NLY.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Arnold Robinson, "37, Henry Murrow Radbsenews,
’41; Cecil Robinson, ’43. |

OccuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm,
MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Beach Club, Greenwnt, Coon,

NATHAN ROBINSON

 

MAILING Appress; 18 Marcus Rd. Sharon, Mae

([ 1193)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT ALEXANDER ROBINSON

 

HOME appress: 314 Broxton Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.

orFice appress: Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore 5, Md.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1914, Rochester, N.Y.

preparen at: West High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: M.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1939.

marriep: Beatrice Clark, June 21, 1941, Salisbury, Conn. cHmpren: Ann
Clark, Feb. 10, 1943; Barbara Bill, Sept. 2, 1947; Robert Alexander, Jr.,
July 6, 1952; Elizabeth Wells, Sept. 27, 1956.

occuPaTion; Professor of orthopedic surgery, Johns Hopkins University;
orthopedi¢ surgeon-in-charge, Johns Hopkins Hospital.

orrices Hep: Chairman, Committee on Scientific Investigation, 1958, Com-
mittee on Tonizing Radiation, 1960, member of committees on Bio-
mechanics and Implants, and Foreign Visiting Exchange Program,
American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery; president, Orthopaedic
Surgery Research Society, 1961: member of committee on the Skeletal
System, National Research Council and National Academy of Sciences;
consultant in orthopedic surgery, Sinai Hospital, Baltimore, and Clinical
Center, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, chief con-
sultant, orthopedic surgery, City Hospital, Baltimore, attending surgeon,
Children’s Hospital, Baltimore.

MEMBER OF: American Orthopaedic Association; American Academy of
Orthopaedic Surgeons, American Medical Association; Medical and
Chirurgical Faculty of Maryland; Baltimore City Medical Society; In-
terurban Orthopaedic Club; Society of University Surgeons; Orthopaedic
Surgery Research Society; Sigma Xi.

Puaications: Forty-three publications, including: “An electron microscopic
study of the crystalline inorganic component of bone and its relationship
to the organic matrix,” Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, 34-a, 389-434,
1952; “Collagen-crystal relationships in bone. I. Electron microscope
study of decalcified and undecalcified tissue sections,” Anatomical Record,
11g, November, 1952, with M. L. Watson; “Anterolateral cervical disc
removal and interbody fusion for cervical disc syndrome,” Bulletin of
the Johns Hopkins Hospital, 96, 223-224, 1955, with George W. Smith;
“Hitherto undescribed characteristics of the pathology of infantile cortical

[ 1194]

mp

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hyperostosis (Caffey’s Disease) ,” Bulletin of the Jokbns Flop kare Phoscpera
vol. 101, 80-99, August, 1957, with S. L. Eversole, Jr. and Gi. PE Bhaliseas
“The chemical analysis and electron microscopy of bone” in Bese se a
Tissue, a symposium edited by Drs. Brown, Rodahl and Nac hedoon fies
the Lankenau Hospital, published by Academic Press, New York City,

1960.

FOLLOWING college and medical school, an internship, a resa-

dency in general surgery, practically four years of army service,

and the completion of residency training in ‘orthopedic suryery, te
satisfy Board requirements and to satisfy myself that | had seudhed
to some extent those subjects both here and in Fogland whieh
compose the rather extensive field of orthopedic surgery, PE owas
already thirty-five years old. At that time, the private practice of
orthopedic surgery greatly appealed to me, burt I was also interested
in combining clinical practice and laboratory investiganon, chictty
the application of some of the newer tools of phy sical ins extigation
for the understanding of such tissues as bone and cartilage with
which the orthopedic surgeon must concern himself. Te scemed
to me that it would be impossible, while in a purely private practice
outside of the University, to carry on such investigations as in-
terested me. Therefore, I decided to become what is probably
known as an academic surgeon. It seems to me that thease whe
choose such an occupation thereafter spend relatively httle time ary
pursuits that are not related to their work. In the fine place. enc
must not only practise surgery in a competent fashion, but alw
teach students; and if one takes charge of a university departinere
or division, administer that part of the UNIVErsICy ; stimulate, Oversee,
and train post- -doctoral students; actually do some chmeal and
laboratory investigations; and, as in all other occupations, set apart
some time for family pursuits.

In 1949, I became an instructor in orthopedic surgery at the
University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentutry, ant
about a year later, I was given the rank of assistant professor
great deal of my time between 1949 and 1953 Was devoted tu tea’:
ing, laboratory investigation and patient care. However, ta raét.
when I was asked to become director of orthape hes at Johns it;
kins, several things were added. In addition te the tematic: ut
medical students, my own inv estigative work, and the care ef - ive?
patients, I took on the administration of a division of the rie toa!
school and hospital, the training of pose- -doetoral SUrpreer es got 1 t
seeking of funds to help support the various activities ef the @)-

[ 1rgs ]

| |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

pedic Division of Surgery. There are, of course, certain compensa-
tions for such activity, although financial ones are not prominent,
For instance, in 1958, as honorary associate professor of orthopedic
surgery at Guy’s Hospital in London, I enjoyed the teaching of
medical students and association with the excellent staff of that
long-famous hospital and medical school. Last year, as Samuel
Higby Camp Visiting Professor of Orthopedic Surgery at the Uni-
versity of California Medical School in San Francisco, I again had
the opportunity to meet those who were practising and teaching
orthopedic surgery on the West Coast and to come in contact with
their pre- and post-doctoral students.
It should be pointed out that the universities, by the use of private
funds, increased tuition, and financial help from government, are
trying to do three things in their medical schools: expand their
classes in order to take care of the demand that the present popula-
tion increase creates; increase space for investigative activities, which
now usually require, with the application of the newer scientific
tools, larger and increasingly expensive laboratories; and apply
newer and more effective teaching methods which often require
more teacher hours per student. This last effort of the medical
schools is of course compounded by the steady increase of knowl-
edge, the most important parts of which have to be carefully chosen
and added to an already large curriculum. One cannot fail to be
interested in these changes and encouraged by the feeling that
generally the universities are trying to do an enormous and very
necessary job in medical education. Within their means they are
trying, in most instances, to supply their students and their teachers
with the academic opportunities and equipment necessary to im-

prove medical knowledge and thereby the standards of medical care
in the United States.

In general, | have been impressed with the students attending
the Johns Hopkins Medical School — by their character, their inter-
est, their intelligence and their efforts to do a good job.

[ 1196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL ROBINSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Manomet Ave., Hull, Mass.

Born: April 7, 1914, Roxbury, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1934.

MARRIED: Frances M. Erlick, Nov. 9, 1946, Brookline, Mass. cata: Rone t lien,

May 3, 1954.

occuPaTION: U. S. Post Office Department.

AS an alumnus of Harvard I have little to say which ts favorable ~~
about Harvard, that is. When as a fledgling student of the great
University, and confronted by my own personal problems, tL soughe
help —I received none from Harvard. Of course, [ have never for:
gotten this, and being cast in the human mold, perhaps never will
Since Harvard was mostly anonymous to me in respect to help |
shall continue to remain so to her. For these reasons I have onuetesdt
details which are so standard in a class report.

When I left Harvard as a non-graduate, | went through the usual
turmoil of seeking gainful employ ment. Thirtecn sears of this
time were spent in a family business, w hich folded up after Worlt
War II.

I, too, was in the service —in the Infantry — spending treme of
the time as a company clerk, and finally as a clerk in the pe re tine
section. I wound up my army Carcer as a corporal, sone cipe rane,
sane to return home. I married right after the war, had one qhild ter
years later, a marvelous girl, now six years old.

I was advised, since I had no personal “connection,” to entce the
“lowest” branch of our government service, namely, the Post Crt.
Department, where I have remained these cleven arses yearanee
letter carrier with a Harvard background, and an alumnus ef Beeston
Latin School, to boot.

[ 1197]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Can any of you picture the “exacerbation of spirit” which took
place in this anomalous setting? Was life dealing me an “ironic
hand of cards,” or was the deck partially stacked? Who knows
the answers?

Let me ask further —Is there one among you who would have
helped a former classmate at that time or even today? Would one
of you successful men employ a Harvard “non-grad”? I doubt it.
I have a home, pay all my bills, and manage perilously to maintain
my status quo. I might add that I occasionally do some tutoring in
mathematics and languages. You might say that I missed the boat,
or circumstances dealt me a strange blow. But whatever you call
it, my job is an honest one, though tiring, and perhaps unworthy of
my efforts. My future is as uncertain as was my past, yet I live
not without hope.

I am amused at the statement in the Class Report which reads,
“The Class wants to know all about your career, history, your
family, your travels, hobbies, etc... .” How many of you believe
this is really true? Is this just another way of perpetuating a myth
about the “superiority” of Harvard men? We are living in an age
in which the conflict between altruism and egoism is being constantly
waged. Are Harvard faculty and graduates altruistic? This is a
good question.

Now, as to some personal thoughts about the future of Harvard.
These are some of the things I would like to see come about: 1) As
great an emphasis placed on building of character as on scholastic
pursuits. 2) Gradual elimination of typical “Harvard snobbishness”
and smugness which is reflected in the expression, “He’s a Harvard
man, you know.” 3) A real program of help and interest to those
who come to Harvard, to those who remain at Harvard, to those
who leave Harvard before graduation, and to those who graduate

from Harvard.

Until these things come about, Harvard will never be truly great.
For it is my everlasting belief that a university, like an individual,

to be truly great must be as strong in character as in intellect. Egg-

heads and intellectual idiots are easy to produce. Men of character
are not.

[ 1198 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SHIPHERD ROBINSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10765 Ashton Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calf.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Genisco, Inc., 2233 Federal Ave, Los Angeles 44, Calif.
BORN: Oct. 30, 1914, Melrose, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springficld, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; MBA, 1938.

MaRRIED: Joy H. Kussmann, Aug. 2, 1940, Fairhaven, Mass.

occupation: Manufacturer of instrumentation and clectrical tee epapment
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Genisco, Inc., Genistron, Inc, Fldcma Carpere seni.
MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants.

AFTER years when southern New England constituted the center
and circumference of my travels, I found mivsclf, shortly: aftee
marriage, not only living in the South, but the deep South. We
settled in New Orleans where we lived for ten years There was
a three-year hiatus during which I served in the Navy, shore baal,
at Miami, Charleston, South Carolina, and Cincinnati, Ohne,

While in New Orleans, I got acquainted with the Cs; wr Ev aris -
line country, shrimp fleets, crayfish bisque, boiled crate and the
wonderful creole cooking of the New Orleans restaurant. Phe
latter assisted in filling out my slender self of college days

It was after the war that our vacations found us frequently Korey
west. After the third vacation in California, it occurred te ue O: "
it must have some attraction and certainly, if pleasant ten Wesel,
should be agreeable for year-round living. Nine VOaEY ater WE BOE
and settled in Westwood, a part of Laas Anycles browns here we
have covered much of the Pacific Coast, the high Nicrrasg, Vere rsaee,
and nearby desert areas. Finally, with the advent of the rea we
had breakfast in Los Angeles and hinch on Waskshi. Pebisk babeott
admit at this point that I have never been in a retired ae eties, 68
though most of my commentary might bead te wh a eee fae

| sryy |]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I have worked in all the places where we have lived. My present
position quite clearly indicates the somewhat consistent direction
of employment, the industries varying with location: metal work-
ing, rubber industry, textiles and finally electronics. Genisco manu-
factures electrical, electronic and electro-mechanical equipment
used in conjunction with aircraft, missile and ground support equip-
ment. As treasurer of Genisco, | am the chief financial officer re-
sponsible for all financial and control functions,

+ WILLIAM HURLIN ROBINSON

BORN: Oct. 14, 1913, New Rochelle, N.Y. parents: Fred William Robinson,

Myrtie Cooley.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936, DEGREE: S.B., 1936,
marriep: Agnes Jordt, Oct. 27, 1937, Boston, Mass.
piep: Killed in action, Jan. 8, 1945, in Belgium.

WILLIAM HURLIN ROBINSON spent three years with our
Class. After graduation he worked for a short time in the trade
advertising department of Little, Brown & Company, and then be-
came editor for a maritime book publisher in New York City. He
entered the service as a private in the Airborne Infantry and was
killed in action in Belgium. He was survived by his wife.

DAVID ROCKEFELLER

 

HOME appress: 146 E. 65th St., New York 21, N.Y,

oFFice appress: Chase Manhattan Bank, 18 Pine St., New York, N.Y,
BORN: June 12, 1915, New York, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.

{1200 ]

2TH ANNIVERSARY BPP

YEARS EN COLLEGE: (922-1934 Decrees: am. ene Leeds reget. wee Cb ee nd

Chicago), 1940; Lop. (Hlon.) (Cobiembes Urav 6 tem Pb Bee bee
Coll); Lop. (Hlon.) (Jew wh | heh ww al Werveortagy ed Ae 4

marrieD: Alargaret McGrath, Sepe. +. toga Meure Rowe YS
David, Jr, July 24, 1940; Abby Alfew AL ANpesl et. tat Nore Cecesd eos,
June 1, 1944; Margaret Dulany, Qee aa) nage, Raber Coke Pos as,
1949; Eileen MeGrath, Feb. 34. toc:

HARVARD SON: David Rockefeller, Jr. “62.

OCCUPATION: President and chairman, esevutive comnmcteve, (Bie VE gee F eee art

Bank.
orFices HELD: Director, B. F. Goodrich Company, Pepin tse Ufa Qmor ee @

Society of the U.S, Rockcfeller Center, bw New Vert Wore a 8 ne
1964-65 Corporation; member, Comimiwuen en Views BR Cred doom enw
and vice-president, Council on Forogn Relate, bow) eRaerttieg Phew
town-Lower Manhattan Assoctanon, Ine. mentee, Fone af Cm eeieeee
of Harvard College, 1953-59; chairman, Adsewey Poseed Nowra ee boece
national Association for Feonomic and Soersl Dievebquereot, truce VE
seum of Modern Art, Internanonal louse, New Yeh dreseee eal oto
man, board of directors, Mormingude Plenghey fou. trusese, wae pretense
and chairman, Finance Committee, Rocketeer Areata Pred bee.
man and trustce, Rockefeller Insaiturte.

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Sucocty, Nemwim od Rowere (ny
Bankers; Pilgrims of the United Seastes, Century (bts, Ob« a t how,
Knickerbocker Club, Links Gb, Sleepy Phutiow Ceamery (lot (eset
sity Club and Tavern Club (Penton),

PUBLICATIONS: “Unused Resources and Poonam VW ae,

Press, 1941.

eee Se e

¢ © ewe

* Vee Frat» ro ng

UPON graduation from college | spent four vers prtecs « yd)
in economics. My first year was under the brilliant and fa bey oot
Professor Joseph A. Schumpeter. The followings vear Papert ot tie
London School of Economicy working partsculsety wats Protec oe
Fredrich von Hayek and Lioncl Robbins Dtoek rey genersl eqns
nations and wrote my doctoral theus atthe Unaverues ef Oba es

where Professor Frank TL Raight was mv mene anda t rend ed

my Thesis Committee.

I found it practical to do a poet deal of the wires
ac my family’s home at Tarrvtewn, New Yerk, rye ory ee ye
Mount Kisco, the home of Pepyy Mia Gorath, whee gem pete Dts
so irresistible that we Loe marred cory Neptenled * tye Oboe we
ried life has been a full and happy one Meet er pentice a ber po.
duced six children, the oldest of whey Dasih peo ee cers
his junior year at Plarvard ches sear, Abas are be his fe eatee
being with Pegey and me aroun Dwents of Keon WG
the oldest girl ts at Milton, News at Cena £ fhe k pee

“3 Se f fig fe ane

[sro]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

mittee, Dr. Detlev W. Bronk, then president of Johns Hopkins In-
stitute, and I assumed the new title of chairman. It has been a
fascinating opportunity to work with Dr. Bronk, one of the great
scientists of this country, in making the Institute a graduate univer-
sity of science rather than the medical research laboratory which it
had previously been.

Through my interest in International House in New York, I be-
came interested in urban redevelopment of the Morningside Heights
area, Which embraces Columbia University and a number of other
educational, religious and medical institutions. My experience in
this field at Morningside Heights proved useful later on in lower
Manhattan. In 1957, I became chairman of the Downtown-Lower
Manhattan Association, a recently-formed group interested in the
rehabilitation of New York’s financial district. Both projects have
given me some insight into the problems of urban blight, and the
need for joint private and governmental efforts to deal with it.

My hobbies include golf, horseback-riding, sailing and the collec-
tion of paintings and porcelain. Peggy and I have explored the coast
of Maine by sailboat and more recently we cruised the islands of
the Caribbean. A few years ago, we bought some land on the French
island of St. Barthelemy where we are building a modern house de-
signed by my cousin, Nelson Aldrich, ’34. My interest in painting,
coupled with my membership on the board of the Museum of Mod-
ern Art, has caused me to follow with particular interest the art
program of the Chase Manhattan Bank. Our new office building
will house a good many examples of contemporary American paint-
ing. Our own collection consists primarily of French impression-
ists, but more recently we have been increasingly intrigued by some
of the more contemporary abstract painters.

We live in a house on East 65th Street in New York City most
of the time, as our children have gone to schools in New York be-
fore going away to boarding schools. We manage to get out of

the city most weekends for some air and exercise, to a place we have
in Tarrytown, near other members of my family. In the middle of
the summer, we normally go to Seal Harbor, Maine, where I have
been almost every summer since I was born and where the sailing
and cruising is the best ever.

From this sketch, which I fear is too lengthy though not com-
plete, it will be seen that my life since college has been a full and
happy one. What more can any man ask!

[ 1204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES BRISTED ROCKWELL, Hl

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 22 Appian Way, Cambridge 38, Mass.

OLIVER ELIOT RODGERS

 

HOME ApprRESs: 507 S, Providence Rd., Wallingford, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scott Paper Co., Engineering Research Divruon, Cheer, Pa
BORN: Dec. 12, 1915, La Jolla, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Anaconda High School, Anaconda Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B, misma cir Lode, toit, Oy fait
MARRIED: Dorothy Welch, Scpt. 4, 1937, Winchendon, View eon oare

Dorothy Alice, June 15, 1930; Danicl Tracy, Sept. rg, tugs, Bbesterts
Welch, Feb. 3, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Selden Tracy Rodgers, °36.

occupation: Mechanical engineer, manager of the Friginecerg Rew sre ty Dh. «
sion, Scott Paper Company.

OFFICES HELD: Auditor, treasurer, president, Swarthmore Conperaire Nowe re
tion; president, Swarthmore Recreation Associaton, mentee, Sa erttveenes
Library Board, Citizens Committce to study curmeslury on Pie vreiccry anne,
Michigan, schools, Board of Governors Detrost SAB wets

[ t205 ]

. |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Society of Auto-
motive Engineers; Institute of Aerospace Sciences; Technical Association
of the Pulp and Paper Industry; Franklin Insticute; Pi Tau Sigma;
Amateur Chamber Music Players; Lightning Class Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Characteristics of Axial Flow Gas Turbines for Aircraft,”
ASME, 1945; Thermal Power from Nuclear Reactors, with A. Stanley
Thompson, John Wiley & Sons, 1956; “Competitive Position as a Measure
of Engineering Progress,” ASME 6th Annual Management Conference,
1958.

WHEN I saw that third postcard reminding Daddy to send in his
college report, I knew that he was in a “putting off” mood again and
I'd better do something to help him out. He usually doesn’t mind
too much when I do things like this, and besides I’m old enough now
to know his views on most everything. If he ever does send in the
real report, you'd better throw this away and use his.

He and Mom were married before he got his Master’s degree in
the Graduate School of Engineering and moved down here to work
for Westinghouse. The first house I can really remember is the
nice, old, tall one on the other side of Swarthmore with all the
climbing trees in the backyard, but that was after the war. He must
have worked on something besides jet engines before the war, be-
cause he still points out the power station in Philadelphia where he
worked nights long ago trying to find out something special about
a big, red-hot turbine by looking inside it with mirrors. I never
know whether to believe that story or not.

He has told me stories about working during the war designing
and testing jet engines for airplanes. Daddy thought that was fun,
especially the part about trying to figure out things that no one had
ever done before. Some of it must not have been fun, because all
us kids can remember times when Daddy came home and wouldn't
play with us and wouldn’t say anything at all. Mom always knew
what to do, though. Daddy stayed with that part of Westinghouse
after the war and kept on designing jet engines. He was always
having to make trips to Washington and California and places like
that. He must have been good at jet engines because that is the rea-
son we moved to Birmingham, so that Daddy could do things on jet
engines for Packard.

Pretty soon, we kids began to hear things about diesel engines
and missiles and even truck engines and transmissions. Daddy was
the chief engineer of the Government and Industrial Products Divi-
sion for a while before the company’s money ran out. We could

tell he really had fun on that job. He was always talking about some-

[ 1206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thing new and interesting. I remember once he said that he bearns.t
more about managing and organizing in three vears there than he
had in fifteen years before. I don’t see how everything could bive
been so good, though, because the company lost moncy amd stepped
making things in Detroit. Curtiss Wright bought the part ef Sete.
baker-Packard that Daddy was in, and he said that his job wir
Curtiss Wright was the same one that he was doing at Studebaker.
Packard, so it didn’t seem to bother us. Wee didn’t have to mes C,
even though my friends at school kept asking me all the tune where
we were going.

Ive heard Daddy say he learned lots of unusual things at Cuartss
Wright, but I can’t make out just what he meant because he bad
that funny look in his eye. We kept on hearing more about musiies
and diesels, and plastics, and Navy gas turbines, but he didn't ta!
nearly as much as he did before. You ought to hear him talk abet
paper, though, now that he works for Scott Paper Company! You'd
think that paper had just been invented! Every time he came home
on a weekend last spring before we moved here, there would be
some samples in his briefcase and an exciting story. [Tneser knew
that paper could be so neat!

In our family, you have to be musical — no fooling! Daddy keeps
wanting to play — anything, and all the time. We do have fun play.
ing, too, now that we’re all grown up enough to have our own
string quartet. I know several Mozart quartets almost by heart, post
from hearing Daddy’s friends playing in the living room when f was
going to sleep. When we're all home at college vacation tune
Dory from Radcliffe and Dan from Brown — he's playing wah
someone all the time he’s home.

Daddy’s funny. He always has a new hobby that he's wild) abet
This year and last it has been sailing. We've all been wath bon
when he has been crewing for someone in a xuling cc. Me we
hadn’t moved from Michigan this summer, PU bee we would base
owned a Lightning and had fun racing all summer on Cass bake

I think I know Daddy’s views on some things better than he oes
He likes to talk to us about all kinds of ideas and problems _
likes to think things out and doesn’t mind be: mr ditferene oft!
are good reasons to be different. He likes hidh, and Pthink be bas
to teach, too. He used to work hard before Sundiy Sheet Tf
used to speak quite often in Quaker Meeting in Purteas ba fe
Sometimes it was good, He is very proud OF Mom andetay
things she does, like school board, and hbrary bourdard@.. 0°

t

[ 1207 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

He likes working on things that aren’t for making war. And he
likes doing things that make sense and that can help some one per-
son or big groups of people. He seems to think this way more
strongly since his trips to Europe in the last few years.

He must be important at work, but you would never know it
around home the way he clowns around and plays with us. Some-
times I'm embarrassed because he’s such a nerd when people are
around. | think he really thinks that life is a blast, that people really
want to be good down deep, and that he has a debt to pay to every-

one for helping to make his life so good. Mebbe he'll join the UN
or something.

SELDEN TRACY RODGERS

 

HOME AboREsS: 1344 Dellerest Lane, La Jolla, Calif.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Shearson, Hammill & Co., Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.
porn: May 16, 1914, Great Falls, Mont.

PREPARED at: Public Schools, Anaconda, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1936.

MarrigD: June Williams, Sept. 10, 1937, Buffalo, N.Y. campren: Selden Scott,
zd, Oct. 25, 1938; Julia Elizabeth, Oct. 23, 1941; Susan Tracy, Jan. 25,
1948; Douglas Lind, April 24, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Oliver Eliot Rodgers, °36, sm, °38.

occupation: Broker — securities and investments, Shearson, Hammill & Com-
pany.

ALL through my high school and college years (was it only twenty-

five years ago?), I knew exactly what I was going to do when I

“grew up” — 1 was most definitely going into business. Why? Be-

cause I thought I would like it. What kind of business? Anything

would do. Any particular department? Any department except
sales! After twenty-five years in a number of interesting and chal-

[ 1208 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lenging spots, I have finally discovered (did vou guess it?) VER
that what I should have been doing all along is selling. Perhaps Uc
Class Guidance Office should take note; howev cr, It would noe have
been possible without all the build-up and experience of the vars

in between.
For twenty-five years, J have been seeing our system of free enter.

prise at work — helping it along a bit here and there, learning how

men with imagination, courage, and strength of character can over.
come obstacles and build an organization and inspire others in their
fight to serve and to survive. And now it is natural and easy to be
enthusiastic in my selling, for as an investment broker and advice
I have the simple task of selling faith in America, faith in our system
of free enterprise, our democratic way of living, and faith in the
future.

Every day I meet someone with a worry —w orried about the
outcome of the elections; worried about the international situation,
worried about his health, worried about his investments And alimest
every day I am able to quiet his fears about his investment, and
often to give him a brighter outlook on life in general. And as a
result, my business has grown in one short year to a point w here
I just can’t handle it all. So now guess who is worrying! However,
to make my point, a wide variety of business experiences have con-
vinced me of the strength and vitality of our America and particu.
larly American business. And by changing MY OWN oCCUPAnON, i
have at long last found my proper place — a place i in which Fea
serve others, help them, show them a brighter side to their hves and
problems; and, in so doing, find satisfaction, peace, contentment,
and more than my fair share of material rewards.

To be more specific, I found my wonderful wife before fintshins
school, and we have been more than busy bringing up our family.
I worked for the Anaconda Wire & Cable Company for several
years; served as executive officer in the Philadelphia Senal Corps
Procurement Office during the war; traveled for five years as a
business consultant with Booz, Allen & Hamilton of Chie we Woe
assistant controller of the Kellogg Switchboard & Supply Corrpeans
in Chicago; and finally served on the controller's statf fer seven
years out here with Convair, now a division of General Dy rac s
Corporation; until finding myself at long lave a Voar aye gy toe ts
vestment field.

And what of the next twenty-five vVears? “They can bor. be
more varied or more interesting than the last tw cnty tee Wess

[ r209 ]

_____]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

miss the children but will undoubtedly love the grandchildren.
There should be more time for extracurricular activities, community
service, music, travel, etc. And I’m serious when I say that we are
looking forward to our first summer vacation on an island in a lake
somewhere on Mars or Venus. Perhaps we can find a cabin next to
our Russian counterpart and help to map a system of coexistence for
that planet, much as our Pilgrim forefathers did on our rocky New
England shores.

EDWARD LITTLE ROGERS

renee ASRS! SNES SS

   
 

- 2 “

 

HOME AppreEss: 1140 Garner Ave., Schenectady, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpREss; Manufacturing Laboratory, General Electric Co., Schenectady,
NY.

porN: May 23, 1915, Lynn, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED; Eleanor Eager, July 6, 1940, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN: Janice Ruth,
June 24, 1942; Eileen Ann, Sept. 17, 1944; William Francis, Aug. 29, 19473
Edward Barry, Dec. 3, 1949.

occupation: Consultant, Control Department, Machine Design, General Elec-
tric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Youth Committee, YMCA, Schenectady, N.Y., 1960.

MEMBER OF: Edison Club, Schenectady; Appalachian Mountain Club, Boston;
Central Electric Railfans Association, Chicago; Engineering Society of
Detroit.

PUBLICATIONS: “What Makes Automation Click,” co-author, Electrical Manu-
facturing Magazine.

WRITING is not my strong point, never was, but I hope it will be
less weak as time progresses. Planning electrical control circuitry,
a meaningless jumble of lines and symbols and numbers to most of
you, makes automatic machine tools perform again and again in-

[ 1210}

25TH ANNIVERSARY RE POR FG

tricate cycles of motion to form, assemble, tese and pack Be ae
consumer goods that make our living standard what it nw tetas

Asa family, we started in Detroit, mv wife and T yuse before Post
Harbor. We were marricd in Arlington, VMasachuwes tot iy
living was to be made in Detroit for many yeary as a tel deo cme
and member of the American Socicty of Tool Pnygincers Te were
that my electrical engineering was to be wasted, buc an evans thas
was postgraduate work in “hard-knocks school” of Plarvard) tr be
came “dynamic Detroit” as we took evening courses in ba trautis
as applied to machine tools (no dams or rivers of shiwewavy here}

One by one the family grew, Janice born dunng the tt qual
defense blackout, the others in a more ordinary manner. Thea set
denly a welding together of mechanics, hv draulies and clectra a's
into “automation” at Ford Motor. Several years now, Ehave been
struggling with the “perversity of inanimate objcet.” as ny grand.
father would say, as well as the contrariness of clectrigal cireuery
working far into the night as more and more machines were inte.
grated in automation. Then, to General Flectnic, where there begat
to open a new era of machines controlled by hitthe holes in pe oh
tape — and now on to computers.

In between, I fooled around keeping the jalopy running, fast.
ing off the attic, adding a breezeway to the garage, and bur tins an
HO railroad of sorts — sort of an interurban trolley bine, Wath aes
wife to dance with, I learned rhumba, tango, swing, manibe and
cha-cha. Already Janice is out of high school, working ayay frown
home, and planning to do college, evening. The others feo
about two years apart, Ellen, Bill and Barry; and thar m where we

are to now.

[ r2se]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN GARDNER ROGERS

 

HOME appress: 250 Locust St., San Francisco 18, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E, F. Hutton & Co., 160 Montgomery St. San Francisco 4,
Calif.

Born: March 4, 1913, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MARRIED: Suzanne Vance Bensinger, Jan. 4, 1947, Glencoe, Ill. campren: John
Gardner, Jr., Aug. 14, 1948, Diana Vance, Feb. 5, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Nickerson Rogers, °32.

occupaTion: Registered representative, E. F. Hutton & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, holder of various offices, since
1948, president, 1958-59, Harvard Club of San Francisco; director, assistant
treasurer, Travelers’ Aid Society of San Francisco, since 1958, vestryman,
St. Luke’s Church, San Francisco, since 1959; member, Finance Committee,
San Francisco Council, Boy Scouts of America, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; Pacific Union Club; Burlingame
Country Club; Sonoma County Trail Blazers.

MY post-college history breaks down into four parts, the first of
which was the prewar period, during which I was employed by
Matson Navigation Company, in and out of San Francisco. I worked
in various offices and at sea, headed, I hoped, for the bottom rung of
the ladder of steamshipping success. I entered the Navy, for the
second period, shortly after Pearl Harbor, spending about one-half
of the next four years at sea, in the Pacific, and was deactivated
with the exalted rank of lieutenant, super-grade, frayed cuffs and all,
my last duty having been executive officer of an almost new APD.
I was later promoted to lieutenant commander, and subsequently
retired. A fitting climax to my military career was finding the girl
who was to become my wife.

Part three was my miscellaneous-endeavor period, My ardor for

[ 1212 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the shipping business having been dampened by the desire to stay in
one place, I resigned from Matson and had a business of my own for
a time, in graphic arts, then sold it, and had a job in the same fichl,
then another in a manufacturers’ representative firm. Quer princi.
pal line having been lost to us, I moved again, into period four, my
present activity, the sometimes gainful and always fascinating ficld
of securities, with the firm of E. F, Hutton & Company, in San
Francisco.

At this writing, my only worry is one common, I am sure, to a
large number of us, that of how to stretch the clock and the calen-
dar. My interests are all so much so, and the day so short, My
job takes all the time I can give it. I manage to see my wife and
children with some regularity, do an occasional chore around the
house, attend church vestry, Travelers’ Aid and other meetings
Harvard Club activities, wave a gun at the duck at the approprure
time, sail, ride, study some of the finer points of my trade, and

occasionally even read a book, following the dictum of Dr. Low cll,
of never letting one’s mind slow down.

HOWARD EDGAR ROMAN

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3211 Newark St, N.W., Washington, D.C
BORN; Dec, 6, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris Hall High School, New York, N.Y

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: s.B., cums Laide, 1934; AM. tos, Pree,
1943.

MaRRiED: Marian Duffley, January, 1941, Falmouth, Masa, (divorced 949)

a»

Jane Winslow, Aug. 21, 1954, Zurich, Switzerland, com paw: § teeaborh,
Dec. 12, 1941; Margaret, June 10, 1951.

occuPaAtion: Government consultant, writer,

OFFICES HELD: Teaching fellow, 1939-42, instructor and tuter, 1993-4. bere ord

[ 1213)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

University; vice-consul, Foreign Service of the U.S.A, 1946-51; executive

officer, Central Intelligence Agency, 1952-59; president, Parents of the
Blind, Washington, D.C, 1952-53.

puBLicaTions: Pitfall in August, Harper, August, 1960; various articles and
poems.

I DON'T know which of us will take the prize as a career-jumper,
and whether it is anything to boast of, but my twenty-five years
since we were all spilled out of the Yard into the unpromising eco-
nomics of 1936 have been marked more by shifting than by staying,
and I’m not finished yet. Little of this was deliberate.

After getting a Ph.D. in German literature at Harvard in 1942
(preceded by some quick barnstorming at the School of Education
and at a small New England college), I was lucky enough to be
invited to stay on in Cambridge as instructor and to be handed a
spate of lecture courses, thanks to the wartime shortages of the de-
partment. In those days one usually taught language for fifteen
years and was honored if he got a survey course before he was
forty, by which time he was probably no longer at Harvard and
not good for much wherever he was. I was doubly thankful, first,
to be lecturing at all, but secondly, to be able to find out so soon that
I was very likely in the wrong business. The lectures were all
right, I think, but I didn’t quite believe in the system. It may have
been all that marching beneath the windows of Sever, or a realiza-
tion that it made little sense to be foisting a subject on American
undergraduates, in the 1940's, no differently from the way it had
been presented to Europeans under Kaiser Wilhelm. In any case,
I was saved the choice of rebelling or swallowing my objections.
First came a job in radar for which I was supposedly qualified by
earlier experience as a ham radio operator, and then, after some
waiting and praying, an invitation to join that bristling monstrosity,
the old OSS. When OSS folded, I was in one of its watertight com-
partments that floated more or less unscrutinized into the State De-

partment, with the result that I next found myself, largely to my

surprise, a very footloose vice-consul in Zurich, a place to which

I have since become so mortally attached that I am sometimes ac-

cused of being a member of its Chamber of Commerce.

The five years I spent there are not easy to reckon up in the
ledger of growth and wisening. The job was not very stimulating,

but the atmosphere was, especially beyond the borders of Switzer-
land which served as a welcome base from which to wander off into

the gloom of any of the four contiguous countries, One forgets it

[1214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

now, but it was only the unprecedented outlay ef Atmerwan chars.
tableness and forgiveness, however blunderingly given, thac saved
most of Western Europe from the rigid darkness prey ailing to the
Fast. It is strange to recall that when one crowed inte nerthern
Italy in 1946, the red, white and blue label on the windshichd wos
cause for the local juveniles to throw mud and rocks at one’s cae.

I later thanked the State Department for staking me te my ma.
turity and moved on to the seamier pastures of the CIA. w hut at
the time appeared to offer greater challenges to the nnaginatior.
Here I must disappoint my classmates, the majority of who do noe
have the proper clearances, by lowering the curtain on the prowcesd-
ings of subsequent years which were agitated and bad for the health,
consisting, among other things, of winging it over the Atlant at
irregular intervals, sadly noting the steady decline in the comehness
of stewardesses, right down to the point where you can hardly tcl
them now from the nightshift at one of the lesser cafeterias

But all this was, I hope, merely preparation for what comes nevt
If a feeling of momentousness eludes me at this summing up, it ts
because of an illusion I cherish that the real and final yob ws juss
ahead. One of the better-kept secrets of the postwar periual was mv
off-hours devotion to the good cause of Fnelish prose, however
badly served by me. The only sizeable item that has reached print wy
far is one middling novel which the publisher forced into a fornut
that does some injustice to the contents, but may do justice to our
pockets. In order to make the next twenty- five Vears count: for a
little more than the last in this regard, I have recently begury ter cut
loose from all other employments and hope, by the tune thi ts
read, to be my own man entirely. The carcer-jumping stems, [think
from the fact that it was really always this last carcer that DP meant
to have for myself. For this reason ‘T would be very frustrated af

everything stopped tomorrow — if there were time, that iw to be
frustrated before it stopped.

{ rats ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

THEODOR HERZL ROME

 

HOME ADbRESS: 14 Overhill Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schocken Books, Inc., 67 Park Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

BorN: Dec. 29, 1914, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. 1935-1937. DEGREE: A.B. summa cum laude,
1936 (37).

marrige: Chawa Schocken, Nov. 23, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHiLpREN: Nathan,
May 15, 1944; David Isaac, June 15, 1946; Dan Hayim, Aug. 24, 1949;
Abigail, Nov. 25, 1956.

occupation: Artist and publisher.

PERHAPS the sole grudge I bore Harvard was that it aroused too
many intelligent appetites I could never hope to satisfy. Today I feel
closer than at any time in the intervening years to the drama of
History I or the meditative excitement of Mr. Whitehead’s classes,
but in 1937 I went off to Paris to learn to be merely a painter.
Possibly, I’d actually have succumbed to the illusion of pious, simple-
minded devotion to craft had the war not brought me back to New
York in 1939. The attempt to continue here the work which seemed
there to envelop me ended in a dismal funk. As a result, I turned
first to machine tools and later — when Uncle Sam refused me — to
ship design. .

Chawa and I met and were married in 1941. During the next five
years, while I worked as a naval architect on anything from an
aircraft carrier to a postwar seaborne gambling paradise, we launched
two children and accomplished the trek from Greenwich to upper
Manhattan to Westchester. Shortly after our third son had arrived,
I was exiled from family sphere and action. In those olden times, if
you had tuberculosis you were retired to the never-never land of a
sanatorium, After fifteen months there, it took a new apprenticeship

[ 1216}

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORE

to gain any sense of reality. This was a period of renewed pamerny.
mostly landscape, along with a rather unsatisfactory running wr:
volvement in a family-owned wholesale business,

Whether I finally succeeded in acquiring such a sense of reality iw
under test today. With enthusiasm and high hopes fam now run-
ning a small but evidently well-regarded publishing house, In thes
enthusiasm, I like to believe that our special interests — wholarhips
in the fields of Judaica, theology, history of thought and Itcrature
— will enable us to stand unmerged before the Bug Secel of book

ublishing.

On one level, the personal one, I can't really love, for here as im
painting the means are at least part of the end. The doing os the
thing; and much of the doing is reading in such quanuty and de
versity as I have not known since Reading Penods at Ear ark Like
then, there is often the same heady sense of discovery and revels
tion. But, like then, there’s a test at the end.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT, Tl

 

HOME AppRESsS: Silver Spring Farm, Paoli, Pa.
OFFIcE AppREss: Montgomery, Scott & Co, 123 8.
Pa.

BORN: June 14, 1914, New York, N.Y.

prepared AT: Groton School, Groron, Mass.

| Aewad Se, Phante! phe -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1934,

MarriED: Anne Mason Babcock, Feb. 3, 1940, Loutwsille, Av. cinta DBcnkeos,
qth, Nov. 27, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Cornelius Van Schaack Rounevels, "y+, Chien Beene ale,

"41 (deceased).

occupation: Partner, Montgomery, Scote & Company, invexemens bechacs,
OFFICES HELD: USNR, t94t-q5; Secretary of Conuneere, Conenennwasi th ef

(1217)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

It’s all been fun and we propose to continue in the same vein,
God willing.

LEONARD JOSEPH ROSEN

 

MAILING ADpRESS: Aerojet-General Corp., Solid Rocket Plant, Sacramento, Calif.

EDWARD PHILIP ROSENBAUM

    

ESE SNE RE ONT AR NIE

 

HOME appress: 22 Woodbine Ave., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Scientific American, 415 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: April 19, 1916, New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: New Haven High School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B. (Yale Univ.), 1937.

marrieD: Madge Salomon, Oct. 2, 1943, New York, N.Y. cHILDREN; Thomas
Edward, Nov. 26, 1949; Judith Ellen, May 7, 1951.

occuPATION: Journalist and editor; executive editor, Scientific American.

MEMBER OF: Yale Club, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various signed articles in Scientific American,

[ 1220 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE peculiar educational record probably calls for explanaten

In 1935, with family finances at particularly low cbb, PE transferred

to Yale, where I could live at home and earn semne moncy while

finishing college. The authorities ac New Haven had recently in-

stalled a rule against granting a diploma for one year's resademe.

This rule they applied, though not without some apologene mur-

murs, even to a wandering scholar from Cambridge. So T wound up

in Yale 37, and now have two 25ths coming sertatim.

During the next fifteen years I did considerable backing and
filling: a couple of stints of teaching (math and physics) and ad-
ministration at the Milford Preparatory School, a few vears in the
Air Force as a radar officer and project engineer on an carly, nee.
very-well-guided missile, a little free-lance w nting and TV otthn
production.

In 1952 I joined the board of editors of Scientific cluicrican, and
this diffuse background came into focus. Now, as crxccutive eahter,
I am engaged in the endlessly fascinating job of helping sqentity
explain their work and their ideas to laymen. Not the least of mv

leasure is keeping in touch with the academic workd in general
and with Harvard in particular.

Balance sheet: on one side, a good deal of satisfaction and some
pride in both family and work. On the other, some personal ain-
bitions that obviously are going unfulfilled, and an uncomfortable
sense of evasion of wider responsibilities.

I don’t suppose the world ever needed trained intellizence and
good will as much as it needs them now. We all like to think of
Harvard as a breeding ground par excellence for these quahocs
Well, here we are, twenty-five years out. Most of us are well on
the way to whatever eminence of position and influence we're

likely to reach. Who is satished with the moral scnsitivity be has
maintained, the courage and diligence he has displaved, the leader:
ship he has provided in fighting ATAINSE Victousness, stupibty and

tawdriness? Not me.

[ 1221]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILLIAM MAX ROSS

 

HOME AppREss: 10010 S. Hoyne, Chicago, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8201 5. Ashland, Chicago, Ill.

BORN: May 19, 1915, Bristol, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Bristol High School, Bristol, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1937. DEGREES: AB, cum laude, 1936(37);
MoD. (Univ. of South Carolina), 1941.

marRieD: Ann Zygutis, 1946, Chicago, Ill. campren: William Z.; David J.;
Wendy L.; Thomas J.

occupation: Doctor, specializing in urology.

OFFICES HELD: Major, U.S. Marine Corps, Korean War.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Urological Society;
Chicago Urological Society; American Board of Urology (diplomate) ;
International College of Surgeons; American Veterans Medical Society;
Knights of Columbus.

publications: “Epididymitis in the Military Service”, “Urinary Tract Obstruc-
tion in Infants and Children.”

PAUL ROTHKRUG

    

wo
Jl.

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Fairview Ave., Danbury, Conn.

 

[ 1222 ]

25TH ANNIVFRSARY RFPORT
BoRN: Feb. 22, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, NY,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.
marriED: Miriam de Chelfin, April, i941 (divorced tgesd, Shirkew EP Siece gen

July 25, 1952. CHILDREN: Barbara Ann, April it. tug, Joha Neephen Song

23, 1948; Dana, Dec. 12, 1949.
OccUPATION: Insurance, specializing in life and disability inwerance
’ : 1. Meee beet.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Emergency Civil Liberties Comunittee,
member, Mid Hudson Chapter, Clemency Comnurtce for the Rinentergs

and Sobell, 1953; member, Housing Commuittce, Danbury Chopece arnt
life member, National Association for the Advancenwrt of Csdoevdt
People; youth counsellor, Brandeis Youth Club, charrrran, ( oenerapeeey

Relations Council, United Jewish Center of Danbury,

I WAS in the hat manufacturing business until December, tage
From December, 1942, to April, 1946 — army service, dra haryed
second lieutenant, Military Intelligence Service. Communiened in
the field while on duty with Headquarters, 2Sth Infantry Ors ruses
in the Vosges Mountains, February—March, 1943. Since bgt mm the
insurance business, specializing in life and disability sanee ggg. Care
paigned for Henry A. Wallace in 1948.

Hobbies: golf and cabinet-making. Daughter, Barbara Ann, cue.
rently attending Solebury School in New Hope, Penns be ania,

Comment: It is possible in this America to maintain a prineipled
political position of protest publicly and for a prolonged perind of
time, while successfully conducting a business which depemle on

aty

3
public approval; and keeping the respect of the community at Large

JOHN BRUCE ROWLAND

 

Miz ADDRESS: 36 Carisbrooke Ru, Wellesley Phila Miss.
ICE ApprEss: Hayden, Stone & Co, 10 Pose Othe e Sep. Teton, Visa,

[ s223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

porns Nug.g, 1912, Philadelphia, Pa,
paeeanen ats Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
‘YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: AB, 1936,
manned: Dorothy Wheeler, April 27, 1940, Lexington, Mass, cHmupren
Bruce, Yr, Feb, 8 rg2; Susan, Jan, 4, 1944.

MERRITT KIRK RUDDOCK

 

a anpress: g8o Green St, San Francisco, Calif,

MORGAN COFFIN RULON

 

wee |
vii il sa “i j
_ Hc anonass: 226 Windermere Ave, Wayne, Pa,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL VINCENT RUTLEDGE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Romola Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Campbell, Rutledge & Campbell, 16 Norewh Se, Woeveeet,
Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: a.B., curt Laude, 19346, b4m, ty ye

MARRIED: Elizabeth E. Langdon, Sept. 5, 1045. Benton, Maw crtpace Pel
Vincent, Jr., Nov. 20, 1946; Langdon, May 21, 1040. Anne bhssteeh, Jiro
8, 1953; Stephen Francis, Oct. 25, 1955; Philip Juweph, Dew, ta pase.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, American Institute of Banking (negetsst de mite
ments and commercial law), since to4g*: prewdent, Civitan Chobe of
Worcester, 1957-58; lieutenant governor, New Frgland Drtrwt, Core oy

1958-59.
MEMBER OF: Worcester County and Massachusetts Bar Awan ratwir, Ploev ord
Club of Worcester; Players Club of Worcestcr, Parent. Lemhet Nowe re

tion.

MY career has been marked by a certain samenew over the vesre
Shortly after graduation from Law School, [was bined te work es
a law office in Worcester, Massachusetts. [have renunsed with thot
law office for more than twenty-one years becoaney a purtnes
several years ago. This period of time was interrupted a the rygee
by three and one-half years spent in miltary seevne, tently mn te
training of radio operators and mechanics, and in preparing ter han of
manuals for the Air Force.

Having gained some experience in teaching while in the weed
I have taught evening law courses to bank emplovees foe re bee
twelve or thirteen years, under the auspices of the Naver sa bere
tute of Banking.

[ t225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I have been happily married to the same wife for more than fifteen
years and take special pleasure in my five children.

AS a respite from the practice of law, my family and I have en-
joyed ow ning a summer place at Falmouth, Massachusetts, for five
years. My family spends each summer there, and we try to spend
the weekends in the spring and fall, whenever possible, on Cape

Cod.

ROBERT DAYTON SALL

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 23 W. Concord St., Dover, N.H.

oFFice appress: 466 Central Ave., Dover, N.H.

BORN: June 15, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1936, MD. cum
laude, 1940. ’

MaRRieD: Sara Schwartz, Dec. 27, 1953, Newton, Mass, CHILDREN: Stephen
Irwin, June 26, 1955; Richard Kenneth, March 11, 1957.

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: President, Southern New Hampshire Lodge, B’nai B’rith, 1947-
48, Dover Medical Society, 1954, Strafford County Medical Society, 1957-
58; chief, Obstetrical Service, Wentworth-Dover City Hospital, Dover,
N.H., since 1955.

MeEMBeR or; American Medical Association; New Hampshire, Strafford County
and Dover Medical Societies; Southern New Hampshire Lodge, B’nai
B’rith; Kiwanis Club of Dover.

PUBLICATIONS: “Studies in Carcinogenesis, Effect of the Basic Fraction of
Creosote Oil on the Production of Tumors in Mice by Chemical Carcino-
gens,” with M. J. Shear, Journal of National Cancer Institute, August,
1940.

[ 1226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STANLEY CASPAR SALMEN

  

HOME ADDRESS: Weare, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 211 Low Library, Columbia University, New Verk rs, Y.

BORN: July 18, 1914, Olean, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. Ctemt laude, 19%

MARRIED: Mary Goodale, 1945, Boston, Mass. critpars: Margaret Seog.
July 31, 1938 (Mrs. Goulet); Lawrence Fulton, April ta ever (beth be
previous marriage).

OccUPATION: Educational administration, coordinator of unverey ploseng

EVERY experience seems to contribute to others and that may be
why doing full circle is inevitable. Probably we all hope that the
circle is part of an ascending spiral. Now [am back in educanens!
administration, happy in it as I had been in manufacturnmy and in
publishing in the fifteen years between leaving Presalent Conant’s
office and 1956 when I came to Columbia.

It is disconcerting to recall how unplanned the whole tune bes
been. The only basis of judgment scems to have been ins taksne age.
portunities to try to make useful acavities better. It has been
pleasant surprise that I have been allowed to do what PE wanted tes
do most of the time. Harvard allowed me to hold several posaticonse
at a time for some years, allowing temporary fristranend iy one
channel to be thwarted by moving forward in another, The rv.
strictions of the coming war, however, steadily dhinineshecd were rset y
functions.

Through a fluke of public relations advising, Lo had beeeenrce wy.
volved in the management of a small bearing manufactucet whee
pioneering efforts in powdered metallurgy had become popertice ts
a number of military applications, TP was astornhadd te fot poe ef
in dozens of war plants and installadions working Gr breads wane

{ t227 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

EDWARD ROTAN SARGENT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1132 Young’s Ford Rd., Gladwyne, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 938 Transportation Bldg., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BorN: July 22, 1914, Ardmore, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936 (37).

MargieD: Ruth Virginia Sargent, June 18, 1938, St. Davids, Pa. cup: Edward
Rotan, Jr., April 18, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Winthrop Sargent, 3d, "34.

occuPATiON: Industrial consulting, manufacturers’ agent.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, Swedenborgian Church, Philadelphia,
Ruule Mining Company, Florida.

MEMBER OF: Merion Cricket Club; Merion Golf Club; Harvard Club of Phila-
delphia; Racquet Club; American Ordnance Association; War of 1812
Society; Colonial Society of Philadelphia; Pennsylvania Historical Society;
Welcome Society; Society of Colonial Wars; Sons of Confederate Vet-
erans; Order of Stars and Bars; Sons of the Revolution.

AFTER graduation, I worked in Boston for a year, before coming
back to Philadelphia to work in the sales department of American
Steel Foundries and with other companies with non-competing lines,
as a manufacturers’ agent. The next two years were good to me in
every way — marriage in 1938 to my wonderful wife and a good
future to which to look forward.

Unfortunately, war has a habit of changing these things and in
December of 1940 I was ordered to active duty as second lieutenant
— Ordnance Department Reserve. This active duty training was to
last six months, at the end of which time, orders were extended, and
then Pearl Harbor took care of the rest.

Fortunately, my assignment for the next several years was in Bos-
ton with the Boston Ordnance District and when scparated from

[ 1230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the service in December, 1945, as a major, | was hoppy te have
been able to spend these ycars in familiar arcas

I returned to Philadelphia in 1946, and for the neve thictees asst
one-half years was associated with Newsweck Magaces, as anvil
vertising representative. My territory covered the South -. the Car-
olinas, Georgia, Florida, Alabama and Tennewce, with heae haw an

Philadelphia. Since late 1959, I have been back in buunees for my
self. I am again a manufacturers’ representative in widustrtal ae.

counts here in the Philadelphia arca.
My son, now nineteen, is in his first vear at Secila Elkins Us bee

School of Art (a division of Temple University). Ble bas alaliees

in this line which he does not get from his f ather.
Ruthie, Skip and I have enjoved several summer vacatmens at

Chatham Bars on the Cape, and nothing would have pleased me
more than to have been there at the 20th, bue Twas unable to make

it.
Politically, I guess you could say Iam even mare te the mehe of

Henry the Eighth than when I was in college and could prot. ratty be

described most aptly as a “Goldwater Republican.”
the same as ever — photography, the Civil War, genealogy, Maree,

and while my hobbies have not included all our Reunions, Lo satend
to rectify that at our Twenty-fifth this year.

SARKIS ALBERT SARKISEAN

 

IME ADDRESS: 164 Fairview Ave, Browheon, Mase.
FICE appress: 9s Torrey Ave. Brockton, Mba,

RN: Aug. 30, 1916, Bridgewater, Mass,
[PARED AT: Bridgewater High School, Heityew sece, Vase

(1238)

Viv heed dice are

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
93 ZETH ANNIVPRSARY RERWY

ARS IN COLLEGE? 1932-1970. DEGREES! S:Byy 1936; D.M.D., 1940; nop
L/nv.), 104}- “ (Bosto
co. Lhyltis Dela Wyehunas, Aug. 6 19437, Brockton, Mass.
wornen: Herbert Arakel Sarkisian, 70.

IN: SULLCOlM
“: American College of Surgeons; National Board of Mea:
ate), American (Medical Association (fellow); New Rawicine
LICL Qglang
Numecous medical arucles published in standard

Medica]

ALFRED WANNER SATTERAWN AV

    

‘on it 1936, I entered Harvard Dental Sch ool
ye interested in medicine, so atter gra duatin.
001 In 1939, f entered Boston Univers ty Mea,
ated at the begimung of World War It a

Jospital prior to entering U.S. ; |
opie pr 0 e 5. Army Medical gome appress: 615 Walnut Lane, Haverford, Pa.
; cer, 32d Di VISION, orrice appress: Library 46, Haverford College, Was erfond Ba.
to Japa. : . BORN: Dec. 31, Igl 4, Reading, Pa.
rorcal traming by residency training at opepareD aT? Schools in United States and Furoye.
My Flospttal, Soston City Hospital | YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: AB. Chere Lada. Vavk. ANA tae. PO,
is Medical School Following aca- 1956. Costello, A Oniney, Maw, honed
. . : Kathleen Costello, Aug. jo. t93t, Quiney, Maw, Gieetied vaqed

n Atossachusetts marniep: Kath ( vi \
A y act ve medical Isabel Cassatt Kurtz, April 3. toay. York, Pa. cara Mania Set,
have been VOIy acti vely busy in April 13, 19493 Mary Richardson, Aug. 4. 1981.

arving on two of the hospital occupation: Assistant professor of Vnglish, Waverton Cenege,

al the time available. vember of: American Association of Universty Proloan, Reeves
Society of America; MLA.

If’ project about my home ok
° ee nics asa b oo pepuications: Articles in Comparative Litcratare, Phere ged Qaim Ba

ra ] letin d'Hrmanisme et de Renaissances Spencer, Roman) aed Pa Beta,
1 rom experimental an Princeton University Press, 19/.

DIRECTLY after graduation, \ ported AC PAVEEENS Nos Ved
looking for a job ina publishing house, A veut \srcr,\ \ teste
ry an unsuccessful session as 4 PAW), candidate at Van MAN) eA,
tive literature, and, right after that, Vavtatkad oa beet yew
dssppointing marriage to a Radelife yal, whe tar se \ yy
” ° ‘ , ’ 4 t \ Wed ‘N, ‘ V\
divorce happily without children. Vabantoaad wa yt wa 8
German refuyee prep choot iy Vermont al wektalagey
' ' . ’ ’ . | ‘ \., st ve A. . ,
married sister in Yurk, Pennants. Whos at vate
Fear, T decided to voluntect for the Aww,
my

Somewhat ironically, after Vad qmmaettad BOS Be
ary the ett board evant, Neue SE Qo
ly ranted 4 pene of sure sy geet Sane Vk
ten hy IAA ithe cinta dea

V0 i N psc wile, ny the twa MN a A

Vy

creties, local and na-
urgeons and trainee

‘
‘ \
‘
\
.
0

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

keel, the world in which we live is not. I sometimes think of the
late Roman Empire which was overrun by barbarians, and I am
mildly pleased that Matthew Arnold could not see the world of
1960 teetering with dangerous insouciance on the edge of unknown
horror.

+ ROBERT MAURICE SAUL

 

BORN: June 27, 1913, Rose Valley, Pa. PARENTS: Maurice Bower Saul, Edna
Scott.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marriED: Mary E. Whalen, June 25, 1938, New York, N.Y. cuipren: Andrew
Whalen, June 3, 1939; Stephen Dudley.

piep: Killed in action, March 27, 194q, in the Southwest Pacific area,

AFTER leaving college, Saul attended Grenoble University in
France. He was president of the Rose Valley Nurseries when he
entered the Navy as an ensign in December, 1942. He completed
his basic training at Cornell University and the Naval Training Sta-
tion at Melville, Rhode Island. In July, 1943, he was transferred
to the Brooklyn Navy Yard and two months later left for duty in
the Pacific. He was promoted to lieutenant (j.g.) and was killed in
action in the Southwest Pacific area, while serving as commander of
a PT boat attached to Motor Torpedo Boat Squadron No. 25. He
was survived by his wife and two sons.

[ 1236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID SAVAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 442 Heath St., E.. Toronto 19, One, Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University College 4:3, Univ. of Torwnta, Teronte ¢. (ee,
Canada.

BORN: March 27, 1916, Manchester, N.EL.

PREPARED AT: Manchester Central High School, Manchesees, N HE.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1036. DEGREES: A.B. steverna creme Liwde, tgi%. & MOL Pere

MARRIED: Kathleen Green, June 16, 1948 Torentn, One. Cannda crest pase
Beth Irene, March 28, 1951; David Jonathan, Dee. as. tadg tek qed

occuPATION: Associate professor of philosophy, Univeraty ef Possess

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, C. S. Peirce Soctety. toti-te. charrenan, Reg~os
III Selection Committee, Woodrow Wilson Natenal bellow dop beats
tion, since 1959; member, Research Committee, Canahan Jew why Cee crn,
1951-59, board of directors, Workers’ Fducatianal Awesaten od (arnla
since 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Aseociation.

PUBLICATIONS: “John Dewey's Conception of Nature.” Canerars of PT oroare
Quarterly, October, 1947; “John Dewey, tReg-t9¢a.” The Camadaert Frese,
August, 1952; “On the Origins of Peirce’s Phenomenobyy,” Sradwe 0
the Philosophy of Charles Sanders Perce, Uaevaed Unie Peseta.
Newcomers From Isracl, Toronto, toes, “Sprnasa and Pangusge” 7 e+
Philosophical Review, April, 1958, “Peirve av Man ard Pholeqbee ” Poe
Canadian Forum, July, 1959.

THIS business of writing about oneself comes for me, beth tear hte
and too early. Too late, because the last important deerued | reat
— important in its personal consequences —~ was in iggy, when Karts
leen Green and I decided to marry. Too carly, beware fee poene of
what I’m doing the season is still spring. ve be yrary nena pent of
the things ’'ve wanted to do. T find them all fw mating Pd
they’re all worth-while and of use to others Dhave the eneres, act
I've learned much about my own basic lanitstwons ancl wea dow nee
But still, Uve only made a beginning and everythings femunee yer

[237]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

to be done. The signs of age, the dry and brittle rattling, the coars-
ening and flabby imagination, the premonitory aches and falterings,
are already near.

When I was growing up in Manchester, New Hampshire, the son
of Russian-Jewish immigrants, clinging desperately to their intel-
lectual and socialist interests while making their sad concessions to
life, what did I anticipate? Certainly not that I should find myself,
in 1961, teaching and writing philosophy in Canada, married to an
English Quaker, who grew up in London and was deeply affected
by three war years in India and China. Certainly not that I should
be the father, at this point, of a young family —a bright, vivid,
tree-climbing little girl, and a happy, generous, mud-caked adopted
son, When I returned to Harvard’s Graduate School after a year in
Europe on a Sheldon, I was sure that philosophy alone could teach
us about man, God and the world, that through it I could discover
the true causes and the real solutions of our most troublesome prob-
lems, These convictions, modified, qualified, and battered, I still
hold. But how wrong I was to think that it was all at my finger-
tips, that one more good stretch would bring it within my grasp!
The answers recede, the questions keep changing shape, the broad
horizons are obscured by clouds and shadows,

I was teaching philosophy (and, later, a lictle psychology) at the
College of William and Mary when the war broke out. Because of
a club foot which had never been fully corrected, I was classified
4-F. Toward the end of the war, I came to Toronto. I have been
fortunate here in my friends and family. My dear wife is a far
better and more clear-headed person than I am, and from her I’ve
learned more about life, morals, and myself than I did in all the years
since leaving home in 1932.

Here J am, then, “midway the journey of this life.” If I have time
and health, I hope yet to be of some use to my family, to the uni-
versity community, to some of the larger communities to which I
belong, to workers’ education, and perhaps, if I can say what I
think and think what I say, to philosophy. Here’s to wife, philos-
ophy, and the happiness of pursuit!

[ 1238]



So

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

tillery Regiment from Boston and in Battery B of the 696th Field
Artillery Battalion from Red Bank, New Jersey. I look back upon
those Army years with very fond memories. It was good for me
to be forced into a completely different life. From the time I
started out as a private at Camp Edwards until I wound up on the
other side of the Elbe River as a captain and battery commander, I
had my share of unforgettable experiences and made some very
good friends,

After Germany, it was back to Belmont Hill and I have been
there ever since. The last fifteen years have been wonderful ones
for me, but I’m afraid they don’t make very interesting reading to
anyone else, I have seen hundreds of boys come and go through
school, and I look forward to knowing hundreds more in the years
to come. It is especially fun these days to see sons of Harvard °36
come on the scene — new editions of John Clark, Ed Counihan, and
Jack Page. I hope more like them will be showing up soon. Having
somehow remained a bachelor for all this time, I still have been able
to enjoy seeing kids grow up and more often than not turn into
men I’m proud to know.

I have enjoyed coaching various teams in football, baseball and
hockey, and worked some in dramatics. Right now, I am primarily
interested in beefing up our senior English program to meet today’s
stiff college requirements. My pet extracurricular project is making
a smooth operation out of our artificial hockey rink, dedicated to a
close personal pal and a friend of more Belmont Hill School grad-
uates than all the rest of us put together — Finch Keller, Harvard
*13. We seem to spend an awful lot of time around the Stadium in
the fall and at the Watson Rink during the hockey season.

For years, I spent my summers working for my good friend, John
Schereschewsky, *32, of Harvard football fame, in the day camp
business. Now I settle for a little tutoring at Belmont Hill’s sum-
mer school. I have already had a sabbatical half-year’s leave. Any
spare time I can find, I spend either working around my home in
Lexington trying to wear out my omnipresent golden retriever, or
hacking away at golf. My aim is to play in the eighties before our
Fiftieth.

I suppose there will always remain that unanswerable question:
“What would you do if you had it to do all over again?” I don’t
know, of course, but I’m not at all sure that the road not taken
would be a bit more pleasant or rewarding than this one has been.

[ 1240 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

liquor dealer. Profoundly grateful for not having been hit over
the head yet, I look back from now to then with a kind of familiar
incredulicy, wondering, at appropriate times like this, whether this
is a private experience or whether an observer’s relationship to
change makes others uneasy as well.

My history deals almost exclusively with books and writers in
one way or another. The first year or so after graduation I spent
working for two magazines, a newspaper, and the National Broad-
casting Company. Then, in 1938, I joined the book publishing
house of Farrar & Rinehart. Comparative stability set in at that
point. Two and a half non-arduous years in the Navy (1943-46)
have been the only interruption in a program of books and more
books. In 1940, I married Josephine Stocking of New Haven and we
have two children — Russell born in 1943 and Martha in 1945.

After the war I joined the new publishing house of William
Sloane Associates, leaving there in 1950 for what proved to be a
brief stay at McGraw-Hill. In 1952, with rapidly-growing chil-
dren, we left New York when I came to the staff of the equally
rapidly-growing Harvard University Press. The rates of growth
have been about even up to date, but experience suggests hopefully
that there will be a differential in favor of the Press before long.

When I came into publishing, departmentalization was less well
thought of than it is today. Some versatility was desirable, and often
necessary, when you least expected it. Editing, selling and promo-
tion have been my principal occupations within the industry, with
stopgap efforts elsewhere. Outside it I have written several novels,
a few short stories, and done some book reviewing. During several
summers on the staff of the Breadloaf Writers’ Conference, I have

attempted to show young writers some of the pitfalls that can be
avoided short of trial and error. This is an endeavor that turns out,
of course, to be more valuable as self-criticism than it can be as
teaching.

Asa hobby, I read books now and then, but as evidence that there
is nothing psychopathic about the addiction I can say that I also
burn books with pleasure when their worth as insulation becomes
less than their value as firewood. We were stood in good stead one

night last March by an unexplained copy of The Shoe Manufac-
turers’ Yearbook for 1926. Behaving like seasoned oak, it maintained
the fire for half an hour. Under the proper circumstances the most
inferior prose can burn with a gemlike flame,

Aside from books, I take much pleasure and satisfaction from

[ 1242 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICES HELD: Associate visiting surgeon, Massachusetts General Hospital, since
1957; assisting clinical professor of surgery, Harvard Medical School,
since 1957; secretary, New England Surgical Society, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Surgical Association, New England Surgical Society;
Boston Surgical Society; Society of University Surgeons,
Association for Thoracic Surgery.

pusiicarions: A number of contributions to medical and surgical journals
dealing principally with cardio-vascular and thoracic surgical subjects.

American

I HAVE long envied the man who writes his quarter-century auto-
biography with a light and refreshing touch. Therefore, I asked my
wife — for I have a wife and six daughters and one son — to write
mine. Her answer was, “No.”

After leaving Harvard in those high and far-off times when the
Deal was New and all, I spent the next four years in medical school
by the banks of the great, gray-green, Muddy River. This was an
extraordinary experience, particularly to be recommended for those
who wish to be well-rounded doctors. I liked medical school as
long as it lasted —twenty-four years so far for me, in an under-
graduate and graduate capacity. A week following graduation from
medical school, after a whirlwind courtship of four years, I married.
In the next twelve years, our connubial bliss produced five girls.
Then, quicker than you can say res ipsa loquitur, a son. But this was
not the end; five years later another daughter arrived to comfort our
declining years. The variety of interests of a family whose ages
range from nineteen to two and a half is extraordinary: it is said to
keep one’s point of view young. I could write more about my
family, but I can hear them now. I think I can say, however, but
with real fear of contradiction that we hold some sort of record for
the family which, over twenty-five years, has eaten the most meals

in the kitchen —a real kitchen, that is, not a functionally efficient
subdivision of the family living space. We have a fine, old, roomy

house of the neo-McKinley period with the latchstring always out
— as well as one of the front porch lights.

After medical school graduation, 1 moved downtown to the
Massachusetts General Hospital, of which it is written, “Just like
vestal virgins/it guards its young surgeons/from entering practice
too soon.” I almost entered practice in 1941 in a maritime sort of
way and probably would have done so had not Pearl Harbor found
me tucked away in a sanatorium. I spent a year on the shelf care-
fully avoiding The Magic Mountain, which I have not yet read. It
was a rewarding year, without any question a real determinant of
my later professional career, though not, as might be easily inferred,

[ 1244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REFPORE

the basis for choosing thoracic surgery as a life-long felb of eon
centration. Tuberculosis meant that military matters were foe me

a matter of book learning, and I became one of thence midisntes's
who, unacceptable to the armed forces, were available to the herve
tal as a long-term surgical resident. Keeping the surgical heave tires
burning was a busy job, but there is no question that we as ndheat
uals gained in professional training. There is also no wav te measure
the overall balance.

The completion of my formal hospital training logically come uted
with the return of my contemporaries in 1946. and orf Pwent wits
wife and four children to spend a year in Minneapolys in the Dy.
partment of Anatomy at the University of Minnesota, Here, under
the conscientious eye of Professor Boy den, T soaked myself un the
anatomy of the lung. From this I emerged smelling farcely ef
formaldehyde and printer’s ink to return to the Masachuscets Geer.
eral in 1947. I have been actively associated with the surywal seat
of that Harvard institution ever since. Occasionally, peuple ask
me what I do, but they rarely wait for a proper answer. Te the
interested inquirer, I reply that most of the time I coment surgery,
and though I am quick to point out that I am a gencral surgeon, |
find that I am generally involved with the lungs, the heart, the ewph.
agus, and parts that lie adjacent. I teach, sometunes well and
sometimes, I fear, badly, for I have never mastered the cComsntentts
contagious energy of the really good teacher. T chink, amd at tunes
turn out, in association with clinical colleaguey contnbunsns ts
appropriate surgical journals. As a “cardiac surgeon” -- Coond save
the mark —I stand my share of night watches and never cere te
wonder at the courage of the human spirit. [Posit on qemnmcrens
and think interdepartmental, interdisciplinary thoushin and boars
new meanings for the word exciting, and don’t go te Washorcrer
very often. Most of my and our traveling is in awecutien wart an
annual round of surgical “mectings” — usually referred te by e+
laity, and particularly taxi drivers from airports, as “Conventions |

When not practising the art and science of SUPLCEN, Papecdicer
of my time seeing to it that my family receives the cul atastac
medical care expected of doctor's families, Sometunes we shia!
the young ones w ait for me half w ay down, Warh the post et
of uphill transportation, I try to inculeate in them a hove ef i"
ing which I must admit I did not feel until recentiy, VER bo
ambition to ski over the headwall at Tuckermans mw uetes |
will with any kind of sensible care be eternally fristeare fo te

[ trys ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

times we sail, usually in the waters surrounding Prince Edward
Island on the shores of which we have a house whose Iatchstrin

is also always out. The town is Georgetown, and the last time a
classmate turned up there is his gorgeous, great galleon, our pro-
tective coloration was so effective that until we allowed as how
we were from “the States,” he thought we were trying to sell him
vegetables. We do a great many other things, but most of the’

time we try to be certain that our children do not make the same
errors of omission that we did.

HUBERT SCHEFFY

 

HOME abpress: 22 Danbury Circle, §., Rochester 18, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastman Kodak Co., 343 State St., Rochester 4, N.Y.
BORN: July 25, 1915, Mansfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MaRRIED: June Clark Brackett, Sept. 17, 1938, Arlington, Mass. (died May 22,
1955); Mary V. Mulvey, Dec. zz, 1956, Rochester, N.Y. cumpren: Hubert,
Jc., Aug. 13, 1940; Brackett Leighton, May 31, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Hubert Scheffy, Jr., ’62.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Carl Scheffy, '28, Luther Scheffy, ’35.

occuPATION: Editorial supervisor (Publications Service), Eastman Kodak Com-
pany, photographic manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Elected associate, 1951, chairman, Technical Division Program
Committee, 1952, Photographic Society of America; director, since 1958,

several positions in Rochester Chapter, Society of Photographic Scientists
and Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rochester; Genesee Figure Skating Club
(secretary and member board of governors, since 1959).

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles and books in photographie field (almost
all published by Kodak).

[ 1246 }

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I BEGAN as a trainee with Kodak on the Monday after Coimnen e.
ment Day, and have enjoyed the association ever unee.  Vitcr
about five years in research and development work (mainty te ho
with color photography), I transferred to publicanons work, whah
has proved closer to my interests and capabilities Achieving bw af
quality from photographic products requires an unusual amenune of
customer education, and consequently hundreds of diferent prewes
of literature are needed. I’m sold on Kodak as a company to work
for and Rochester as a place to live (well, anvway. we don't have
chiggers).

Principal civic activities have been fund-raising for the Rochewce
Civic Music Association, including three years as a diviuen chair:
man, and Scouting, including five years as an Awistant Ncoutmastet
(received Scouter’s Award, 1956).

When Rochester’s Ritter-Clark Memorial Building opened |
suddenly became aware that while Tenley Albright am! Plaves
Jenkins might claim the spotlight and gold medal, they had pe
monopoly on the fun of figure skating. lee dancing has Decoine an
absorbing hobby, winter and summer, for which | gladly proactive
school figures (actually, trying to perfect them is rather bhe cating
peanuts, only much better for the waistline). Not the lease reward
from skating has been the gorgeous redhead (Wellesley "g8) when
I first met on the ice.

After Mary and I were married, we moved to a new howe on a
large expanse of grass and not much else. Growing disgusted with
our first attempts at landscaping, we finally decided ye all out
Result: what would have been at least a five- -Vear proycet for any.
one in his right mind will be complete in three Veary and that
includes replacements for the replacements (nothing much gete an
easy start in our heavy clay soil). Hlowever, we have tried te beep
maintenance requirements at a level that will noe interfere with
golf or sailing.

I rather imagine as I read our Class Report P shall feel hat t
have been outstripped by most of my clawinates. Soll Por bh. VT
healthy and enthusiastic ‘about many ‘things. Perhaps being alle ts
say this much after tw enty- five ycars of caring my owe Wty

an accomplishment of sorts.

[ 1247]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PEIRCE DAVIES SCHENCK

MAILING ADDRESS: 630 Runnymede Rd., Dayton 9, Ohio.

CARL FRANCIS SCHILKOWSKY

 

HOME appreEss: P.O, Box 274, Clarksville, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Burlington Industries, Clarksville, Va.

BorN: Aug. 6, 1914, Shelton, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Shelton High School, Shelton, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MaRRiED: Beulah Ellen Hall, June 25, 1949, Hamden, Conn, cuitp: Carl Francis,
Jr., July 30, igso.

occupaTIon: Textile manufacturing, plant superintendent.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association of Textile
Chemists and Colorists.

pusLications: Contribution entitled, “Dyeing in Pile Fabrics,” Encyclopedia
of Man-Made Fibers.

IN looking back over the past twenty-five years, I have reached
the conclusion that while 1 have done nothing startling, my life has
not been devoid of interesting experiences and some feeling of ac-
complishment. While the major portion of the past twenty-five
years has been spent in the textile field, I did wander off into chemi-
cal manufacturing for several years. During this period I have lived
and worked in five different states, in addition to which I spent
almost two years in New Guinea, in the Army, during the last war.

Due to the rapid demise of the textile industry in the Northeast
in the postwar years, I found myself south of the Mason-Dixon Line
in the fall of 1953, and have since replaced clam chowder and
Yankee pot roast with black-eyed peas, hog jowl and hominy grits.
Like a good many New Englanders, the thought of going any place

[ 1248 ]

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

south or west of the Hudson River was quite forbidding and alien
to me. However, in the past seven years I have become qunte at
home here and am not certain whether I could still survive the
ordeals of a northern winter.

Fortunately, in more ways than one, I married a girl who was
born and raised in North Carolina, so when we moved south she
wasn’t in strange territory. Our ten-year-old son stll proclaims he
is a Yankee, but does it less frequently and with an increasing south.
ern accent. Actually, children are a great aid in becoming part of
a community. I find myself attending an occasional P.T.A. mect-
ing (I leave most of this to my good wife) and this past summer
I served as president of the Little League here in town.

As we enter 1961, life is certainly different than it was in 1944.
We have witnessed the advent of television, atomic energy, in-
numerable new materials, and now we're thinking of invading the
moon and planets. In 1986 will we look back at 1961 as a time when

life was much less complex?

FRED FALKENAU SCHIMMEL

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 620 N. Trenton Drive, Beverly Fills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Petersen Refrigeration Consultants, 3435 W. Temple Se, bea
Angeles 26, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, cum husde, iih, MBA, tai

marrieD: Gloria Schnitzer, March 31, 1947, Beverly Pblly Cald cam pess
John Frederic, Oct. 12, 1948; Joan Claire, Aug. aa tog,

OCCUPATION: Assistant sales manager, Petersen Refrigeration Conwiltanes, cons
mercial refrigeration and store fixtures,

[ 1249 ]

pointless

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Harvard Business School
Club of Southern California.

AFTER graduation I returned to Harvard for two years at the
Business School and then settled down in New York City in the
mail-order business. This turned out to be a relatively short ex-
perience, since I had what was laughingly referred to at the time
as a low draft number. The Army claimed me in April, 1941, for
the six months that turned out to be five years, My service started
in Delaware and covered California, Texas, the Caribbean area and
assorted way-stations. Once again I settled down briefly in New
York.

Early in 1947, almost fourteen years ago now, I got married and
shortly thereafter we moved to southern California, where we have
been ever since. During the entire period I have been in the com-
mercial refrigeration and store-fixture business. For a short spell
this was supplemented by a real estate venture that we prefer to
forget. And, for two years, life on the whole was pretty generally
interrupted by a bout with polio just prior to the advent of the
Salk vaccine.

Ours has been a very happy marriage. We now have two grow-
ing children, who have a full-time job educating and updating their
parents. We enjoy living here. The stability of the older areas of
the country may be lacking, but there are an abundance of stimu-
lating activities, the vitality of a growth area and a host of other
compensations. The image of California gleaned from the pub-
licity of the motion picture and TV industries is no truer than the
image of New York which the café society publicity gives forth,

Twenty-five years later my recollections of Harvard are still
very warm. We went to college during the period of the New
Deal which, whether one agreed with it or not, was a period of

excitement and change in the nation. I think this excitement pene-
trated into the college atmosphere and made it even more stimulat-
ing than normally. Somehow I think that studying these changes
in a time of change gave us a helpful clue of how to adjust our-
selves later on to whatever situations or circumstances befell us.

E
-

[ 1250 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OSCAR MENDERSON SCHILOSS. JR.

  

HOME ApprEss: Bigelow Apts., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
OFFICE AppRESs: WHIC, Inc., 341 Rising Main Se, Pittsburgh 1a Pa, WANNA

Radio, Inc., Hotel Sherwyn, Pittsburgh 22, Pa.
BORN: Sept. 24, 1913, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N-H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.
MARRIED: Charlotte Denny, August, 1938, Manchester, Maw. (divorced). ent.

DREN: Peter, February, 1940; Joan Denny, February, to:
OCCUPATION: Television, chairman of the board, Strapon WIC, raday diene tor

Station WWSW.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Petely Enterprises, Inc.

HAVE spent the past twenty-five years playing carnest hittle pry
rooting for truffles in the land of pink bunnies. Phave done weersl
good deeds which must remain classificd according to the tenets of

my current cult.

PHILIP MILLER SCHLOSS

 

HOME ApprEss; 24 Lyman Circle, Shaker Bheighee ag, Odtues,

[ tzsr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schloss Advertising Agency, 1220 Huron Rd., Cleveland rs,
Ohio.

BORN: May 15, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Shaker Heights High School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B, 1936.

MarriED: Esther Healy Morley, Dec. 22, 1938, Cleveland, Ohio. cHiLprEN: John
Morley, Nov. 14, 1941; Kathryn Morley, Aug. 30, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Miller Schloss, °33.

occupation: Management and marketing consultant.

OFFICES HELD: General sales manager, 1952-58, treasurer, 1958-60, Preformed
Line Products Company; president, Unicarian Layman’s League, First
Unitarian Church, 1954; director, American Red Cross, Cleveland, Ohio,
1954-55; Fair Share Chairman, United Appeal, 1957-60, member, board of
trustees, Goodrich Social Settlements, 1960, Polyclinic Hospital, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Cleveland Skating Club; Cleveland
Chamber of Commerce; Cleveland Treasurer’s Club; American Manage-
ment Association; Corporate Gift Solicitations, Northeast Yacht Club;
Sales Executives Club; Cleveland Society of Security Analysts, Citizen’s
League; United Appeal; Fair Share Study Group, First Unitarian Church.

LOOKING backward over the past twenty-five years, I find that
my professional life has been marked by several plateaus. In each in-
stance, J have started a new job, worked hard to learn it thoroughly,
arrived at the point where I had it pretty well mastered, then found
that I was not satisfied simply to sit still, but needed a new challenge
to stir my enthusiasm.

In 1936 I started at the bottom in industry. From production
trainee to purchasing director, to sales manager, to treasurer, I have
had a well-rounded career in business. While I have worked within
only two corporate structures during this period, my experience
has been widely diversified. With that background I determined,
last August, to step on to a new plateau, where my comprehensive
management background could be applied to more dynamic situa-
tions.

I am now working in marketing and management consultation, as
a member of the Schloss Advertising Agency, in Cleveland...
keeping an eye open for opportunities in corporate ownership and
corporate management, with equity possibilities.

After graduating from Harvard, I took a summer job with the
Electric Vacuum Cleaner Company, Incorporated, in Cleveland. I
had intended to return to business school, but the management
asked me to remain, indicating that diversified experience within
their organization would serve me well. Before the war I worked
jn several departments: production, methods, advertising and pur-

[1252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pasbiiate

chasing. I supplemented this with several vears of peatcs
courses in business administration.

In 1942 I joined the Navy, trained at Harvard, and spent cee
years as an officer in the Navy Guided Misile program. Tbea f
was sent to the air station at Guantanamo Bav » Cuba, where af wars
end, I was in command of a couple of islands in the Bahamas bet
lowing the war I returned to my old company, which had now been
acquired by General Electric Company. I became, succesuvels,
purchasing agent and manager of purchasing and preshitend bs
1951 I turned down a substantial promotion which would have
uprooted my family, so I decided to Icave G.F.

I then joined Preformed Line Products Company, a vous cons:
pany struggling for existence in a ficld dominated by the ‘ary

roducer of aluminum. The company had been operated bs “he
largest producer of aluminum. The company had been eperatest
by the president (and principal stockholder), a general manacet
and an engineer. My first assignment was to build an organisation.
A chart was simple — implementing it, more difficult. Undertakirs
the establishment of sales and marketing department. EP becarme yon
eral manager, which position I held until mid-tyss. Dhsriee chase
period our sales grew from a half million to seven mucin dears
annually; the company gained recognition as “tops” an the power
line hardware field. In a move to div enifv manarement cuperiens€,
I was elected treasurer in 1958. I held that posigen unod bres coed
in August, 1960.

Throughout the past twenty-five vears To have gained real en
joyment through increasing activities in church am! ena attics
I have been organizer and chairman of adule education grouse asd
president of our church men's club. I directed Red Crane ae tivst
in a suburb in which I resided, and was chairman of qhactalve asf
church fund-raising campaigns. Tam now serving en the beasts
of a hospital and a group of neighborhood centers

Neither tennis elbow nor spinal surgery has kheptme fresa 6

or squash very long, although the spine operanen thie year Jf

i a ec

ground me from sailing. I sall own my “Paghenens
and hope to return to pleasure sailing and perhaps even fae beet

summer.

a8

_ @

[ 1253]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD FREDERICK SCHMIDT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: % Evelyn Vosburgh, Box 54, Midland, Mich.

DAVID WHITNEY SCHOONMAKER

    

HOME Appress: Cushing Street, Ashburnham, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Cushing Academy, Ashburnham, Mass.
BORN: Oct. 11, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.
Marriep: Anne Palmer, Aug. 28, 1937, Chippewa Falls, Wis. cripren: Reta,

Sept. 11, 1938 (#. Richard King, July 25, 1959); Jean, Nov. 11, 19415

Sally, Oct. 19, 1944.
occuPATION: Public relations, Cushing Academy.
OFFICES HELD: Director, First National Bank, Gardner, Mass., since 1946; com-

missioner, Trust Funds, Ashburnham, 1946-48; member, board of invest-
ment, Gardner Savings Bank, since 1950, chairman, Finance Committee,

1948-51, selectman, 1951-57, Ashburnham, Mass.

I CAN only hope that the next twenty-five years will be as

[ 1254 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interesting and enjoyable as the last. We have a lovely bere a>}

many friends in Ashburnham and surrounding Communities bees

sailing at West Falmouth in the summer, to purceruys area b ese
home and skiung in the winter, we have enjoyed farnsiy bte te tx
fullest.

After five years in the Navy on DEVS. and havin wen te
antic from north to south, the Mediterrancan and the Baas «
om Hollandia on up, we settled back in’ Ashturntian Nese
ymnptly became president of the P.T.A. and started a hee haw’:
gram. I went into town politics and became a seleutir uy Ver.
s living in a small town is “out of the rat rage” Vit a peers
‘bing life just cannot be found. For the benctit of wut sshuceasy
Is Jet me say, the only real ditference is that we alo met tav¢
muting problem.
956 I started hguidating W. F. Whitney Compuwyengtae oy
» I think this was the wisest decision of my hte. OOb Yt +
9 much family, unions and the general cooneras of po -

business made this necessary. It was lomo of fey youn.
of your own manufacturing business but taped yo

the proceeds has proved to be the wisest queers.

*
*

andle the public relations and fund-raniss for Gyo
nd just could not ask for a more enjovalts us pe.

*

A small plastic business and realestate ataa ho.

»s second grade at Walpole, while Da ae) :
ness School. Jean is a gung-ho soho
Zolorado and Sally has just been elected
at Cushing.

14

Sea,
z-
. -
N
OT ean tenes gs

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HERMAN ELBERT SCHROEDER

 

HOME Appress: R.D, 2, Parkerville Road, Kennett Square, Pa.

OFFICE AppREss: E, 1. duPont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington 98, Del.

BoRN: July 6, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB, summa cum laude, 1936; A.M,
1937; PH.D., 1939.

MarriED: Charlotte Elizabeth Barnes, June 13, 1938, Hillsboro Center, N.H.
CHILDREN: Nancy Carolyn, Jan. 25, 1940; Edward Loring, Jan. 1, 1942;
Peter Henry, Nov. 21, 1944; Martha Louise, April 20, 1948.

occupation: Director of pioneering research and assistant director of research,
Elastomer Chemicals Department, E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Chapter, Alpha Chi Sigma Chemical Fra-
ternity, 1936-37; councilor, Delaware Section, American Chemical Society,
1949-52; school director, Chester County, 1951-57; member, General Re-
search Advisory Committee, Textile Research Institute, 1952-62; vice-
president, 1955-56, president, 1956-57, Association of Harvard Chemists,
vice-president, Harvard Club of Delaware, 1957-61.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Chi Sigma; American Chemical Society;
American Association for the Advancement of Science; Faraday Society,
Association of Textile Chemists; Harvard Club of Delaware; duPont
Country Club; American Rose Society; Wilderness Society; Audubon
Society; Wilmington Chess Club; Society of Chemical Industry.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers, largely in fields of organic and_ physical
chemistry, in Journal of American Chemical Society, Proceedings of the
Faraday Society, Plastika, Textile Research Journal; Chemical and Engi-
neering News, Proceedings of the Perkin Centennial, American Dyestuff
Reporter, etc.; about forty patents in the United States, with various co-
inventors.

CHANGE came quickly after June, 1936. In three weeks I was
engulfed by the intensive (fifteen hours per day) pursuit of a Ph.D.,
under one of Harvard’s finest teachers, Professor FE. P. Kohler. The
break from the undergraduate’s conscientious assimilation and re-

[ 1256]

SERS ACER ATER I POLE LOE, ATTRA EY AT

2° ET FRR Te FR OER ct ES NI RTO <A AER

IRE ONO LR EET RL RTE De

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
hashing of old facts and ideas to the creative world of arent
research was breathtaking. The search for the new has remained
my consuming interest.

The degree work completed in June, 1938, and with a brand.
new wife and a zeal to create new chemical marvels for an caver
world, I descended on the central research department of duPont, in
Wilmington, Delaware. We found Wilmington a stimulating com.
munity, with thousands of highly educated people from univeruties
all over the world. Friends to share our interests and hobbies were
so easy to find that the numbers of each grew out of control As
we acquired our family, we moved from city to suburbs and finally
to the lovely Pennsylvania countryside, at the edce of the Branly .
wine valley.

A household with four youngsters is fun, but provides no relava-
tion! We worked our way through the usual diveruons confu:
sions and problems, home, school, community and profesional
activities. Although our interests are w ell scattered — munic, eal
painting, crafts, horses, cars, guns, gardening and photography —
they form a coherent whole. Vacations together give us the nehly
enjoyed chance to pursue them. We prefer remote places where
nature is unspoiled and people scarce. Our favorite is the western
wilderness with its animals, trees and flowers, and the epportunity
for hiking, climbing, fishing and exploring.

As the young people mature, the pace quickens. Nancy a an
honors candidate in anthropology, at Radclitfe (62), giving Heety
and me a chance to relive our life in Cambridge through eur

daughter’s keen appreciation of the educational and cultural opper-
tunities. Ned, an aviation cadet in the Marine Corp, ts in ther
scientific education program, interested in clectromes Pete, our
extrovert, is in Kimball Union Academy (63) enjoy Ing sa hol hfe,
particularly as an enthusiastic participant in sports Martha, juse
starting to become a young lady, hopes to become the with gust
in the family at Radcliffe. Betty and IT rush and labor and gasp

In my professional life the theme is research; exploration and the
creation of new concepts and products. It has been hvened by a
number of positions in the research acuvitics of three of our de-
partments. More important by far, it has given me a chance beth
to explore by myself and also to lead others on the Craik theo’ @
delicious variety of chemical ficlds: new routes to ny hon bhe pels.
mers, unusual chemical building blocks, diferent wave of arts ting
colors to fibers. With the war came the critical rubber prcred te ene

{1257 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

In my case, this soon turned to a fascinating and successful search
for adhesives which would permit the efficient use of nylon cord
in fifty-six-inch bomber tires and the chance to carry that one
through from a thought to a final tortured tire which withstood
over one hundred landings instead of the usual three. In rapid suc-
cession then — color photography, dyes, pigments, and textile chem-
icals. The next great challenge lay in the then undyeable nature
of our new “miracle fibers,” dacron and orlon. Here I enjoyed the
opportunity of leading the team which established the critical
principles, translated them into practical dyeing methods, and then
sought for and found the new colored structures which give the
results you now see most anywhere. That done, we moved further
into the chemistry of organic fluorine compounds searching for
exceptionally stable plastics and rubbers. The Jatest chapters of
the tale are not yet ready.

Actually, the joys of research are found not so much in the con-
quering of specific objectives like the above, but rather in the
satisfactions of: unsnarling an involved scientific problem; making
an unexpected discovery of a new reaction — or even better, pre-
dicting one!, or piecing together a consistent theoretical picture
from an assortment of incoherent data. For me, this intellectual
exploration of the unknown offers excitement and challenge which
cannot be equalled.

Religious convictions — Presbyterian; political convictions —
moderate Republican since 1936, becoming less moderate.

CHARLES MORTON SCOTT

 

HOME appress: 1017 Groveland Drive, Bluefield, W. Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Luke’s Hospital, 1600 Bland St, Bluefield, W. Va.

[ 1258]

PN AIEEE OMEN RIOD FOS OTT TES” SOE END TOMTOM MRT ABM AC 2 TIE ETT IHN PHP TT

TET RS eaten RE,

Pie PRR te artwabe a

5 gt 9 a pet aR mR ICL

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Feb. 3, 1914, Bluefield, W. Va.

PREPARED AT: McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936, Mp. (Medeal Coll of
Virginia), 1940.

MARRIED: Frances Elizabeth Walker, June 27, 1946, Blucfichd, W. Val cout nnes
Janet Elizabeth, Feb. 17, 1948, Charles Mathew, April 7, tay, Aline
Walker, Nov. 29, 1952; William Wade Walker, June 18, t¢¢¢,

occuPATION: General surgeon; president and owner, St. Luke's Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: President, St. Luke’s Hospital, since 1945, Associated Hospitals
and Surgical Service, since 1945; Mont Reid Surgical Society, tusa, Meever
County Medical Society, 1954, West Virginia Chapter, Amencan College
of Surgeons, 1956, B.V.D. Club, since 1956, Memorial School PTA, ro<4,
Memorial School Educational Foundation, since 1958, director, Parse
National Bank, Bluefield, West Virginia, since 1955, Mercer County
Bank, Princeton, West Virginia, since 1958, Blueficld Country Club, nye,
chairman, Medicare Committee, West Virginia Medical Awocuton, une
1956.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate),; American Roaed of
Medical Examiners (diplomate),; Mercer County Medical Society, Wee
Virginia and American Medical Associations, American College of Sar-
geons (fellow); Southern Surgeons Club, Mont Reid Surgical Sawiety,
West Virginia Chapter, American College of Surgeons (council, Une-
versity Club of Bluefield, Bluefield Country Club, Bluctcld Chamber orf
Commerce.

PUBLICATIONS: “Spontaneous Ventral Hernia,” Surgery, St. Lous, Vol. 14, No
6, Pgs. 947-949, December, 1944; “Endometriosis,” American Journal of
Surgery, Vol. 91, May, 1956; “The Clinical Incidence of Congenital Uter.
ine Anomalies,” American Journal of Surgery, Vol. 93. No. §, Pes Sse

841, May, 1957.

MY twenty-five years since leaving college have been devoted to
medicine. Finishing the Medical College of Virginia in tggay I
spent a very happy and profitable year at Strong, Memorial [los
pital, Rochester, New York, as a straight medical intern, From
there I entered the Surgical School at the Univ enmity of Cinginnat
and spent three years at the Cincinnati General Hospital. One vear
of this time was spent at the University of California Hospital, tn San
Francisco, on an exchange fellowship, and was a wonderful exper:
ence.

In 1944 I entered the Army as a surgeon in the issth Pvacuatiend
Hospital, which ultimately operated in the arca of the Rose Pia kee
Later I was commanding officer of several hospitals for recovered

Allied military personnel, often having Russian, French, Polish ant
Czech personnel. Our common language was German and pe
southern accent in that language Was just as comteal there as i
was in college, when I was the despair of the German profesor

[ 1259]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

At the end of the war I returned to the United States by way of
the Tasker Howard Bliss and Boston never looked better than when
we landed. By November, 1945, I was discharged from active duty
and returned to Bluefield, West Virginia. Since that time I have
been busy running my own ninety-bed general hospital and doing
surgery.

In spite of the varied medical experience I had in training, I
found myself fairly unprepared for the business aspects of running
a hospital. Nevertheless, the hospital, organized for profit, has
operated in the black and, while frustrating at times, is a challenging
situation. Probably my greatest good luck was my marriage to
Frances FE. Walker (Wheaton, 1945), in June 1946. Not only has
she been able cheerfully and courageously to put up with the prob-
lems of living with a general surgeon in a small community, but
she has also been a trusted adviser in business affairs. We have four
children, two boys and two girls, and have a good time trying to
keep up with them.

In 1950, my mother fell in Ziirich, Switzerland, and was uncon-
scious for about three weeks. I flew over and spent about a month
there during her convalescence. While there, I ran into Howie Ro-
man at the U.S. Consulate, which makes me think ’36ers are easier to
find in Europe than in West Virginia. Having four children in the
West Virginia schools has made me interested in education, and
] have been president of the PTA. Presently, I am trying to make
a foundation, which I organized, more influential in our county.
This is designed to send teachers in our school to various courses,
in hopes that it will stimulate improvement in teaching methods,
curriculum, etc., in primary schools. I have the very strong impres-
sion that most of our problems begin here, because most of the
classes are geared to the average, are non-inspirational, and the
children soon find that they will not be called upon to show that
they have prepared their lessons. Lack of criteria as to material
covered frequently passes the whole class to the next grade, when
they have covered much less than the prescribed course in the
previous grade.

I am a director in a bank and have found banking stimulating.
Several years ago a group of us bought a bank, recapitalized it and
this has provided a pleasant interlude in my activities. Most of my
travels are to medical meetings, where I get a chance to see my
friends from various parts of the country. Last summer we took
our four children West, Disneyland being our prime objective. We

[ 1260 ]

;
|
|
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

saw most of the parks, lots of the country and hadi a word rtd
time.

With regard to medicine, I must say that it has been hind to toe
and mine. Sometimes the burden of practice in a small communes
is great because your patients are your friends. Often the diagnesss
treatment and prognosis makes one wish that others more unpery
ally involved were responsible. I would like to spend my vacations
at home with my friends and family; however, the nature of my
practice denies this. I am thrilled about the future prospeyts of
surgery which are unfolding daily; however, TP cannot help beat
wonder, with our present method of training surgeony whe as
the future will do the hemorrhoids, the appendices, the felony Ure
abscesses and the many minor woes which afflict humanity.

With Harvard glowing in the forge and her stccl soon to be
tempered in the White House and the blade judyed by the work
I hope that the Class of 1936, soon to reach its intellectual and
influential majority, will use its great power to maintain such ord.
nary human values as the right to work, the nght to wortup as one
pleases, and the right to choose one’s own physician and, with God's
help, the right to shape one’s own destiny.

We hope to make the Twenty- -fifth in June and wall be bookie

forward to seeing classmates, wives and children.

CLEMENT SCOTT, JR.

 

MAILING appress: American Hospital, Meshed, Iran.

[ 1261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RUSSELL GORDON SCOTT, JR.

 

HOME AbpRESS: 60 Oriole Ave., Providence 6, R.I.

OFFICE AppREss: Tillinghast, Collins & Tanner, 15 Westminster St., Providence,
RI.

BorN: April 26, 1914, Syracuse, N.Y.

prepared AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B. 1939.

MARRIED: Patricia Champlin, Jan. 3, 1948, Peace Dale, R.I.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

A BRIEF period of law practice in Providence right after law
school was enough to bring me back after the draft and four years
of military service had exposed me to most of the Southwest Pacific
theatre from Australia to Japan. I call it military service although
it consisted of trying to keep that theatre supplied with quarter-
master clothing and equipment including the necessaries for the
WACS and nurses.

Since then I have engaged in a rewarding (intellectually that is)
general law practice although we spend a good portion of each year
at the south shore of Rhode Island, an area lovingly known as
“South Country.” It is there that I found my native wife on the
beach and that we first lived year round enjoying the sailing, fishing,
swimming, dog-raising and hunting. It is an easy hour’s commute
on the main line so long as the New Haven is able to keep from
folding up. However, my wife’s pursuit of higher knowledge has
brought us to the city for the winter months. We have been kept
from sliding into too provincial an existence by the proximity of
New York City and some trips elsewhere including a fairly lengthy
European sojourn.

Tam looking forward to next June and our Twenty-fifth at Cam-
bridge which should, if all goes well, just follow my wife’s receipt

[ 1262 |

POOLE NOTIN IIIT |

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

of her degree in architecture. Perhaps the latter accomplishment
may permit my early retirement.

CHARLES BENJAMIN SEARS

  

HOME ADDRESS: 60 West St., Lenox, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ordnance Dept., General Electric Co, too Plasows Ave, Piers.
field, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 9, 1914, Buffalo, N-Y.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREES: $.B. (Univ. of Buffalo), toi4, tt a iNew
York Univ.), 1954.

MARRIED: Patricia King, Sept. 2, 1949, San Francisco, Calif, cauinmas Vary
Abigail, Aug. 1, 1953; Marantha Miles, April 6, 1955.

occupPaTIONn: Sales manager, manufacturing, Polaris fire control.

OFFICES HELD: Business manager, Hamilton College, Clinton, NY. moet ¢.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Alpha Kappa Psi (business), Phe Deelea Bis
(aw); Institute of Radio Engineers, New York State Bar Aen sere,
Naval Reserve Association; Belle Haven Country Club, Alevarnlroa Vr
ginia.

MY Harvard experience was cut short, in consequence of the un

timely death of my father, in September, 1934. The business «hee!

at the University of Buffalo then graciously accepted Ine 44 2 Ger

muter, while I stayed at home in Buffalo. At the time, the plan ap

peared to be reasonable compromise with my carher area of

attending the Harvard Business School, after comple try prey yer be

graduate program at the Engineering School. In retrenpect, [ane

times wish that I might, instead, have found the wav back te Care

bridge. .

After graduation in 1936, from the University of Butfalea es
first employment was by the Buffalo Forge Company. Isonyre l

[ 1263]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CLYDE LEE ALDEN SEARS, JR.

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3510 Hawthorn, Casper, Wyo.

OFFICE appress: Room 10-11, Midwest Bldg., Casper, Wyo.

porn: Nov. 15, 1912, Quincy, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Tilton School, Tilton, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

maarigep: Lucy Blackman, Aug. 3, 1940, Navasota, Texas. CHILDREN: Elizabeth
Anne, Sept. 21, 1942; Jane, March 2, 1946.

occupaTion: Building contractor, self-employed.

MEMBER OF: Men's luncheon clubs, country clubs,

IN college I had some background in the field of chemistry. My
first year out of school was spent with the executive training pro-
gram of a major oil company. It soon became apparent that I was
too much of a rugged individualist to be successful in any situation
but that of the self-employed. My second year out of school I en-
tered the building business in Tulsa, Oklahoma. With the exception
of three years spent with the Aviation Engineers, I have followed
this course. We have run the gamut from housing up through heavy
construction and back again. The house building end of the con-
struction business has continued to hold the most satisfaction, frus-
tration and fascination for me. This business has taken us to many
parts of the country, with our moves seeming farther north and
west each time. At present, we have operations in both Colorado
and Wyoming.

Early in life —in the days of open cockpits, helmets and goggles
—I became interested in aviation. I have tried, unsuccessfully I
might say, off and on, to curb this appetite, In the last few years
our business has warranted an airplane and we have been able to
put a hobby to very practical use. It has made a very rewarding
addition to our way of life. Fortunately, my wife and two daugh-

[ 1266 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
ters enjoy flying as much as I do. This has furthered a chne fanuly
relationship and helped to feed the wanderlust and curtis in-

herent in all of us.
I can look back over the last twenty-five years with very herle
regret and some small degree of satisfaction, and ahead with a yreat

deal of anticipation.

RODERICK HAMILTON SEARS

recente semen error ron carat: REN et Sk

  

HOME aApprEss: 615 Great Springs Rd., Bryn Mawr, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Scott Paper Co., Chester, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 29, 1912, Monterey, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Jacob Tome Institute, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.
marriED: Barbara Tufts Barnes, May 21, 1938 Washington, DCL care

Barbara Hamilton, Feb. 28, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Hume Sears, °36.
occupation: Director of procurement, Scott Paper Company, paper mara.

facturers.
MEMBER OF: Merion Golf Club, Ardmore, Pa; Anny-Navy Country Cheb,

Arlington, Va.

IMMEDIATELY after graduating in mid-term 1934 PE reported te
work at Scott Paper Company, Chester, Pennsylvania. Mv first pena:
tion was clerk, credit department. Since then I have been con-
tinuously employed by the same firm, progressing to industrial ales:
man, district sales manager, credit manager, asitant cashice, plane
superintendent and acting plant manager, Hoboken, New Jeres,
plant, and successively manager of plants in Glens Fally New Verk.
Marinette, Wisconsin, and Fort Edward, New York. In tgis ft
became director of procurement of Scott Paper Company the pes

tion I currently occupy. During these twenty-five veary Sone has

[ 1267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

srown from a business of $10,000,000 annual sales to over §300,000,-
ooo, and I have happily grown with my company.

I was married in 1938 and have one daughter born in 1943. Mrs.
Sears is a 1935 graduate of Wellesley and daughter Barbara is a
senior at the Baldwin School in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.

1 activated my army commission in 1940 and was on active duty
in the European Theatre for most of my service until 1945. I saw
action in England, North Africa, Italy and Southern France. I re-
ceived the Legion of Merit, some six battle stars and one invasion
arrowhead, and left active duty in 1945, a lieutenant colonel of
Ordnance. Until 1956 1 was active in Army Reserve affairs.

Our major hobby is golf, which my wife and I play enthusiasti-

cally, and my secondary hobby is flying a Cessna 182 airplane, a
pastime I took up in 1957.

SIMMON JOSEPH SEDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 923 Meetinghouse Rd., Jenkintown, Pa.

oFFice appress: Craftex Mills, Inc. of Pennsylvania, 1806 E. Venango St, Phila-
delphia 34, Pa.

BoRN: Oct. 3, 1915, Webster, Mass,

PREPARED aT: Maynard High School, Maynard, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1936; LL.B. 1939.

MARRIED: Jean Blum, June 2, 1945, Salt Lake City, Utah. critpren: Susan, July
17, 1946; Jennifer and Jeffrey (twins), Sept. x, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert James Seder, ‘39.

occupATION: Treasurer, director, general manager, Craftex Mills, Inc. of Penn-

sylvania, manufacturers of upholstery, automotive and aircraft fabrics.
oFFIcEs HELD: Treasurer, Textile Looms, Inc., Moss Rose

Manufacturing Com-
pany; member, board of trustees, Oak Lane Day School.
MEMBER OF: Masons; Philmont Country Club,

[ 1268 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

' r b.
[FIND little to add to my previous report, My children sre thie
but do not sccm to have aged as rapidly as bo Pan well pea

engaged in the management of a growing buunes amb have at

rie
Pt
tinued non-participating interest in public affairs

PHILIP GERARD SELLEW

 

HOME ADDRESS: 197 Bacon St., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Naval Shipyard, Boston, Mla.

Born: April 11, 1915, Natick, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Natick High School, Natick, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936,

MaRRIED: Sarah Anne MacDonald, June 28 tgqt, Summerville, Maw eons oee
John Francis, May 12, 19435; Ann Mi, May to. cosa, Thewnan PB. Meee
21, 1954.

occupation: Shipbuilding; naval architect, deputy chicf dew eng mese,
oFFices HELD: Chairman, Board of Appeals, Nanck, Maw.

MEMBER OF: Society of Naval Architects and Manne F ogincers.

STARTED my post-college career in my chesen fick! of coil eng.
neering. During World War I, 1 somchow became g nawal are hiteet
and have stayed with this line of endcavor into our prevent towle
age.

My roots are firmly planted in my home town of Nach, Meee.
chusetts, where 1 have been active in civic affairs fot many vesre
My chief hobby secms to be maintaining and mmprosing the heane
which 1 built ten years ago, However, | do find nine for an oses
sional game of golf.

[ 1240 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

WILLIAM SEREQUE

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 4132 Janward Drive, Cincinnati 11, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 266 W, Mitchell Ave., Cincinnati 32, Ohio.

BorN: March 25, 1913, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.
marrieD: Ellen Draughon, Sept. 12, 1938, Seabrook, N.H. cxitpren: Peter

Arnold, May 16, 1942; William Christopher, Feb. 3, 1944.
HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Forsyth Sereque, ’26.
occupaTION: Retail food distribution; accounting supervisor.
MEMBER OF: National Office Management Association,

THE years since my short sojourn at Harvard have rapidly slipped

by, and like most of my colleagues I find myself heavier, somewhat
wiser, and more interested in what my children will do in the next
few years than in what I have done in the last twenty-five.

I had hoped for an operatic career and in 1936 was able to obtain

a scholarship which enabled me to study with Lambert Murphy,
one of Harvard’s most illustrious graduates, who at one time was a
member of the Metropolitan Opera Association and later was inter-
nationally famous as a concert and oratorio singer. Marriage and
the desire for economic security, however, led me to accept a staff
announcing job at WHDH in Boston, and I soon found myself re-
linquishing the scholarship to move to Virginia and a position with
radio station WTAR in Norfolk. Three years in this glamorous but
“zany” industry left me entirely disillusioned with “show business,”
and after a year or two of night courses at the College of William
and Mary, I left radio broadcasting for the more prosaic world of
food retailing and have been with Colonial Stores, a large retail
food chain, ever since in various accounting or statistical assign-

ments.

[ 1270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Music, however, has remained IMportant tome, amd bbase beac
bass soloist in several large churches in Norfolk, Varsseia ant ts.

By

lumbus and Cincinnati, Ohio. For two scasons before kav: Vey
ginia, I was soloist in a community presentauoen of Plindel vo Mt. +
siah,” sponsored by the Music Department of the College ot Wa

and Mary, Norfolk Division. I have also suny the baw wile reeeeas
Norfolk’s first presentation of Verdi's “Requicm Mas” Bact’s * Pie
sion According to St. Matthew,” and Bach's “Pasion Vouurdins os
St. John,” among many others. In Columbus Twas sdons ote
Columbus Opera Club and the Bexley Methadise Church The
climate of Cincinnati, however, has aggravated an allergic cenmditn en,
and I have not as yet been able to do very much sale work here.

My elder son, Pete, is a freshman at Ohio Univ crsity, plays ales
in the orchestra, and plans to become a phy sICIAN, My VOUtce es wet
has also inherited his father’s love of music and plans to cnter Pabavs
University School of Music in 1962 with a major in clarinet. Mo
wife is the “Joiner” in the family. At present, she ts chairrean of t«
local branch AAUW Literary and Drama Group, chairian of Use
Associate Membership Group of the New Neighbor's Peague, and ns
always ready to solicit house-to-house for worthy thanitalile orcas
zations.

Having lived in the North as well as the South, | dept retie ay
ance between the northern Democrats and the southern Dernwa rots
and hope that the two-party system will be adopted im the Nour
before many more national elections are held. Pam concerned with
secondary education and believe that placement should be toate bers y
according to ability. This has been attempted in Cineinati ona
small scale and is very successful. If this system were aleoper dint
South, I believe that integration problems would soon vanity, Vs !
with most thinking people, I do not agree that wheels ithe Se

!

should be closed in an effort to evade comphance asiths the fsa os
pry fon gy

interpreted by the Supreme Court and any sure thie eve
through education this problem will be cradhcated,

[1270]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

IRVIN GEORGE SHAFFER

 

HOME ApprEss: 1609 Alsace Rd., Reading, Pa.

OFFICE ADRESS: Community General Hospital, 135 N. Sixth St., Reading, Pa,

BorN: August 23, 1914, Canton, Ohio.

prepareD AT: Reading Senior High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. ”agna cum laude, 1936; mp.
(Jefferson Medical Coll.), 1940.

MARRIED: Beatrice M. Mersey, June 18, 1939, New York, N.Y. cumpren: Neal
David, Jan. 13, 1942; Eugene Michael, Sept. 6, 1947; Daniel Jay, March
28, 1949.

occupation: Physician; anesthesiologist, chief of Department of Anesthesia,
Community General Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: President of hospital staff, 1952; vice-president, Tuberculosis &
Health Society, 1957-60; president, Reading Jewish Community Center,
1960; member, board of directors, Kesher Zion Synagogue, Americans for
the Competitive Enterprise System, Berkleigh Country Club, Berks County
Golf Association.

MEMBER OF: Berks County Medical Society; Pennsylvania Medical Society;
American Nfedical Society; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and American
Anesthesiology Societies, Reading Lodge, No. sqgF and A.M.A.A.S.R.,
Valley of Reading, 32°; Rajah Temple; A.A.O.N.M.S.;, Berkleigh Country

Club.

publications: “Localization of the Respiratory Center after R. F. Picts,”
Connecticut Medical Journal, 1947.

BY the time that graduation had rolled around in June, 1936, I had
met and was engaged to the girl who became my wife some three
years later. Those three years in medical school were busy ones, if
not always happy. Those were years of austerity, N.Y.A. job in
bacteriology laboratory, steward at the fraternity house to help
defray expenses, and summer jobs. You looked upon a vacation as an
opportunity to earn some money, not just as a license to play. How
this has changed in the intervening years, and now that I am a parent.

[ 1272 ]

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Upon graduation from medical school, I interned at the Jews.
Hospital of Brooklyn. After two years, rotating through the wares
medical and surgical specialities, I decided upon anesthesia as a belt
of specialization. Accordingly, I continued my medical trains as
a resident in anesthesiology, at the New York Medieal Cotese,
Flower and Fifth Avenue Hospital. This brings us up to tagt. ant
the Army. Our first born, Neal, was eighteen months youny when
we piled our belongings into our 1936 Ply mouth ( purchased scoond.
hand for $400) and headed for my first army post. the Medical De-
partment Replacement Pool, La Garde General Hospital, New Or-
leans, Louisiana. I was in the Pool only two weeks when [was trans-
ferred to the staff of La Garde because of the need for an ancs-
thesiologist. This proved to be the beginning of my asiynments i
anesthesia while in the service, so that I did have a Wonderful oppur:
tunity to practice and grow in my specialty. I stayed at La Garste
for a year, learned something about the Army, so that when Tee:
ceived orders to join the 168th General Hospital which was forms
for overseas movement, I didn’t feel green. My wife and vounwster

ot themselves settled in New Haven, Connecticut, my wife's hotre
town, and I proceeded to spend the next year and a half getting inte
the E.T.O and doing my bit for our G.I.’s. Mose of my time i
Europe was spent in France. Such places as Carentan, St. Mer
l’Fglise, St. L6, Metz, Nancy and Marseilles tend to trace eur gen,
eral whereabouts first as the 168th General Hospital, and then as the
227th General Hospital, to which I] was transferred after V-P Day.
We were slated to go to the Pacific, but got only as far av Arles
when the war ended in the Pacific, and our outfit took over from
the Mt. Sinai Group in Marseilles. I got back to the States my rag
and was separated from the service in June of that year.

Because my wife had succeeded in renting a decent apartment vy
New Haven, I had an incentive to stay there and practise anesthe
siology, when an opening presented itself at St. Raphacl’s Ph;
Our second son, Eugene (who is at this moment practhuns on y :
flute while I try to collect a few thoughts), was born at Se kK tphacie
in September, 1947. By the time 'Gene was born Phad already ea:
arrangements to take on the position as Chief of anesthesokecy at
the Community General Hospital in Reading, Pennsviaca VI
though I was born in Ohio, Reading has been | my heme teu a. 6

;*

the age of nine months, so that the return meant bere geo. |
with family after an interval that really went back te the ware?
college in 1932. By 1949, Our third) son, Daniel hadroate to, a

[1273 ]

eel

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

pearance, and as of this writing, it looks as though that will be it
as far as any future Harvardians are concerned.

With the passing of years, I’ve put on just a few pounds, but have
managed to keep my golf handicap down to eight. The children
have continued to grow and blossom into young men of charm and
promise. I had hoped that my eldest son, Neal, would go to Harvard,
but such was not to be. While doing his preparatory work at
George School, he was found to have artistic talent, so we now find
him at the Stella Elkins Tyler School of Fine Arts of Temple Uni-
versity, in his sophomore year. He talks of doing graduate work
at Harvard or (perish forbid) Yale. The two younger boys talk of
being doctors, but who knows? Time has been good to us. We've
enjoyed good health for the most part, and even the uncertainties of
the world situation, the status of the stock market, and the forth-
coming political elections cannot tarnish the full-blooded enthusiasm
of three boys in scouting, athletics, theatre and music. Here’s hop-
ing that we have the opportunity, at our 25th Reunion, to see and
share some happy moments with some of the fellows with whom
I shared so much from 1932 to 1936. See you in Cambridge in June.

ROBERT RUBIN SHAPIRO

 

HOME Appress: Little’s Point, Swampscott, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 68 Ocean St., Lynn, Mass,

sorn: Nov. 22, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1936; M.D. 1940.

Marriep: Edna Newman, Sept. 25, 1935, New Hampshire. cuitoren: Joan
Barbara, April 2, 1937 (mm, Charles Edward Johnson, Jr, January, 1957)5
Elizabeth Ann, Dec. 8, 1943; Robert Newman, June 18, 1950. GRANDCHILD:
Charles Edward Johnson, 3d, Nov. 19, 1957,

{ 1274]

_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccUPATION: Surgeon,

OFFICES HELD: Currently, associate chicf of surgery, Lovin Phra, U race
Hospital, Lynn, Mass.; consultant in surgery, North Shore Boleed Pheer ad,
Salem, Mass., Mary Alley Hospital, Marblehead, Mass,

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery; Amerwan College of Sirgeres,
American Medical Association, Massachuscers Meda al Ssawey, foams

Surgical Society.

MY Harvard career began auspiciously with a “bhad date.” She
had just matriculated at Radcliffe and instantly (she has ume
claimed) decided on her field of concentration — me. ba aute uf
valiant attempts to surface for air, I was “spurlos versenke.” Lawedd
hog-tied and married in our senior year. While [ performed by paps
ysectomies and pancreatectomies on rats for my thesy she nursed
them and was rewarded with a magna in a ditfcrent tchh Phe
Radcliffe 1936 “class baby” was produced in gq? and awarded a
sterling cup as evidence. (Is there a Harvard counterpart, of cary
we lay claim to this prize also? )

The next twelve years at Harvard Medical School and) ia pest:
graduate training flew (?) by and left me under the acyes of nuinee-
ology and provincialism. What fate deereed that 1 speml over
half my life bounded by one city block — Avenue Foun Pasteur,
Longwood Avenue and Brookline Avenuc? Plow strange that the
homes J lived in were numbered 310, 34, 39. 35, OF MY etheas pry
and 31; or that the house we are in the process of tenavating was
reduced from 13 bedrooms to 3!

If it were not for my offspring, sitting in my backyard would
have doubled the size of my gluteus maxims. Lreached Verse
only because my elder daughter went to Benmngton, Theme de
strayed, and although she worked for the Harvard bund, she mae.
ried a “Yaleman” but Ieft the endowment. By the tune thas Reject
is in print, she will have made us grandparents for the wend too

However, it is my son who has made me travel farthes Unites
his expert guidance, I breathlessly scaled the Sean af Daberts,
photographed and almost repaired the bell in Paste pemberwae PbO!
explored Mount Vernon and surv eved the Pentagon Pbstory asd
philately, numismatology and astronomy, ichths ology ard precise el
ogy have been his hobbies when he can be torn as ay freasy tpecets
(and related statistical studies). Ves, he has his eve en Carn bectvx
In 1968, Iet Cambridge reciprocate. | .

The wheel has turned and the cycle haw started aca Atos

several fruitful years at Winsor and a summer ia | Ee ent we

[1275 ]

anemones

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ond daughter has just been admitted to Radcliffe (December, 1960),
on the early decision plan. That plan is the greatest six months’
reprieve ever designed for parents of applicants to the sister col-
leges. Perhaps she, too, will matriculate and choose the proper field.
With current “joint instruction” and a favorable ratio of four to
one, the odds are good.

Recapitulation shows that the last twenty-five years have been
spent still in the pursuit of education. My profession demands an
effort to keep up with the technical advances and literature, but
the limitations of time, telephone and tautology make it almost im-
possible. To expose one’s children to cultural opportunities and
sources, and to pray that they will learn to observe and to think, is
all one can hope. The Fiftieth will give the answers.

+ FERDON SHAW, JR.

 

Born: April 23, 1914, Braintree, Mass, PARENTS: Ferdon Shaw, ’o9, Olive
‘Thompson,

PREPARED aT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.
DIED: May 13, 1934, Boston, Mass,

FERDON SHAW, JR., spent two years with our Class, As a fresh-
man he rowed on the 150-pound Class crew. He was a member of

the Pi Eta Society and was on the dean’s list for excellence in studies.
He was survived by his parents.

[ 1276 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEVERETT SALTONSTALL SEEM

 

HOME ApprEss: Hope Land Plantation, New Iberia, La.

OFFICE ApprEss: Hope Land Planting Co,, Inc, New Iberia, La
BORN: Aug. 23, 1912, Manchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.
MarRiED: Nadileen LeCompte, 1938, New Iberia, La. (divorced tose? Hloerwe

Scruby, Jan. 11, 1946, Palm Beach, Fla. coutnars: Falcon Mitabell OW
9, 1939; Leverett Saltonstall, Dec. 29, 1946, Nancen Camptell Sherk kh.
April 19, 1948; Quincy Adams, 4th, July 4, toyg; Alexander Agewes, te.
12, 1951; Kirby Sheldon, Nov, 7, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Farming, sugar cane, dairy cattle, New Iberia, Pouruarna, carve
groves, Ft. Pierce, Florida.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club, Hamilton, Mass, Seminole Golf Glob, Palen
Beach, Fla.; Sugar Oaks Country Club, New Ubera, [bere Calf end

Country Club.

+ TIMOTHY JOSEPH SHEA, JR.

 

BoRN: Oct, 23, 1913, Syracuse, N.Y. paasste Pumshy Jomo ph Stra Vin pet
Scanlan,

(1277 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B. 19qo.

marriep: Mary Elizabeth Foley, Oct. 10, 1942, Fitchburg, Mass. cHmpren;
Timothy Joseph, 3d, Dec. 29, 1943; Mary Janet, Aug. 22, 1945; another son,

piep: May 8, 1949, Yonkers, N.Y.

AFTER graduation from the Law School, Shea was admitted to

the bar and became an attorney and specialist on tax laws. At the

time of his death, he was associated with the law firm of Cahill,

Gordon, Zachry & Reindel in New Y ork City. He was survived

by his wife and children.

THEODORE HOAGUE SHEAFE

    

HOME abpREsS: 316 Middle Crest Rd., Oswego, Oregon.

OFFICE AppRESS: Hyster Co., Portland, Oregon.

BORN: June 17, 1914, Rye, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRiED: Nancy Ellen Troy, July 14, 1945, Portland, Oregon. cHitprEN: Molly
Anne, Jan. 16, 1947; John Daniell, Nov. 1, 1948; Allison Mary, Nov. 24,
1952; Martha Ellen, Nov. 13, 1953.

occupation: Manufacturing; traffic manager.

MEMBER OF: Portland Industrial Traffic Club; Portland Transportation Club;
Oswego Lake Country Club.

AFTER twenty-five years, fifteen of them spent in Oregon working
for the same company, I feel that Life has been very good to me.
We are a happy family, with four healthy children, comfortably
settled in our third — and perhaps last — house, close to a lake and
golf course. My job continues to be a source of great satisfaction
in that the company is growing and I’m growing with it.

[ 1278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The future may not bring rich rewards, but | await what mas
come with confidence.

DAVID JOSEPH SHEPTIAN, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Nahant Road, Nahant, Mass.

JOHN McCORMICK SHFFSLEY

er Aa aOR PSST IR Te sentence oe ea

situ sil

  

HOME ADDRESS: 3752 Del Alonte, Houston tq, Texan

OFFICE ADDRESS: 320 66th St., Hlouston 14, Texas.

BoRN: Feb. 27, 1914, Johnstown, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Masa

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-193}.

marrRiED: Jean Susan Moore, June a1, toga, Messen Catv, Mewaes srr meee
Heidi Ann, Aug. 7, 1952; Johan MeCormek, Je, bebo ri rari, Want
Moore, June 9, 1956.

OccUPATION: President, Bettis Corporanion and Research Pygeoewnng & sem:
pany.

MEMBER OF: Hlouston Country Club, Bayou Chib, Cotossede € bef

[ 1279 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

THE lack of funds in 1932 reluctantly brought my formal educa-
tion to an abrupt halt, so my place as a full-fledged member of the
Class of 1936 in my mind is rather technical. However, here is my
brief history:

A job of any nature, at the time, became of prime importance, and
work was subsequently obtained on a Wyoming ranch, in a Penn-
sylvania coal mine, in the oil fields of Texas, and finally in Houston
where I have been happy to take root. Marriage and three fine
children represent my only major accomplishment. My beautiful
and talented wife, born in Sio Paulo, Brazil, brought five languages
and a world of enthusiasm into what had been a routine bachelor’s
life. Our mutual hobbies include hunting, golf, and travel, but too
little time is found for enough of these pleasures.

Business interests lean toward development and manufacture and
the creation of small growth companies. Bettis Corporation pri-
marily manufactures automation equipment for the processing in-
dustries where remote control of fluids is required. Research Engi-
neering Company develops new products under contract to outside
firms and for the possible use as a nucleus for private growth situa-
tions.

My religion is Protestant and my politics independent conserva-
tive. Over the past twenty-five years, I have witnessed the surging
growth of a dynamic city and continue to see vast opportunities for
expansion and opportunity in Houston, in Texas, and overflowing
from here into South America. This is truly still a frontier area,
and any advice I might pass on to venturesome graduates would be
to look this country over before settling down.

[ 1280 ]

 

tag OLI E MERLES MORE ON I Ae LEE EINE ARNESON

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

EVERETT ADAMS SHEKLETON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 8 Partridge Hill Rd., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co., 80 Grove Ste, Warcrtown
Mass.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1912, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marrieD: M, Evelyn Files, July 2, 1941, Brookline, Mass. cuitoars: Evescer
Adams, Jr., Dec. 23, 1945; Deborah A. April tt, 194g.

occupaATiON: Plant manager, corrugated shipping container plant.

MEMBER OF: Weston Country Club; New England Trathe Asocraties,

SINCE leaving school, I have acquired a wife, two children, a
home in Weston that keeps the old nose to the grindstone and
the hand on the lawnmower, the usual run of livestock, and fifty
pounds. While acquiring these worldly possessions, I have howe the
better part of my hair.

After graduating, I entered the investment field as a trader in un:
listed securities. The two years spent in this chaotic state proved
too much for my nerves, and I had to seck calmer waters FP yomned
the Hinde & Dauch Paper Company in 1938, in the sales iv psa,

In 1941, I married M. Evelyn Files of Brookline, and moved ts
Newton Center. With the advent of war, I found that wleunen
were not needed, and I was therefore transferred to coonhnatens
the company’s war efforts in the New England area.

In 1946, I took over the management of the Watertown plant
of the Hinde & Dauch Paper Company, which company ts few a
division of the West Virginia Pulp & Paper Company, and where
I still hold sway.

My son was born in 1945, and Deborah came along in reas bs
1953 we built a home in Weston, where we enjoy country beets

[1281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Summers have been spent on Cape Cod, where I have found time to

fish and play a fair game of golf. Winters find me bowling at the
Weston Country Club and ice fishing with my son (Mummy and
daughter do not care for this latter pastime).

All in all, I do not feel that the world has treated me too badly

during the last twenty-five years, and I look forward to the chal-
lenge of the next twenty-five.

GEORGE WEBSTER SHEPHERD, JR.

 

HOME appress: 22 Linda Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., 70 Pine St., New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; M.B.A., 1938.

marrigp: Barbara May Clark, June 29, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHmpren: George
Webster, 3d, Oct. 28, 1942; Judith Ann, Sept. 6, 1944; Susan Clark, Aug. 7,
1948; David Bruce, May 15, 1951; Barbara Edith, Sept. 23, 1954.

HARVARD BRoTHERS: Donald Allan Shepherd, ’39; Malcolm Douglas Shepherd, '49.

occupation: Certified public accountant; partner, department of professional
practice.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

AFTER entering the Business School with the intention of becoming
something respectable, like a banker, I discovered accounting and
ended up on the long trail of becoming a certified public account-
ant. I suppose I’m in the minority when the record reveals that I’ve
been with one firm since 1938, but it’s been an interesting life with
a variety of experience that one job doesn’t always provide. The
geography has changed—ten years in Boston, twelve years in
Cleveland, and in 1960 a move, much to my surprise, to New York.
The Big City was the last place in the world I had fele I wanted

[ 1282 ]

 

—_—_———J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to be, but I’ve tried to offset it by living in Darien, Conncenicur,
I have at least returned to New England. (1 am aware that there
are serious doubts in the minds of many as to whether Faetiehl
County is really part of New England, but we'll give w the benett

of the doubt.)
I haven’t had time to do much in the last six months CVcepe to

study the vagaries of the New Haven Railroad, inchiding the bar
car on the 6:02, try to get used to a 7:00 A.M. ta s:00 PAL. dav,
and decide what to do in a full two hours free cach evening. The
weekends are nice, though, and I may grow used to being a hardened
commuter. I don’t seem to have accomplished much in the twenty -
five years, but I won’t bother to list all the excuses, Perhaps the
best thing is to try to do better the next twenty-five.

ERNEST JOHN SHERMAN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1t Travis Drive, Chestnut Hill 6°, Mass.

[ 1283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ARTHUR MURRAY SHERWOOD

I s
ESTAR seni ch ln ten iS i a lt a ati

 

HOME appress: 19 Cleveland Lane, Princeton, N.J.

oFFIcE AppRESS: Socony Mobil Oil Co., Inc., 150 E. 42d St.. New York 17, N.Y.

porn: Dec. 4, 1913, Portland, Oregon.

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1939.

marrikp: Marjorie F. Catron, Dec. 27, 1947, New York, N.Y. cHiLpren: Philip
Townsend, Jan. 2, 1949; Thomas Catron, April 14, 1951; Evelyn Wilson,
Oct. 11, 1953.

occupation: Secretary, Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc.

AFTER five years in the Army and ten practicing law, I joined an

international oil company. The work is unfailingly interesting and

the problems world-wide in scope. I seem to spend most of my

spare time entertaining the children, patching the house, and paying

bills.

CHARLES GIRARD SHERWOOD

 

HOME apprEss: 30 Alexander Ave, Nutley 10, N.J.

[ 1284 ]

a a a

aE IIRC,

 

7 IRE 5 nt LLIN A RRL NRE OTTER: SERNA OR NON

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Telephone & Telegraph Co 67 Broad § .
York, N.Y. graph Corp. 67 Broad St, New

BORN: Sept. 14, 1913, Nutley, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Nutley High School, Nutley, N.J.; Dean Academy, Franklin,
Afass. °

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1033.
MARRIED: Dorothy M. Carr, May 20, 1939, Kearny, N.J. cttprex: Lynn
Dorothy, Nov. 24, 1941; Elaine Kathleen, July 4, 1946. "
ccupATION: Manufacturing and communications, executive assistant, US,
conunercial group executive.
FICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Belleville-Nutley War Price & Rationing Board,
1942-45; president, Spring Garden P.T.A., 1950-51, Nutley Junior High
P.T.A., 1952-53, Nutley Town Club, 1957-58, New Jersey Taxpayers As-
sociation, 1958-60; chairman, Nutley’s United Drive, 1951-53, Commutce
or Reassessment Investigation, 1959-60, vice-president, 1-T.T. Federal.
53-58, Bloomfield Serra Club, 1958-59.
‘R oF: Nutley Town Club; White House Conference on Education,
ite House Conference on Aging.

SIDNEY HAROLD SHIFMAN

 

Jartmann Rd. Newton Center 59, Alass.

, . , ae Ky Peete
Research Laboratories, Inc., 130 Ne’ market Sy, beste’

ston, Mass.

in School, Boston, Mass.

936, 1939-1940. DEGREE: A.B, 1936(40)+

apt, 10, 1939, Brookline, Mass, (Hutvst: \
Allen, Nov, 6, 194}.

arch laboratory.

ad Technologists,

Wy | Wy

8 — nm . yf al it
school, | qualified (0) pPLACKIN Uh |
4 hoo vag take >
ployment with the Wyeth [abv

} [2 5 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Division of American Home Products. My job was that of the
recently-limelighted detail man. In my ten-year stint I called on
some 1ooo physicians in Massachusetts and Connecticut, explaining
the virtues of Wyeth medicinals. Each spiel was usually a five-
minute course on how medicine was to be practised — contrary to
all previous education and training. The talks were authoritative
but sugar-coated with humility. Deciding to stake out on my own,
I purchased and operated a retail pharmacy in Metropolitan Boston.

It was only inevitable that my obsession (food) should eventually
become my profession. I am currently operating a laboratory con-

cerned with research and the chemical and bacteriological testing
of food products,

AUDLEY HILL SHOEMAKER

 

HOME AppREss: 5 Block Blvd., Massapequa Park, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan American World Airways, Idlewild Airport, N.Y.
BORN: June 4, 1915, Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Richmond Academy, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Irene Pisani, 1945, Paris, France. cuitp: Patrick, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Earl Shoemaker, ’35, s.m., 36.

occupation: Wage and salary superintendent, Pan American World Airways.

WORKING in Wall Street and living in a basement in Greenwich
Village is nothing to write about, but that was it from graduation
day to my move to Washington, D.C., in 1941 with American Air-
lines. Overseas in Bermuda and Africa with the Naval Air Transport
Service during the next few years, and then twelve years with Pan
American World Airways in as many different countries in Europe
and the Middle East. My longest single assignment was five years

[ 1286 ]

| 7 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Paris as sales manager for France, and it was here that I made
a Franco-American alliance with a native Parisienne. We stall miss
those holiday weekends skiing in Switzerland in the winter and
skin-diving in the Mediterranean in the summer.

One of the few classmates we ran into in our travels was Herb
Lane who was a neighbor of ours on the top of a hill overlooking
the Bosporus at Robert College, north of Istanbul. We used to
watch the passing of the fishing boats and Russian submarines and
the rising of the moon over the hills of Asia on the far side of the
Bosporus. My principal accomplishment in Turkey was the duplica-
tion of Leander’s feat — swimming from Europe to Asia.

Back in New York since 1957, we hope by the time this ts in print
to be settled in our new home in Great River on Long Island — only
three hours’ commuting per day to and from my office at Idlewild
Airport. With a small private business on the side, and astronomy
as a hobby, this doesn’t leave much time for our special interest,
which is travel. But we do plan to make a trip to Cambridge next

June.

JEFFREY ROBSON SHORT, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 630 Pine Lane, Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. R. Short Milling Co., 20 N. Wacker Drive, Chicago, fl.
BoRN: Aug. 6, 1913, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.EU.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Barbara Allen, Oct. 9, 1937, Princeton, Mass. capers: Jethrey Rute.

son, 3d, Nov. 21, 1940; Allen Trumbull, March 9, toys.

HARVARD SON: Jeffrey Robson Short, 3d, ’62.
OccUPATION: Cereal flour milling and grain processing.
OFFICES HELD: Attaché, U.S, Embassy, Ankara, Turkey, to44-44, presatene, POR

[ 1287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

hundred left. Mine, like his cousins, has a thirty-one-inch neck size,
but this, I fear, does not increase their appeal today.

As I look around me, | am forcibly reminded that one does not
need a Harvard education in one’s background to live a good and
creative life, but I have never regretted the strong pricks of curi-
osity received in Cambridge, and I note with satisfaction that my
junior-year son, residing in the beautifully designed new Quincy
House, is undergoing the same experience.

Our best years lie ahead of us, and as Voltaire said, “Si tout n'est
pas bien, tout est passable,”

ALFRED ROLFE SHRIGLEY

 

HOME Appress: 10 Cole Rd., Hingham, Mass,

OFFicE appress: Williams, Kelly, Shrigley & Shepard, 111 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 6, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1940.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Romaine Osborn, Jan. 1, 1942, Hingham, Mass. (divorced
1957); Virginia Leach, Dec. 20, 1958, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Joanne
Emily, Nov. 6, 1943; Alfred Rolfe, Jr, Oct. 20, 1947; Virginia R., June 29,
1953.

occupATION: Lawyer; vice-consul, Republic of Panama; representative in
Massachusetts General Court from third Plymouth District.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, USNR (Ret.); director, Boston Evening
Clinic, 1947-48, Boston Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1947-48, Institute
for Speech Correction, 1948-53; president, Harvard Club of Hingham,
1952; commodore, Hingham Yacht Club, 1955-58.

MEMBER OF: Lodge of Eleusis, Boston; Harvard Clubs of Boston and Hingham;
Hingham Yacht Club, Boston Bar Association.

THE years since 1936 have passed all too quickly. They include
Jaw school, naval service, law practice, consular representation of

[ 1290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Panama, activity in town governmental affairs, glorious summers of
New England, cruising, a bit of travel, a tough election fight and
the recent election to the Massachusetts House of Representatives.

SAMUEL JOSHUA SILBERMAN

a
iii SION, i pe neki at Peat apn el

     

naa OREO EEE ROPER RE OE Be EW eR RT

 

HOME aAppREsS: 885 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Consolidated Cigar Corp., 529 Fifth Ave, New York 17, N.Y.

BorN: April 17, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: William Hall High School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

mMarrieD: Leslie Rodney, April 25, 1948, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1940), Lon
Voltter Herskovits, July 2, 1960, New York, N.Y. crtpren: Janet B, Jan.
8, 1943 (ward); Douglas Frates, April 17, 1944 (adopted); John P., June
1§, 1945 (ward); Allen Herskovits, Oct. 30, 1946 (stepson); Rita Frates
Dec. 10, 1946 (adopted); Alfred M., June 1, 1949; Jane Herskovits, Dec.
19, 1950 (stepdaughter); Peter B., July 13, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Chairman of the board, chief executive officer, Consolidated Cigae
Corporation, cigar manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Becton, Dickinson & Company and
National Community Bank, Rutherford, N.J., Barbasol Company, tn-
dianapolis, Ind.; member, Uptown Advisory Committee, Bankers Pnnsse
Company, New York City; president, Michigan Peat, Inc. New York
City; trustee, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Rutherford, NJ. Federation
of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, New York City.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Quaker Ridge Golf Club, Scarsdale,
N.Y.; Club Nautico de San Juan of Puerto Rico; Middletown (Conn)
Yacht Club, St. Croix Yacht Club, St. Croix, Virgin Iands, Virgin thant
Yacht Club.

PuBLicaTions: Co-author with Philip A. Thompson, 4 New Vardren kh foo
Profit Analysis, Dun & Bradstreet, 1955.

IN 1934, the end of my sophomore year, I took a leave of aleence
from Harvard to start work with Consolidated Cigar Corporanen.

[ 1298 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I have been working for this company since that time, interrupted
only by military service from 1941 to 1946. I entered the U.S.
Coast Guard Reserve as an ensign and was released as lieutenant
commander, having served most of my time in the amphibious force
in the South Pacific.

Shortly after returning to Consolidated Cigar Corporation, I was
elected executive vice-president, subsequently president, and a year
ago, chairman of the board, retaining the duties of chief executive
officer.

I spend as much of my free time as possible on my sail boat which
is kept in the Virgin Islands. When I am in New York, my extra-
curricular activities consist principally of work in philanthropy and
education.

ROGER MORSE SILSBY

Brent ce ~~ 4

    

HOME abprEss: 3 Beach St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Shoe Machinery Corp., Beverly, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 5, 1914, Norwood, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; certificate (Advanced Man-
agement Program), 1947.

marrieD: Thelma Thorup Howard, Sept. 8, 1940, New Bedford, Mass. cHiLp:
Bradford Howard, Dec. 14, 1948.

occupation: General superintendent, Beverly factory, United Shoe Machinery
Corporation; director of manufacturing, Shoe Industry Group.

OFFICES HELD: Commodore, Manchester Harbor Boat Club, 1952-54; trustee,
Beverly Trade School, since 1953; director, since 1953, trustee, since 1958,
Beverly Y.M.C.A.; director, Beverly Hospital, 1960, Harvard Club of the
North Shore; member, executive board, North Shore Council, Boy Scouts
of America, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Beverly, Massachusetts; Harvard Engineering So-
ciety.

[ 1292 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANY self-righteous claims to fame, fortune, and philosophical ad-
justment to the pursuit of happiness are likely to lead to profunsd-
ties relating to “persistence in unrelenting drive to the shining goal”
ignoring a ” tolerance of man and beast, assisted by sizable chunks
of luck in many matters, not the least of which is timing.

The fortune and pursuit of happiness part has been ‘ably handled
by the marital acquisition of the girl who was the object ‘of a five-
year courtship. In addition to mothering our son with great tender-
ness, wisdom, and encouragement, she has easily lived within the
scope of whatever earning capacity went with my sometimes ob-
scure drive to the shining goal, always adding the deft touch, to
establish perspective to those obscurities not readily solved by the
engineer’s or business man’s logic.

We have both greatly enjoyed watching and in turn being
stimulated by the growth of our enthusiastic son. He has entered
readily into our special fun-time activities of mountain trips in the
fall, skiing a few weekends, cruising along the New England coast
(mostly Maine) in our auxiliary yawl, as well as helping substan-
tially in handling the boat at sea and working on the springtime
maintenance program.

My business and associated activities have gathered momentum,

and the weeks slip by pleasantly with no hint of boredom. My
whole business career has been with my present company. The
first three years out of college were spent as a workman Icarning
various trades from foundryman on through machinist, welder,
blacksmith, etc. Then six years of foremanship of the welding and
blacksmith shop, two years as assistant superintendent of the foun-
dry and drop forge, two years as head of production standards
three years as chief engineer, four years as superintendent of manu-
facturing, and from 1957, to date, as general superintendent. The
added scope of activity as director of manufacturing for the Shoe
Industry Group involves me in considerable travel, to a great variety
of very interesting subsidiaries. Last year I spent a month in Eres.
land, observing our British counterparts in operation, and made a
short trip to view a tape-controlled machine tool in Paris.

On the local scene, the work with the various charitable and
community activities has given me a broad base of friendly ase
ciation with some very able and equally busy people. AIl told ans
opportunities for satisfaction in life are many, and Pam grateful to
have recognized and used some of them.

[ 1293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

STANLEY SIMON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 44 E. 67th St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 70 Pine St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 7, 1917, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1936.

marrigp: Marcelle Kramer, Sept. 17, 1939, New York, N.Y. curity: Frederick
Kramer, Sept. 12, 1940 (72. Susan Silverberg, Aug. 7, 1960).

occupaTION: Management and financial consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1950-58, director, 1955-58, Bulova Watch Com-
pany; director, Jewelers Acceptance Corporation, 1951-58, Buzzards Bay
Gas Company, Vornado, Inc., FXR, Inc., Cambosco Scientific Company,
Kentucky Spindletop Research Center.

A CHRONOLOGICAL review of my twenty-five years since grad-
uation would only add one more record in this volume to prove the
fundamental theory that basically life is so daily.

The highlights I find worthy of exposure in this summation of
my own career are the results of the associations it was my privilege
to enjoy with a few creative and inspired personalities. At the head
of the list I would put the late Beardsley Ruml, with whom I first
became associated in 1947. The wisdom and philosophy of B. Ruml
indicated the approaches which enabled me to devote my time and
effort in the business world to projects of much broader scope and
with much higher goals than would have been the case if I had not
had the benefit of this close friendship with him.

During the years from 1943 to 1958, I had the opportunity to learn
the effectiveness of the completely practical and down-to-earth ap-
proach of Arde Bulova. The example of his own tireless effort in-
doctrinated me with the concept, whether good or bad, that work-
ing on a full-time basis meant nothing less than 168 hours a week.

[ 1294 ]

TT .

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

Thanks to the opportunities, resources and philosophy contributed
by these two individuals, I can record some specitic accomplish.
ments of my own: (1) the conception, design, construction and tne.
plementation of the foremost rehabilitation projcct for Workt War
II veterans and other seriously disabled people in this count ry ~~ the
Joseph Bulova School of Watchmaking; (2) the erganizanon and
development of a miniature “Marshall Plan” to help reconsncuce
European industry, particularly in Germany, under American pre-
vate auspices shortly after World War I, before the Marshall Plain
itself was developed; (3) the organization and succesful operation
of a specialized finance company which pioneered the appheation of
credit and management services to an industry which had no sanulae
source available to it before.

Since 1958, I have been conducting my own business under the
style of “Stanley Simon and Associates” in the management and ti.
nancial consulting fields, based on the background acquired in the
course of handling the above projects and other similar ones. Spread-
ing the statesmanly approach to business as I acquired it from my
two mentors, to many new fields, has been a continuing satsfaction.

A principal ingredient necessary to make a very time-consuming
and hectic career successful is a patient and undertanding wife whe
is willing to put up with the demands of such activity. Net only
has Marcelle made this contribution, she is also responub te for my
closest approach to fame. It was she who insisted on establistuny
a second home and base of operations for weekend and suninee
change of pace in Newtown, Connecticut. From a modest begin.
ning, with an old Connecticut farmhouse built in tsa, and a lr,
empty barn, we have gradually increased and developed the property

over the last nine years to include the conversion of this barn inte
a colonial tavern, authentic in all its furnishings and cvcn wrsins
the beverages enjoyed by our forcbears.

The final touch was the construction, last vear, of a coverrd
bridge — the fifth covered bridge in the state ef Conney taut to
cross the stream dividing our property. It is interesting te nore that
one can work long and arduously for twenty-five years and have
the New York Times and many others of the nation’s outan ho
newspapers record their interest and award the mark of fare (three

columns including a picture of the structure) for the qonveruet on

of a covered bridge.

[ 1295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GIFFORD KINGSBURY SIMONDS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Juniper Road, Fitchburg, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Simonds Saw & Steel Co., 470 Main St., Fitchburg, Mass.

BORN: June 15, 1914, Fitchburg, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREE: B.B.A. (Babson Inst.), 1935.

MaRRIED: Jean Evatt, Jan. 26, 1946, Boston, Mass. cHiLpren: Lynn Evatt, Feb.
22, 19475 Jill Kingsbury, July 13, 1948; Dale Miller, May 2, 1950; Ann W.,,
March 21, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Howland Simonds, ’qo.

OccuPATION: President and general manager, Simonds Saw & Steel Company,
manufacturers of steel and perishable cutting tools for wood and metal.

OFFICES HELD: Director, First National Bank of Boston, Safety Fund National
Bank, Fitchburg, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, Boston, Fitchburg
Y.M.C.A,, Fitchburg Federal Savings & Loan Association; trustee, Mid-
dlesex School, Burbank Hospital and Applewild School, Fitchburg; mem-
ber of corporation, Northeastern University.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Eastern Yacht Club,
Marblehead; Tennis and Racquet Club.

AFTER college, went to work and working, or trying to work,
ever since. Along these lines my thoughts are to make the company
1 work for the most successful of any company in its field. I have
had some success at the above and a lot of fun at it.

Family-wise, I have been very lucky — happily married — later
than most I guess, at age thirty-one, and four wonderful daughters,
ages nine to fourteen. Sailing, summers, around Marblehead is my
main recreation, plus occasional shooting of a few birds in New
Hampshire, in the fall. I never was in the government service in
any way, due to slightly high blood pressure; have had some ac-
tivity around the town I live in with schools, Y.M.C.A., fund rais-
ing, etc., which also can be pretty good fun.

[ 1296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY FITCH HUBBARD SIMS

 

HOME ApprESs: St. Charles Rectory, Brunswick, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Charles Church, Brunswick, Maine.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1915, Decatur, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Deering High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cir Linde, 197%, ar. (Unne, of
Chicago).

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Catholic priest; assistant pastor, St. Charles Partch.

THE first job I had after graduating from Harvard was in Worcester
County, Massachusetts, where more gallons of nulk were being pe
duced per acre than in any other county in the United Seates ev.
cept one in Wisconsin. The asset which imprened the local reu-
dents was by no means my new degree from Elarvard. but the face
that I could milk a cow. From there I went to the Univeruty of
Chicago, which eventually gave me an A.M; but the great thing
which I found in Chicago was the Catholic faith, My csducateen
really began then, at the age of twenty-two.

After Chicago came the U.S. Army which took me in asa vard-
bird and discharged me as a first lieutenant of Infantry, after wreme
in Italy, with a couple of Purple Hearts, just in time ta enter Se
John’s Seminary in Brighton, Massachusetts. Since onhnanen tr
the priesthood in 1951, my posts have been Bangor and Nace, Marne,
and now Brunswick, where one of mv chicf duties is te be haplan
to the Newman Club at Bowdoin College — a job which gives tne
a chance to try to teach the students a little of what the yeary ae
Harvard and in the Faith have taughe me.

[ 1297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GEORGE THORN SKINNER

 

HOME aAppress: “Scottowe,” Groton, Mass.
BORN: Feb, 20, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Wm. Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.By 1936.
MarriED: Eleanor Park, Jan. 27, 1940, Groton, Mass. caitpren: John Park,

Feb, 1, 1941; Sandra Thorn, Nov. 10, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Wilkinson Skinner, 3d, ’34; Edwin Sutherland Skin-

ner, '38.

occupaTION: Personnel director.
OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant colonel, USMC Retired.
HAVING somehow made the transition from a physically broken
down professional marine officer to a mundane civilian life, all is
much the same. With fourteen years in the personnel game, much in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, we have returned to New England and
am seeking “The Job.”

My good wife is with me; son John is at Syracuse University;
daughter Sandra at Concord Academy. It seems hard to believe it’s

twenty-five years.

[ 1298 |

reece se IC |

een nee wet

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALEC SKOLNICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 345 Parrott Drive, San Mateo, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 39 San Mateo Drive, San Mateo, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 30, 1914, Memphis, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, wis. as
(Princeton Univ.), 1938; PH.D. (ibid.), 1939; M.p. (Harvard Univ, tosn.

MarRRIED: Emily Marks, June 7, 1942, Des Moines, lowa. cunpars: Maresa
July 4, 1944; Mark, Jan. 28, 1946; Ellen, Jan. 8, 1953.

occupation: Psychoanalyst, private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor, Stanford Medical School, charrman,
Mental Health Advisory Board, San Mateo County, since 1g¢8, member
faculty, San Francisco Psychoanalytic Institute, since 19¢8.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; American Medical Associanon, Aimers.
can Psychiatric Association; American Psychoanalytic Association, North.
ern California American Civil Liberties Union; Peninsula Tennis (Jub,
Harvard Club of San Francisco; Princeton Alumni Associanon of Northern
California.

pusuications: “Upper Limit of Cutaneous Sensibility,” Journal of Fxpevssece erst
Psychology, 1938 (also made a motion picture of this experimeng whieh om
distributed by the psychological film library, Lehigh Universty), “the
Role of Eye Movements in the Autokinetic Phenomenon.” fours of
Experimental Psychology, 1940 (Doctoral dissertation), “Condinonmeg the
Pupillary Response,” Journal of Experimental Psycboloey, tye with
Wedell and Taylor.

MY Harvard undergraduate years were followed by graduate work
at Princeton, where I received a Doctorate in experimental poe -
chology and then proceeded to Harvard Medical School Atcer
my third year in Medical School, I married Fmily Marky a Welles
ley graduate whom I] had met while we were both doing revert
at Princeton.

My internship was followed by three years of army service, by

[ 1299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

neuropsychiatry, where the always imminent overseas orders never
materialized, so that my after duty hours were spent largely in
ushing baby strollers around posts in Texas.

The next two years were spent at the Menninger School of Psy-
chiatry in Topeka, Kansas. On completion of my training there,
I] came to San Mateo as director of the County Child Guidance
Clinic, with half me spent in private practice. I also completed
my psychoanalytic training at the San Francisco Psychoanalytic
Institute, of which I am now a faculty member.

My time is now devoted to private practice, except for serving
as consultant to the San Mateo Schools, and teaching at the San
Francisco Psychoanalytic Institute and Stanford Medical School.

JOHN JERMAIN SLOCUM

= Soeet arn [oo Seng meres rae

  

tome appress: Bellevue Avenue, Newport, RI.

OFFICE Abparss: American Embassy, Cairo, United Arab Republic.

worN: March a, 19g, Lakewood, NJ.

preparen at: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.; Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; S.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1938.

MaArnien: Fileen Sherman Gillespie, Dec, 26, 1940, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
John Jermain, Jr, Oct. 29, 1941; Beryl Gillespie, Radcliffe, 64, Oct. 29,
1942; Irene Marguerite, Nov. 6, 1944.

HARVARD SON: John Jermain Slocum, Jr., "64.

occupation: Cultural attaché, US, Information Service, American Embassy,
Cairo, Fgvpt. .

OFFICES HELD: Reporter, Richmond Times Dispatch, 1936-37, Public Relations:
Howard Hughes, Sperry Gyroscope Company (for New York World’s
Fair), Stinson Aircraft, 1935-41; press secretary, Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia,
1ggt-g2, Army Air Force, 1942-46, U.S. Information Service: press attaché,
Germany, Voice of America, inspector traveling in Asia and Africa, since
19g; special assistant, deputy director, etc., in Cairo since September, 1960.

[ 1300 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations; Bibliographical Society of Amerna,
Overseas Press Club; Morgan Library (fellow), Century Association,
Union Club; Grolier Club; Zamorand Club, Newport Reading Room.

PUBLICATIONS: A Bibliography of James Joyce, with Herbert Calhoun, “40, Yale
University Press, 1953; at various times reviews books for New York Trmes
Book Review, Herald Tribune Books, North American Review, Scnibners

Magazine.

THE distance between my office and our home, between Cairo,
Fgypt, and Newport, Rhode Island, means that we commute every
two years instead of every day. Eileen, who like all wives is a
homebody, is beginning to suspect that after her ten years of the
U.S. Information Service, I prefer this sort of commuting to any

other and is beginning to like it herself.
The reading of an absorbing document entitled “Sample Lives”

(try the sample absolutely free and if you like it order the big cosmic
size the second time) led me to believe that this Twenty-fifth Anni-
versary Report would give me the perfect opportunity to rewrite
Emerson’s Youth to Age, Folly to Wisdom, Poverty to Riches,
Shining Hope to Philosophical Acceptance, etc. I can claim none
of these except the progression from Youth to Age.

Life has been and continues to be, for Fileen and me, as well as
for Jerry, Beryl and Margie, an exciting voyage of discovery in
which Arabic lessons and the exploration of the Pharaonic and
Islamic monuments of Egypt have replaced the more usual pursuits
of American life which we enjoyed during our five years of home
duty in Washington and New York.

Jerry and Beryl began Harvard and Radcliffe this last autumn
and we miss the opportunity here in Egypt of sharing their firve
year of college with them. I myself finished last June what might
be described as a post-graduate year at the State Department
Senior Seminar in Foreign Policy. This was an Alice in Wonderland
sort of experience involving everything from Infantry mancuvers
‘at Fort Benning, rocket Jaunchings at Cape Canaveral, to interviews
with Polish diplomats in Warsaw and Raymond Aron in Paris
Along the way we nineteen members of the course were brough
up to date in the social and political sciences by everyone from
William Yandell Elliot and Adlai Stevenson to Chester Bow les and
Father John Courtney Murray.

I found graduation a peculiarly difficult trauma and spent the
next six years pursuing all sorts of will-of-the-w isps as new I
reporter, as book reviewer, as literary agent and in aviation pubis

[ 1301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

relations. The high point of my career at this time was fourteen
months as press secretary to Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, a job se-
cured through the good offices of David Rockefeller. This was a
wonderful experience, particularly for one as politically immature
as | was at that time. Mayor LaGuardia, an example of the best
that practical politics in America can produce, was a tough and
dedicated man. He alternately irritated and inspired everyone asso-
ciated with him by his rugged terrier-with-a-rat approach to life.

The fixed star in this changing universe was and is Eileen; she
and I were married in December, 1940.

The war years were spent in various parts of the U.S., entirely
in Air Force Public Relations. I went from private to major via
O.CS., ending with an overseas assignment in 1946 attached to
Joint Task Force I for Operation Crossroads, which is a way of
saying I was at Bikini Atoll for the atomic bomb tests. They were
run like an expensive wake for the human race: first a hot jazz
combo playing in a palm frond-decorated officer’s club with whiskey
at ten cents a shot and then the big boom.

Our return to civilian life at Tuxedo Park brought a host of com-
plications. For a time, sickness of one child necessitated our annual
commuting to Arizona while I tried to take up free-lance writing.
Yale published a bibliography of James Joyce upon which I col-
laborated with Herbert Calhoun, Harvard Class of roqo. I had
started the project before the war but took on Herb when it became
apparent only a professional librarian could master the technical de-
scription of books. The work involved visiting Joyce’s haunts in
Ireland, England, France, Switzerland and Italy, and took entirely
too much time.

In 1951 we began the phase of our lives in which we are still ab-
sorbed, our time with the U.S. Government Information Service.
We began by going to Germany with the State Department, where
I served successively as an economic information officer, chief of ,
the Public Relations Division, and press attaché when the U.S. High
Commission became the American Embassy. We returned home
for a tour in New York and Washington, first with the Voice of
America, and then with the Inspection Corps. Inspecting took me
to Laos, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, the Republic of China

(Formosa). Eileen accompanied me on another trip to the Belgian
Congo, the Union of South Africa, Southern Rhodesia, Kenya,
Ethiopia and Sudan. My ice-cream assignment was three months in
Italy. By this time we had become the United States Information

[ 1302 ]

ny



HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

DICKSON SMITH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Hundreds Circle, Wellesley Hulls, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 28, 1913, Wayland, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marrige: Elisabeth Becker, Jan. 3, 1942, Rhinelander, Wis, cHILDREN: Lisa,
July 24, 1946; Thomas Dickson, March 3, 1950, Nancy, Sept. 27, 1952;
Dickson, Jr., Oct. 13, 1959.

occupation: Investment banking; vice-president, Vance, Sanders & Company,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Wellesley Country Club.

FIRST thoughts after reading the sample biographies of various
members of the Class of ’34, which Win Lee sent us, were: (1) the
academic standards must have been materially lowered by the time
I reached college, and (2) I should contact Tim Fuller or Dick Bis-
sell to see what they could accomplish with definitely prosaic ma-
terial. Later thoughts convinced me perhaps we all tend to take our-
selves too damn seriously and there are few Oliver Wendell Holmeses
around these days anyway.

Life since college, while not Heaven, has been good to me. An
understanding spouse, four children with, I hope, the usual normal
problems, a satisfying and moderately successful business career
have helped to keep me from a 38” waist up to this point. Thanks
to a one-year-old and three additional children, ages eight to four-
teen, I am getting belatedly more involved with schools, camps,
dances, boys and girls, etc. In a year or two, I hope to reverse the
usual procedures and take up skiing again and try a hand at tourna-
ment tennis: in this case the veterans. With some frequency I get
to Cambridge; in most instances for the football and hockey games
and not intellectual pursuit. Cambridge, I am afraid, has changed,

[ 1304 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

for Wellesley; Madeleine and J to Nigeria, and then New York.
We planned to remain in the States at Ieast through June of ’61.
However, the urge to observe at close hand and to participate in
the life of a different part of the world from that we have known
will soon take us to the Far East. Reunion time may well find us in
Tokyo — or Seoul — or Saigon!

Over the years since leaving Cambridge, I have worked with and
gained some understanding of the problems facing the peoples —
Hindu, Christian, Moslem and Buddhist — of both resurgent and
newly-developing economies in Asia. General management, over-
seas, remains my profession. Increasingly though, since our days in
Bengal, I have specialized — if that is the correct term — in situa-
tions where a need exists to create and maintain a favorable govern-
ment/public relations climate under changing political conditions
and where both economics and relations make desirable the selection
and training of nationals for junior and middle management posts.
Vietnam, Korea and even dynamically expanding Japan offer rich
opportunity for continued work in my profession and these special-
ized fields. In the bargain, perhaps my family and I can help dis-
prove the concept — reported in The Ugly American — that our
businessmen do not participate in and, therefore, cannot know the
national way of life of the countries in which they are working.

JAMES MONT SMITH

 

HOME apprEss: 8 Colby St., Northboro, Mass,

OFFICE appress: Campbell & Smith, 340 Main St., Worcester, Mass.
BORN: April 18, 1914, Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; LL.w., 1940.

[ 1308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
marrigD: Jean M. Forsyth, Sept. 26, 1942, Somerville, Maw. crteesa force
Ann, Jan. 16, 1945; Albert William, Dec. 22, 1944.
HARVARD BROTHER: Lermond Smalley Smith, "36.

OCCUPATION: Partner in law firm.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Town Committee, Northboro, Masa, tne amd cleck,

Hospital Cottages for Children, Baldwinsville, Mass.
MEMBER OF: Economic Club of Worcester, Estate Planning Counc of Woeces.

ter; state and local bar associations.

LERMOND SMALLEY SMITH

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 85 Prescott St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

MORTON SMITH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 438 WW’. rt6th St, New York 25, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of History, Columbia Univeruy, New York ae SY
BORN: May 28, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT; Academy of the New Church, Bryn Athyn, Po.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936, DEGREES! AB, Pega C4 Leeds, tai t ete, sae

[ 1309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

laude, 1940; PH.D. (Hebrew Univ., Jerusalem), 1948; map. (Harvard Univ.),
1957-
UN MARRIED.

occuraTioN: Associate professor of history, Columbia University.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, American Friends of the Orthodox Patriarchate of
Jerusalem, since 1950; secretary, ACLS Committee for the History of
Religion, since 1958, Middle-Atlantic-States Section, Society of Biblical
Literature, since 1958; chairman, Columbia University Seminar for the
Study of the New Testament; secretary, Committee for Preserving and
Photographing Greek MSS.

MEMBER: The above and Phi Beta Kappa; American Historical Association;
American Oriental Society, American Philological Association; American
Schools of Oriental Research; Archaeological Institute of America; Studi-
orum Novi Testamenti Societas.

PUBLICATIONS: Tannaitic Parallels to the Gospels, Philadelphia, 1951 (JBL
Monograph Series, VI); The Ancient Greeks, Cornell University Press,
1960, The Image of God: Notes on the Hellenization of Judaism, Man-
chester, 1958 (BJRL 40. 473-518); numerous articles.

1 AM too busy.

ROLAND WRIGHT SMITH, JR.

 

HOME AppREsS: Apt. 206, 655 Hazelwood Ave., Detroit 2, Mich.

OFFICE Apress: Letts Industries, Inc., 2714 W. Jefferson Ave., Detroit 16, Mich.
BoRrN: Jan. 27, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936 (37),

Maratep: Helen Martin Kopp, Jan. 25, 1947, New York, N.Y,

occupation: Cost and general office accounting.

FROM the fall of 1936, until entry into the Army in August, 1941,
1 worked for the family-owned Saratoga Quevic Spring Company,
in various capacities, in upstate and western New York, and by

[ 1310 ]

8 ELLA T RE ET MET TT,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

season, in New Jersey and Florida. During the war U served with
the Coast Artillery in Hawaii and the United States and sutne.

quently with the Anti-aircraft Artillery in the U.S. whence I was
discharged with the grade of senior warrant officer, reconnamunme,

in a searchlight battalion.
In 1946 I entered Columbia University extension under the Gf

Bill of Rights. I studied dramatics and radio-writing, and white
there, I met and married my wife, then the widow of Suflnew \
Kopp of Westport, Connecticut. In 1947, shortly after muarriaye,
I went to work for the J. Walter Thompson Company in New
York. In June of that year, I discontinued at Columbia.

In the fall of 1950, my wife and I left New York to move to De.
troit. The family business had changed hands and we comadered
that Detroit offered better opportunities for business advancement
in the then immediate future, since a return to Saratoga would nee
have been feasible at that time. In 1955, the opportunity to work at
Letts Industries came my way, and I have been there since.

My wife and I hope to return to the East to live one day. Mean.
while, thanks to our friends with mutual interests in muse, the
theatre and the arts, generally, we find our lives to hold much that

is pleasant and enj oyable.

ROSS HAROLD SMITH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1020 Highland Rd., Ithaca, N.Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y,

BoRN: August 17, 1914, Sayre, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Charlotte High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREES: a.m (Spongtchl Calli. ra:
(Univ. of Rochester),

5 fh ve

(zie)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MareteD: Marion Hazel Leonard, Aug. 21, 1937, Rochester, N.Y. cHitpren:
James Leonard, July 1, 1938, Jeanne Marion, March 29, 1940; David Ross,
Jan. 4, 1942.

occuPaTioN: Assistant director, Department of Physical Education and Achlet-
ics, Cornell University.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, New York State Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation, U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association.

MEMBER OF: Rotary International, Country Club of Ithaca; American Asso-
ciation of Health, Physical Education and Recreation.

AT the conclusion of my freshman year at Harvard, I transferred
to Springfield College and graduated with an S.B. in 1936. For the
next eleven years, I was director of health and physical education at
Brighton High School, Rochester, New York. Scholastic coaching
included football, basketball and track.

In the fall of 1947, 1 was invited to join the athletic department at
Cornell University. Since 1952, I have been assistant director of the

department with specific responsibilities in directing the program in
physical education and coaching lacrosse.

* THEODORE SMITH

 

BORN: Feb. 22, 1916, McAlester, Okla. parents: Ralph Archibald Smith, Kach-
erine Powell.

PREPARED AT: Southwest High School, Kansas City, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB. 1936,
piED: Oct. 19, 1939, San Diego, Calif.

AFTER graduation from college, Smith entered naval aviation. At
Pensacola he was graduated at the top of his class and then reported
to Bombing Squadron 2, Fleet Air Detachment, Naval Air Base,
Coronado, California. He was attached to the aircraft carrier Lex-

[ 1312 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ington and was on a practice dive-bombing flight when he was
killed in a mid-air crash of two dive-bombing airplanes

WILBUR FISK SMITH I

 

HOME appreEss: 116 Upnor Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.
OFFICE appREss: United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co, Calvert & Reds ont

Streets, Baltimore 3, Md.
BORN: June 24, 1914, Baltimore, Md.
PREPARED AT: Gilman Country School, Balumore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Jane Hull Wagner, Oct. 5, 1946, New York, N.Y. comemsw Jane
Dabney, Sept. 15, 1947; Barbara Wagner, April 23, 1948.

OccUPATION: Insurance; assistant vice-president, Fidelity surcty departmenc,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Maryland; Amencan Managemene Aven rate

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on surety, in professional journals,

THE idea of looking back over twenty-five Years is sobering inicedd,
and immediately instills an attirude of thoughtfulness and intrinpee-
tion. In reviewing those years since 1936, I find my sclf ong grate.
ful for the love and success that have come my way, apologcens foe
my failures, and generally philosophical over the turbulent state of
the world in which we live. The years have gone fast —~ tue h tos
fast, but they have been fun. Even as an undergraduate, Po owk
dim view of history, but if the “past is prologue,” it sa harbinger of
equally good things to come, and I shall gladly “study the poo"

In the fall of 1936, I began work (summer vacation was net tes be
surrendered so easily) as a traince in the intricacies of surety shsp. |
am not at all certain that T yee fully understand these ttre aw
but my search for understanding has sent me up and shown ad
across the country many times. As TP review thence travels the neve
rewarding clement that stands out above the rest is penple plat

[1313]

Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

wonderful people. There was a time when the “right school,” the
“right tie” and the other trappings of snobbery separated the “right
people” from the crowd. I do not blame Harvard for this gross
misconception, but I do thank my job and four years of Army life
for helping to dispel it.

My service during the war was extremely simple and uncom-
plicated. After army basic training and Officer Candidate School,
I was assigned to the Chicago Ordnance District with orders to see
that the suppliers of war materiel were adequately financed. The
only thing I fought was red tape and the long, confusing arm of the
Pentagon. If medals are ever struck for the “Battle of the Loop,”
I shall immediately become a brevetted hero. What I lost was time
(and who didn’t) and the satisfaction of having faced and endured
the physical risks of war. What I gained was a bride — lovely,
gracious and possessed of patience and understanding beyond my
desert. Following the war she returned with me to Baltimore and
here we have been blessed with two unusually beautiful daughters.
(I admit a modicum of prejudice.) The pleasure of watching them
grow and develop has become one my principal joys and hobbies.

I continue to be grateful to Harvard for many things. It is a
stout anchor in a turbulent world, and the memory of four years
in residence is a constant personal support and satisfaction. Having
only daughters, I am to be denied the pleasure of entering a son
in a future class and reliving through him my own undergraduate
days. But I take solace in the thought that a grandson may lead me
down that same pleasant path; albeit his companion will, by then,
be something short of frisky.

A balance sheet of the past twenty-five years would show, under
assets, a Christian faith that continues to strengthen, my family,
my job, and the good fortune of robust health. Under liabilities,
or the things I do not care for, there is the endless threat of war,
Communism and everything approaching a socialized state, the
staggering increase in the speed of all things and the tendency to
compress automobiles, houses and most other human containers to
a size far too small to accommodate my lanky frame.

Yes, the past twenty-five years have been fun, and I am looking
forward to the next twenty-five or so, with great expectations. I
hope Robert Browning knew what he was talking about when he

said, “The best is yet to be; the last of life for which the first was
made.”

[ 1314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILDER SMITH

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Squam Rock Road, Gloucester, Mass.

BorN: April 17, 1913, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

marrieD: Mildred A. Shute, Jan. 13, 1942, Gloucester, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Norman Blondel Smith, ’29 (deceased).

occupation: Weather service (independent); snow reporung service for New
England ski areas, through New England Council and US. Weather
Bureau.

OFFICES HELD: Meteorological assistant, Yankee Network, tggt, readene ob.
server, Blue Hill Observatory, Harvard, spring, 1942; meteorological ante,
U.S. Weather Bureau, Boston, 1942-48; manager-devcloper, Weather F ve

Map Company, since 1950.
MEMBER OF: American Meteorological Society, Annisquam Village Plall A we-

ciation; Leonard Club of Annisquam.

WILLIAM ALBERT SMITH

 

——ME appress: 61 Davenport Rd. Yonkers, N.Y.

[ 1305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

oFFice appress: House of Twiss, 355 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y.
BORN; Sept. 6, i912, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: 8.B., 1936.

marriepD: Margaret A. Ayles, Dec, 24, 1942, New York, N.Y.
occupation: President, House of Twiss, advertising agency.

SHELDON SMOLIAN

    
  

TEIN 6

ORE
oy
‘ill act sad SE ane:

dtl ses ie it ceviche se Reine

   
 

 

Home appress: Rockhouse Road, Redding, Conn.

OFFICE apprrss: 450 Hancock Ave., Bridgeport, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 2, iotg, Newark, N.J.

prepareD At: Clark School, Hanover, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

Marriep: Miriam Kahn, July 26, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHiLpren: Barbara,
March 5, 1944; Laura, July 23, 1946; Margery, May 5, 1948, Peter, Nov. q,
1951; Lucy, Oct. 23, 1956.

occupation: President, Legomatic Company, manufacturers of folding furni-
ture.

Memper oF: Harvard Club of New York.

[ 1316 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM SIDNEY SMOOT

 

HOME Appress: Moore’s Hill Road, Syosset, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Wall & Smoot, 270 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y.
BORN: July 27, 1914, South Orange, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).

MARRIED: Katharine Smull, Feb. 20, 1946, New York, N.Y. crHitp: Sarah Me-
Jilton, March 4, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Head Smoot, Jr., ’35-

occuPATION: Partner in consulting engineering firm.

MEMBER OF: National Society of Professional Engineers; Society of American
Military Engineers, Non-Partisan Civic Association; Belgian Sheepdog
Club of America; Long Island Biological Association, Harvard Club of
Boston, Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; Piping Rock Club.

SINCE leaving Harvard, I decided to go into engineering. 1] am now
a consulting engineer and for the past four years have been work-
ing on a project for the government. I have never encountered a
classmate in my business activities, but I do sce a few members of
"36 on rare social occasions.

I have far too many hobbies, particularly since engineering keeps
one away from home a considerable part of the time, bute they are
family activities — sailing, horses, raising dogs, etc. — so they are
very important to us.

I was unhappy about the recent election, not because of the eur.
come so much as the total lack of defined issues. [still hope to ac-
complish something useful to others than myself. [am worned
about burgeoning bureaucracy, people w hose hands are tied, and
overpopulation at home and abroad.

[ 1317]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANCIS XAVIER SOMMER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 146 Pine St., Barbourville, Ky.

oFFice abpress: Barbourville Clinic, Barbourville, Ky.

BorN: Aug. 7, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Constance Kimpton, June 24, 1939, Norwell, Mass. (divorced 1953);
Theo Lyons, June 22, 1957, Corbin, Ky. campren: Kimpton Francis,
Sept. 16, 1941; Elizabeth Dale, Feb. 13, 1948; Francis Xavier, 3d, Oct. 22,
1958; Barbara Yowell, Oct. 29, 1960.

OccUPATION: Surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); Knoxville Surgical So-
ciety; Flying Physicians Association, Harvard Club of Boston; Civil Air
Patrol (training officer); Indian Springs Country Club.

THE first twenty-five years following graduation are probably
the most productive in the life of the average college graduate.
Some of us learn faster and produce faster than others. On an
occasion such as this, where we put before our fellow classmates a
record of ourselves for review, I am sure that mine will be most
wanting in individual achievement. Yet, in the course of time, I
have learned many things and from them I have become quite mel-
lowed, a bit philosophical, more charitable, and, I hope, a little com-
passionate.

After four years of medical school, six years of navy submarine
medicine, and five years of postgraduate training in surgery, I
have in the balance of the remaining ten years settled down to a
career that may have some purpose.

Where is Barbourville? And why? Our Mr, Kennedy spoke of
“new frontiers.” Well, this is the “last frontier” —deep in the
hills of southeastern Kentucky where John L. Lewis has destroyed
a once flourishing coal industry to further the cause of miners, Now

[ 1318 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
there is no coal industry and the miners have no jobs. The average

order of education is the fifth grammar grade, and many, by their

own choice, are on welfare.

In the light of this atmosphere one acquires a consolation of mind
which stems from what I believe Harvard has taught us in ever so
subtle a manner — that if we are to attempt a job, then do it well.
This is a philosophy which I have endeavored to observe in mv
work; yet it can be most trying to one’s patience when dealing with
indigence and indolence to accomplish one’s objectives for the
betterment of all concerned.

As for the “why” of Barbourville... .. Following completion
of my training, I opened my office for practice in Boston and was
doing quite well. At least I didn’t have to take in any further my
already well-tightened belt. Then one day while visiting Logan
Airport, I very suddenly contracted an incurable disease — the

flying bug. This can be bad! And, if you are not careful, it will
take you all over the world. Thus, Barbourville, in remote south-
eastern Kentucky, provides an inspiration and incentive for my
professional work and a place where one can fly around the vear
and around the compass as well.

The incurable disease, strange as it may scem, is now paving
dividends. As a commercial and instrument pilot, I find myself on
occasion, when the work schedule permits, taking passengers to
Chicago, Washington, Miami and even to remote Boston. The
bonanza has provided in the course of years inexpensive vacations
— from Lake Louise to Prince Edward Island, from Acapulco to
San Salvador, and island-hopping throughout the Caribbean. Being
our own pilot, navigator and travel agency has made these trips for
Theo and me something more than a camera bug's jaunt or a skin-
diving expedition.

I might add one dubious accomplishment — my barbecued chick-
en on the electric spit, which, I must admit, docs most of the work.
Having burned up only one basting brush, one pot holder, and
three chickens to date, may I extend an invitation to drop by far

my gourmet’s delight.

[ 1319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

SIGMUND ROBERT SOMMERS

  

to op _ an Soa
HOME appreEss: Hooper Drive, Selma, Ala.; P.O. Box 466, Selma, Ala. (mail).
BORN: Jan. 3, 1915, Cincinnati, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Selma High School, Selma, Ala.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.
marrieD: Lucy Rountree (Randolph-Macon Woman’s Coll., ’45), July 7, 1950,
Selma, Ala. cHitpren: Doris Jeannette, May 2, 1952; Sigmund Robert, Jr,
Jan. 14, 1954 (died Oct. 15, 1955); Lucy Corinne, May 29, 1956; David
Rountree, March 14, 1958.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Alexander Sommers, Jr., ’43; William Tarver Roun-
tree, Jr., 52 (brother-in-law).
occupation: Farmer; insurance agent, Travelers Insurance Company, life and
accident insurance. .
oFFices HELD: Member, Municipal Council, City of Selma, two years; member,
board of directors, Y.M.C.A., twelve years; chairman, Selma and Dallas
County Chapter, March of Dimes, ten years; chairman, board of trustees,
Carnegie Library, thirteen years; member, Dallas County Democratic
Executive Committee.
MEMBER OF: National Geographic Society; Selma Post and Paris, France, Post

No, 1, American Legion; Selma Lodge, B.P.O.E.; Selma Post, V.F.W.

I’M not so sure that I could graduate from Fair Harvard today, as
the main intellectual attribute I possessed was only common sense,
so I guess 1936 was a lucky year in my life. I understand scientists
are busily at work on an oral common sense pill to combat worry
and ivy towerism.

The next lucky year in my life was 1941. In that year I won
the draft, serving five years in the Army, starting as a private and
coming up through the ranks to warrant officer. I was privileged
to be physically fit and able to serve my country. I do not regret
a minute of my time in service.

The next lucky year was 1950 when I was married. Iam a family
man believing that the family is the basic unit of society. Too many

[ 1320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

people rely on the church and the school to rear their children in-
stead of doing the job themselves. My wife's people are farmers andl
I joined in farming our fine black belt land. The country folk in
my section are some of our most solid and God-fearing cinzenry.
Since then I have made one of the most important decimens in
my life in being baptized and joining my wife's faith, the Bapas
Church. Children should not have divided loyalties, and a farmuly
that worships together stays together. The world conflict taday os
between the comparative few who believe in God and the compara-

tive many who believe in no God.
I am a Democrat and intend to vote for Kennedy. The Repub-

licans have never done anything for our beloved South or for the

farmers. A man who can write the book, Profiles in Courage, and

has such a distinguished war record as does Kennedy is certainly
great and loyal American. We'need great minds and leadership
desperately. No candidate can win elections without some support
of labor and minority groups. No president can effect big changes
unless a majority of people are in accord.

So this brings your classmate, who majored in English literature,
to the present. I am spending my time raising my children and
raising commodities and livestock on the farm. We produce cotton,
corn, soybeans, oats, hay, cattle, hogs — and bird dogs for revrea-
tion. I haven’t perfected a good golf ball as yet.

The second half of the twentieth century truly belongs to the
South and I’m glad to have a part in making my city and section
a better place in which to live. Selma is located about go miles
from Birmingham, 45 miles from Montgomery, 175 miles from Pen
sacola and the Gulf Coast, 225 miles from Atlanta and 325 mules from

New Orleans. Passports are not necessary when traveling south.

Stop by to see me.

[1328]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

NORMAN JOSEPH SONDHEIM

|
i

4

ao

      
 

OO goes ‘y

y
"

 

HOME ADDRESS: 544 Ford Ave., Kingston, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: I riangle Shoe Co., Inc., P.O. Box 1391, Kingston, Pa.

BORN: May 9, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1036. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1939.

MarRIED: Evelyn Weiss, Dec. 18, 1940, Philadelphia, Pa. cutLpreN: Alan Eliot,
Feb. 3, 1943; Marjorie Joan, Feb. 27, 1947; Mark Weiss, Feb. 23, 1950.

occupation: Vice-president, merchandising, Triangle Shoe Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president Harvard Club of Northeastern Pennsylvania.

MEMBER OF: Fox Hill Country Club; Irem Temple Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Poems of William Kelly.

THE last twenty-five years have been fairly good to me. After
graduating from the Law School, I practiced for a year in Boston,
married, and went into my wife’s family business, a chain of shoe
stores with headquarters in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.

During the war, I was attached to a rather fascinating branch
of the Army, the Topographic Engineers. We were in the Pacific
area, and among other things, accurately mapped the Inchon and
Seoul regions. These maps must have been useful to MacArthur
a few years later. Incidentally, it took us 52 days to sail from
Seattle to Okinawa. I believe this is some sort of a record.

After the fighting had ceased, I enjoyed teaching courses in
political science and introductory law to Army personnel in Korea.

Since then I have lived in Kingston, a suburb of Wilkes-Barre,
built a modern home, accumulated a respectable library, and had
two more children.

The business has successfully weathered an economical year that
tends towards monopoly and merger. My wife has been far more
active than I in community activities. For the last three years she

[1322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

has devoted her time and effort to establishinent of a werkstuy tt
retarded children. During that time, the budyct went froin § goer ee
to $41,000.00, indicating the extent of her accomplishment,

My chief outside activities have been related to Plarvard Nt
present, I am vice-president of the local Harvard Club. and ares
chairman of the Harvard Fund. Ironically enough, my chler win
is now a freshman at Brown, and seems to be enjosiny at

the younger will still end up at Cambridge.
I do quite a bit of reading, ranging from Sir Thomas Pieces oe

to Schlesinger’s Age of Roosevelt. Golf, bridge. and bstemmns te
music are Other interests. I am now trying to fivure out the en
tricacies of the Roman Club system, and twelve-tone mic,

In general, I suppose my views tend toward the conmservarive
although far to the left of Senator Goldwater. They have char-ce.t
very little since College.

On thinking back over the last twenty-five Vearn, one thing ree
impresses me — and that is how greatly indebted Lam te Blary nd
My four years there have brought me an enrichment of bfe whoa ts
I appreciate in one form or another almost every dav.

Pert i

ROBERT ROGERS SPAULDING

pe PPR we

a
sae nat til

tan ober

 

HOME AppkESS: 1650 Lakehurst Ave, Winter Park, Bla.

BORN: Feb. 21, 1912, Weston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Chauncy Hall School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-193f.

markigeo: Ann McLean Brown,
Grace, Feb. to, rogi; Ann Stephen, Nov. A naan chet a.

ee

May 14, Oe Orlarncber, bis Pho eee

adopted).
OCCUPATION: Retired,

[9323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

AFTER college I spent several years at apprentice training in a
textile machinery manufacturing plant in Providence, Rhode Island.
Then into the Army for five years, three years overseas in combat
zone, minor decorations for minor injuries and things. After the
war, back to Providence again (Universal Winding Company, now
“Leesona”) where I made progress as a junior executive in various
phases of management. A short spring vacation in Florida resulted
in my getting married, buying a home there, and retiring from busi-
ness. Since then it has been an active life in a leisurely way. I have
been involved in several business operations, but now only do occa-
sional consultant work in engineering. Always during the past
twenty-five years, I have had interests to keep me occupied: shoot-
ing, boating, fishing, amateur radio, music, home work shop, etc.
I instinctively avoid athletic sports. Now with the children about
through school, maybe we shall add more extensive traveling to
the above list.

77

MANES SPECTER

;

 

HOME AporEss: 3510 Weller Rd., Wheaton, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration, Washington, D.C.

BORN: June 13, 1916, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1936, A.M., 1938;
PHD., 1940.

mareiep: Ida Zax, Jan. 17, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. cumpren: Gerald Alan,
Feb. 24, 1944; Linda Karen, April 30, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Personnel management.

orFices HELD: Director, Career Development Service, U.S. Veterans Adminis-
tration.

A RUEFUL glance at the proof of my 25th yearbook picture con-
[ 1324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vinces me I am justified in writing that the following statement qan

be attributed to a weighty Washington source.

Whoever said, “Ah, what a tangled web we weave, ctu.” shed
have tried his hand at wndeceiving — then he wouldn't have been
so satisfied with his original line. At any rate, TP find ditheule che
“undeceiving” involved, in writing an autobiography of twenty.

five years.
The facts are simple and unspectacular enough: four vears of

graduate schoo!—a Ph.D. in 1940—a beginning in the Fevdlecal
Civil Service in 1941 —a happy marriage in 194: — three veare
army service, mostly in the febrile super-graduate school atrnenphere
of the Research and Analysis Branch of OSS — a return ta the bed.
eral Civil Service in 1946, and a reasonable rate of awent te tv
present position, Director of Service, in the Veterans Adiunistra-
tion, where I now inhabit the topmost of the regular carcer (we
hope!) echelons, that day in, day out, come one adminitranen of
the other, keep the machinery of government going. Along the was
I have acquired, in separate fits of present-nmundednes a son and a
daughter, both highly diverting to their “square” parent. My ci
activities — including at one time, such an improbable asizniment as
Cubmaster for a pack of Cub Scouts — are of such modest unpor-
tance that it would be immodest of me to imply that [am ented
to be modest about them. You follow?

TI am still an avid reader, an unrepentant punster and a continually
delighted spectator of the doings of the human species not exe hates
at least consciously, myself. Above the dedication, characternte of
all us’n civil servants — for so we are often asured during election
years — I have a more or less secret personal mission: to try to know k
some of the stuffiness out of the government organizations in which
I find myself. It’s a tough fight. Iam not alone, but [am detinitely
in a small minority. Perhaps we need a movement to make the world
safe for those who would like to take their work scnousts. but ne
themselves. Maybe such people ought to be protected, hie the
whooping crane. But this is probably sheer sclf-seching, hc |
as philanthropy.

The instructions for our class biography rather neply thar ea
of us ought to emulate the Ancient Mariner amd tell the wtotesee
world what he has learned from all that has happened te hen Woo ae
a pity it is that the personal truths one so painfully acqoires aes oe

dificult to communicate to others! Te is alinose Eiipenotle poe ts

[ 1325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

sound fatuous and naive when putting them down in writing. None-
theless I will essay the task:

Truth (for me) number one: the individual human being has, at
almost every point in his life, vast and capricious capacities for both
good and evil, Truth number two: chance plays for all of us a role
so large that we dare not accurately assess its real significance, lest
we be unable to proceed with the solemn mummery of our rational
approach to life.

Come to think of it, some of our professors hinted, back in 1932-
36, that this was the way the world was. At most, however, I “under-

stood” them only at the intellectual level. The visceral feel for these
truths comes only with experience!

OSCAR SPINNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Gay St., Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Stratford Coat Co., 105 Chauncy St., Boston, Mass.
BoRN: June 1, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1933, 1934-1937. DEGREE! A.B., 1936(37).

MARRiED: Natalie Neiman, June 19, 1938, Sharon, Mass. cuitpren: Joan, March
30, 1941; Robert Alan, Sept. 24, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Owner and executive-sales, women’s coats manufacturer.
OFFICES HELD: President, Boston Coat & Suit Manufacturers Association, 1953-
57>

TWENTY-FIVE years? It seems almost like yesterday. I rermem-
ber how, in May, 1937, I decided against a career in medicine after
having been admitted to Boston University Medical School. Instead,
I chose to join my father in trying to build up a small business,
manufacturing women’s coats, which served the New England area

[ 1326 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
principally. (Besides, my older brother was a doctor and one m the

family might be enough.)
I started in the sales end of the business, traveling with my line

to the retailers. Those first years were very difficult as the national
economy and the industry both reflected the hard tumey whaeh
were prevalent. Nevertheless, bolstered by the hope chat diliyerns
application would bring its own reward, I managed to weather the
stormy climate and learn the basic facts of hfe in all phases of the
business, including a great deal of the technical inside factory werk.

During this period, I got married and was fortunate cnourh te
have a daughter — now a junior at the Boston Univeruty School
of Education — and a son, now completing his junior year at New.
ton High School. The years really rolled by fase, with cach suc.
ceeding one adding to my acquisition of the tangibles i in hfe av well
as giving me a more seasoned philosophical outlook as to whar
makes for the happy medium in living. Now, | am the ewner of
my firm and the work really keeps me hopping.

I have thumbed through the pages of previous 19346 Claw Reports
to try to recall a face through a familiar name, Unfortunately, onds
a few of the thousand or so classmates have bumped Into me in the
intervening years. I realize the fault is mostly mine since, for one
reason or another, I haven’t attended any Reunions. But now that
the 25th is at hand — wow! —can I make up for lost time? ETL

FRIENDS!

ERNEST RICHARD SPINNEY

 

AE appress: 14 Assabet Ave, West Concord, Mase
ice Appress: H. F. Eastman Co, Inc. 94g Great Plier eve. Neetine ye,

Mass.
(1327 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Probably, like a great many others, we feel we could, if we could
persuade those in responsible positions to listen to us, provide good
advice in the building of a peaceful and friendly world community.
At the same time we are sure we must remain with the millions
who must try to be content with working in the local community
and hoping to vote intelligently at state and national levels.

HENRY BANCROFT SPRAGUE, JR.

 

HOME ApbREsS: Cartbridge Road, Weston, Conn.

orrice appress: Bigelow-Sanford, Inc., 140 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: March 25, 1914, Walpole, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MarrieD: Virginia Campbell, Nov. 25, 1939, Bronxville, N.Y. cumpren: Henry
Bancroft, 3d, Oct. 3, 1941; Susan Campbell, Sept. 4, 1943.

occupATION: Assistant to director of sales, Bigelow-Sanford, Inc., manufacturer
of soft floor coverings.

MEMBER OF: Cedar Point Yacht Club; The Corinthians,

IT has been twenty-seven rather than twenty-five years since my
departure from Cambridge. Financial problems and the loss of my
father sent me into the business world in 1934, so that I lost two
of the best years of college life. 1 suppose, if I had it to do all over
again, I'd have returned two years later when I was in a position to
do so and get my degree, but that is the hindsight of age, experience
and maturity.

There isn’t really anything outstanding or of world-shaking im-
portance that seems to have happened over the years that hasn’t
happened to most everybody else. I’m grateful for the blessing of
good health for my family and me and although the years have
slowed me up a bit, I can still do most of the physical things I like to

[ 1330 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
do that make demands on me. Admittedly, it takes longer te put ep
the storm windows. I let others muzzle the venoa, ina Gaulf Sere arn
squall, on the way to Bermuda, and I weave down a shi hill instead
of schussing it. But the knowledge these things can soll be done n
satisfying!

Twenty-seven years later, the same firm I went with inv aut
still finds me agreeable and vice versa. The carpet industry rent
the fastest-growing industry in the world, but it has provuled an
adequate if not spectacular living. If there is sall an indusery bets
twenty-five years from now, assuming [I'm still around, P suppese
it will find me still at it. It’s a strange thing, but once started uit,
few ever seem to break away from it.

Having just shipped my son off to the University of Colorada,
as a freshman, after going through the throes of sclectiny a colleye
(he wasn’t enough of a “brain” to make Harvard), Pve come fie
to face with the highly competitive aspects of education txtay, It
seems a shame that the better eastern colleges have had to pu ‘augh
competitive emphasis on academic requirements that the avcrace
student who lives in the East has nary a chance. [Twas appated te
learn, from a trustee of a certain school, of instances where students
had actually misinformed fellow students who requested he! i. five
fear of improving the fellow student’s competinve powoon. ttn
alarming to think that competition has become so keen that the
exchange of learning among students ts being sufled. however remote
these instances may be. W hat will happen in the vears ahest
when facilities for higher education shrink further in relaged ts
needs and demands?

Not only have I stayed put where my vocation is concerned, but
the same is true of my place of living. We live in an old house ey
Weston, Connecticut, a small community well out in the Gounresy
It seems ridiculous to spend three hours a day commutes ta Ness
York City, but my wife and I are allergic to cave dluciiew asd
crowds as a steady diet. Both of us scem to be conrumy as
mersed in the minutiae of small community lite, To seme at tote
not be challenging enough, but we are contented with at, ,

What the future has in store is of more concern te me thia es
past. That is why this report has been so ditheule foe ine pe weos
There is so much to do and so little time to do at an, thie Cuye te
effort on the past seems to be a major etfore Ef | be bee
twenty-five years, T may have become semle enon.
dwelling more on what has gone before and be able tere can

[1330]

tres og:
"fy

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

past in a much more vivid and illuminating manner. By that time
there probably won't be much else to do anyway!

OTHO SYLVESTER ARNOLD SPRAGUE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 9641 S. Ewing Ave., Chicago, Il.

WILLIAM WALLACE SPRAGUE

   
 

eee ee 0 ERO NOE I

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1377 Main St. Newington 11, Conn.

oFKice appress: Howard, Kohn, Sprague & FitzGerald, 229 Buckingham St.
Hartford, Conn,

Born: Dec. 6, 1913, St. Johnsbury, Vt.

PREPARED AT: St. Johnsbury Academy, St. Johnsbury, Vt.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B. (Hartford Coll. of
Law’), 1939.

Marriep: Julia Ingraham Rankin, March 21, 1947, West Hartford, Conn.

CHILDREN: Pauline Elisabeth, June 4, 1949, Margaret Mather, May 13, 19523
Julia Ann, Aug. 7, 1957.

{ 1332 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Newington Board of E.ducation, tog1-¢8, deputy yar ge.

Newington Town Court, 1953~55; treasurer, Connecticut Asocuten of
Boards of Education, 1956-58; deacon, Newington Congreganenal Church,
since 1956; town attorney, Town of Newington, since 1944.

MEMBER OF: Connecticut Citizens for the Public Schools (director), Armerw an,

Connecticut and Hartford County Bar Associations.
THE pursuit of law, undertaken without any great sense of mu.
sion, has been increasingly demanding and rewarding, despite in-
terruptions. I had scarcely graduated from law school when the
draft claimed me, and for the next five years I was assigned non-
combat duties in various parts of the western hemisphere with the
Infantry, Adjutant General’s Department, WAAC's (*!), Miltary
Police, Transportation Corps, Quartermaster Corps, and Judye
Advocate General’s Department. Due to an old-fashioned notion
that marriage carried with it the obligation of support, TP became
what the educational fraternity calls a “slow starter.” The wait
was well worth it. I am increasingly amazed at my good fortune
in my family
Professional and family responsibilities have linuted travel (se far)
to the Northeast and Quebec. The last few vears, P've cnjoved
some excellent fly fishing in the Laurentide Park (Quebec), intre-
quent golf, and occasionally sitting in with a small brass band called
the “Hartford Hospital Saints” (mostly doctors) organized bv John
B. Wells, Yale ’36. Looking ahead, I feel that an intelligent and
active interest in our educational system, our political OFgaNi zations,
and our religious life is essential to our well-being and the future
of our country. More immediately, if any of my expericneed clas:
mates and fathers have licked the problem of admission to colleve
and the financing thereof, I'd appreciate a hint.

(1333 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

** ROBERT ANTON SPURR

 

porN: March 23, 1913, Lansdowne, Pa. parents: Josiah Edward Spurr, ’93,
Sophie Burchard.

preparen AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREES: A.B. (Rollins Coll.), 1936; s.B. (ibid.),
1937; PH.D. (California Inst. of Technology), 1942.

marrieD: Elizabeth Jean Snider, June 5, 1943, Lakewood, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Stephen Josiah, Oct. 16, 1944; David Anton, April 15, 1949; Sophie Louise,
June 27, 1951; Sarah Elizabeth, July 15, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Alfred Spurr, ’25, M.B.A., 28.

pgp: June 18, 1959, Long Beach, Calif.

wwow: Mrs. Robert A. Spurr, 2725 Via LaSelva, Palos Verdes Estates, Calif.

FOLLOWING graduation from Rollins with two degrees and a
year of graduate work in chemistry at Harvard during 1937-38,
Spurr transferred to the California Institute of Technology where,
as recipient of the Henry Lawes Fellowship, he completed his doc-
torate in physical chemistry under Dr. Linus Pauling in 1942. For
the next three years he served first as research chemist and later as
research physicist with the National Advisory Committee for Aero-
nautics doing research on fuels and lubricants, aerodynamic theory
and rocket trajectories.

In 1946, after a year of teaching at Pasadena College, he moved
his family to Honolulu where he taught and later served as acting
department chairman at the University of Hawaii. Again in 1948,
he moved to Princeton to teach as a visiting assistant professor of
chemistry. Late in 1949, he moved to the University of Maryland
where he remained for five years, teaching and continuing research
in infrared and Raman spectroscopy. During this period, he also
served as a consultant for the Army Chemical Center and the Naval

Research Laboratory at Anacostia.

[ 1334 ]

_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFE.PORT

In 1955 he accepted an offer from the Hughes Aircraft Compans
to work as senior research chemist, sold his Maryland house amd
moved to Palos Verdes Estates, California. Besides carrying on a
fundamental research program, he served on the hbrary. anub-m
education, M.S. program and research seminar committees of the
Hughes Research Laboratories, being transferred to the executive
payroll shortly before his death from brain cancer in 196g. Ue keft
unfinished a major work on infrared and Raman spectroscopy. He
was survived by his wife and children.

GEORGE SAMPSON SQUIBB, JR.

 

HOME appress: 3 Cedar Island, Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. R. Squibb & Sons, 745 Fifth Ave, New York 22, N.Y.
BORN: Jan. 4, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; tim. (New York Unruv,

1953.
MARRIED: Ida Roy Ellerson, Sept. 18, 1937, Richmond, Va. cnitnars George

Sampson, 3d, Feb. 16, 1939; Colin McRae, April 4 toqgi, Mary Py Maes
24, 1948; John E., Aug. 7, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stephen Harris Squibb, "40.

occupation: Director of sales, E. R. Squibb & Sons; manufacturers ef phar.

maceuticals and household medicinal products,

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Harvard Club of New York. Dark:
mont Yacht Club; Saunderstown (R.1.) Yache Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous specches and papers published in many wate and
national pharmaceutical trade journals, on subjcets pertaining to pharrces y
and the distribution of drug products.

LOOKING back over twenty-five years brings one thir sharply
into focus — the very rapid passing of tine and the feeliy thst tr
absolutely impossible to do everything, of even a major share of

[ 1335 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

things that one would like to do in family life or in business, A
recitation of activity since leaving college only makes the realization
even more painful that it’s already too late for a lot of the plans
that once seemed simple and readily achieved. Nonetheless, the
years for me have been most busy and happy.

For almost twenty-five years I have been engaged in many and
various assignments for E. R. Squibb & Sons, for which I am pres-
ently director of sales. Working for a large and internationally
known pharmaceutical house has brought exciting and rewarding
experiences: a lot of travel, many friends wherever Squibb products
are used around the world, and real satisfaction in whatever small
contribution might have been made to the health and comfort of
many people. Recent publicity to the contrary notwithstanding,
the drug business and those engaged in it have a deep sense of
responsibility for the quality of their products and for the need of
constant forward progress in the availability and efficacy of drugs
—enough about business.

A lovely wife and four fine children are certainly the outstanding
blessings of the last twenty-five years. Our elder son is now in the
Navy for his service requirements, and the younger boy is six and
just starting his scholastic career. Our elder daughter is a junior at
Radcliffe, and the younger a budding teen-ager at Rye Country
Day School. We live on the waters of Long Island Sound in Larch-
mont and our location sets the theme for most of our family activi-
ties. We have been lucky to vacation in many places, and we all
have the feeling that life in the West might have just as much to
offer, if we could give it a chance. However, we seem to be set
firmly in the New York area and find it good. Plans for the future,
as the family grows up and away from home, can hopefully be
directed along the lines already set, for beyond that no one can tell
what the next years can bring to all of us.

[ 1336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAUL ROLAND SROLE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2639 Colby Drive, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

+ CHARLES HAROLD STANTON

 

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Sanford Neaneon, § rhef
Emma Butchart.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School for Boys, Newton, Maw

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1933:

pieD: Dec. 22, 1932, Cambridge, NLass.

CHARLES HAROLD STANTON was in the freshman vear with

our Class when he was killed in an automobile acenlent. Tle was
survived by his father.

[ 1337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANCIS HAYWARD STANTON

  

HOME ApprEss: Mill Pond Court, Cos Cob, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1674 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

Born: Dec. 27, 1913, Norway, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Mlount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MarrigpD: Rosemary Ruth Brown, April 3, 1945, Surrey, England. cHILpREN:
Victoria Anne, Dec. 29, 1945; John Locke, Sept. 14, 1949; Robert Chamber-
lain, March 27, 1953; David Brown, June 15, 1956; Rebecca Louise, July 12,
1959.

occuPATION: Songwriter; music publisher.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers.
PUBLICATIONS: Several hundred songs.

WHEN I was an undergraduate I decided, for some inexplicable
reason, to become a songwriter. So I went to New York in 1936
expecting it might take a year or two before I hit it big. In four
years, I had three songs published, the first one earning $1.87. Mean-
while, I worked at various other jobs for a living. In 1941 I decided
to publish my songs myself. My first one made the Hit Parade in
a few weeks, so I thought I] was on my way.

Then came the war. While stationed overseas attached to the
British Intelligence Corps, I met an English Wren whom I persuaded
to marry me. We had been married only two weeks when I lost
all my money (§73) in a poker game, but I soon earned that back
by pressing uniforms in my outfit. My bride, seeing such industry,
forgave me and our marriage survived and we now have five fas-
cinating (to us) children of all ages and sexes, Our marriage also
survived a 9,o00-mile motor trip to California, Florida, etc., with
four of our children and two in-laws, eight people in all in a two-
door car. In fact, we had a ball!

[ 1338 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD STARR

 

HOME ADDRESS: §27 35th St., S.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Collins Radio Co., Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1914, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marriep: Mildred Gullickson, July 11, 1943, Colman, S. Dak. cHmpren: Alan
Kenneth, May 16, 1945; Pamela Joy, July 14, 1949; Karl Richard, Sept.
28, 1956.

occupation: Apprentice quality control engineer, Collins Radio Company,
electronics research, development and manufacture.

AFTER spending eight years as an inspector for the American
Television & Radio Company, I joined Collins Radio Company as a
junior industrial engineer. We moved to a city of less than 100,000,
sixty miles from any larger concentration of people, to be away
from a probable target area in case of another major war. If many
people in the metropolitan areas moved to small towns, there would
be much less temptation for an enemy to attack us. Collins Radio
Company buildings are mainly in a good residential district or out-
side the city, so I have only a short drive to work.

Four of us in this family suffer from hay fever, so I think the
government should pay the farmers to destroy all allergenic weeds,
instead of raising surplus crops.

I’m convinced that a temporary increase in immigration would
solve our farm problem. We should stock-pile more strategic mate-
rials that are stored more economically than food.

We are stockholders in Private Enterprise, Inc., which forms
partnerships with small-business men in South Asia, Africa and
Latin America to demonstrate the advantages of free enterprise.

[ 1340 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

State Hospital, | became chief of medicine in 1959. The previous
year I had become head of the diabetes clinic at the Beth Israel,
where I had been a Ward Visit for some years.

I married in 1935 and my two children are now nineteen and
fifteen, respectively. My son does not yet know what he wants to
do and my daughter wants to be a nurse. By and large, we all have
a pretty good time together. The stimulus of growing children led
me to affiliate with a Reform Temple and for five years I was chair-
man of the Religious School Committee. At various times I became
interested in plug-casting, rock gardening and oil painting. At all
times I have continued to read outside my professional field, par-
ticularly in economics, history and philosophy.

As time has passed I have become less “liberal” and more humani-
tarian. I don’t know what modern liberals are, although from time
to time I manage to find unflattering adjectives for them. I think
that modern liberalism is utopian and fuzzy and that its objectives
involve the loss of values which have taken many centuries to
evolve. I try to avoid making value judgments about the world in
general. The universe is neither good nor bad, it just is. Good and
bad are subjective judgments. I think people should try to be
“good” according to their inner needs. In this sense both liberals
and conservatives are “good,” even though their social and political
philosophies are poles apart. Before the atom bomb, I would have
said that the world could survive either group, but now I am not so
certain. I can’t help but think of the bear who tried to rid his sleep-
ing master of a bothersome fly.

Well, there you have it. As a member of the Class of 1936 who
spent less than one semester at Harvard, I don’t know whether I
deserve a place in your Class Report. On the basis of this brief and
unhappy experience, I wouldn’t want a place in it. But serving on
the medical faculty since 1942 has been a much more happy and
fruitful experience which makes me think that perhaps I should be
included.

[ 1342 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

WILLIAM REED STECKFL

 

HOME ADpRESs: 1516 Sheridan St., Laramie, Wyo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of History, Univ, of Wyoming, Laramie, Woe,
BORN: Feb. 11, 1915, Doylestown, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1934, A.M. 190%, Pe tNe ended

YEARS IN COLLEGE:
Univ.), 1949.
MARRIED: Veva Jane Haehl, July 2, 1941, Palo Alea, Cabsf. cove Wal can

Burrell, Jan. 17, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Professor of history and American studies.

OFFICES HELD: Member, national council, president, Rocky Mountaa Chopeer
American Studies Association, 1956-57; Fulbright lecturct, Cawthe Uns
versity, Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany, t9s6-¢7; preudent, Univeruty od
Wyoming Chapter, American Association of Univeruty Profeseury yi
59; member, executive council, Pacific Coase Branch, Amerwan Pbsenen ol
Association, 1960-62, City Council, Laranc, Wroming, tye 4.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Profewers, Ameria ple
torical Association; Mississippi Valley Hlistorwal Awewistwwr, Arwen ot

Studies Association.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles and book reviews on American hivtory,

[ +343]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FERDINAND REIS STENT

  

HOME ApDRESS: 840 Seabury Rd., Hillsborough, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crocker-Anglo National Bank, 1 Montgomery St. San Fran-
cisco, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1913, San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

marrieD: Yvonne Thieriot, Sept. 21, 1938, San Francisco, Calif. cHpren;
Ferdinand T., 1940; Peter D., 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ernest Stent, '29, MBA, 32.

occupation: Vice-president, Crocker-Anglo National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, San Francisco Red Cross, 1947-56, Guide Dogs for
the Blind; vice-chairman, 1956-59, chairman, since 1959, Red Cross; vice-
chairman, United Crusade, since 1958

MEMBER OF: Burlingame Country Club, Burlingame, Calif.; Pacific Union
Club, San Francisco, Cypress Point Club, Pebble Beach, Calif.

IT took twenty-two years to get to Harvard and out of it, and
since then, twenty-five years have gone by. I started a banking
career in 1936 and am still at it. During these years I gained a wife,
two sons, four nephews (who live with us), a home in Hillsborough,
several dogs and a forty-two-inch waist.

I spent three years in the Marine Corps in World War II and
retired as a second lieutenant. Since then my family, banking
career, golf, shooting and a smattering of civic affairs have taken
up my time. At one point politics had a slight fascination, but when
I examined more closely some of the characters who would have
been my bed-fellows, I hastily gave up this idea.

[ 1344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS WETHERELL STEPTOFR

 

HOME ADDREsS: 505 S. Mildred St., Charles Town, W.Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Avey & Steptoe, Sadler Bldg., Charles Town, W.Va.

porn: March 23, 1914, Clarksburg, W.Va.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1936. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1936; t1.a. (Univ. of
Virginia), 1939.

marRIED: Margaret Leonard Crane, Sept. 9, 1946, Charles Town, W.Va.
CHILDREN: Sara Crane, Dec. 21, 1947; Thomas Wethercll, Jr, Apel 24.

1951.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, US. Ceramic Tile Company,
Jefferson County Chamber of Commerce, Children’s Home Sooty of
West Virginia, several civic clubs, etc.

MEMBER OF: American, West Virginia, Berkeley County and Jcfferon County
Bar Associations; Martinsburg Golf and Country Club (director),

ATTENDED University of Virginia Law School, 1936 to gin
graduating with LL.B. Attorney, practising with Steptoe & John-
son, Clarksburg and Charleston, West Virginia, 1939 to ig4t.

Drafted in U.S. Army, June, 1941; left service, December, tyyt.
as major, M.I. or C.A.C. Service in C.I.C. (MLL) for most part, in
U.S. and India (about two years), also in North Africa, Burma,
China and Thailand. Commissioned in Anti-Aircraft, Camp Daves
North Carolina, December, 1942. Attorney, practinng with Steptoe
& Johnson, Charleston, West Virginia, 1946 to 1953. Attorneys,
practising in Martinsburg, West Virginia, 1933 to tygg. Partner
in Avey & Steptoe, attorneys, practising law in’ Martinsburg and
Charles Town, West Virginia, since 1955.

Am affiliated with Zion Episcopal Church, Charles Town, Denn
cratic registration, but not active in politics, Hobbies — travel, gull,

fishing.
[1345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MAURICE MAYER STERN

Fo rename Renee Ay

S

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2226 Chestnut St., New Orleans, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: James W. Smither & Sons, General Agents, 300 California Com-
pany Bldg., New Orleans 12, La.

BORN: June 27, 1916, New Orleans, La.

PREPARED AT: New Orleans Academy, New Orleans, La.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1936; c.L.uU. (American
Coll. of Life Underwriters), 1952. :

MarrizeD: June Barkerding, Nov. 2, 1946, New Orleans, La. cHtLpren: Char-
lotte Josephine, June 19, 1949; Deborah, April 25, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: S. Walter Stern, Jr., 35, M.B.A.. 37-

occupation: Agent, Union Central Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1942, president, 1951-54, Kingsley House and
New Orleans Day Nursery Association; director, Community Chest, 1949-
52, New Orleans Chapter, American Red Cross, since 1957, New Orleans
Association for Retarded Children, 1957-60, New Orleans Speech & Hear-
ing Center, since 1957, Russell Holman Vocational Center for Retarded
Girls, since 1960; director, 1952-55, president, 1955, Children’s Bureau;
director, 1954-57, treasurer, 1957, United Fund, member, Advisory Commit-
tee to Orleans Parish Juvenile Court, 1955-60; president, New Orleans As-
sociation of American Society of Chartered Life Underwriters, 1955-575
chairman, Professional Division, 1956, 1957, Special Donors Division, 1961,
United Fund Campaigns; member, United Fund Budget Committee, since
1958; member Board of Lay Regents, Xavier University of Louisiana, since
1959; vice-president, Building Fund Campaign, Sara Mayo Hospital, 1958.

MEMBER OF: New Orleans Country Club; New Orleans Lawn Tennis Club;,
International House; Chamber of Commerce.

THE significant phase of my business career began in January, 1948,
when I entered the life insurance business. I have rarely regretted
this decision. It almost seems that my formal education began at
this rather belated date. Three months during my first year in life
insurance were spent at the Institute of Insurance Marketing at
Southern Methodist University. This was followed by intensive

[ 1346 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

study for the C.L.U. designation achieved in 1952. I spent ten days,
both last summer and the previous one, on the beautiful campus of
the University of Wisconsin at the Chartered Life Underwriter In-
stitute conducted at this university.

As to my family, I am completely outnumbered, having one wife
and two daughters. My travels have been varied although not too
extensive, with the highlight anticipated for this summer when we
plan to rent a house in Majorca along with the family of a Yale man.

My war record was glamorous — 4F. My main hobbies are play-
ing bridge and tennis. I have during the past few years gone to a
few bridge tournaments, although my preference ordinarily, as re-
spects tournament bridge, is to stay home with the children while
my wife goes after the master points. A large part of both my
leisure and non-leisure time in recent years has been devoted to
activities which hopefully lead toward community betterment.

I have little of significance to state as to my social, political or
religious convictions except that in the deep South I am often
considered an extreme liberal. This is the equivalent of a middle-of-
the-roader in many other areas.

S

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1920 N. Quintana Sr, Arlington 5, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission, Seventh
and D Streets, S.W., Washington 25, D.C.

BoRN: April g, 1915, Nashua, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Encter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREFS: A.B, 1936; s.M. (Univ. of Chicago),
1939-

MarrieD: Jane Payson, Oct. 6, 1945, London, Fogland, catores: Lawrence

[ 1347 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Nye, 2d, Sept. 26, 1940; Karen, Sept. 13, 1942 (both by previous Marriage);
Judith, Nov. 23, 1946; Eric Payson, Dec. 31, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Lawrence Nve Stevens, 2d, 62.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Isaac Blaine Stevens, 20; Philip Ellis Stevens, ’23; John
Bartlett Stevens, ’38, M.B.A., 40.

occupation: Deputy director for studies, Outdoor Recreation Resources Re-
view Commission (a special commission established by Congress).

SINCE the Twentieth Anniversary Report, I have continued to
work for the federal government in Washington and to live very
happily across the Potomac River in Arlington, Virginia. In May,
1957, | was appointed assistant director of the Technical Review
Staff, Office of the Secretary, Department of the Interior. I was in
that position until May, 1960, when I transferred to the Outdoor
Recreation Resources Review Commission staff, where I am deputy
director for studies. The Commission, consisting of eight members
of Congress and seven presidential appointees, was established by
Act of Congress in 1958. Its purpose is to make a nationwide in-
ventory of outdoor recreation resources, to forecast the need for
such resources in 1976 and 2000, and to recommend program and
policies to meet those needs. The Commission is to submit its report
to the President and the Congress in September, 1961.

HOWLAND BRADFORD STODDARD

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 204 Main St., Ellsworth, Maine.

BorN: May 22, 1912, New York, N.Y.

preparen at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

Marriep: Rose Fillmore, Aug. 16, 1947, Ellsworth, Maine (divorced 1957).
cto: Deborah, April 30, 19§2.

| 1348 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Christmas tree grower; president, Hancock Christmas Tree Com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Maine Christmas Tree Growers Association; treasurer,
Wawepex Society of Cold Spring Harbor.

MEMBER OF: St. Anthony Club, Amateur Comedy Club; Society of the Cin-
cinnati; St. Nicholas; Aztec; Colonial Wars; Sons of the Revolution;
Society of Mayflower Descendants, Wawepex Society.

AFTER graduation, I worked for the Atlantic Mutual Insurance

Company for four or five years, and had just become an under-

writer for them when I was called into the Army. Five, not par-

ticularly fruitful, years followed. I drifted through all sorts of
commands and units, and when separated I was inspector general
of the 35th Infantry Division.

After the war I returned to the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Com-
pany for two or three years, but found sitting at a desk day after
day too confining, so I came to Maine and entered the Christmas
tree business. As the Christmas tree business is quite seasonal, I find
time to hunt, fish and lumber a little, and rarely wear out more than
one pencil a year.

IRVING AVROM STONE

 

HOME ApprEss: 418 Moraine St., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Joseph Stone Cut Sole Co., 142 Crescent St, Brockton, Mass.
BORN: July 4, 1912, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., C071 latide, 1936.

marrieD: Pearl Elaine Berger, Oct. 20, 1938, Brookline, Mass. ceutparn:

Barbara Berger, Nov. 26, 1940; Nancy Butler, Aug. 17, 1943, Priscilla
Ann, July 15, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHER: Myron Kay Stone, ’37.

[ 1349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

occupation: President, general manager, Joseph Stone Cut Sole Company,
manufacturers of leather soles,

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1939, financial secretary, 1943-1956, Congregation
Israel; director, since 1943, treasurer, 1954-59, Brockton Orchestral Society.

JOHN MORGAN STRACHAN

    

HOME apprEss: Moor Close House, Otley Road, Killinghall, near Harrogate,
Yorkshire, England.

OFFICE appress: 13th U.S, Army Security Agency Field Station, APO 210, New
York, N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 16, 1915, Boston, Mass,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB, Cum laude, 1936.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Foss, July 4, 1942, Newburyport, Mass. CHILDREN: Bonnie
Fleming, Nov. 14, 1949; Wendy F., Jan. 29, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Leitch Strachan, Jr., 31, M.D., "35.

OccUPATION: Major, U.S. Army; station comptroller, Finance Corps.

oFFices HELD: Accountant, H. Hents & Company, 1938-39; accountant and

auditor, W. A. Muller & Company, 1946-50; U.S. Army, 1942-46, second
lieutenant, since September, 1950: Korean conflict, first lieutenant to cap-
tain; promoted to major in England.

1 CAN recall very vividly our graduation day and the presence of
the Class then celebrating their 25th Reunion. To me they seemed
unquestionably to be in the “sere and yellow leaf” of life. Now that
I have reached the same milestone, I felt it appropriate to knock off,
very briefly, the routine of my present assignment, and do a little
soul-searching. “That being one of life’s more unpleasant (and some-
times more unrewarding) occupations, it has taken me an uncon-
scionably long time to complete this questionnaire. End result: a
spate of telegrams and postcards.

The years after graduation were a hodgepodge of graduate work,

[ 1350}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

part-time jobs to get more money and then more graduate work.
When I received my own billet doux marked “Greetings” IT was
in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences nipping along nicely
in pursuit of a Ph.D. in economics. It was not to be. There followed
four years of service, all in the States and distinguished by only two
things: marriage in 1942, and a massive amount of hard work. I
applied for relief from active duty in early January, 1946, and
returned to Boston late that month. The next four years were as
alien to what had gone before as they proved to be to what came
after. Convinced that my future lay in the civilian world, and
conscious that its advancement — as with everyone else — had been
delayed by the war, I got on with the job. The recall to active duty
in September, 1950, was a genuine shocker at the time, but after a
bit it seemed as if I had never actually left the service. Eighteen
months in Korea with Headquarters Fighth Army and w ith the
Second Infantry Division, three and a half years in the Pentagon
with the comptroller of the Army, nine months of advanced school-
ing in Indiana and then to England in July, 1958. After two and
a half years in a little village in the West Riding, our two little girls
have Yorkshire accents beyond compare, American cars have come
to look like juggernauts and I am secretly nursing a dark desire to
purchase a bowler hat.

Never in my wildest dreams as an undergraduate, and I had some
that Walter Mitty would have contemplated with envy, did I figure
that I would become a career army officer. It has prov ed to be an
all- -absorbing profession, and once entered into, that is what one
must make it. It has meant much wandering, which for us initially
was a hardship, for we were not congenitally so inclined. Some of
our living accommodations deserved the description “coal bin with
curtains,” but that too passed away. The greatest hardship to a
dedicated family man is the enforced separations, but that too has
to be balanced with the very real advantages of travel, constant
change and variety in the scope and complexity of your job, where
and with whom you do it. Where we shall finally settle and attempt
to send down some roots is still in the future.

It remains hard for me to realize that twenty-five years have passed
by, but in reflecting on their passage and the life and experience
involved, I become even more convinced that my four years at
Harvard were not only memorable, but among the most significant
of my life. Nothing would please me more than to return next
June for the Reunion, to renew old friendships and to visit again

[1351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

scenes that can recall so many memories. Whether or not I can make

it depends as always on orders and to date I have never been able
to predict those successfully.

SUMNER IRWIN STRASHUN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 2615 Francisco Way, E] Cerrito, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Vacu-dry Co., 950 56th St., Oakland, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1915, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1936(38); s.M. (Univ. of Southern
California), 1948.

MARRIED: Claire M. Graves, Sept. 3, 1943, Denver, Colo. cHmtpREN: Edith Anne,
Sept. 25, 1948, Nelson Chandler, Feb. 27, 1950; Barbara Jane, Feb. 19, 1954.

occupation: Director of research, Vacu-dry Company, food processing.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant colonel, gqqist Air Reserve Squadron (2562d RVC),
Oakland, Calif.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Institute of Food Technologists;
Quartermaster Associates; Sigma Xi; Phi Lambda Upsilon.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers in Food Technology; about fifteen domestic
and foreign patents; seven different industrial preparedness reports for the
Quartermaster Corps on various research phases of food processing.

IN January, 1941, | entered the Medical Corps as a private, and in
February, 1942, transferred to O.C.S. Air Corps. After receiving
my commission, I taught photography at Lowry Field, Denver,
Colorado. Later, I served overseas as photo intelligence officer with
the zoth Air Force at Guam, moved on to photographic laboratory
commander of the 35th Photo Tech Unit, and finally wound up
as staff photo officer, also with the zoth Air Force. In May, 1946,
I was separated as major in the Air Force Reserve, I have retained
my interest in the Reserves and subsequently was promoted to
lieutenant colonel.

[ 1352]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After the war I obtained an S.M. degree at the University of
Southern California and immediately thereafter was employed as
a research chemist for the U.S.D.A. Western Regional Research
Laboratory. Here I developed a process for the dehydration of
orange juice into orange crystals. I then became afhliated with
Vacu-dry Company, first as a research chemist and then as chief
chemist. One of my first duties was to help design, construct and
operate a continuous vacuum, dehydrating plant for drying orange
juice. The plant was built in Florida near Tampa, and my family
still recalls with nostalgia the pleasant, challenging and rewarding
months spent there.

I returned to California where I became immersed in the problems
of fruit dehydration, plant expansions and administrative detail. 1
am currently director of research. My work requires me to travel
periodically between our other plants in California and Washington.
I usually give one paper a year on food processing before the In-

stitute of Food Technologists. My life is quite taken up with my
work, my family and my home. I don’t find much time for my
hobby, photography, now.

OLIVER HERBERT STRAUS

 

MAILING ADDRESS; 51 Pinckney St., Boston 14, Mass.

[ 1353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

+ JOHN ALEXANDER STRAUSS

 

porN: March 13, 1915, Nashville, Tenn. parents: Alexander Strauss, ’08, Agnes
Adelsdorf.

PREPARED aT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1936.
piep; March 16, 1938, Boston, Mass,

JOHN ALEXANDER STRAUSS graduated with our Class. While
at college he won several scholarships, was an editor of the Advocate,
associate editor of the Harvard Critic and a member of the Signet
Society. After graduation he continued his studies at the London
School of Economics and the Harvard Law School. He was a first-

year student at the Law School when he died. He was survived by
his mother and a sister.

EDWARD CLARK STREETER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12 W. 83d St., New York 24, N-Y.
BORN; June 30, 1913, Manchester, Mass.

L 1354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B. (New York Univ.),

MARRIED: Rosalind J. Moore, April 19, 1938, Rhuddlan, Flintshire, G.B. cum-
DREN: Colin Moore, May 24, 1942; Rhoden, Jan. 2, 1944, Chase, March 8,
1945 (died May 24, 1945); Felicity Alice and Alan Robert (twins), April
26, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Colin Moore Streeter, ’64.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gordon Chase Streeter, 734.

OCCUPATION: Foreign patent law; recently with Bucknam & Archer, New York

pupae ons: Several patents on radio navigation and radar systems.

I HAVE had a happy, uneventful life centered on a deeply satisfying

marriage to Rosalind Moore, an English girl who exchanged a

promising stage career for domesticity. My four children have been

my principal preoccupation, particularly my daughter Felicity who

is pretty, gay and bright, but severely handicapped with cerebral

palsy. I am gratified that my oldest son, Colin, a National Merit

Scholarship finalist, had the privilege to be a Harvard freshman this

last fall. My son Rhoden has inherited his mother’s talent, acting

on Broadway and television. My youngest son, Alan, would qualify v

as the perfect thirteen-year-old norm if it were not for his broad

shoulders, striking looks and gentle nature. We live in a brownstone

house which I completely remodeled, mostly with my own hands,

on New York’s West Side.

My professional life has been devoted to domestic and foreign
patent law, with electronics as my technical specialty. Although I
am no linguist, my enjoyment of foreign languages has made foreign
practice more attractive. The complex character of much of the
engineering material has been of great interest, although my vear
and a half of graduate work at Harvard hardly qualifies me as an
engineer. In retrospect, studying law at night to receive an LIB.
does not seem worth the struggle because I am nor suited to the
pressures of New York practice.

At present, I am taking sabbatical leave from patent work, gam-
bling on an invention of my own which I regard as a radical im-
provement in the contro] of light and heat through glass areas,

[ 1355 ]

qeesd te wrvge-c79 Ppamnmeteepaeal tendon pele mqppagee Ma Mea bucks thet potas

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANK EAGAN STROBHAR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3548 Lenox Drive, Kettering 29, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dayton Malleable Iron Co., Box 980, Dayton, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1914, Wynnewood, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1936.

marRieD: Margaret Reiling, June 1, 1946, Dayton, Ohio. cuHitpREN: Mary
Frances, Sept. 14, 1947; Kathleen Edith, March 2, 1949; Thomas Charles,
Nov. 11, 1952; Daniel Eagan, July 28, 1954; David Anthony, April 18,
1958.

occupation: Assistant director, Industrial Relations, Dayton Malleable Iron
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Dayton Optimist Club, Presidents Club, Dayton,
Ohio; treasurer, Dayton Urban League,

REPRESENTING management at the bargaining table is a chal-
lenging, stimulating, ever-changing occupation which gives me
much satisfaction. The opportunity in this field is especially strong
in the foundry industry which is known for its periods of unrest.

Raising five children is even more stimulating and rewarding —
and fatiguing. I try to concentrate on it in my spare time.

Lately P've made some speeches on behalf of racial justice which
I believe is one of our major problems today. Progress in this area
has been all too slow because of the difficulty we have in living
down our prejudices.

[ 1356 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NATHAN VINCENT STROHMAN

BRE gpCrnIr ES

       

XANGA EIT

HOME ADDRESS: 188 Chestnut St., Chelsea, Mass.
BORN: Aug. 6, 1910, St, Louis, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1937-1938.

I WENT to live in California in 1947. I went out there with about
twenty-five dollars. I met a girl and married her. She was a school-
teacher. We lived in the mountains where she was teaching. It
was a great life. I studied the writings of the ancient masters of
India and China. I became identified with mysticism.

After about six years of married life I felt a strong impulse to
leave and I did. I traveled north and found shelter in a coastal town
where I remained for a long time, studying, practising the art of the
great way to wisdom and health, and painting nonobjective things.

Another lady then entered my life and we lived together and
helped each other to develop in the way we wanted to develop.

But before I married the schoolteacher I had gone to live in
Mexico City, D.F., a tremendous city. It was in Mexico City that I
found out about painting and became interested in painting. [ also
found out about marijuana and became interested in that. I have
since kicked the habit. But marijuana introduced me to a fascinating
underworld of people, all sorts of people, musicians, artists, writers,
actors, weird psychopathic personalities, saints, angels, demonic
types, etc.

As a student of mysticism, this underworld appealed to me,
though I was always more of an outsider. IT suppose T deserved
being picked up one fine afternoon in a small park off Avenida
Insurgentes and confined in the Mexican penitentiary for marijuana
and I stayed there a couple of weeks before getting out. It was a

[ 1357 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

most educational experience. Afterwards, I returned to California
and began to live a life of relative contemplation.

I went to live with a Chinese herb seller in San Diego. He lived
in the back of his store and I kept him company. At the same time
I got a job teaching in the adult educational branch of the city
school system. I stuck to that job for a couple of years and then
quit and returned to the east coast.

I hung around Harvard Square for a while, digging and making
the scene. But just before coming back to town, I stopped off in
New York City and it so happened that I met someone who wanted
a few individuals to fill in as Indian dancers in a rodeo that was
opening at the Polo Grounds, and I was hired and J played the part
of an Indian dancer and it was a great experience.

I had been to San Francisco and New Orleans and Chicago. I
had had out-of-this-world experiences in those cities, just living,
swinging in the flux of people and plain happenings, nothing par-
ticularly special. You understand, just living, living freely and as
naturally as possible, my idea of happiness. But after a while, I
knew I was only repeating myself around Harvard Square. It was
indicated that I go, so I went back to the great Southwest and
taught in a couple of private schools, one in Tucson, Arizona, the
other in National City, California.

In Phoenix, Arizona, I met a female disciple of Ouspensky and
Gurdjieff. She had a circle of her own and transmitted the mystic
teachings of those masters in a fascinating manner of her own.
What an actress! I sat at her feet for a while, then returned to La
Jolla, California, where 1 took LSD 25 with a local psychotherapist,
an experience in superconsciousness that is unforgettable.

It is time to stop. I am alone, free, unattached, non-identified,
broke, beat and yet happy; planning new projects, dreaming new
dreams. I love you, I love you. Be great, I am proud of you.
There’s more fun out of the race, just look for it and you will find
it.

[ 1358 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES WILDER STRONG

 

HOME apoprEss: P.O. Box 14, Demarest, N.J.

OFFICE AppRFss: New York Coliseum, Columbus Circle, New York 19, N.Y.
BorN: April 26, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MARRIED: Edia R. Ramsey, June 5, 1936, New York, N.Y.

ROBERT LIVINGSTON STRONG

    

HOME ApprEss: 15 Oak Knoll Rd., Summit, N.J.

OFFICE AppREss: First National City Trust Co, 22 William Sct, New York
15, N.Y.; First National City Bank of New York, 55 Wall St, New York
15, N.Y.

BORN: June 2, 1914, New Brunswick, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Rutgers Preparatory School, New Brunswick, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREES: A.B. (Rutgers Univ), 1936, Ut.
(Columbia Univ.), 1939.

MaRRIED: Mary Johnston Sutherland, Jan. 17, 1947, Washington, D.C. caro:
William Sutherland, March 1, 1951.

[ 1359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARVARD BROTHERS: Theodore Strong, '22; Stephen Van Rensselaer Strong, '27;

Woodbridge Strong, 32; John Van Renssclaer Strong, °34; Philip Living.
ston Strong, "40.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-law of Ohio, assistant trust officer.
MEMBER oF: American Bar Association; Harvard Club of New York; Beacon

Hill Club (Summit, New Jersey); Descendants of the Signers of the

Declaration of Independence; Descendants of Colonial Lords of Manors
in America.

JAMES LYALL STUART, JR.

 

HOME ADprEsS: Scaife Road, RD. 2, Sewickley, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Manufacturers Light & Heat Co. 800 Union Trust Bldg.
Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

BorN: May 6, 1914, Sewickley, Pa.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB, cur laude, 1936; LL.B., 1939:

marrieD: Patricia Sherrard, Nov. 10, 1951, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN: James
Lyall, 3d, Dec. 13, 1952, Anne Barnard, May 5, 1955.

OccuPATION: Attorney, assistant secretary, Manufacturers Light & Heat Com-
pany.

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh, Edgeworth Club.

I SIT down to the job of writing my biography with mixed emo-
tions and with a consciousness of time’s winged chariot at my back.
The bare facts of my life for the last twenty-five years are as
follows:

The year following graduation, I entered Harvard Law School
and graduated from there in 1939. Thereupon followed a year and
a half with a Pittsburgh law firm and five years of Army service.
The climax of the latter was breaking a leg at jump school with the
82d Airborne Division in England, after which I was retired in-

[ 1360 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gloriously to various hospitals in the States and eventually to train-
ing recruits at Fort Bragg.

I got out of the Army in time for our Tenth Reunion and shortly
thereafter joined the legal staff of a group of natural gas utilities in
Pittsburgh, affiliated with the Columbia Gas System. There I have
had a very varied and interesting practice with particular emphasis
on Federal Power Commission matters. These often seem to require
more engineering than legal ability, and | believe that this may
satisfy some deep, atavistic urge inasmuch as most of my family
have been engineers.

I did not get married until very late in the game — 1951 — and
as a consequence am involved with kindergarten and third grade at
a time when most of my classmates are wrestling with what college
or law school to send their offspring to. Another consequence of
family life is that I have had to give up such expensive sports as fox
hunting and sailing, and I don’t even get skiing as much as I would

like. My outdoor activity seems to be pretty much confined to
horticulture and stone masonry. This would be very boring if con-
fined to a suburban lot, but when applied to four and a half acres
of hillside originally overgrown with briars, thistles, cucumber
vines, wisteria, and wild cherry, it has proved fascinating. I miss
the North Shore in summer, however, and wish you all a very
pleasant Reunion in case I am not able to join you.

PAUL MONTAGU STURGES

 

HOME Aporess: Leggett Road, Stone Ridge, N.Y,

OFFICE AppRESs: Sturges Heat Recovery, Inc, Stone Ridge, N.Y,
BORN: Aug. 2, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa.

[ 1361 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

prepareD AT: Chestnut Hill Academy, Chestnut Hill, Pa.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1936(38).

MARRIED: Barbara Ransom, July 3, 1936, Rockville, Md. (divorced 1941);
Magdalena Ridzi, Oct. 3, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHipren: Cary, July
17, 1940 (7, Nicholas Mecharniuk, Nov. 28, 1959); Michael MacLeod,
Jan. 1, 1945; John Steele, Aug. 29, 1947; Mary Hollister, Jan, 31, 1950.
GRANDCHILD: Barbara Ransom Mecharniuk, Aug. 2, 1960.

occupation: President, Sturges Heat Recovery, Inc., engineering design and
manufacture of heat exchangers to lower power bills, fuel costs.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Marbletown Democratic Committee, 1950-54.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Agricultural Engineers (associate); Ulster
County Historical Society.

pusLicaTions: “Smart Refrigeration Hook-up Slashes Plant Water Heating
Costs,” Power Magazine, September, 1955; “Subterranean Lake Provides
Almost Free Air Conditioning,” Power Magazine, March, 1957.

PERHAPS Emerson might have approved a career as thoroughly
disjointed as mine. I started full of enthusiasm in the trade agree-
ments program with the government service, in the Department of
Commerce. War pressures ended this, and after an illness, 1 went
into war production in the Marine Division of Bendix Aviation.
First a timekeeper, then industrial relations (we got the Treasury
E for a successful bond drive), traffic, I left prior to applying for a
commission in the Navy. I couldn’t shake a 4-F tag, so later, Midge
and I built and operated a frozen food locker plant. We dressed
millions of chickens and cured endless hams and bacons: the plant
was a huge success until the war ended.

As business got tough and people tired of raising their own food,
even home freezers developed empty spaces. We went over cost-
cutting carefully and it struck me as folly that in the compressor
room the evaporator condensers were throwing vast quantities of
heat away while in the next room we were spending money for fuel
oil to heat water. [t occurred to me to try an old moonshiner’s
dodge, that of passing a coil through the next batch of mash to be
distilled, so the heat liberated would preheat the batch before it
reached the distillers worm. We built such a heat exchanger, a
coil in a tank, and instead of the booze, we made the hot freon gas
go down the copper tube before going to its regular condenser.
We got oceans of hot water for free and even less than free, for at
times we could shut down our condenser fan motors. Water
reached 180°F and even went over 200°F,

We leased the locker business to an operator who went broke
and have since turned it into a factory for manufacturing our

[ 1362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Thriftchanger, as we call our unit. It does well in the milkhouses
of dairy farms where refrigeration is used and much hot water is
needed. Classmate Dave Pabst heard about it and ordered one to
try on his farm at Oconomowoc, Wisconsin. He says it works fine.
Thanks, Dave. It’s good for all refrigeration and someday your

household refrigerator will use your electricity twice, if we keep
at it.

Practice with overcoming one problem leads to re-examining
others. The fireplace is known more as an ornament than a heating
device. But we have built one with a heat exchanger up the chimney
and now chill the fumes, which represents the air leaving the house,
with the cold outside air which must enter to replace it. A small
fireplace will now heat the whole house; you have to put wood in
it, but it gives firewood the new look, and some day we shall get
around to manufacturing it.

A new supermarket in New Canaan, Connecticut, found it didn’t
have enough heat and the architect sent for us to see what could
be done. We built a warm-air furnace out of twelve air-cooled
condensers, one for each refrigeration unit in the store. Every-
body’s now warm as toast all winter and the storekeeper saving
some 7000 gallons of fuel oil each year. We hope to do the same
for the chains, but it is not easy to sell new ideas in the United
States, no matter how badly we need to increase our productivity.
Complacency, whose synonym is arrogance, is always present and
may prove to be our worst enemy.

We have investigated ice caves. There are a number of abandoned
natural cement mines up the Rondout Creek in New York from
Rosendale to Kingston. In some of these ice persists, sometimes
throughout the summer. Explanation is that on cold winter nights
the heavier winter air dumps out the cave air, chills the rock sur-
faces of the caverns, in turn is heated, setting up convection cur-
rents. In spring, the frost has penetrated deep into the rock. When
the weather turns warm, the cold air, being denser, lingers in these
caverns, protecting from summer heat any ice that may have
formed. We got a permit from owners of one of these caves to

conduct experiments controlling air movements and have gotten 4
whole mountain some five degrees colder. The summer of 1960,
we set up an experimental hydrocooling station for some swect
corn growers and drenched whole trailer loads of sweet corn prior
to icing and shipping to points south and west. Some zoo trailer

[ 1363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

loads were done in this fashion with water that never went over
38°F, and shipments have reached Dallas in perfect condition.

America is using up its fossil fuels at an alarming rate. Atomic
energy has proven to be dirty, dangerous and expensive. Unless
some complete breakthrough occurs, its show is over before it
starts. The ultimate and ideal source of energy is the sun. To
harness its energy economically for the generation of electric power
will be to conquer forever the energy requirements of man. I feel
that these ice caves are part of the riddle: we can turn them into
enormous glaciers, and if a way can be found to fill additional caves
with boiling water from solar collectors, cheaply enough, the prob-
lem will have been solved. A physicist, Dr. George Claude, demon-
strated in Cuba in 1930 that electricity could be made by a vacuum
turbine using warm water from the surface of the tropical sea
(86°F) whose vapor rushed to a condenser supplied with cold water
from the depths of the sea (44°F). If we substitute freon-12 for the
steam, we overcome many of Dr. Claude’s problems. All we need
is hundreds of acres of collectors to drink up the sunshine at a low,
low price.

To tell classmates how one feels about the world under the mate-
rial oppression of today is not easy; I never did believe that history
repeats itself. To believe that the world is for the strong is to con-
demn your children to continue the slaughter. What Harvard
taught me that I treasure most was done by Alfred North White-
head. Tucked away in this Process and Reality is a statement, ‘““God
is infinite in His patience and infinite in His wisdom.” So let’s take
heart and treasure the liberty, and not the arrogance, of the western
world. The huge bombs are accompanied by the TV sets, where
you meet your fellow-man face to face, and since what we all want
is peace and plenty, there are sure to be some surprises ahead.

[ 1364 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL THEODORE STURGIS

    
 

gk jaa tn i dee A fe

“sit ihn Sib ce

HOME ApDpRESS: Rua Itabd, 263 (Jardim Europa), Sao Paulo, Brazil.

OFFICE ADpRESs: The First National Bank of Boston, Rua Libero Badar6é 478,
Sao Paulo, Brazil.

BoRN: Nov. 27, 1912, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass; New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1933-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

mMarrieD: Alice Tarr, March 27, 1937, Marblehead, Mass. cHILDREN: Ann
Metcalf, Dec. 4, 1941; Ellen, Oct. 1, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Albert Sturgis, Jr., D.M.D., "32.

OCCUPATION: Sub-manager, foreign branch banking.

MEMBER OF: American Chamber of Commerce for Brazil, Sao Paulo, Sao
Paulo Golf Club; Club de Campo de Sao Paulo; Sao Paulo Athletic Club.

AT this early age, I see no point in recording a life history; there
is still too much to live and do! But here is a synopsis.

Right after graduation I went west (Chicago), and soon found
myself working for the Northern Trust Company. With the first
raise in pay came marriage. This led to becoming acquainted with
several wonderful couples in the same rockbottom situation we
were in; many of whom we still consider as close personal friends
although separated for many years and by great distances. Then
came the war and a new exposure to life. Looking back, five years
in the service doesn’t seem to have been such a long time, yet then,
when it came at the period of life when you were struggling for the
achievement of still youthful ambitions — it was an unending period.
It is my belief that, by far, the majority of us were better men upon
returning to civilian life.

Back from the ETO meant back to Boston, or should T sav
Marblehead where my family had settled during my two vears
overseas, At that time it was my solemn intention not to move

[ 1365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

one damn inch, but the opportunity to come to Brazil with the First
National Bank of Boston, where a new branch in Rio de Janeiro was
to be opened, proved to be irresistible. After two years in Rio,
we transferred to Sao Paulo in May of 1949. We now call it our
home.

Sao Paulo has grown tremendously during the past ten years and
will continue to do so for many more. The size of the American
colony is at least 5,000; when we first settled here, we became ac-
quainted with the majority of our fellow countrymen — but now
that is impossible. School facilities for our children proved to be
inadequate five years ago; this year we are opening a new school
plant to take care of 1,500 pupils. This project was not carried out
by the efforts of just a few specialized individuals; its success de-
pended on the cooperation of the entire American community and
the companies which we represent. I mention this as one example
where life abroad sharpens your sense of responsibility and brings
about a closer relationship with other members of the community.
To me, that makes life much richer.

We lead an active life. Visiting “firemen” and “despediads” for
friends who are being transferred or returning to the States are
occasions for cocktail parties of various sizes and shapes. We al-
ways welcome a breather. Golf and a bit of sailing represent my
outdoor life. Very dry martinis are my indoor activity. The wel-
come flag is always out for any classmate passing through Sao
Paulo.

This report has been written in haste and under the pressure of
a deluge of “don’t delay — do it now” cards from the Class Report
Office, as well as a cable from Ernst Teves in Germany. The form,
etc., arrived just prior to my departure on a local holiday. A friend
and I drove from Sao Paulo to the Falls of Iguagu—a distance of
1,300-odd kilometers. We were told it couldn’t be done — we did,
but do not recommend it. A broken axle and a ruptured gas tank
were only part of our troubles. For twenty-four hours we holed
up in a town called Rattlesnake (English translation), waiting for
a new axle to be flown in from civilization. To make a long story
short, the experience was well worthwhile although my hands are

still shaking. In 1962, we plan to make a trip down the river from

the Falls to Buenos Aires — any volunteers?

[ 1366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILLIPS HENRY STURTEVANT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 195 Tucker Drive, Worthington, Ohio.

ARTHUR GILMAN SULLIVAN

 

BORN: May 16, 1915, East Orange, N.J. PARENTS: Patrick Joseph Sullivan, Anna
Gilman.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Margaret Elizabeth McGeorge, June 28, 1941, Pittsburgh, Pa. crit
DREN: Carolyn; Barbara; Arthur Gilman, Jr. Deborah, Patricia.

prep: March 13, 1953, Caribou, Maine.

wipow: Mrs. Arthur G, Sullivan, 218 Alexander Ave, Upper Montclair, NJ.

ARTHUR GILMAN SULLIVAN received an A.B. with our Class.
While an undergraduate he was a resident of Dunster House, vice-
president of the Debating Council and Class Orator. He won the
Boylston Prize and Coolidge Debating Medals. During World War
II he served in the Marine Corps as a pilot.

[ 1367 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Since graduation he had been in the advertising field, at first asso-
ciated with McCann-Erickson, Inc., and later with the Federal Ad-
vertising Agency of New York. In April, 1950, he joined Geyser,
Newell & Granger, Inc., as assistant to the president and later formed

his own advertising consulting agency. He was survived by his
wife and children.

DAVID URBANE SULLIVAN

 

HOME ADDRESS; 15 Fairmont St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: D. U. Sullivan Associates, P.O. Box 104, Belmont 78, Mass.
BorN: Dec. 9, 1912, Cambridge, Mass.

prepARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B,, 1936.

MARRIED: Rita Fitzgerald, Jan. 28, 1950, Belmont, Mass. c#tLp: John David,
June 3, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Daniel George Sullivan, '27, MBA, 729.
occupation: D. U. Sullivan Associates, manufacturers’ representatives.
OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Associates Realty Trust, director, Lexington Inn, Inc.

[ 1368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD DANIEL SULLIVAN

  

HOME aApprEss: 7 College Rd., Princeton, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Romance Languages and Literatures, Princeton Uni-
versity, Princeton, N.].

BORN: Dec. 9, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1938;
PH.D., IQ41.

MarRRIED: Eleanor Harrold, Sept. 15, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Barry
Michael, April 10, 1945; Brian Philip, Jan. 18, 1948.

occupation: Professor of French and chairman, Department of Romance Lan-
guages and Literatures, Princeton University.

OFFICES HELD: Advisory editor, Scribners, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; American Association of Teachers
of French; American Association of University Professors, Catholic Com-
mission on Intellectual and Cultural Affairs.

PUBLICATIONS: La Guerre Moderne, Harvard Univ. Press, 1942, edited with
W. N. Locke; Maupassant the Novelist, Princeton Univ. Press. 1034;
articles on French literature in Romanic Review, The French Review,
Modern Language Quarterly, Revue d@’Histoire Littéraire de la France,
Symposium.

DURING the twenty-five years since graduation I have followed
closely the career I prepared for as an undergraduate, with time out
only for two periods of naval duty — World War II and the Korean
affair.

My interest in the French language and French literature, fostered
by Professor André Morize, my tutor at Harvard, was developed
further during 1936-37 as I traveled in France on a Sheldon Fellow-
ship, an admirable Harvard invention. I then returned to graduate
school at Harvard to prepare for a Ph.D., teaching a full schedule of
elementary French courses as well. Having obtained a Doctorate
in 1941, I continued for a year at Harvard as a regular instructor

[ 1369 ]

TT aa aan ar eI aera NNTP TIT HITED TTY ryan Te SP ARPES PE PEP TT ergs ey

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

in French, also giving courses at Radcliffe. During this period
(1936-41) I was Morize’s assistant at the Middlebury French Sum-
mer School. In September, 1942, I entered the naval service, first
as a Civilian, then as an officer; and after a war spent in highly classj-
fied duties, I was released to inactive duty in 1946,

Since my whole career as undergraduate, as graduate and as
teacher had been spent at Harvard, the interruption of the war
suggested that the time was at hand to try another institution. In
the spring of 1946, emerging from the Navy, I was offered an
instructorship in French at Princeton, accepted it, and have re-
mained there since. Getting the usual promotions, I had just reached
associate professor (and permanent tenure) in 1950 when the Korean
War broke, and I was called back to duty in the Navy. Released
after a year, I returned to Princeton, got back to research and
writing; did, among other things, a book on Maupassant; had a year’s
leave and a Fulbright in France during 1956-57; got started on a
more elaborate book which is still to be finished; was made full
professor and chairman of the Department of Romance Languages
and Literatures in 1958, a post I still hold. All of this was shared
by my wife — we were married in 1940 — and the latter part of it
by our two sons, Barry and Brian, now fifteen and thirteen respec-

tively.

What I have just written is of course just the bare outline of
twenty-five years and gives nothing of the quality or the sense of
it. Nor shall I try, at this late date, to do more than state that these
have been for me full, rich, lively, blessedly busy and unbelievably
happy years.

{ 1370 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD FRANCIS SULLIVAN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2321 N,. Oak Park Ave., Chicago 35, Ill.

FRANCIS JOSEPH SULLIVAN

  

HOME apprEss: 78 Hill St., Orono, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 213 Boardman Hall, University of Maine, Orono, Maine.

BoRN: Dec. 6, 1914, Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: S.B., cwm Jaude, 1936; S.at. (Ransas
State Coll.), 1941.

MarrieD: Paula Goodin, June 17, 1950, Old Town, Maine. cuup: James Fy
Aug. 18, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Cornelius Sullivan, ‘49.

occuPATION: Associate professor of mechanical engineering.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Lubrication Engineers; American Society
for Enginecring Education; Harvard Engineering Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Drier Roller Bearing Lubrication,” Tappi, June, 1g60.

MY twelve years after Commencement were spent in Frie, Pennsy-

[1371 ]

LTTE ITTT "| [RUT enpeeneammmens spears serrr prerertes

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

vania, Manhattan, Kansas, Washington, D.C., South Pacific, and
Boston, with the Standard Stoker Company, Kansas State College,
Office of Education, Navy and Veterans Administration, respec-
tively. In 1948 I came to Orono to my present position. I am chiefly
engaged in the undergraduate teaching of engineering mechanics.
This, along with continuing study, research, committee work, and
occasional consulting, fills my days fairly well. In the last two
summers | have worked in industry; previously, summers had been
spent in research here on campus.

Since my undergraduate days engineering education has been in a
more or less continuous state of upheaval for one reason or another.
The current controversy stems from the thesis that a more scientific
approach to engineering problems is required; therefore, our cur-
riculum and courses should be scientifically oriented with less em-
phasis on practical engineering. The tumult will die down after
a while, but I enjoy being in the midst as the changes occur. Also,
I find it extremely interesting to observe that I am teaching ideas
which I never heard of in college, which is no reflection on Harvard
but rather a comment on the progress of technology in twenty-five
years.

We live comfortably although economically —of necessity.
Orono is an attractive college town, cold in January (at this writing )
and somewhat remote. The few faults are more than compensated
for by its being such a pleasant community. ‘There are activities
even for a non-joiner like myself. In writing this composition, I
have found that I have few complaints about how these twenty-five
years have treated me. Two pairs of glasses and gray hair accom-
pany me now. I trust that the disabilities of my classmates will be
no more severe.

+ JAMES JOSEPH SULLIVAN

BoRN: March 16, 1915, Boston, Mass. ParENts: James Bartholomew Sullivan,
Anna Feeney.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.
piED: June 27, 1933, Bretton Woods, N.H,

JAMES JOSEPH SULLIVAN had just completed the freshman
year with our Class when he met his death by drowning,

[ 1372 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES THOMAS SULLIVAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Myrtle St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Bureau of Investigation, 470 Atlantic Ave., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Aug. 30, 1912, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1936(37).

MarRIED: Evelyn Elizabeth Rynne, Jan. 19, 1946, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Brian Alan, Nov. 15, 1946; Meredith Anne, Nov. 22, 1947; Eugene Michael,
June 27, 1951 (died Nov. 13, 1951); Janice Evelyn, Oct. 26, 1953; James
Timothy, Dec. 3, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Special agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation.

SEVERAL days after the Pearl Harbor attack, I had my own per-
sonal attack, appendicitis. While recuperating, I figured Pratt and
Whitney probably could get along without me, provided, of course,
that I won the war for the Navy. So, I offered my services. Four
years later, Pacific Ocean service all, following two naval commands,
I was very happy that I had — won the war for the Navy.

The Pacific, I found to be quite large; saw lots of it, but not Aus-
tralia, alas; the Pacific sun — very glaring and hard on the eves of a
navigator, result—an eye operation—slight disability, disabled
veteran, tax abatement. One question still plagues me: How did we
ever manage to win that doggone fracas?

When the war ended, Pratt and Whitney had not the old allure,
air-cooled or otherwise, so I joined the FBI. The FBI has statistics
on everything, including its statisticians. They'll tell you that the
poorest pistol shot is a greater Boston Irishman, and that positively,
the world’s worst pistol shot is the Boston Irishman who went to
Harvard. Wouldn’t you just know that I made those statisticians
look like the newest IBM mechanical brain.

[ 1373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

First stop was San Francisco. Went to a ball game night before
the Fourth; saw spectators arriving wearing topcoats, carrying
blankets. “Looks like a football crowd.” They were smart. I had to
quit in the third inning — frozen. Subsequent service in Los An-
geles, New York and Boston, most of it in espionage and internal
security matters.

Truly I feel that all of us regard the menace of Communism too
lightly. If only the public could be shown or told about the activi-
ties of espionage agents; and if the Supreme Court could only be-
come a little bit realistic where these people are concerned.

The Navy and the FBI —two nice organizations with which to
be affiliated. And the home organization? The very best, of course,
The gals are pretty; the boys are athletic; and the scholastic grades
of all are far better than the old boy ever obtained. As I review the
children’s school work, I wonder how can they possibly assimilate
so much. I’m convinced too, and very honestly so, that a whole lot
of us could never get into college nowadays. So despite the depres-
sion and the war, maybe we weren’t too badly off. Say, have you
seen those bearded goons striding through the Square lately? How
did they ever get into college?

Twenty-five years ago | thought it would be wonderful to own
and operate a thoroughbred racehorse breeding farm. Literature on
the topic abounds. Why doesn’t somebody come up with a work-
able treatise on how to get that green stuff, I don’t mean grass, to
make those dreams come true? Maybe in another twenty-five years.

LEO EDWARD SWEENEY, JR.

 

HOME AppreEss: 1 Adams St., Charlestown, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: Federal Bidg., Boston 9, Mass,

[ 1374]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Jan. 26, 1915, Brighton, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1936, M.B.A. (Boston
Univ.), 1939.

marrieD: Agnes Mary Handrahan, July 14, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. cHupren:
Sheila, Oct. 13, 1943; Stephen, Feb. 19, 1947; Philip, Nov. 11, 1948, Anne,
July 18, rg50.

occuPATION: Government service; cost analyst, Regional Office, Boston Post

Office.
MEMBER OF: Beta Gamma Sigma— Alpha of Massachusetts.

AFTER graduation I worked for the state government for a brief
time. In September, 1937, I entered Boston University Graduate
School of Business and graduated with an M.B.A. degree in account-
ing. Early in 1941 I volunteered for service in the Army. 1 was
assigned to the 26th Division at Camp Edwards. After a year’s serv-
ice in the field, I was sent to O.CS. at Fort Benning, Georgia, grad-
uating as a second lieutenant, Infantry, in 1942. After having had
overseas service in the China Theatre, I was discharged in 1945.
Went into government service again where I still remain. Presently,
I am an accountant with the Post Office Department in Boston.

FRANK ELIOT SWFETSER, JR.
Ton ence reg

‘ . “Ae

ore :
E ‘ a

y
en nelapalenls: Reh toa KO ihe aol bane te eh A (2,

    

HOME ApprEss: Voorhis Point, South Nyack, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Arthur Wiesenberger & Co., 61 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 20, 1913, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREE: A.B. Cut latade, 1936.

MARRIED: Ross Williams, May 30, 1939 (divorecd 1948); Mabel Cameron Rae,
July 30, 1948. ciitpreN: Frank Eliot, 4th, May 1, 194s, Joan Bruce
Cameron, Jan. 1, 1952; Mary Loring, March 10, 1953.

[1375 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARVARD BROTHER: John Anderson Sweetser, 3d, "42.
occupation: Editor, Wiesenberger Contractual Service and consultant.

WHEN I left Cambridge in the spring of 1936, I landed an edi-
torial berth on the old Literary Digest magazine, secure in the illu-
sion that journalism and literature were to be my career. This, of
course, was only one more of that amiable continuum of misjudg-
ments which has characterized my quarter-century under discus-
sion. The Digest repaid my efforts amply at $20 a week, plus about
$10 more a month when one of my fellow helots accidentally showed
me the opportunity of expense accounts. This lush living should not
be removed from the context of gin at ninety cents a fifth and free
lunches for dinner at the Vanderbilt bar.

A year later, I and the rest of the staff won a fistful, betting on
F.D.R. The Digest, however, bet on Governor Landon. When the
dust settled after that incredible miscalculation, the Manufacturers
Trust Company enjoyed my skills as a junior security analyst, very
much to my surprise. It is certainly to the credit of that institution
that it concealed my presence from its customers — for if they had
ever learned who was analyzing their securities it would have been
a great day for the Chase and the National City.

Anyone who has ever worked in a bank, served time in a federal
penitentiary or the armed forces (which assumptively includes most
of the Class), needs no further schmalz on the dim grey years I
spent with the Manufacturers Trust.

During the summer of 1940, I tried to claw my way into the
Navy, but age, eyesight and marital status precluded, in that selective
period, any assignment but file clerk, for which I was well suited.
In the course of coincident revels at the New York 7th Regiment
Armory, I found myself sworn in as a private one evening in Octo-
ber. By that time, Company K of the 7th was taking anyone who
could walk out of the Armory bar.

Oh, the happy years of Army life. After about three years as an
enlisted man, I remember composing my epitaph:

If I should die, think only this of me —

1 have stood post guard and done K P.
I was finally commissioned in the anti-aircraft in early 1943, the
precise moment when Allied air cover became holeproof. After
sixteen months in Texas, I was the senior second lieutenant in Camp
Hulen and, probably, in the entire Anti-Aircraft Artillery. After
sixteen months in Texas, I volunteered for the Infantry. This de-
linquency did not derive from patriotism. It is, in fact, explicable

[1376 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

only to the manic-depressive who has just spent sixteen months in
Texas. My request for transfer arrived in Washington at the same
time as the Battle of the Bulge, which explains why the Army ex-
hibited such immediate solicitude for my wishes. However (and
I'll give them an A for effort), they couldn’t quite move fast enough:
when I took command of a machine gun platoon on the Western
front facing the Siegfried Line at Saarbrucken, things were at a very
comfortable impasse. At night in our foxholes, the only sounds
which broke the stillness were the German soldiers singing “Lili
Marlene” and the occasional chatter of the platoon commander's
teeth. These evenings, I may remark, were unseasonably warm.
After two weeks of combat, unbroken by gunfire or other unpleas-
antness (except fleas: platoon headquarters was in the monkey house
of a deserted German zoo), the enemy packed up and ran away.
We captured Saarbrucken by walking into it.

At this juncture, the Supreme Command placed our division in
Army reserve. My duties thenceforth devolved into a series of
lightning strikes on German villages which we systematically
searched for hidden arms, through wine cellar after wine cellar.
Never, but never, pass up a good vintage Johannesberger.

And so we progressed into Germany and across the Rhine, about
fifty miles behind the fighting. When we reached Frankfurt, two
days after its capture, I telephoned military government and asked
permission to try to locate Ernst Teves. That's easy, they said,
he’s joined our staff. We had a refreshing reunion (Ernst’s taste
in champagne, among other things, I should earn enough to atford
yet), and he told me he had corresponded with one of our class-
mates through Sweden during most of the war. I cite this to show
that Harvard men can, on occasion, rise above the irritations of
petty nationalism.

Believing that the occupation was a dedicated task for the re-
sponsible conqueror, I joined military government. I can only
hint at the arduous nature of my duties. In my six-room apartment

in Wiesbaden, the flowers were changed daily. Fortunately, U had
both a night and day chauffeur for the Mercedes which the Army
thoughtfully assigned for my convenience. During the two and
one-half years I spent in Germany, I became conv Finced that our
armed forces were at least as competent as I to conduct the occu-
pation and administration of a defeated nation.

I left Germany in late 1947, and declined the opportunity to
join the reserves after seven years and nine davs in Federal service

[ 1377]

SCcdT ONES Nitnanricas Wertaaepreare-tnr RR yeti HinyLet Weeedar cantons py mn TEER CS HADI, TROT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

— denying myself the chance to become laundry officer at Fort Dix

when the Korean business broke out (thank God). P.S. I finally
made first lieutenant.

Since then, life has been relatively simple: Pve progressed from
investment analysis through investment counselling to become a
specialist in mutual fund distribution, in a word, my present work
js to show mutual fund sponsors, dealers, and salesmen how to
make more money in less time with integrity. Dealing with people
js a lot more fun and a lot less work than thinking.

Have I made money? More than | deserved, far less than my fam-
ily need. Have I changed? The leopard’s spots have faded, no more.
Have I learned anything of significance? Only how to like people
who dislike me, whatever their reason. That, I think, plus my

children, is enough for any twenty-five years. As for hobbies,
clubs, publications and comparable detritus, ’'ve had my share.
Netting it all out, I have been fortunate beyond reasonable ex-
pectation, and I hope for no more than the same for the future.

ARNOLD MURRAY SWEIG

 

HOME appress: 30 W. Broad St, Plainville, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 W. Main St., Plainville, Conn.

porn: Dec. 21, 1913, New Britain, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Plainville High School, Plainville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB, cum laude, 1936; LLB. 1939

marrigp: Marion Gilbert, March 25, 1940, Boston, Mass. cupren: Cathie
Diane, Jan. 9, 1941; Harriet Lynn, Nov. 16, toqt,; Linda Janet, April 1,
1 }*

cco nro! Attorney; general practice of law.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Zoning Commission; chairman, Zoning Board of Ap-
peals, Town of Plainville; State Enforcement Attorney, Rents and Serv-

[1378]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ices, O.P.A.; Town Corporation Attorney; Municipal Sewer District
Counsel, ‘Town of Plainville.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club; Harvard Club of Connecticut, Hartford County
and State Bar Associations, Frederick Lodge, No. 14, AF, & A.M.
PuBLIcATIONS: “The Front Foot Rule in Special Assessment Proceedings,” Con-

necticut Bar Journal, March, 1953; “Codified Laws of the Town of Plain-
ville, 1869-1953.”

GLADLY I reaffirm an undischargeable debt to Harvard for its
scholarships, jobs and loans. Four college years can be managed on
less than $900 when necessity and desire meet with the golden
chance. Nor shall I soon forget the late John Shea, superintendent
of the Widener stacks, who on a frequent spring day when I reported
for work, quizzically remarked that the Red Sox were entertaining
at Fenway, filled out my time slip and chased me out for some blessed
sleep.

If someone were to ask what Harvard’s unique gifts were, I would
mention a quiet passion for excellence and a spark to set you on fire
if you have anything combustible within you. And a generous spirit
toward the student who must earn the major part of his keep.

These past twenty-five years I’ve been mainly engaged in raising
three daughters, the eldest of whom is a college sophomore, and in
practising law in a community whose population approaches 15,000.
In the course of a general and independent practice, I've touched
legal bases from abortion to zoning, from banking to bastardy, and
like to think that ve acquired, with an early assist from Harvard
Law, a reasonable proficiency at most positions.

I spent three years with the Office of Price Administration prose-
cuting free, really free enterprisers for violations of wartime rent
regulations. Their ingenuity in pursuit of the illegal buck was
matched only by their resentment at being caught. Along the way
I served as corporation counsel to the Town of Plainv ille, codified its
laws from 1869 to date and was admitted to practice before the fed-
eral bar and the Supreme Court of the United States,

‘The experiment of designing our seven-room ranch came out bet-
ter than we had a right to expect. (A marriage that survives this
process is destined for permanence.) In placing sceond in. state
championship checker competition I came across checker bums who
called to mind Dr. Johnson’s dictum about expert pool plavers.

In 1958 while I was sailing to Block Island the boat exploded,
trapping me below deck with the escape hatch enveloped by flames.
I dove into them, landed on deck and jumped overboard. For the

[ 1379 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

advancement of science, I record the immortal reflections of the long
seconds when the issue remained in doubt.

What a hell of a way to go out!

Do my insurance policies provide double indemnity?
How stupid to have postponed promised pleasures,
Luck was with me — no permanent effects.

Time, eroding some convictions, has enlarged curiosity. Will
Keats and Shelley attract as much interest when the mystery of their
romantic speculations about the moon is dispelled by an actual visit
to the premises? Will we, during our lifetimes, inch toward the only
solid road to peace: a supranational order with power to police out-
moded and maverick nationalisms? Before nuts like Nasser and Cas-

tro blackmail civilization with its own produce: a garden of bombs?
Will I ever get to England? (My honors thesis, B.O.A.C. please
note, was on the Thames River in English poetry.)

The business of war and peace is tied closely to the prospect of
hearing someone, someday, address me as “grandpa.” While this is
hardly an end in itself, it imports survival, and a chance to continue
to pursue the most elusive star in all the firmament — understanding.

HENRY WILLIAM SYER

 

MAILING appress: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

{ 1380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM BENJAMIN TABLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Wolver Hollow Rd., Upper Brookville, Long Island, N.Y.
(P.O., Glen Head, N.Y.).

OFFICE ADDRESS: 401-415 Seventh Ave., New York 1, N.Y.

BorN: Oct. 28, 1914, Momence, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Momence Community High School, Momence, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: 8.B., cum laude, 1936, B.ARCH. February,
1939; M.ARCH., June, 1939.

MARRIED: Phyllis May Baker, June 12, 1937, Newton, Mass. cuitpren: William
Benjamin, Jr., May 6, 1943; Judith Ann, May 8, 1947.

HARVARD SON: William Benjamin Tabler, Jr., ’65.

occupation: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: National chairman, American Institute of Architects “Building
Codes” Committee.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; American Society of Civil En-
gineers; Building Research Institute; New York Building Congress; Sca-
wanhaka Corinthian Yache Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Architectural Forum, 1953-60, Architectural Record,
1958, 1960, Progressive Architecture, 1957; American Instirure of Real
Estate Appraisers’ Quarterly, 1957.

STILL planning hotels — since I started my own architectural prac-
tice after the war, I have completed over roo million dollars’ worth
of hotels representing some 10,000 rooms. Currently I am working
on twice this amount on all continents except Antarctica, the largest
project being a 2200-room hotel in Rockefeller Center.

In spite of this, I find that I am a better customer of the airlines
than hotels. While traveling approximately 250,000 miles every
year, I have just realized that ‘during the last two years T have sat up
all night in a plane on an average of one night a week. Tam diil-
lusioned though, for not one airline has made me a member of their
100,000 mile club.

Our son, Bill, Jr., at St. Paul’s, has just been accepted for Elarvard

[1381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

next fall and our daughter Judy hopes to go to Farmington in an-

other year. My wife and I both enjoy life and hope the next twenty-
five years will be as wonderful as the past. She doesn’t complain
about my traveling as long as I don’t complain about the seven to
ten cocker spaniels she keeps around the house. So after twenty-
five years 1 may design hotels but I live in a dog house,

JAY DELMONT TANNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 111 Massasoit Ave., Edgewood 5, RI.

oFFIcE appress: Charles S$. Tanner Co., 250 S. Water St., Providence, RI.
BORN: Nov. 13, 1911, Edgewood, RI.

PREPARED AT: Hebron Academy, Hebron, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB., 1936.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Secretary-treasurer, Charles S. Tanner Company, manufacturing
chemists.

MEMBER OF: National Exchange Club of Providence (formerly treasurer and
scribe), University Club of Providence; Greater Providence Y.M.C.A.
member, board of governors); Rhode Island Yacht Club; John Carter
Brown Library of Brown University; Rhode Island Heart Association;

Harvard Clubs of Rhode Island, Boston and New York; Delta Upsilon
Fraternity.

SINCE 1936, the various Harvard Clubs to which I belong have
never ceased to be a source of great pleasure and relaxation, as well
as a frequent meeting-place with friends and classmates from Har-
vard. I am still with the family chemical company and shall prob-

ably continue so until I retire. It is a very interesting and expanding
business.

Aside from such hobbies as music and photography, my two main
forms of relaxation have been club life and boating. I have devel-

[ 1382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oped a great love for the islands of the Caribbean, and have been
traveling there frequently during the last twenty years. My favo-
rite island in the sun is Jamaica, and this is where I hope to make
my home eventually.

We are all looking forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion, and
I for one hope to see a great many of our classmates whom I have
not seen for a long time. Only last week was I reminded of how
much time has passed, when I called on the lovely, eighteen-year-
old daughter of Bill Jeffreys. Bill’s daughter is at Pembroke College
here in Providence, and I was very happy to meet her. Let's hope
for a big reunion in June.

HARRY PAUL TATELMAN |

 

HOME ADDRESS: 22208 Pacific Coast Hwy., Malibu, Calif.

OFFICE apprEess: CBS Television Network, Television City, Hollywood, Calif.
BORN: July 15, 1914, Keene, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Keene High School, Keene, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Producer of television and theatrical films.

MEMBER OF: Malibu Sports Club.

ODDLY enough, I can only remember the good things over the
past twenty-five years; the rough spots, for some reason, have
faded into the background. Ever since I was a kid Thad a ven for
motion pictures — it goes back to the Pearl White davs — so, after
leaving Cambridge I went to work for RKO Radio Pictures in dis-
tribution and worked out of Cincinnatl, New Haven and Wash-
ington, D.C.

[ 1383 ]

PRE TE RSS NTU aan rar a peertee ences nines einai cin eaantaah innate et ae. tte idess sdtcctt << lupnth <a: cme staman-asgenaty te tdggra Vanaimmaaasade tupmignenetguinen taittetaitasriimmemmsicbeutina oun des EL Mipiertites k

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I left RKO, after two years, to go to work for MCA in Holly-
wood, and actually spent most of the past twenty-five years with
them. I ran their literary department and, in that capacity, repre-
sented some of the finest writers in the country. It took a long
time, but ultimately it dawned on me that writers are fine when
you read their books, but when one constantly has to deal directly
with them, one is apt to get a little confused,so I decided to make a
change.

My friends were convinced that I had jumped from the “frying
pan into the fire” when I went to work for Howard Hughes, since
in some circles he has a reputation for being an indirect type of
operator. The four years ] worked for him, when he owned RKO,
turned out to be the most invigorating of the past twenty-five. In
a very offhand manner he decided one day that it was time I started
producing some pictures and believe me, at that time I knew as much
about producing pictures as your youngest grandchild. I tried to
explain this to the studio people, but oddly enough they thought I
was just being modest and undoubtedly was a genius.

The first feature I produced was listed by The Lampoon as one
of the worst ten pictures of the year—it shall remain nameless;
however, because it starred Jane Russell at the height of her career
it made a great deal of money. The second feature I produced, “Run
for the Sun,” starring Richard Widmark, was called one of the best

suspense pictures of the year by the New York Times, it lost money.

When Hughes sold the studio I went to work for Warner Brothers

and got my indoctrination in television films. I produced most of

their shows for three and one-half years, including “77 Sunset

Strip,” “Sugarfoot,” “The Alaskans” and “Colt .45.”

Presently, I am under producer contract to CBS-TV and am pre-
paring a show, tentatively entitled “Ichabod,” which is to be on
the network this coming fall. When I asked the front office who
is going to sponsor this show, they gave me very confidential and
knowing winks, and said nothing. Two days ago, however, the

mail boy told me that Kellogg’s is our sponsor, so look for it this
coming year under their sponsorship.

Somebody once said, I am sure it was one of my former writing
clients, that a “bachelor lives like a king and dies like a dog and a
married man lives like a dog and dies like a king.” Don’t you believe
it. P've never been married and this is my major regret for the past
twenty-five years. Somehow the good luck (knock on wood) is
rather pointless when one does not have a family of one’s own to

[ 1384 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

use it for. I hope to remedy this situation finally and, God willing.
before too long will have a wife producing a family for me.

FREDERICK TAUSSIG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9737 Litzinger Rd., St. Louis 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1173 Reco St., St. Louis 26, Mo.

BORN: Nov. 9, 1913, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1937. DEGREE: a.B. (Washington Univ.).

MaRRIED: Louise Thomson, April 11, 1941, St. Louis, Mo. cHrtprex: Susan
Canby, Aug. 9, 1943; Frederick, Sept. 1, 1944; Anne Benoist, Dec. 18, 1950.

occupation: Manufacturer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Arundale Manufacturers, Inc.; chairman of board,
Cepco Plastics Company; treasurer, St. Louis Little Symphony Society.

MEMBER OF: Royal Westmoreland Basin Yacht Club.

LOOKING back over the last twenty-five years since graduation,
my life could be divided into three different periods: from 1937 to
the outbreak of World War II; the war years; the subsequent period
wpe to the present date.

Up to 1941, I was still undecided as to where my real interests
lay. In the early years my plans included biological research and
medical school. It soon became apparent that w hat talent TP might
have was not in this field. Engineering scemed to have more appeal.
Some interesting opportunities soon developed, one of which was
the manufacture of marine instruments. After Pearl Harbor, the
marine instrument business was brought to a standstill, but war
industries provided many interesting engineering positions. In April
of 1941, I married Louise Thomson. Shortly thereafter [ took an
engineering position with AfcQuay-Norris Manuf, acturing Company,

In December of 1942, I joined the U.S. Coast Guard and spent

[ 1385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

the next three years aboard a cutter, operating out of the Panams
Canal Zone. 1 was discharged in 1946, as a lieutenant (j.g.). Look-
ing back over my years in “The service, there were many experiences

and human relationships that became a part of my life and will never
be forgotten.

Returning to civilian life, | re-entered the engineering field. In
1950, a business opportunity developed and I started my own manu-
facturing company, which specialized in screens and filters. This
business has had a steady growth, but not what had been anticipated,
The plastics industry always had appeal and in 1958 I joined forces
with a plastic engineer and established an injection molding business.
This recent venture has proven most interesting and indications are

that it might also be profitable.

Since graduation my extracurricular activities have centered
around travel, sailing and skiing, Last year we took our first all
family cruise in a forty-foot yawl. If the world stays on an even

keel for a while longer, we shall be looking forward to many fun
and productive years.

WALTER ROBINSON TAYLOR

 

HOME ApprEss: 366A Grand Ave., Brooklyn, N-Y

OrFice appress: Long Island University, Brooklyn 1, N.Y
BORN: June z, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N-Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREES: A.B. (Long Island Univ.), 1957; AM
(Brooklyn Coll.), 1959.
UN MARRIED.

occupation; Actor; professor of speech and drama; speech therapist.

MEMBER OF: American Speech and Hearing Association, Speech Association

[ 1386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of America; Actor’s Equity; American Association of University Profes-
sors; Society of Optimates;, Sigma Tau Delta; Tau Delta Phi.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on speech rehabilitation and therapy for Speech Today,
Review, American-Oxford Encyclopaedia, etc.

FROM there to here is a long journey. I had only a year at Harvard
— without a doubt the most significant year in my life. In it I heard
my first chamber music, at the Fogg; my first symphony at Memo-
rial Hall; saw my first foreign film — it was “A Nous la Liberté” —

at the Germanic. I heard and heard again Noyes and Merriman,
Kittredge and Eliot. I learned to swim and published my first short
story, improved my backhand at the expense of my French. Robin
Feild, my freshman adviser, and his wife Helen were the first adults
in my life, outside my parents, to make me feel loved and accepted.
When I adopted the name Robin in my professional life as an actor
it was a gesture intended to symbolize my gratitude for this relation-
ship. Not too many students made an effort to penetrate the moody
and affected facade that was my defense in those days. To those that
did, I am still grateful. I have formed no fonder friendships since.

In 1933 I became an apprentice actor with Eva LeGallienne’s Civic
Repertory Theatre. There I met the late designer and sculptor,
Remo Bufano. After the demise of the Repertory, I worked with
Remo and his wife Florence in their studio, and in the productions
which involved their talents. When Bufano was made director of
the Marionette Theatre, a branch of Federal Theatre devoted to
plays for children, I went along as assistant. During the World's
Fair of 1939, I was involved in bringing Shakespeare to the masses
in very small doses, under Margaret Webster's direction. After
working for Hastings, Sarg, Lowe, Baird, and every other puppet
company I could find, I established my own, “Little Hippodrome,”
and kept it going until war was declared.

From 1943 until 1945, I served in the U.S. Maritime Service, as
seaman first class, from whence I went to the United Seamen's
Service for another year. At the close of the war I undertook acting
again, two of my happier vehicles being the Theatre Guild's reviv al
of “He Who Gets Slapped,” and Robert Sherwood’s “The Rugged
Path.” During the war I had become interested in the retraining of
brain-injured persons — aphasics — and in 1953 T decided to go back
to school and learn more about the field of speech rehabilitation. |
was awarded a Bachelor’s degree by Long Island University in 1gs>
a Master’s by Brooklyn College i in 1959. Since then T have become
professor of speech and theatre at Long Island University, where

[ 1387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I am also active in the Speech and Hearing Rehabilitation Centre.
A lot of my free time is spent working on my doctoral dissertation,
which ought to be completed in time for the Fiftieth Reunion! I’m
writing about Brecht’s influence on the contemporary theatre.

Reading, writing and sailing are my chief diversions; music my
most reliable escape. I travel summers, frequently to England,
where I have a godson, Robin Polak. I have never married, and
cheerfully exercise the prerogatives of honorary uncle to a great
many delightful nieces and nephews.

Had J a time machine and could go back through these swiftly
vanished years, to the period whose twenty-fifth recurrence we are
celebrating, P'd want to do these things again: take a long walk
along the Charles with Francis Whitfield, on a spring night; sit in
David Rockefeller’s handsome room at Thayer and listen to Helen
Morgan tremble her way through “Fish got to swim, birds got to
fly”; see, once more, the never-to-be-forgotten Richard Gilder,
wrapped in his coachman’s coat, crossing the Yard on a snowy

morning.

JOHN WILLIAM TEEGARDEN

 

HOME AppDRESS: 2813 Kenmore Ave., Dayton 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio.

BORN: May 3, 1914, McComb, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Stivers High School, Dayton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: A.B. (Earlham Coll.) 1938,
MARRIED: Marjorie Allen, May 17, 1941, Dayton, Ohio.
OCCUPATION: Government service.

[ 1388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT GERSONI TELSEY

   

HOME ADDRESS: 268 Palisade Ave., Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: Western Union Telegraph Co., 60 Hudson St., New York 13,
N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 27, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Kelvin School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; LL.B, 1940.

MarRiED: Frances Elizabeth Mount, July 2, 1948, Denver, Colo.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leon Gersoni Telsey, LLz., ’31.

occupation: Attorney, Corporate Law Department, Western Union Telegraph
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, National Panel of Arbitrators, American Arbitration
Association, since 1952; associate in adult education program, Hastings
High School, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., various dates; instructor in ad-
vanced piloting, Brooklyn Power Squadron, various dates, panel mem-
ber, Legal Referral Service, Association of the Bar of the City of New
York, 1952-53 and later dates,

MEMBER OF: American and New York Bar Associations; New York County
Lawyers Association, U.S. Naval Institute, U.S. Power Squadron, Amen-
can Arbitration Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Apportionment of Blame in Collisions at Sea,” Tulane Law Re-
view, June, 1941; chapters 76, 139 and 142, Carmody-Wait Cyclopedia of
New York Practice; chapters on false imprisonment and on gifts, New
York Jurisprudence; various articles on naval subjects in US. Naval In-
stitute Proceedings; various articles on legal subjects in New York Law
Journal (a daily paper); revision of vol. 7, Nichols-Cabill Annoraed New
York Civil Practice Acts.

THE Law School Class of 1940, of which I was a member, was verv
much aware of the gathering war clouds. Although admitted to the
New York bar in the spring of 1941, I did no legal work untl after
my return from naval service near the end of 1945. In the interim,

and by virtue of having been part of an LST ferrying group, Thad
served in fifty different naval vessels. Although perhaps the main

[ 1389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

FRANK MILLETT TEMPLE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2006 63d St., Lubbock, Texas.

ROBERT MORTON TERRALL

  

HOME appress: Cornwall Bridge, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 6, 1914, Neihart, Mont.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1936. DEGREE: A.B., summa cum laude, 1936.

MARRIED: Joan Thomas, June 28, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHILDREN: Susan,

Jan. 6, 1943; Mary, April 10, 1952; James, May 16, 1953; Benjamin, April
6, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

PUBLICATIONS: The Steps of the Quarry, Crown, 1951; numerous others.

A FEW years ago — it may have been when Susan, my elder daugh-
ter, started wearing lipstick in earnest — I called time, took the phone
off the hook, and asked myself the full battery of serious questions,
starting with Which end is up? and ending with Why bother? I
reached some sobering conclusions but I continued in much the

[ 1392 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

same way afterward, as people will. And so it will undoubtedly
prove this time. My daughter still wears lipstick, although it is now
so pale you would hardly know it is there. She is a freshman at
Barnard where she is being taught to fence on the off-chance that it
will come in handy some day. My next daughter, Mary, seems to
have her third-grade teacher well in hand. My son James has a nice
hop on his fast ball but is having trouble controlling his slider. My
youngest child is a boy in arms with great charm, we feel, and a
constructive attitude toward Harvard mail. He eats it. To complete
the introductions, I am still married to my original wife and I don’t
mean that to sound like a negative achievement.
I began my professional life on magazines in New York. Like most
writers of my generation, I served time in Tame, Inc. Since the end
. of our war, I have been on nobody's payroll but my own. This
means that when I feel a cold coming on and decide not to go into
the office I don’t get paid. I operate an electric typewriter which
gives off a low hum to remind me that time is passing. I try to serve
it as well as I can, but the odd thing about almost all the books I
write is that nobody gives a damn whether they are done well or
badly. The literary sub-species to which I belong —and after all
these years I still hope it is temporary — is known as suspense. This
is a misleading label as no group of novels is so totally lacking in real
suspense. The hero gets into jams, true, but a reader would have to
be very naive indeed not to know who will be in bed with the
heroine in the last chapter and who will be dead. A New York
Times expert, reviewing a group of books which probably included
one or two of mine, said recently, “I am increasingly beginning to
suspect that we may be on the threshold of the golden aye of the
suspense story.” I have sympathy for the man and his SUSPICIONS
may be justified, but I wish we were on the threshold of the golden
age of something else.

The reception is so terrible where I live that it is possible not to
own a TV set without being considered an enemy of the American
system. The house I live in has been standing on the east bank of the
Housatonic River for two hundred years, approximately three inches
above flood stage. The river is alw avs changing and always inter-
esting. Canoeists occasionally turn over under my front window.
IT am sure there are trout in the river because I watch the Fish and
Game people putting them in and my children pulling them eur.
There is skiing nearby but I don’t need to remind anv body that nane
of us are as spry as we once were. The Appalac hian ‘Trail pares

[ 1393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

my kitchen door and | occasionally patronize that. My one full.
time hobby is the School Board,

In politics, Lam a registered optimist. But I remember reading that
in the great buffalo massacres eighty years ago marksmen would
sometimes put on a buffalo skin and creep into the midst of the herd
in the hope of setting a new record and getting their names in the
newspapers; and I think there are still too many people pretendin
to be buffaloes today. Voltaire ended his famous book with Candide
working in the garden. The author, a city man, may have imagined
that his hero’s troubles were over. But I don’t know. Woodchucks,
deer, blister rust, Japanese beetles, mildew, black rot... .

ERNST AUGUST TEVES »

 

HOME apprEss: 24 Reichenbachweg, Falkenstein im Taunus, Germany.
ovFice appress: Alfred Teves K.G., 41 Rebstickerstrasse, Frankfurt am Main.
BORN: Nov. 1, 1913, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

PREPARED AT: Lessing Gymnasium, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1936 (35).

marrige: Paule Madeleine Cadville, April 18, 1960, Paris, France.

occupation: Partner, Alfred Teves Corporation, manufacturers of automotive
parts, refrigeration, air-conditioning, industrial hydraulics.

OFFICES HELD: Councilman, City of Frankfurt, 1945; member, advisory board,
Association of German Automobile Manufacturers, since 1946; German
delegate, Comicé de Liaison de VIndustrie Automobile pour Pays de la
Communauté Economique Européenne, since 1959; member, Board of
Overseers, Staedelscher Muscums-Verein, Frankfurt, since 1959; treasurer,
Frankfurter Kunstverein, since 1958, member, board of directors, Kura-
torium Kulturelles Frankfurt, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Iroquois Club; Signet Society; Automobil Club von Deutschland;
Frankfurter Gesellschaft fir Handel, Industrie und Wissenschaft; Jun ge
Unternehmer (Arbeitsgemeinschaft selbstindiger Unternchmer, Bonn;

{ 1394 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

founding member); Steuben-Schurz Gesellschaft, Frankfurt, American
Chamber of Commerce in Germany; Frankfurter Gesellschaft fiir Christ-
lich-Jiidische Zusammenarbeit, Freies Deutsches Hochstift; Vereinigung
von Freunden und Férderern der Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universitit,
Vereinigung von Freunden der Technischen Hochschule Darmstadt,
Europa Union; Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Max Beck-
mann Gesellschaft; Harvard Clubs of Heidelberg and Frankfurt; Friends
of Fogg Art Museum; Deutsch-Franzésische Gesellschaft, Frankfurt.
WHAT?’S so remarkable about the quarter of a century which has
passed by since my graduation? The undimmed freshness of facts
memorized, thoughts absorbed during my studies long ago. The
warmth of agreeable feelings whenever I turn my mind back to the
years spent at Harvard, to the people I met in and out of college,
Bostonians, Americans, or foreigners like myself. The high quality
of the instruction obtained. (How many dull persons have I had to
meet since, how many shallow lectures have I sat through, how many
crazy-quilt ideas have I had to combat.) I can safely say Iw ould
not have turned out to be what I am had I studied elsewhere.

What has my life been since 1936?

1936-39: Continuation or the attempt of it of this happy dream
world at the Institute of ‘Technology at Darmstadt during three
semesters. Work as a shop and office apprentice in the family-owned
companies at Frankfurt. Trips to several European countries then
unknown to me, a welcome escape from Naziland.

1939-45: A rude awakening from this self-created paradisaical
setting. Ousted from the position of vice-president of parental firm
by the Nazi-Gauleiter, drafted for service in Infantry, later Main-
tenance Corps, service in the eastern theatre of war. The loss of
friends, either killed in action or having turned into ardent Hitler
supporters. Cherished irreplaceable belongings bombed and burned.

1945-50: Dawn of a new era. Obtaining a tiny abode, part of a
dwelling shared with others. Helping to reconstruct what was left
of Germany in my own small way, a colossal job. Engaged to serve
as one of six city councillors for Frankfurt am Main by the firse
American-appointed mayor. Exercised federal, state, and municipal
powers all at once. Had Harvard prepared me for such an unfore-

seen job? I think, yes. Lost thirteen pounds of war-slimmed body
while at it, long since regained. The great feeling of gratitude for
the efforts made by American and other foreign friends to reestablish
contact after the war ended.

1950 et sequentes: Back to normalcy, but not the normaley of the
pre-war epoch. The family business (manufacturing) has taken a

[ 1395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

new lease on life, a few scars remain. Trips to the United States have
helped me to understand better the complexities of the country of
today. It continues to be worth many more visits. Voyages to South
America and Africa prompted me to lend my help there, as I did in
the Frankfurt of 1945. Crowning event: My marriage to a French
girl from Paris in 1960.

Outlook: Every one of us Occidentals, unless he has relapsed to
the level of an amoeba, has such mountains of work before him to
help make the western world into a place worth living in as to allow
no time for boredom or aimlessness in his life. The time hasn’t come
as yet for me to retire when I could finally write the books I would
like to, enlarge my collection of modern paintings, Chinese porce-
Jains, etc., mentioned in previous Class Album biographies.

JAMES JUSTIN THACKARA

 

HOME aAbprEss: 14 Ave. Du President Wilson, Paris (16), France.

OFFICE apprEss: Chase Manhattan Bank, q1 Rue Cambon, Paris (1), France.

BorN: April 23, 1914, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; AM. (George Washington
Univ.), 1954.

Marriep: Ellen L. Schmid, Jan. 26, 1943, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (divorced
1947); Mary Bradley, Aug. 23, 1951, Rockville, Md. (divorced 1955);
Shirley Ingalls, May 20, 1955, Pelham, N.Y. cumpren: James Sherman,
Dec. 7, 1944; John Ingalls, June 13, 1957; Lucy Riegel, June 18, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, in charge of Paris Branch, Chase Manhattan
Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Special assistant to the ambassador, US. Embassy, Rio de
Janeiro, 1942-44; economist, International Monetary Fund, 1946-55.

mMemseR OF: Harvard Club of New York; Chevy Chase Club; 1925 F St.

[ 1396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club, Washington, D.C.; Automobile Club, Travelers Club, Union In-
teralliée, all Paris, France; Chantilly Golf Club, Chantilly, France.
AFTER college I spent a year at the Business School and then joined
a bank on Wall Street at one hundred dollars a month. I am very
glad to report that the budget was in balance. Never in human ex-
perience “ . . . have so many owed so much . . .” to the Automat!
I dare say that I was on more solid financial ground then than now
where we are here, the seven of us, in a comfortable apartment in
Paris, the most beautiful city in the world, and the most expensive.
At the time of Pearl Harbor we were off the coast of Trinidad
en route to New York. When the news came over the air we thought
at first they were referring to the Pearl River in China, but not for
long. Within a half hour the proportions of the surprise attack
were unfolded. Because of my Portuguese and knowledge of Brazil,
I spent something over a year at the American Embassy in Rio, en-
gaged in economic warfare. Strange things happen to your name
overseas. Mine is English and my forebears came from England to
Philadelphia about 1700. They were Quakers. When I won the
Rio de Janeiro tennis championship in 1942, the papers announced
that the “Nippo-American Takara” had won. It appears that, at
that time, there was a Japanese admiral by the same name and they
had gotten confused. Actually, the name (with slight variations
in the pronunciation) means a small ranch in Brazil and sugar in the
Middle East. But where I am most popular is in Japan; there it means
cherry blossom.

One of my hobbies is languages and there is considerable pleasure
in getting to know a language, not only conversationally and through
the literature, but in the flavour of the colloquialisms. I get a bang
out of such proverbs in Brazil as “macaco velbo nao bota mao em
combuca” (an old and more experienced monkey does not put his
hand into a combuca nut knowing full well that once his hand is in
it it is most difficult to get it out again); “o peixe more pela boca”
(a fish dies through its mouth); or “plantado da” (the soil is very rich
and all you have to do is to plant a seed and it grows by itself).

After the war, I joined the International Monetary Fund in Wash-
ington where I was supposed to be a Latin American “expert.” Ap-
plying classical economic principles in this area poses many problems.
In addition to structural problems there are factors of race and
climate peculiar to the area. In Bolivia the Indian population is not

really in the money economy at all. It is an unbelievable country,
with its altiplano of over 10,000 feet, majestic peaks of over 20,000

| 1397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

feet and the precipitous drop to the East into the Amazon basin.
Some of the Indians range this mountainous land, at altitudes of well
over 10,000 feet, with nothing more than a bag slung over their
shoulders.

Incidentally, the bag does not bear a loaf of bread, much less K
rations, but coca leaves which they munch on to keep going! And
these extraordinary things have been going on since long before the
world became dependent on United States aid.

Presently we are located in Paris and we are really enjoying it.
I am in charge of the Paris Branch of my bank. (Incidentally, we are
in a position to suggest some good restaurants.) There is something
here for every taste: the symmetry and stained glass of Chartres and
the Sainte Chapelle, the museums and the picturesque French coun-
tryside. Among other things, I am a member of that distinguished
fraternity the “Chevaliers du Tastevin” and I manage to brace myself
once a year for the “Chapitre du Printemps” which is held in the
Clos Vougeot in the heart of the Burgundy country.

More Americans are abroad these days. You see them on the ferry
from Kowloon to Hong Kong, on the little tourist train from Tokyo
to Nikko and on the plane from New Delhi to Agra to see the ‘Taj
Mahal. Those of us Americans who live abroad have to do quite a
bit of explaining and defending. I think probably too many of the

world’s problems are laid at our door. There is a lot of criticism of
our foreign policy especially, much of it unjustified. I personally
have a stock position (which at least satisfies me) and which I use
frequently, i.e,, that American foreign policy is based on two prin-
ciples: (a) massive military retaliatory power and (b) maximum
contact with Russia in the political, economic and cultural fields.
As I see it, this has been our policy for some years and it should be
our policy for tomorrow.

[ 1398 ]

_ ene

2
see ni
coon

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

 

HOME ADpRESS: 4107 Friendly Rd., Greensboro, N.C.

OFFICE apprEss: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., 204 Graham-Hopedale
Rd., Burlington, N.C.

BORN: Nov. 1, 1914, West Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1936.

marrigp: Marjorie M. Brown, May 16, 1942, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Juliette Peck, Jan. 10, 1949, Margot Jean, Dec. 11, 1951.

occuPaTION: Director, Burlington and Greensboro Laboratories, Bell Tele-
phone Company, engaged in development and design of military com-
munications and electronic weapons control equipment,

OFFICES HELD: Member, Boy Scout Troop Committee, 1949; treasurer, Jockey
Hollow Glee Club, 1950; trustee, Presbyterian Church, 1953-57 (all Mor-
ristown, N.J:); lieutenant, active duty, 1943-46, inactive duty, 1946-53,
U.S.N.R.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers and Harvard Engineering Society,
New York City; American Meteorology Society, Boston, Starmount
Forest Country Club, Greensboro, N.C.

PusLications: Articles and technical reports in field of military electronics.

MY Twenty-fifth Harvard Reunion will also mark twenty-five years
in one field of endeavor and with one company. Prosaic as this may
sound, I cannot feel it so. The development of modern communica-
tions technology is often fascinating, often frustrating, almost never
prosaic. The bankers and brokers among you may consider “Ma
Bell” a settled old lady, but her Bell Laboratories offspring are gen-
erating so many new ideas of how man can talk to man, and ma-
chine can chatter to machine, that I can’t accept your view. Even
with all A.T.&T.’s resources, there are always more roads than
we can explore. At this point it seems reasonably certain that I'll
stay with Bell Laboratories through the customary three score
years and five.

[ 1399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

For our new recruits these davs, we've paraphrased the old Nav
slogan and sav “Join the Bell System and see the world.” We now
have laboratories not only in New York and New Jersey, but in
North Carolina, Florida) New Mexico, California, Pennsylvania,
Ohio, Indiana, and even the far Pacific. Mv own venture into the
colonial empire came about four years ago ‘and is surely the major
change in our lives since retiring from the Navy life of 1943-1946.
We moved South, to the land of the tarheel, where tobacco is still
king. Industry, though, now runs agriculture a close second in
North Carolina, thanks to the persuasive efforts of state officials
and to the surprising adaptability of farm labor to factory work.

Contrary to impressions gathered from reading William Faulkner,
we find Piedmont, North Carolina, anything but slow. The pace
of cities like Greensboro or Charlotte or Winston-Salem is just as
hectic as in their northern counterparts. P.T.A., Scouts, and other
community affairs take their familiar toll of free time, and church
activities are ever present. To my northern Presbyterian friends,
let me say that the major difference they would find in the south-
ern branch would be a considerably greater sharing of their worldly
goods. Tithing is not a word to be taken lightly in the Bible belt!

So, in most ways, we are enjoying our life and work in North
Carolina. Like New England, the South has a strong sense of his-
tory. Though we may wince at some of the viewpoints in our
daughters’ history books, these are for the most part minor. And
for those of you now too old to ski, let me add that golf all winter

long is a wonderful substitute. At present we have no thought of
another move, but if and when it comes, we hope it will be as
rewarding as the present one,

[ 1400 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARNIG JEROME THOMASON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 88 Lewis St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 302 Walnut St., Newtonville, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1912, Watertown, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: 8.B., 1936; D.M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Armine Barseghian, Nov. 14, 1942, Watertown, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jean Mariam, June 11, 1948; Alice Virginia, Oct. 1, 1950; Robert Carmg,
April 2, 1952; Philip Armen, April 16, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Dentist.

OFFICES HELD: Captain, U.S. Army Dental Corps, World War II, Scoutmaster,
Watertown, Mass., five years; president, Couples Club, Men’s Club, St.
John’s Church; Grand Master, 1955, historian since 1956, Supreme Grand
Master’s representative to Boston, 1960-61, Boston Chapter, Delta Sigma
Delta Dental Fraternity; chairman, Youth Service Committee, Newton
Rotary Club; committeeman, National Association of Armemian Studies
and Research.

MEMBER OF: American Dental Society; Massachusetts Dental Association,
Harvard Odontological Society; Harvard Dental Alumni Association.

I THOUGHT I did all the writing I ever expected to do when I
passed English A. Except during the war, when I wrote regularly
to my wife, Pve written nothing since. I don’t even answer my
mail, for long ago I took the advice of the sage who said, if you
don’t answer it, in time it will answer itself. MacArthur should have
been president, yet he has written no book. Eisenhower believed in
“deeds not words” and left the world to Kennedy. I'm just a little
fellow, but feel I have not let Harvard down as one of the best
dentists in the world. Like Benvenuto Cellini, I can prove it. That's
the way I feel and would not have seen this in print, if the Class
Report editor had not threatened me with a rolling pin! Long live
Harvard! It’s the best thing that has happened to me since 1gta.

[ 1401 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

After working and procrastinating for three years, I came back
to Harvard to get a D.ALD. in 1943. The Army sent me to the
Carlisle Field Medical School and then to England as part of an
inspection team. I participated in the Normandy invasion, the battle
of France, and did some occupation duty in Germany. On my
return | was chief of dental service at Murphy General Hospital
until August, 1946, since then P've been in general practice in
Newtonville.

I married a wonderful Radcliffe girl in 1942 and since then we
have been happily bringing up four lively children. I enjoy being
my own boss and could not now put up with anything less. Like
my drill, neither will [let this pen run too hot or too long.

For hobbies I've taken a page from Thoreau and annually go deep
into the Maine woods for a week — had some venison tonight, in
fact. I’m a trout fisherman and tie my own flies; even tried my hand
at raising English Pointers. In August I enjoy a fast Sea Skiff, in
Nantucket Sound, chasing bluefish. I think the gods have smiled on

me for twenty-five years, and pray my luck holds out and my
children go to Harvard.

JAMES STACY THOMPSON, JR.

wes

   

HOME AppRESS: 344 Hillside Drive, Orchard Park, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Symington Wayne Corp., Depew, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1914, New York, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

marrige: Grace C. Shelby, Oct. 7, 1939, Scarsdale, N.Y. cHrtpren: Susan S.,
Oct. 1, 1941; Carolyn S., March 14, 1944; James Stacy, 3d, April 7, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president — sales, Symington Wayne Corporation, producers

[ 1402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of cast steel railroad specialties and miscellaneous low and high alloy
dustrial castings.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Wanakah Country Club, Ha
burg, N.Y.

ATTENDED Cornell University from September, 1933, to Jur
1935, then transferred to Pace Institute, New York City, graduatir

in February, 1937. Started to work with Symington-Gould in Marc
1937, and have been with them ever since; New York City, 193°

45, Rochester, 1945-48, Depew, New York, just east of Buffal
since 1948,

Oldest child now a sophomore at Northwestern University; secor
a high school junior, youngest a second-former at Nichols School 3
Buffalo.

ALBERT THORNDIKE

 

HOME aApprREss: 76 Brook Hill Rd, Milton 87, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Milton Academy, Milton 86, Mass.

BORN: Oct, 29, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Jeanie Paine, June, 1936, Wayland, Mass. cimoren: Albert, Jr.
March 4, 1937; Ellen, Oct. 22, 1938 Ga. Emery van D. Rice. June a
1959); Virginia Low, Oct. 6, 1945. GRANDCHILD: Margaret Rice, March 31,
1960.

HARVARD SON: Albert Thorndike, Jr. ’58.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Benjamin Arthrop Gould Thorndike, 726, Muna. “28; Samuel
Lothrop Thorndike, °27.

OccUPATION: Schoolmaster; physics instructor; chairman, science department.
OFFICES HELD: Deputy-chief air raid warden, Town of Milton, 19yo-4:; vice-
president, secretary, Eastern Association of Physics Teachers, 1yg>-49i

{ 1403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

disaster chairman, Milton Red Cross, 1947-5; Community Fund, Red
Cross drives, etc,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Association of Physics
Teachers; Bond Astronomical Club; National Association of Science

Teachers; American Association of Arts and Sciences; Milton-Hoosic
Club; Tarratine Club of Dark Harbor, Navy League.

puBLicaTions: Short articles in professional journals; work as editor of texts,
etc,

MY autobiography has Milton Academy for a backbone. It was
deemed right to send me there in 1927; in 1932 it was indicated that
I should go to Cambridge; a war took me away for about three
years; and now, unless it is deemed to the school’s advantage to
sever my connection, it seems that | have a few more years before
“the academic year starting nearest the 65th birthday.” From this
statement one can correctly infer that I believe life to be good and
the schoolmaster’s profession to be rewarding; if I keep on with
both of these, 1 may find the grandchildren of former students sit-
ting in my classes!

My life since graduation really started with a decision made in
the spring of 1936 to try schoolmastering for a year before accept-
ing a job in industry for which Harvard's training fitted me. Even
then a man who concentrated in physics at Harvard was thought
to be desirable in industry, but I wondered if I might not regret
not having tried teaching and so, having a fiancée who was game to
play along with my former headmaster’s suggestion, I agreed to
show up in Milton in September. Within a couple of days of my
last final examination we were married and started the life which
has, with but one exception, changed only in almost imperceptible
steps. This exception, of course, was due to the War and to the
chance the school had of getting my teaching commitments cov-
ered by the “unretiring” of the man whose position I had just taken
over.

From May, 1942, until February, 1945, I was working for the
Navy as a member of one of the first Operations Research groups.
The set-up was a complicated one — involving the National De-
fense Research Committee, the Office of Scientific Research and
Development, and Columbia University — designed to keep us as
civilians and therefore able to talk with anyone from petty officer
to admiral, more or less as equals. In spite of various alarums, re-

sulting in whopping series of immunization shots, I spent the whole
time behind a desk in the Office of the Commander-in-Chief in

Washington, and we were sufficiently lucky to acquire a pleasant,

[ 1404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

though rickety, house in Georgetown. As the War progressed,
the emphasis of my work shifted from anti-submarine warfare in
the Arlantic to the operations of our own submarines in the Pacific.

When things calmed down I was able to return to Milton and to
take up where I had left off. Keeping one position usually in-
volves taking on more responsibilities; various things other than
straight teaching therefore came my way, such things as being
chairman of the Science Department and being in charge of the
Hall containing the upper three Classes of the Boys’ School, but
fundamentally our life is similar to what it was right after college.
We lead an extremely busy twenty-four-hour and seven-day exist-
ence through the academic year and then have a summer in Penob-
scot Bay, storing up enough energy and enough sense of humor for
the next lap.

The thing which makes us feel more antique than a 25th Anni-
versary is the fact that our household is now decreasing in numbers.
In another couple of years we will be back, when grandchildren
do not descend upon us, to the happy but lonely state of being just
a married couple.

PAUL CARVER TIFFANY

    
   
    

chit i aoc: ionee ints Sats sonia is

a tv
Ry .
&
ay £

HOME ADDRESS: 3955 Mandeville Canyon, Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS; System Development Corp., 2500 Colorado, Santa Monica,
Calif.

BoRN: April 3, 1913, Watertown, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(57).

MARRIED: Ruth Elizabeth Morris, June 17, 1938, Somerville, Mass. ciiores:
Vail, May 1, 1941; Paul Carver, Jr, Oct. 3, 1942.

OccuPATION: Computer system analyst.

[ 1405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Recreational Committee, Town of Barrington, RI.

MEMBER OF: Aflasons, Blue Lodge, Portland, Afaine; Shrine, Lewiston, Maine:
Association for Computing Machinery.

puBLicarions: “Computers and Programming in the Bio-instrumentation Sys-
tem,” 1960, IRE Western Electric Show and Convention Record.

ON August 6, 1956, I was reborn; to be more accurate, I should
say that my entire life was pleasurably altered. I suddenly realized
that the course of work which I had been pursuing in the field of
merchandising, since leaving college, had suddenly developed into
an unsatisfactory task. Not only was it a job, but also one for
which I had to find justification every working day. Therefore,
as I write this note, instead of being an old tired merchant, I find
myself a participant in the rapidly expanding field of programming,
electronics, numerical analysis, and computers.

Let me use the “flash-back.” Twenty-five years ago, employment
was difficult to find, as our Class finished school; and so I started
a career in merchandising, at the bottom. And when I say bottom,
I really mean bottom. A stockroom and a broom in Hackensack,
New Jersey, became my office and working utensil.

Two years later when I had worked up from the basement to the
main floor as a floor-walker (now in New Haven, Connecticut),
Ruth Morris, my sweetheart from Jackson College in Medford
finally said “yes” and we were married in Somerville, Massachusetts.
As the next important event, our daughter Vail was born at the
Grace Hospital in May, 1941. Two cities later (Albany, New York,
and Medford, Massachusetts), our son Paul arrived at the Massa-
chusetts General in Boston, in October, 1942.

In April, 1943, I joined Sears, Roebuck & Company, and started
a fourteen-year career which was interrupted by a short hitch
(during the war) with the U.S. Navy, where I received a brief but
intensive training in radar, sonar and general electronics at Capt.
Eddy’s school in Chicago.

With Sears and in pursuit of the elusive rainbow, our family
journeyed from Portland, Maine, to Norwich, Connecticut; from
Norwich, Connecticut, to West Springfield, Massachusetts; from
West Springfield to Buffalo, New York; and back again from Buf-
falo to Providence, Rhode Island. The highlight in all this moving
was our stay in Buffalo, 1953-54, where I served as sales manager
for the Buffalo group of stores, and my wife worked vigorously
for the League of Women Voters.

In Providence, 1 finally realized after a moderately successful

[ 1406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

career that there really was no place for me in this business world.
There really was no sense in jusufying this mode of existence anv
longer. Taking a severe reduction in my income, I joined the Rand
Corporation in 1956, and was sent as a junior mathematician to the
programming school conducted by IBM at Lincoln Lab. in Lev-
ington, Massachusetts. At this same time, Ruth started to work for
the World Affairs Council, as a tour guide for Rhode Island chil-
dren visiting the United Nations. Ruth also began active participa-
tion in politics by running for the school committee in Barrington,

Rhode Island.
Then, in rapid succession after completing training, I found mv-

self programming for the Sage System, organizing a training course

and training on-site programmers for field installations, and then

transferred to Santa Monica, California. What a couple of won-

derful years we have experienced! These years were wonderful

not only for a new career, but also for the opportunity of driving
with the family, Spotty dog and all, across this beautiful country of
ours. We went down the east coast to Florida, along the Gulf of
Mexico, across the southwest, Arizona and New Mexico, stopping
at the Grand Canyon, and then finally leaving the Canyon in a snow
flurry, crossing the desert, and arriving in Santa Monica for
Thanksgiving.

Now, look at us today. I am back at school, U.C.L.A., to attain
a certificate in numerical analysis and if possible to complete my
requirements for a Master’s degree. I am also working on project
“Medic,” developing UATA system for patients in V.A. Hospital.
Have also worked with SAGE, FAA and Air Force command con-
trol systems. My wife is also continuing her educational interests
and has just completed a semester in world literature at U-CIAA.

My daughter Vail is now a grown-up voung lady, a sophomore
at U.C.L.A. and a pledge to the Alpha Delta Pi sororitv. Uhiv List
week, I experienced one of those once-in-a-lfe-time evenings |
had the pleasure of being Vail’s guest on Dad's night at the uns-
versity.

My son Paul, a freshman at U.CL.A., graduated last year asa
Seal-bearer from University High School in Los Angeles a seholis:
tic honor his father never attained. He intends to mayor an mathe:
matical astronomy. It is a real thrill to see him marching wath the
football band; this event also enables us to have tekets te the
home games. But IT believe the greatest shock was the realizanion

[ 1407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

of today’s responsibilities when our son arrived home with his
Air Force ROTC uniform.

My present work in system analysis has been a series of con-
tinuous challenges in developing system descriptions, writing opera-
tional specifications, and solving interesting problems in such areas
as: air defense, air traffic control, weather, Air Force command
control systems, and the present project of using computers to aid
the “storage and retrieval” problems in handling patient data in
the modern hospital. This includes all the side interests of “heuristic”
programming, and pattern recognition. This year I also wrote,
delivered, and had published my first technical paper at the West-
ern Electronics Show and Convention here in Los Angeles.

In a world filled with aggression and fear, our family has found
hope and established a new existence. In an era of atom bombs and
such expressions as “will the living envy the dead?”’, we are striving
to reach a more complete appreciation of all the wonders being de-
veloped around us. We have made one more trip across the coun-
try by automobile, and think that we have attained a better value
of being a part of this American scene; and every day we wonder
at the disrespect, arrogance, and apparent illness of some of our
misguided young people. Let me close with the hope that Harvard
will continue to teach in the intellectual fields, but also will stress
the importance of having the young people work for and be proud
of this land from which we have all drawn so many opportunities
not available elsewhere in this world.

JOHN HORGAN TIGHE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Park St., West Roxbury 32, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 84 Lincoln St., Brighton 35, Mass,

[ 1408 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Oct. 27, 1914, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.
marRiED: Margaret Logue, Oct. 17, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Francis Wil-

liam, March 16, 1948; Margaret Mary, March to, 1950; Patricia Anne,

Nov. 22, 1952.
occuPATION: In charge of sales, Maine, New Hampshire, Eastern Massachusetts,

Boston branch, W. W. Grainger Inc., wholesale electric products.
SINCE graduation I seem to have acquired the standard twenty-
five pounds additional weight (of course not needed), a wife, three
children, a house with a large mortgage, and a job I rather enjoy.

spent five years in the Navy — four in cruisers and one in Nou-
mea in the South Pacific. I was fortunate enough to survive the

sinking of USS Quincy after spending four hours in the water in
the Solomons and lived to be a former lieutenant-commander, US

NR.

Since the war, as before, I have lived in Boston, managed to get

to our Reunions, and most years to the “free lunch” in the Yard

at Commencement. I find my job, while pleasant, is most demand-
ing of my time (of course as I grow older the days fly by with an
ever-increasing speed — there is so much to be done and never time
to do it all). With that in mind, my hobbies sum up to spending
what time I can with my children on weekends and taking my long-
suffering wife out to dinner now and again. It sounds dull as I
read it — but it’s a good life and I like it.

THOMAS JAMES GASSON TIGHE

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 23 Holyrood Ave, Lowell, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 9 Central St., Lowell, Mass.

BORN: March 27, 1914, Boston, Mass,

[ 1409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.D., 1940.

marrieD: Barbara Buckland, Sept. 2, 1938; Rockport, Mass. cHILDREN: Tama

(deceased); Thomas James Gasson, Jr, July 11, 1946, Shaun (deceased),
Johanna Buckland, May 20, 1951.

occupation: General surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, board of trustees, Vesper Country Club; presi-
dent, board of trustees, Belvidere School; member, board of directors,
Lowell Boys’ Club, Lowell Medical Club; member, board of trustees,
Lowell City Library, Massachusetts Society of Examining Physicians;
member, Trauma Committee, American College of Surgeons; chief of
surgery, Lowell General Hospital; senior surgeon, St. John’s Hospital,
St. Joseph’s Hospital; consultant in surgery, Tewksbury State Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Vesper Country Club, Yorick Club; American Medical Associa-
tion; Massachusetts Medical Society; Industrial Medical Association; Massa-
chusetts Regional Committee; Middlesex North District Society; American
Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College of Surgeons (fellow).

FROM 1936 to 1940 I spent at Vanderbilt Hall on Longwood
Avenue at Harvard Medical School. The first two years of academic
subjects were difficult. In the next two years patients appeared to be
examined and the pieces of the various pictures began to fall together.

Following graduation from the Medical School I was fortunate
enough to be appointed to the Fifth Surgical Service of Boston City
Hospital, which was then under the direction of the late Dr. Irving
Walker. This Service had been an outstanding appointment for
many years, and the efforts of its staff to maintain its standing put a
more than moderate amount of pressure on the house staff. The
hours were long, cases were numerous, instruction from the staff
was excellent and the experience gained was invaluable.

Following Dr. Walker's retirement from the City Hospital, I spent
several years at the Malden Hospital, associated with him in surgery,
as a resident. Again, because of shortages due to the war, the work-
load was heavy, but excellent equipment and pleasant surroundings
made this a profitable period.

I joined the Army, and shortly after this was told that I was to
be a neuro-surgeon. To accomplish this wonder, I was sent to the
University of Pennsylvania with ten other men for ninety days. The
Army at this time did an amazingly good job in teaching eleven
general surgeons the fundamentals of traumatic neuro-surgery.
Shortly after my stay in Philadelphia I was made a surgical chief of a

surgical team of the Fifth Surgical Auxiliary Unit and shipped to
Europe.

During the years in which our armies fought in Europe, I was

[ 1410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

assigned to numerous divisions with my surgical team. We were

able to do a great deal of both general surgical and neuro-surgical

work. I spent some time in an army hospital after the Armistice in

Europe, recovering from a major illness.

To complete my requirements for the American Board of Surgery,

I worked for nine months in the Pathology Laboratory at the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital. Early in 1946 I opened a practice of
general surgery in my native city of Lowell, Massachusetts. This
has been a most happy experience, as the city has three excellent
hospitals and many fine doctors, both in the field of surgery and in
other allied fields. There have been ample opportunities to explore
new surgical techniques that have been developed since 1945, and to
see, in many cases, the excellent results they have provided.

I married Barbara Buckland my second year of medical school.
This has gone along almost as well as my surgical career. Un-
fortunately, two of our children, Tama and Shaun, died. We have
one son, Toby, aged fourteen, and a daughter, Jody, aged nine.

I have engaged in the usual number of civic duties and committces.
On several occasions during committee meetings I have left the room
to answer the telephone and have returned to find myself as chairman
or president, whichever the case may be.

The ‘Tighe family has been extremely active athletically and either
compete against each other or cheer each other vigorously . I have
played much less golf than I would like to, but occasionally win a
few dollars, and every decade come home as the prize possessor of
an inexpensive piece of silverware. We are all interested in boats of
various kinds and spend as much time in the summer as possible art

Gloucester.

Early spring and fall are taken up with horse shows at which my
wife and two children are rather frantic participants. \lv function
at these events is to preside at the tail gate of the station wagon,
doling out food to all — Scotch to those who need it — and assuring
the various members of my family — when they don’t place in the

ribbons — that “that judge wouldn’t know a good horse if he saw
one, or a good rider.”

My life has been, I am sure, very little different from my claw-
mates. My professional life has been interesting, my family life has
been happy and vigorous, and there have been some sorrows

[rgtr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ELWYN EARLE TILDEN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 745 Sullivan Rd., Easton, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Religion, Lafayette College, Easton, Pa.
BoRN: March 24, 1914, Everett, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cm laude, 1936; TH.B. (Princeton
Theological Seminary), 1939; TH.M. (ibid.), 1940; THD. (ibid.), 1945.
MARRIED: Marguerite Elizabeth Hodgman, June 28, 1939, Boston, Mass, cuiL-
prEN: Elwyn Earle, 3d, Oct. 28, 1942; Harold Harvey, Jan. 22, 1945.
occupaTion: Professor of religion, chairman of the Department of Religion,

Lafayette College.
OFFICES HELD: Ordained minister, United Presbyterian Church, since 1943;
secretary, treasurer, Alumni Association of Princeton Theological Semi-

nary, Since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Society of Biblical Literature and Exegesis.

PuBLicaTions: Articles on New Testament Biblical subjects, Toward Under-
standing Jesus, Prentice-Hall.

THE chief thing to impress me as I look back over twenty-five
years is the mysterious way in which my life has progressed, as
awesome to me who have lived it as a starry night in January. One
thinks one understands and one doesn’t. The life of a preacher,
teacher or a scholar, let me say, is usually quite exciting to the in-
dividual, though most of us in these vocations find difficulty com-
municating our zest to others. When, as in my case, the three call-
ings are combined, there is more inner excitement than ever, as
the preacher’s conviction tilts with the teacher’s self-restraint, and
the scholar’s reserve wants out.

I went from Harvard to Princeton Seminary with a concern
for Biblical studies and the life of Protestant Christianity. World
War II precluded graduate study in Europe for newlyweds and
we stayed in Princeton until 1943. After two years of living in a

[ 1q12 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

parish, trying to maintain a research program, we moved (1945)
to the campus of Lincoln University, Pennsylvania, a college and
theological seminary primarily for Negroes. In retrospect, | am
even more impressed than I was at the time by how much of cur-
rent human problems I had missed and by the excitement of shar-

ing in the quest after solutions.

From 1949 to the present we have been at Lafayette, a strong
“middle size” college. By the usual indices we have a good (though
staff-wise ‘“‘youngish”) department of religion. More generally
remarkable, however, is Lafayette’s program of educating under-
graduate engineers in the same campus setting with students in the
arts and sciences. Though Lafayette has operated in this way for
the past century and a quarter, this kind of educational expenence
seems to me to be especially realistic for our ume.

The rapid growth of our sons through high school into college
has brought the typical jolts. When one son discovers philosophy
and the other the saxophone, approximately at the same tre, the
effect is invigorating, if that 1s the word. But the rush of new in-
terests and excitements through the family reminds us of the older
generation that there remain many things we wish to do before our
Fiftieth. I understand the charm of growing older in the setang
of one’s youth, but that is not for us. As classes, articles, and ac-
tivity in the churches come and go, we are looking forward to mect-
ing other communities new to us and building our live, perhaps
differently from heretofore, into man’s age-long struggle to become
truly human.

I share with many people a great concern for the immedhate
future of humanity. Perhaps we shall reject all creative ctforts
toward our own survival. I should not, however, wish to be living
any differently than within the Christian community, sccking te
support its witness and share its message, " "

(1413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

EDWIN ODIN TILTON

    

 

HOME ADpRESS: 71 Brantwood Rd., Eggertsville, Buffalo 26, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hodgson, Russ, Andrews, Woods & Goodyear, 800 M. & T.
Bldg., Buffalo 2, N.Y.

Born: Aug. 2, 1915, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),

1940.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Wilcox Plimpton, March 28, 1942, Cambridge, Mass.
CHILDREN: Samuel Odin, April 12, 1944; Stephen Wilcox, April 18, 1947;
Anne Plimpton, Jan. 26, 1952.

occuPaTION: Lawyer, partner.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Club of Buffalo.

MEMBER OF: Buffalo Tennis & Squash Club, Harvard Clubs of New York and
Buffalo.

LAST summer in the Adirondacks, I thought I'd have a long time
to reflect—I would put my personal history since 1936 into neat
crystal perspective. Instead, I sat under the pines and perused my
son’s summer reading assignment in The Lonely Crowd — and suc-
cumbed to reverie.

My post-commencement years I spent writing for Time, studying
at the Yale Law School and practising law in New York City. |
married a girl whom I met in New Haven and who turned out to be
a daughter of a Harvard College dean I'd never heard of. In 1941
came enlistment in the regular army as a $21 per month soldier, and
the better part of the following five years in Army Intelligence —
except for a stint on the red-clay terrain of the Infantry School at
Fort Benning. Then I set out for Buffalo to earn my way under the
shingle of Hodgson, Russ, Andrews, Woods & Goodyear.

The law, Felix Frankfurter recently remarked, is nearer to “priest
and psychiatrist in combination” than any other profession. Hlow-

[1414]

7 eI A Te eR eer eteireyineeet es! Re een t=

eevee”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ever, when not in the chapel or at the couch, I've practised a good
deal in the worldly field of corporation law. Extracurricularly, Pin
at present working as a member of New York State Bar Asocution
committees on new state legislation and on banking law refinements
and on a county bar committee on real estate practice.

My home and family (my elder son is away at prep school, at
Pomfret) center in the town of Amherst, a suburb of 60,000 citizens
northeast of Buffalo. There, Pve played bit roles in school and other
local activities. For four years I had a full spare-time avocation as
Republican chairman of the town; I since have been clected a
Republican state committeeman.

But my reverie under the pines was rather of fleeting moments

when I've fled the demands of clients for a week's vacation, some-
times two weeks’... In the winter, in Quebec, when the ski tow
shuts down at dusk, I whiz down the last run and dash for the sauna
and a cooling roll in the freshly fallen powder — Moments at the
theatre in Stratford, Ontario, where the torrent of Shakespearean
shouting, screaming, wailing and duelling, performed by the finest
classical actors on the North American continent, keeps my vounger
son and daughter glued to their seats— At Wengen, Switrerland,
where upon alighting from a cog-railway car bencath the Jungfrau.
my wife and I step into drifts two stories high, quickly fasten our
bindings and ski off into a cloud. We glide through a whiteness in
which there is no sound, no shadow, nor anything visible excepe the
orange-painted poles which mark the descent — Before dawn, at
a ranch in the blue spruce San Juan Forest in southwestern Colorado,
when I wake at the sound of the wranglers galloping through the
clearing and on up to the canyon wall to corral the other hones.
(Forty miles away, in Durango, you can easily spot the office of
1936's editor-publisher, Arthur Ballantine. Just look for the gilt sign
of “The News-Herald, Specializing in Complete and Detailed Ke-
porting of all Murders, Hangings and Saloon Disturbances”) -
And moments on a hot June day in New Hampshire: after a clin ,
to the shoulder of Mount W ashington, we all take a lazy dy in the
Lakes-of-the-Clouds and then stretch out on the rocks ta sun aur.
selves and watch the cloud fragments collect around the cone, Will
the peaks be fogbound by morning when we plan to hike the reve
of the range trail to Madison Huts before chinbing down inte eh

valley to rejoin the lonely crowd?

[ r4ts ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

JOHN MARTER TIMKEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Main St., Stonington, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Dunham & Timken, Inc., West Mystic, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1913, Canton, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury School, Cheshire, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

marrieD: Gertrude Mead, Oct. 11, 1937, Dayton, Ohio (divorced 1958);
Priscilla Grant, Jan. 27, 1958, Franktown, Nev. cHmpren: Jane, April 11,
1943; Susan, Dec. 14, 1944; Barbara, May 8, 1948; John Marter, Jr., June
15, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry H. Timken, Jr. 30; William Robert Timken, 732.

occupation: Naval architect.

MEMBER OF: New York Yacht Club; Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER marriage in 1937, I went to work for G. P. Putnam’s Sons
and thence to an undistinguished wartime career in the U.S. Coast
Guard, from which I emerged with no wounds, two stripes, and one
deaf ear. As any author will affirm, an editor who can’t hear his
complaints about lagging sales and lack of advertising is no editor
at all. I therefore went into the field of yacht design, wherein an
inability to hear the client’s suggestions on form, accommodations,
power, rig and sea-keeping ability is a positive virtue.

Due to my work in yacht design, I have been forced to make a
number of trips to Bermuda and other outlying places in the
slowest, most uncomfortable mode of transportation since the ox
cart — namely, an ocean-racing yacht. However, I have now given
up ocean-racing as too arduous for one of my years and have
taken up racing sports cars instead. I still design yachts in my
spare time.

Now, after twenty-four and one-half years in the adult world,
my life is conducted on a day-to-day basis. In company with the

[ 1416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

celebrated performer, Mr. Joe E. Lewis, I rise every morning, pull
back the curtain, look out on the waking world and say to myself,
“Well, what do you know, I made it again.”

Dictated but not read.

GEORGE FABIAN TITTMANN

   

HOME ADDRESS: 944 Sheridan Rd., Lake Forest, II.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Church of the Holy Spirit, 872 Church Rd. Lake Fores, Ub

BORN: Feb, 27, 1915, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB. 1936; B.D. (Virginia Theokgwal
Seminary), 1940.

MARRIED: Frances Middlebrook Messinger, Jan. 26, 1942, St. Loun, Mo. om.
DREN: Carolyn Speed, Dec. 23, 1942; George Fabian, yd, May ta. 1944,
Julia Keats, Sept, 28, 1949; Paul Taylor, May 22, 19681.

occupaTION Ministry; rector, Church of the Holy Spin (Fpecopal),

OFFICES HELD: President, Arlington (Va.) Ministenal Awoctanon, Chicago
Chapter, Anglican Society; dean, Potomac Convecation (Nomh Vie-
ginia area Episcopal Church); chairman, Chriscan Sewial Relaeorny,
Province III of the Episcopal Church; visiting lecturer in Liturgen Vee-
ginia Theological Seminary; member of council, Diocese of Chiacage,

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union; American Veterans Caananittee,
Military Chaplains Association; American Lawn Tennis Unpores Asse.
ciation; Episcopal Socicty for Racial and Cultural Unity, Angiwan Se.
ciety; American Church Union; Overseas Mision Sovetv, Valeo Drivers
Club; Robertson’s “Braves” Baseball Team, Plarvard Club of Oh age,
“The World-Wide-All-Churches-Association-for-che Prehilutnon-ed € aid-
ing-Clergy-‘Reverend,’ Inc.” (WWAC-AFPCCR, Ine).

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Overseas Mission Review; What Manner of Love (ihe
Bible as the Love Story of God), Morchouse-Barlow, New York, tuece

AS the years pass it all feels both more distant and more ordinary,
yet that doesn’t do justice to these twenty-five that have been quite

[ 1417 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Odd and lesser enthusiasms of the moment: the Swedish “Volvo,”
fabulously fun and a most practical car; the “E. A, Carey” pipe —
revolutionary answer to the smoker's dreams (no conf. of int. —
address on request); the “Norelco” shaver; an 1898 putter which
keeps me in the 7o’s when it behaves; tent-trailer vacations; “Pogo,”
“Sir Bagby,” “Peanuts,” “Steve Canyon,” “Feiffer’s Fables”; staying
with an opponent in tennis or squash who ought to beat you but
might not this time; coming awake while shaving over the Greek
New Testament; regular non-competitive exercise; watching chil-
dren grow —and develop interests you never had; coming home
and getting into old clothes; responsible non conformity of all
kinds: preaching — when you've organized it, feel it, and people
are listening; the Benjamin Britten-Christopher Smart recording
of “Rejoice in the Lamb”; all kinds of cheese. In sum (a most
elusive assignment): though I count day and night on a mercy from
God and people past all deserving, I am grateful beyond the telling
for what these twenty-five years have brought and would not live
in any other time.

+ WENDELL JOSHUA TOBEY

 

BorN: Aug. 3, 1914, Boston, Mass, parents: George Beebe Tobey, Lillian
Dodge.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.

Marriep: Anna Bogart Faxon, Oct. 6, 1936, St. Thomas, Ont., Canada (di-
vorced 1946), CHILDREN: Nancy Faxon, Sept. 20, 1937; George Hunting-
ton, April 26, 1939.

piep: March 12, 1951, Brookline, Mass.

AFTER leaving college, Tobey worked as a purchasing agent for
[ 1420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Carnation Milk Company in Ontario, the Santa Cruz Fruit
Packing Company, Raytheon Manufacturing Company of Waltham,
Massachusetts, and the Sanborn Company in Cambridge, Mana-
chusetts. Illness forced his retirement from the Sanborn Company
in 1946. He was a member of the New England and National
Associations of Purchasing Agents. He was survived by his children.

FREDERICK BARNES TOLLES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 606 Elm Ave., Swarthmore, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Friends Historical Library, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore,
Pa.

BoRN: April 18, 1915, Nashua, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Proctor Academy, Andover, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., #iagna cto Lrude, 1936, AN. 104%,
PH.D., 1947; Litr.p. (Haverford Coll.), 1959.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Ellen Smith, June 24, 1939, Wollaston, Mass. cintoare
Ellen, Nov. 15, 1942; James Melville, Nov. 21, 1944, Natharine, Mav >,
1949.

occuPaTion: Teacher (Howard M. Jenkins Professor of Quaker Phstory and
Research) and librarian (director, Friends Historical Library), Sw arth.
more College.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1945-50, 1954-58, Vice-chainnan, toss, chaeman,
American Section, 1954-57, American Friends Service Commuttee, member,
board of managers, Pendle Hill, since 1946; councilor, Ebtore al Sus ety
of Pennsylvania, 1949-50, since 1955, Institute of Farly Amernan Pitney
and Culture, Williamsburg, Va. 1956-58; editor, Bulletin of Prieade bes.
torical Association, since 1949; president, Friends Historeal Soewty tb ng:
land), 1952; chairman, Committee on the Albert J. Heverntye Award
American Historical Association, 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; American Seudow Aw patein,
National Council on Religion in Thgher Falucanon,

PuBLications: Meeting House and Counting Elouse, wog8, Sinery and “Tbe

[ tg2t )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

coast. He also learned that life in a sumptuous ivory tower, sur-
rounded by camellias, roses, oranges, avocados and grotesquely
phallic cacti, not to mention the omnipresent “Blue Boy,” could
be very agreeable — so agreeable indeed that he lingered there for
four blissful, smogbound years as a transient member of the library’s
permanent research group. After 1954, when he returned to Swarth-
more, envious colleagues often inquired how he had contrived to
stretch a year’s leave into four and why he had ever left the lotus-
land of Southern California, but he wasn’t saying.

In the summer of 1958, he took another leave and went, rather
abruptly, to the hospital. During the next eighteen months he grew
familiar with the insides of a number of excellent hospitals, while
a number of excellent surgeons grew familiar with his insides. Over
this period we had best draw a thick curtain of medical jargon that
will be impenetrable to all save the initiates of Aesculapius. Bitem-
poral hemianopsia revealing the presence of a congenital cranio-
pharyngioma, a craniotomy was successfully performed. During
convalescence a colonic diverticulum perforated, causing massive
peritonitis, which required an emergency enterorrhaphy, jejunos-
tomy and colostomy, followed in due time by a colonic resection
and anastomosis, and finally by a closure of the colostomy. Presently
a recurrence of the hemianopsia suggested the presence of another
craniopharyngioma; this was confirmed by arteriogram and pneu-
mogram and another craniotomy was performed. This lesion prov-
ing inoperable, resort was had to cobalt-6o radiation therapy, which
proved remarkably effective, converting him into a radioactive
isotope but restoring his vision. By the end of 1959 Tolles was
back in commission again, a little weary, but doubtless wiser, having
learned what it was like to be in a hospital with doctors and nurses
hovering about, not trying to starve him but to keep him alive.
Perhaps he had learned something of the virtues of patience and
resignation. Certainly he had learned to have gratirude and respect
for the medical and nursing professions, and not least for his wife
who turned out to be one of the best untrained nurses in the busi-
ness. (“You ought to see her make with a Scultetus binder,” he
used to say tenderly.)

In writing the biography of a man who had pretensions as a

scholar, it is customary at about this point to pause and devote a

chapter to his ideas. In this area the crucial question with respect
to Tolles is: did he have any?

Leaving this unprofitable subject, we may turn finally to a sum-

[ 1424 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mary of his career, or, still following Henry Adams, his education.
Had he learned anything since college? Well, in some respects he
had changed — in politics, for example. In 1936 he had cast his
first vote; he gave it, following the family tradition, to the Repub-
lican candidate, Governor Landon. A year or so later, he had a
political “awakening” and became a “liberal”; in 1940 he voted for
F.D.R., though it was actually a penitential retrospective vote for
the F.D.R. of 1936, for he was not pleased by the Democratic
administration’s drift toward war. In 1944 he didn’t vote — too
busy chopping down trees for the government. In 1948, moving
further — but not very far — to the left, he went for that honorable
old campaigner, Norman Thomas. In 1952 and 1956, he was an
enthusiastic Stevenson man, gladly for Adlai; in 1960 a listless
Kennedy supporter, slack for Jack. In religion he remained a
Friend, finding Quaker worship a healing balm to his bartered soul
and committee work with the American Friends Service Committee
a useful salve for his conscience, which told him he should really
be out in India or Africa doing something about the ills of the
world. In his family life he was outrageously contented. In the
fall of 1960, when he sent his elder daughter off to his wife's alma
mater (did that make Radcliffe his daughter’s alza avia, or bounuful
grandmother? ), he felt that, though he could hardly qualify as
almus pater, he was at least carrying on a goodly tradition.

JACOB ISRAEL TOYSTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1693 Beacon St. Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Foods Research Labs, Ine, 130 Newmarket Sp, Benton, Maw
BORN: Jan, 20, 1914, Ukraine, Russia.
prepARFD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

[ t4z5 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).
MARRIED: Ruth Onigman, June 28, 1942, Brookline, Mass.
occupaTion: Chemist; foods research and analysis.
MEMBER OF: Association of Harvard Chemists,

JOBS for chemists were scarce in the lean year of 1936. Fair
employment practices and sentiments were still in the future. After
a couple of discouraging experiences, I found myself turning to
pharmacy as a means of livelihood. This was not an unfamiliar field
for me. As a student, ] had worked in drugstores weekends and
summers. With this practical experience and with my college
chemical training, it was not too difficult for me to become a
registered pharmacist.

World War II soon found me naturally in the Medical Corps.

But not for long. Under Army auspices, 1 was sent to Clark Uni-
versity where I spent almost a year studying German language and
area. Having reached fluent proficiency in German, military logic,
true to form, decreed that I join a general hospital as a pharmacist.
I served in this capacity for about a year in England. But my
knowledge of German was not forgotten. I was sent to Munich
where I remained a year as a censor of German civilian mail and
interpreter.

In 1946 I returned to civilian life and my pharmaceutical career.
In 1949 I bought a drugstore in Allston, Massachusetts, which I
operated successfully for eight years. However, I found the retail-
ing business increasingly to my dislike. I chafed under the physical
confinement and mental stultification. Three years ago, I took a
large step and sold my store to escape what I considered drudgery.
Chemistry had been my first love, and I returned to this field. I
find this type of work both challenging and gratifying. At the
time of this writing, I am exploring the possibilities of making and
marketing a couple of chemical items.

My hobbies are sedentary — reading the literature of the sciences,

and high fidelity listening and tinkering.

[ 1426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NORMAN IRVING TREVELYAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 434 38th St., San Pedro, Calif.

oFFIce appress: Northrop Aircraft Co., San Pedro, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1915, Riverside, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

Marriep: Jennifer Riddett, 1950. cHILDREN: Jane, 1953; Edward, 1955, George,

1958.
OCCUPATION: Aircraft business.
IN the summer of 1936, I went to work for the Southern Sierras
Power Company, staying with them for three years and working
at various places on their system in California and Nevada. Included
in this time was a summer spent on the eastern slopes of the Seerra
Nevadas where the company has its hydro-electric plants.

From 1939 to 1947, | worked for Douglas Aircraft in their parts
sales department. As part of this job I spent nine months in Bengal
during the war assisting with the DC-4's the Army was operating
between India and China. I was in China briefly during this trip.
In 1946 I was a member of a team sent by Douglas to Purepe to
sell DC-6’s to the various European airlines. ‘Vhis trip covered
most of the European capitals — as far east as Prague.

In 1947 I left Douglas to go into a farming venture in northern
California and in 1950 went back to the aircraft business this tine
with Northrop, where I still am.

In 1950, Jennifer Riddett and T were marricd and we now have
three children, Jane seven, Fdward five and George two. We Inve
at 434 38th Street, San Pedro, California, overlooking the entrance
to Los Angeles harbor. .

[ 1427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MINOT WELD TRIPP

 

HOME AppreEss: 3256 N. Mount Curve, Altadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Welton Becket & Associates, 10,000 Santa Monica Blvd., Los
Angeles 25, Calif.

BorN: March 9, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Falmouth, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 1935-1936, 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(40).

marrigeD: Martha J. Swanson, 1938, Falmouth, Mass. cHitpreN: Minot Weld,
Jr., June 18, 1939; Susan Vincent, Aug. 4, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Minot Weld Tripp, Jr., ’61.

OCCUPATION: Resident engineer, architect's representative, heavy construction.

NOT being the boastful type, 1 have omitted under the heading
“Offices Held” my services to the PTA thirteen years ago as program
procurer; the two afternoons in 1956 and 1960 that my wife and I
spent delivering Democratic literature in a Republican neighborhood,
the Community Chest drive during which I pinned down several
elusive neighbors — to definite commitments, that is. Neither these
extracurricular activities, nor my jobs supervising construction, nor
a leisurely but sometimes scary war hitch in the Armed Guard,
USNR, have exactly required confirmation by the U.S. Senate.

Recently, having risen to new heights career-wise as architect’s
representative on the twenty-two-story Travelers building in Los
Angeles, I considered revising upward my opinion of my own ac-
complishments. It soon became apparent, however, that such a
change would upset the system of values that I have carefully built
up over the last twenty-five years which enables me to hold a low
opinion of most other people who consider themselves quite ex-
traordinary.

My deepest sympathy goes out to my wife who has put up with
me for almost twenty-three years. This guilt is made bearable only

[ 1428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by the knowledge that I have put up with her for the same period
of time. In our two children is a glimmer of hope for the human
race. Minot, Jr., shows signs of being the brilliant young fellow 1
once thought I was. At Harvard he divided his time roughly
equally between course work and duties as president of the New
England Intercollegiate Young Democrats, culminating in intensive
and enthusiastic support of Kennedy at the Los Angeles convention.
He hopes to enter law school at Berkeley next fall after graduating.
Susan, normal as blueberry pie, sprouted a brain when she moved to
Westridge School in Pasadena two years ago and is now assessing
the eastern colleges for 1965. She, too, is bolstering the recent
family Democratic tradition. One more thing: That damned special
questionnaire with all its yes and no answers, my Conscrv ative trend
doesn’t indicate a flight to Goldwater. The world needs changing;
let it begin with us.

JULIAN NATHANIEL TRIVERS

 

HOME apprEss: Twin Ponds Lane, Oyster Bay Cove, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Popular Merchandise Co., 128 Dayton Ave. Pawar, NJ.
BORN: Oct, 1, 1915, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: VWWorcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MARRIED: Patricia McDonough Culver, Nov. 24, 1938, New York, NY. cons.
DREN: Stephen Culver, Sept. 17, 1939; Tamothy Culver, Apol qa rage,
Juliana Culver, May 11, 1943 (diced June 13, 1993), John Palines, O88 A
1946; James McDonough, Aug. 28 tog8 Mary Culver, June ta tac,
HARVARD SON: Stephen Culver Trivers, ‘61.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hloward Trivers, ast, °32, pip, "gt.

occupation: Vice-president — sales promotion, Popular Mer hanliee Coenpuey
OFFICES HELD: Director, Buffalo Philharmonic Society, tose ty Netead Meee

[ t4290 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
Merchants Association, 1946-60, Atlanta Symphony Society, 1951-58;
trustee, Atlanta Art Institute, 1953-58, Metropolitan Atlanta Community

Services, 1956-58.
MEMBER OF: Cherokee Town and Country Club, Adanta, Georgia; Atlanta

Kiwanis Club (former member).
THE older I get, the less I have to say. Which is the only sign of
improvement I have to report. A few observations:

(1) The South is great — and I hope to go back. But the prob-
lems of the South need solving — and southerners somehow don’t
want them really solved.

(2) The growth of the Megalopolis of the Northeast (Boston
to Baltimore) is destroying every vestige of beauty and comfort
in the area. Somebody had better holler “whoa!”

(3) The strain on parents attempting to pry their children into
good colleges is the most ludicrous symptom of a dead-serious
situation. The only answer that occurs is to raise the standards of

less well-known institutions to get some of the pressure off the

“name” colleges.

FREDERICK MEREDITH TRUITT

 

MAILING AppRESS: 204 Monterey Ave., Pelham, N.Y,

[ 1430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD LIONEL TURCOTTE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: §23 Fletcher St., Lowell, Mass.

EDWARD HILL TURNER

 

HOME appress: McGrath Pond, Oakland, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Colby College, Waterville, Maine.

BoRN: Nov, 25, 1913, Arlington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB. cum Iruide, 1936.

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Vice-president for development, Colby College.

OFFICES HELD: President, Personnel Managers Club, Boston Chamber of Cam.
merce, 1951.

EACH passing year makes me realize more how much Harvard did
for me. The magic spark, however, that distinguishes a Plarvard
man apparently did not ignite in me, for invarubly when people

[ t43t J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

learn that I went to Harvard, they look astonished, blurt out before
they can stop themselves, “You did? Did you graduate?”

Reversing the usual procedure, my lifelong ambition (the cruise
business) was realized immediately after Commencement. From
1936 until war in Europe forced the great liners to hide in home-
ports, Raymond-Whitcomb was my employer; Europe, Africa,
South America and the Caribbean my happy haunts.

Lover of Cape Cod and the outdoors, I turned next, in 1940,
to the cranberry industry. My work there was brought to a dra-
matic and sudden end by a trigger-happy weekender who took
aim at what he thought was a seal; shattered my shoulder while
I was enjoying a moonlight swim. Unable with one arm in a cast
to dig ditches so necessary to the bogs, I returned to Boston to
start anew. An employment agent, reviewing “my qualifications,”
dispatched me to the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company to apply
for a job as a claims adjuster. Flattered at first to be referred so
promptly, I learned later that the agent always so dispatched college
graduates when he didn’t know quite what to do with them.

By a stroke of good luck, the Liberty Mutual needed that day
a replacement in their personnel department. Personnel and office
management became my vocation, interrupted by four years in
the Navy’s amphibious forces, disporting on eight warmly-contested
beaches from North Africa to Okinawa.

In 1953, while I was in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, as administrative
assistant to the vice-president of the newly-created Central Division
of the Liberty Mutual, a friend, for a lark, sent my name to Colby
College, which at that time was seeking a development officer. I,
for a weekend in New England, accepted an invitation to visit
Colby.

I was tremendously impressed by Colby, its achievements and
ambitions. The college officials, on the other hand, were impressed
by the fact that I went to Harvard. [ burned all bridges. Since
1953, living on the banks of a beautiful Maine lake, I have been
proud to be a part of a very exciting educational institution. Per-
haps the final paragraph in a book presented to me by my friends
at Liberty Mutual when I took my leave sums it all up best:

His job now is to grow ivy with care,
An impossible job, he can’t even grow hair.

[ 1432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ROBERT PAUL TWITCHELL

 
 

«

ig, ns

| , , tu _
Ob

BORN: June 15, 1914, Dorchester, Mass, parents: Paul Schuster Twitchell, ‘14,
Helen Thompson.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

DIED: Jan. 19, 1950, Providence, R.I.

AFTER graduation with our Class, Twitchell spent two years with
the Park School of Buffalo, New York. Since then he had been at
St. George’s School, Newport, Rhode Island, where he was a teacher
of French until the time of his death. He was survived by his
mother and father and a twin sister.

PHILIP JOHN TWOMEY

 

HOME anpress: 1812 Maxine Ave, San Mateo, Calif.

OFFICE Appress: Lachman Bros, 16th & Mision Sereety San Fran rece, Cab
BORN: Nov. 20, 1913, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Masa

[ 1433)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

mMarrieD: Constance Brown, June 2, 1940 (divorced, 1949); Suzanne Hoff
April 16, 1949, Riverside, Calif. cumpren: Philip John, Jr., Jan. 24, 1950,
Joanne S., Dec. 7, 1956.

occupation: Buyer of retail home furnishings, Lachman Bros.

MEMBER OF: Northern California Drapery Club, former member, Exchange
Club, Bakersfield, Calif., University Club, Boston, New England Carpet
Club, Southern California Drapery Club.

TWENTY-EIGHT years ago, when the final grades were in, I
found that I had survived the “great axe” (the “bugaboo” of all
freshmen). My grades entitled me to look forward to another
(my sophomore) year at Harvard. I was practically assured of the
money if I just passed. The potential was great — my relatives were
very proud, and so was I. Why, with a little additional weight, I
planned to assume my place in the sun— in education and in ath-
letics. Why, with the likes of me, Shaun Kelly, Johnny Adzigian,
etc, “beat Yale” was just something that was there, but not too
difficult. It’s funny how you remember names even after twenty-
five years. I'll bet they are still terrific guys!

Well, to be incredibly brief (in this paragraph), the touchdown
was made by the great playmaker and changer of lives, “depression.”

I left college dismally (broke) —just “no mo mon.” After
twenty-five years I’m sure that my “leave of absence” will still be
honored. Perhaps Pll take up an option and get that degree in
1970; it will only be thirty-four years late. Seriously! I’m still very
proud to have been a very minute part of Harvard. I did make a
few friends whom I thank for the privilege of having seen the 1936
graduation, and I can still see it clearly. It was a clear, June day in
Massachusetts.

After the blow that took me from Harvard, I languished in a
good depression job with the Boston Herald-Traveler. Newspaper
work, especially circulation, at fifty dollars a week was not my
life’s blood or desire. Like many others, I decided to gamble on
the retail business.

In October, 1936, I left the newspaper business and decided on
a retail career. I joined R. H. White Company in Boston as a stock-
boy. I was made a buyer in 1939. In 1943, after getting the “feel”
of the “marts of trade” in New York, I was welcomed into the
Navy. I served faithfully (without decoration) till February of
1946. Then followed a few years of restless change: 1946 — to
White’s again (my old job, Uncle Sam had guaranteed it); 1947 —

[ 1434 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Columbus, Ohio (grass is always greener —a nine-month stay).

The mecca of California had kept me increasingly restless — I made

it in late 1948, I went to work for the May Company in Los Angcles,

stayed there till 1951 — new position beckoned in Bakersficld, Cali-

fornia (survived earthquake there), stayed till late 1953 — back to

May Company and stayed till a chance to go north to San Francisco

in December, 1959. At this writing have been here at Lachman

Brothers for exactly one year, and it looks like the Anthony Adverse
has found his niche.

In the twenty-five years since I watched my “could have been”
graduation I have lost (1) youth, (2) brown hair — now gray, (3)
nostalgia for former girl friends, (4) thoughts of me as a financial
genius. I have gained (1) a broader and more reasonable outlook,
(2) a digression from the attitude that all competitors are crooks,
(3) a “late in life’ wonderful concept of what two children can
mean to an old codger, (4) a knowledge that I should have kept in
contact with those of my Class who could have made me wealthy,
(5) the proving to myself that I was more the merchant than I was
the newspaperman — after twenty-five years.

To sum up: I’ve walked through the Yard just twice in the last
thirteen years (my family still lives in Watertow n), and there, both
times has appeared the ‘ genie” who knows my inward thoughts,
“what might have been,” but that is life! It hasn't been too bad.
Whatever happened to Earl Webster or Wayne Miller. Thanks
for this “spot.” 1932 working to 1960, and then to the Fifticth,
1986.

FRANCIS JOSEPH ULMAN

    

,,
=
ON

HOME appress; 138 Algonquin Rd, Chestour Hill 6*, Mase

[ 1435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: June 16, 1916, Boston, MLass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., CU71 laude, 1936; LL.B., 1939.

marrigp: Sara D. Manheimer, June 30, 1946, Torrington, Conn. cHILpREN:
Elaine Barbara, March 27, 1947; Cynthia Mae, March 20, 1954.
occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD; Senior attorney, National War Labor Board, 1944-45; member,
New England Regional Counsel, Wage Stabilization Board, 1952-53.
MEMBER OF: Boston and American Bar Associations.

pusLications: “Dismissed for Want of a Substantial Federal Question — A
Study in the Practice of the Supreme Court,” Boston University Law

Review, 1940; “Arbitration and the National War Labor Board,” Har-
vard Law Review, 1945.

I HAVE found life varied, challenging, stimulating and unpredict-
able, though it has proceeded for me pretty much along the chosen
path in the twenty-five years since graduation.

I entered Harvard Law School in 1936, after a summer of travel-
ing in Europe. There, the superb faculty, the intense and competi-
tive spirit of the students, and the wide range of the law gave a
purposefulness and focus to my intellectual life which more diffuse
college interests had not supplied. My debt to Harvard Law School
is inestimable.

After admission to the Massachusetts bar in the fall of 1939, I
worked for two years as a junior in a Boston law office. I had en-
listed in the Navy V-7 program and was awaiting the start of an
assignment to the USS Prairie, when Pearl Harbor struck. After a
bout of illness, I was given a medical discharge by the U.S. Navy
and went to Washington, D.C., where I worked initially on war
housing and then moved to the office of the General Counsel of the
National War Board. There, as a member of the small legal staff
under Lloyd Garrison, former dean of the Wisconsin Law School,
I participated in and observed the operation of “collective bar-

gaining” in the framework of a tri-partite agency composed of
government, labor, and employer representatives, and the difficulties
of effectively framing and administering controls over important
sectors of the country’s vast, diversified and highly inter-related
economy.

I returned to Boston in 1945, and since the war have been engaged
in independent private law practice, except for a brief interruption
during the Korean War to participate in the Government Wage
Control Program. I have been fortunate in the range and variety

{ 1436 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of work which has come my way in the course of a gencral practice.

I married Sara D. Manheimer, the sister of our classmate, Leon
Manheimer, in 1946. Our two daughters, now fourteen and seven,
are vivacious and, as they grow, sources of alternate wonder and
amusement to their parents.

My interests are family, home, work, summer vacations on the
South Shore, reading, friends and various hobbies. In none of the
last do I have the skill of even a part-time professional.

Though over the years I have acquired a certain scepticism, a
measure of which I retain even as to the candidates I favor in an
election year, experience has also convinced me of the fundamental
decency of the great majority of people, and the basic common
sense of the average man, particularly in matters in which he has
had some experience and which seriously affect him personally.
However there are exceptions to all generalities, and some of the
individuals I have dealt with or run into, including a Harvard man
or two, have been “beauts.”

Though my only direct experience in the field of education has
been the giving of a couple of courses to adult professional students
a number of years back, I feel that education, study and research
are the real frontiers along which our society advances and the
true keys to the improvement of the lot of mankind. I have been
proud of the stand that Harvard has taken in support of academic
freedom, and of the continued leadership exhibited by the univer-
sity and its professional schools during the last twenty-five vears in
an increasingly interdependent world.

MARIO UMANA

 

MAILING Apparss: 70 Meridian Se, Fast Boston a8, Abas

[ 1437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PAUL ADOLPH UNGER

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3113 Van Aken Blvd., Cleveland 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Unger Co., 1273 W. Ninth St., Cleveland 13, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1914, San Diego, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936. .

MARRIED: Sonja Franz, Jan. 2, 1947, Zagreb, Yugoslavia. cuitpren: Alan Franz,
Sept. 20, 1948; Gerald Franz, Sept. 14, 1950; Tamara Louise, Aug. 31, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leonard Seidman Unger, ’39.

occupAaTION: President, ‘The Unger Company, packaging.

OFFIcEs HELD: Chairman, Bell Neighborhood Center, membership committee,
Group Work Council; vice-chairman, Cleveland Civil Liberties Union,
member of board, Cleveland Americans for Democratic Action; director,
Clevelanders for Stevenson; executive vice-chairman, Cleveland Citizens
for Kennedy.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Museum of Art; Cleveland Council on World Affairs;
Harvard Club of Cleveland; Citizens for Freedom of Mind; Council on
Human Relations; Urban League; National Association for Advancement
of Colored People; former member: Association of Housing Officials and
Social Work Publicity Council.

PuBLications: Articles for bakery trade magazines, and earlier, for housing
and welfare journals. Pamphlets and speeches on variety of subjects asso-
ciated with various jobs and special interests.

FOLLOWING the admonition of my professors, after Commence-
ment, I set out from Cambridge for Washington to repay the com-
munity for my education, by putting at the disposal of the public
whatever talents exposure to Harvard had developed. Fortunately
I was apprenticed to an outstanding social philosopher and educa-
tor who was creating public recreation programs throughout the
country, using the skills of the unemployed. My carcer thoughts
of writing and journalism in college widened to other branches of
communications and to planned person-to-person contacts, a sort

[ 1438 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of informal public relations. Evening courses supplemented job ex-

perience. By the time I left the job in WPA I had contributed the

usual quota of pamphlets, manuals and magazine articles, planned
displays for two World Fairs; and supervised a traveling road-show
dramatization of recreational activities.

When I moved to the Public Housing Agency in 1939. it was
again to the human and social side of a construction program. Ia
an effort to make a dwelling unit a home, and a project a commu-
nity, we pestered the engineers and real estate managers for play
space for children and meeting rooms for adults.

On the personal front, during this period, I acquired the first
scars of political liberalism. At meetings into the wee hours |
fought and lost, to the party-liners, battles for control of govern-
ment workers unions and consumer coops. From the other direc-
tion, where the Dies Committee then reigned, I found myself desig-
nated as a “premature anti-fascist,” presumably for disapproving of
Hitler before Congress declared war on him. This was also the first
time for sit-ins in Washington restaurants, when a few Negro fricnds
sat resignedly with us so we could prove to ourselves how brave
we were.

Public housing went to war with everyone else in 1941, and I went

off to a regional office in the industrial midwest to help house
workers who had been imported to man war plants. I persuaded
school superintendents to comply with the law and take into their
schools the children of war workers, even those who came from
the hills of West Virginia and North Carolina. Secure in the shadow
of an imposing U.S. Public Health Service lady colonch in full
uniform with eagles on her shoulders, I comforted state and county
health officers who saw “‘socialized medicine” in the pre-natal chines
and tiny infirmaries we built into some isolated war housing projects.
For this traveling job, 1 was headquartered in Cleveland, where
I had been raised and from which I had run off gratefully to col-
lege. This time it seemed more tolerable, with more plus factors
than I had remembered — obviously I was getting old.

Unable to go along with the crowd because my eyes kept me
out of military service, I got as close to the war as Ecould by jouung
up with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilicagon Administra:
tion. In 1944 I was at the University of Maryland, in training for te-
lief service in the Balkans, learning to speak Serbo Croat, “Taught
to expect the worst of hardships in war-torn Furope, | found my ve If
on my first assignment in the fleshpots of Farouk's Cairo, a back

[ 1439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GEORGE UPTON, JR.

 

HOME abpress: 39 Fearing Rd., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Sandpaper Co., Rockland, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1913, Salem, Mass.

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1936.

marrieD: Sally Johnson, Aug. 28, 1941, Gordonsville, Va. cHILDREN: Mary
Randolph, March 20, 1943; George Bruce, Sept. 11, 1944; David, Jan. 14,

1949.
occupation: Manufacturing; vice-president, American Sandpaper Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, treasurer, Derby Academy, since 1956; director, Amer-
ican Sandpaper Company.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; Hingham Yacht Club.

A YEAR at the Business School following graduation did not im-
press or fascinate me to the point of enrolling for the second year.
Rather, that time was spent in job-trying and job-seeking. In ret-
rospect, I do not regret the decision to forego the second year
of graduate school. The past twenty-three years on the job have
been with one company, so it is fair to say that I enjoy what I am
doing. My chief concern has been and remains the manufacturing
process in one form or another. Sometimes the work has led in
unexpected directions. Such diversion, or so it seemed at the time,
occurred a few years ago when I became interested in some new
resins our laboratory was investigating. This curiosity finally cul-
minated in some patents on a new type of grinding wheel now in
the first painful stages of production. The market place has yet to
render its verdict on this brainstorm, but good or bad it has been
a fascinating project with more hopes and headaches than ever
could have been foreseen.

As a trustee and treasurer of a private school, I have worried over

[ 1442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

budgets and helped in the always necessary fund-raising. At the
same time, there has been gained an appreciation of the complexitics
of the teaching process as well as an awareness of the growing
pressures on teachers and pupils. Whether the latter are as beneficial
as supposed to be, I wonder.

Leisure time is something that one is always going to find, so 1
have the feeling that the hard work of hobbies and the like should
wait for old age. Three children, diverse as to ages, tastes. and
temperaments, but alike in their ability to keep their parents running
to catch up, have been the cause of the usual worries and moments
of pride. Needless to say, they constitute the mainspring of affairs
in the family. The older two are away at school, the youngest one
is at home, which means we have reached the point where a get-
together is an occasion.

ALEXANDER ALBERT VALOIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1905 Bunting Drive, North Augusta, S.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. J, duPont de Nemours & Co., Aiken, S.C.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1916, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. cts laude, 19%6.

MarrieD: Charlotte Ellen Blight, Nov. 23, 1944 Fairticld, Conn. cn pass
Suzanne Ellen, April 4, 1948; Meredith Diane, Aug. 22, 19s.

OCCUPATION: Engineer; chief supervisor, Methods and Standards Departinent,
Savannah River Plant, E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company.

OFFICES HELD: President and owner, Southeastern Samp Company, prea tens
and partner, Southern Data Processing Service, Inc. treasurer, Cetwe
Methodist Church, South Augusta, S.C, since tgg2, North Anuguwa ba.
change Club, 1960; first vice-president, Augusta, Ga, City Rowlog Nowe.
Clation, 1957-58, 1960-6I.

MEMBER OF: South Carolina Society of Engineers, Profewonsl Brgincer -

[ 1443]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Delaware; American Stamp Dealers Association, American Philatelic So-
ciety; British-American Collectors’ Club; Georgia-Carolina Stamp Club,
North Augusta (S.C.) Exchange Club, BPOE No. 205, Augusta, Ga.,

Acacia Lodge No. 315, A.F.M.; Grace Methodist Church; Ascauga Lake
Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years! How does one cover the vicissitudes of
life that take you from a degree in biology to a career as a consultin
industrial engineer and entrepreneur in the fields of philately and
data processing? Before I forget, though, I should like to put ina
plug for the Harvard method of education. Soundness in the basics
gives very firm footing for entrance into any field of endeavor.
Today’s college graduates (non-ivy league) are educated for spe-
cialization — some can’t spell or write coherently and know little
of the arts and sciences beyond their chosen field of specialization.

Since we were all spawned during the depression years there’s
no need to go into the difficulties that confronted us in obtaining
employment in 1936. My biology degree did one thing for me —
it got me a job as a control chemist with the Hood Rubber Company.
They evidently found out fast that I wasn’t a chemist because I
Was soon put into training to become a “standards” engineer — you
know —one of those “efficiency men.” This training took, and
after three happy years with Hood, I left to make my mark in the
world as a consulting engineer. That I was moderately successful
was due not to my superior background, charming personality,
excellent contacts, etc., but to bull luck! I happened to make
contacts with people who knew less than I did about running their
business. (After twenty years of working with “successful” busi-
nessmen, I have difficulty understanding how they can so blithely
ignore the basic tenets of good business practices.)

In 1940, I made a big decision — to go to work for a large com-
pany to gain experience in industrial engineering —a field of fas-
cination to me. Hired as an industrial engineering consultant by
the engineering department of the duPont Company, I started a
career which sees me completing twenty years this November. You
have all heard of the duPont Company — many of you may have
worked or are still working for it—it’s the best! During the
twenty years I have traveled extensively for duPont on engineering
assignments. For the last eight years, 1 have been in residence
at the Savannah River Plant, Aiken, South Carolina (run for the
Atomic Energy Commission).

Life has been really good to me during these past twenty-five

[ 1444 ]

TE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years. In 1944, I met and married the girl who makes coming home
such a pleasure. We have two fine girls —Suzanne (Princess),
twelve, and Meredith (Pixie), nine. Oh, yes— one other member
— “Molasses” — a miniature poodle who can do no wrong!

As one gets older, I understand, one 1s supposed to taper off,
This doesn’t seem to work with me. I find mysclf continually
expanding my church, social and business activities. For “recrea-
tion,” I have organized the Southeastern Stamp Company — for
retail sales of stamps and philatelic supplies to collectors. And to
satisfy a long-time dream, I organized Southern Data Processing
Service, Inc., to provide consulting service on systems and pro-
cedures in the Augusta, Georgia, area. That has been the last
twenty-five years. I hope the next twenty-five continue to bring

as much satisfaction and happiness.

++ PAULUS van DEINSE

 

BORN: Oct. 16, 1915, Greenville, Mich. parents: Paulus Johannew Admanne

van Deinse, Edna Middleton.
TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; LL.B. 1939.
MARRIED: Norma Mildred Brown, Dec. to, 1943, Washington, 1 C.

pieD: July 18, 1950, Portland, Oregon.

AFTER graduation from the Law School, van Deinse was adautted
_to the California bar and began private practice in Low Angeles In
1943 he went to Washington as a statf member of the Maritiune
Emergency Board and special assistant to the Awsistant Deputy
Administrator for Maritime Labor Relation, War Shipping Ad
ministration. He was inducted into the Army in July, raga. ay
signed to the Air Forces and served as chief clerk of the Pune Juste

C1445 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Advocate’s Office at Sheppard Field, Texas, until his discharge in
May, 1946. After the war he worked for the Office of the General
Counsel, National Housing Agency, Washington, D.C., and took

graduate courses at Georgetown Law School. He was survived by
his wife.

THOMAS CHARLTON VAN NUYS

   

HOME appress: No. 1, 1770, 3-chome, Kami Meguro, Meguro-ku, Tokyo,
Japan. :

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kanda P.O. Box 56, Tokyo, Japan.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: President, Pacific Marine Corporation, ships’ agents and ship-
brokers.

oFFices HELD: Director, Weston Shipping & Trading Company, Ltd., Pacific
Marine (Hong Kong), Ltd. Pacific Marine (Singapore), Ltd. Vannen

Steamship Corporation, Great Circle Carriers $.A., Aquarius Development
S.A,, Pacific Far East Salvage Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Japan, American Club of Japan;
Foreign Correspondents Club of Japan; Steamship Historical Society.

SINCE one of the suggested subjects is travel, | might say that I
have probably had more than my share of traveling and living
abroad. In the twenty-five years since graduation, I have lived in
various places in the Orient for over eighteen years. The first stint
was from 1940 to 1946 in the Far East, India, Persian Gulf, Ceylon
and Java — partly as Far Eastern representative for what is now
a well-known steamship company, Isbrandtsen Company, Inc., and
partly on loan from them to the U. S. War Shipping Administra-

[ 1446 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
tion, as port representative variously in’ Calewtral Ces bon New

Delhi and Batavia.
Although on my return to the States | was tae preston of

Isbrandtsen’s, in charge of chartering from igs to mea bP gow
wanderlust had crept into my blood and, wanting to ger eat to oe «
Orient again, I came out to Japan in t94q to establish Bact Mace
Corporation, whose ownership I took over in sgeg. We at meas
as ships’ agents (both liner and tramp) and ship brokers newer ¢
the chartering of freight vessels in world-wide tearmyy teats ao
ranging the purchase and sale of vesscls for operation at tor
breaking by scrappers; trying to get ship owners tials Crers kt
to build vessels in Japan; and doing all facets of the duppeog Bou
ness, except ship owning, which I hope will come Leer.

Incidentally, shipping, which T had always hnown te be res
chosen life’s work, appeals to me now just as much avait hob whet |
was a kid playing with boats in the creck behind the bere ad
just as much as during college days when J used to rot tek of te
ships in Boston harbor on Saturday afternoons with Clisueate Cea +
Wallace, also in the shipping business.

I have developed a specialty in shipping, the wie of Liree whale: $
fleets. Each of the world’s twenty whahny fleets eeespeies a tae
mothership of about 20,000 tons, "and about fifteen eather wees
each about corvette size, together with tugs and refrsserate Foye ie
— probably a total crew of one thouund men, DP have acct
the sale to Japanese buyers of several of these, but newer ba bey
chance to take a six months’ winter whaling vovaye ee the Vereen.
on any of them. A sideline is that Pama diecetor ina geld ere gece
seeking expedition whose object is the wlvaye of Girty +
pounds sterling, in British sovereigns reputed ta be as te wees’
of the Imperial Russian cruiser Addaniral Nadbineet bee ne ee
Battle of Tsushima in 1905 between Japan and Keres Wee o «
Is in 330 feet of water, we have located the week, bers « -

ee

*
A
¥

e%

a

on her for some years, and have cuf aw av tor tte ¢?
 g «we
ne

but so far no gold. If the gold as or ever wae the
recover it (a couple of big “ift"), enc huntes-t Waa resets?
should I say gambled, might bring vou $:esee

| Core ne Pha &

Tam hardly sedentary here, in that we have
and in Singapore which give me a yoo evens tere fe
trips down there with stops in Bangkok and Vesa a bos
trips to Europe and the States, Po hkeep oc ee ee Neato

Japan Travel Bureau, we've got a very toe ac
f rgy°]

é
Bo.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

here to live and work in, and perhaps to retire in; not as cheap
living as you all suppose (although Hong Kong is), but not bad
with sufficient good servants so that one never has to lift a hand
to help onesclf. A country, too, where girls are trained from baby-
hood that their purpose in life is to make men’s lives as happy and
enjovable as possible. Needless to say, it is a bachelors’ paradise.

A classmate calls me an escapist — well, perhaps so. [ am thinking
of taking a look at Tahiti and Samoa on my next trip to Australia,
and perhaps the Thirtieth Report will be written from a quiet
istand in the South Seas, which [ hear from experts ts just the place.

JOSEPH MAURICE VIERTEL

 

wontn avonse: Dogwood Lane, Samford, Conn.

OFTICR AvoAESs: Presidential Management Corp., 180 S, Broadway, White P lains,
NY,

Boax: Aug. 13, 1916, New York, N.Y.

paupamep at: Staunton Military Academy, Scaunton, Va.

YEARS UN COLEFLE: 1932-1936. DELREE: AB, magna cum laude, 1936.

Marmep: Janet Rosalind Man, Sept. 13, 1939, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:

‘Vhomas Man, Nov, 3, 194; Alice Susan, April 25, 1944; John Richard,
Feb. 9, tage.

ware ano sox; Phomas Man Viertel, °63.
weve Patton: Real estate, writer,

cerns HeLa: Vice-chairman, United Fund of Stamford; vice-president, M.
Shapiro & Son, Inc. 1945-565 director, Trans Lux Corporation, 1948-533
director and member executive committee, M. Shapiro & Son, Inc., Presi-

dential Realty Corporation, since 1956, trustee, The Shapiro-Viertel
Foundation,

svenipen oF; Harvard Clubs of Connecticut, New York and New Canaan;

Rockrinmon Country Club; Roxbury Swimming Club; New Canaan
Wincer Club; Phi Beta Kappa.

{1448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusticanons: “So Proudly We Hail,” a play, The Last Tempration, a move)
(Literary Guild Selection); short stories in various magazines.

AT a friend's home one night not long ago, a five-year-old lad
couldn't sleep; he worried in his room, calling softly for his mother,
and I went up. I told him Mommy was busy and what was his
problem. He said, “Okay, Pll tell you my problem but 1 don’t
wane you to tell me the answer, I want Mommy to tcll me the

’ Lagreed. He took a deep breath and said ‘painfully, “Why

arnsw er.
Gree

does evervone have to go in the Army? Don’t you tell me.
Mommy. *> T went below and gave his problem to Mommy, SUL LEN.

ing that she had some difficult explaining to do. She went Upstairs
and in a matter of thirty seconds was back. Above, all was quict.

“Whar on earth did you tell him?” I asked, in some surprise. “I

cold him 4e didn’t have to go,” she said serenely. I wish someone

I could trust would tell me it’s not twenty-five years for mre.

Turning back reluctantly, I recall that in 1931, in an interview
for my prep school newspaper, I said modestly, “Eventually TE shall
take over my father’s building business.” I report, with sorrow,
that, because of my father’s sudden death when his Beecherate
cracked up in 1948, my brother and IJ have done thar, although by
the time this goes to press the company will probably be owne d
partly by the public.

On the other hand, looking back at the 1936 Yearbook, [sce that
my intended vocation at the time was writing. And I guess that has
turned out to be right too.

What I am now, therefore, is what I was then —a schizophreme,
trying to decide whether to build faster, write more or relax harder,
Perhaps such indecision is a sign of immaturity, but there is com
fort in the thought that I’m probably as content as the neve tan,
and now is not the age when one longs for too much maturity.

Our company (occupying half my time) has been building and
selling housing since 1940 and owns and manages modern apartinents
sheltering 35,000 persons in fifteen cities. We are just begins 2
to get into office buildings, shopping centers and motel. Pers
geographically diversified, as we like to say in our annual repert,
does give one a chance to get around. Over the vears, we have peur
mured that we ought to consider building apartmenty in bas Ve ors
Nevada; Key Marathon, Florida; Veradero Beach, Cuba, Bal
springs and Ojai Valley, California; Curagao, Cadenabbas, bate.

nd St. Jean-de-Luz, France, and, of course, when one taicav ef

fatin]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

that, it is logical to make an on-site inspection of each charming
place.

One of the nice things about writing (occupying the other half of
my time) is that it, too, can lead you around and about in search of
local color. We've been to Jerusalem, Taormina, Marrakesch, Ca-
racas and Elizabeth, New Jersey, in search of satisfactory settings,
My first novel was set in Rome, Vienna and Jerusalem. The one
I’m working on now is set in New Jersey, Palermo and Terracina.
Our 1961 trip is to South America, where we expect to do research
in Punta del Este, Uruguay, for literary purposes, and the new city
of Brasilia, for real estate enlightenment. Janet keeps a travel fund,
where our savings go, and that makes it all posible.

The urge to travel is an outgrowth of our honeymoon, when we
were lucky enough to be able to take a year off and wander at
will in the direction of anything that roused our curiosity in this
country and Mexico, But satisfying our curiosity then or since has
given us no answers to the puzzlement of our political, social, phil-
osophical and religious problems. It has only made us curiouser and
curiouser.

Our children, on the other hand, seem to have less urge to travel
far. They have lived in Stamford, where we settled in ’45, all their
lives. One plays the guitar, another piano, and a third the trumpet,
which is another reason we occasionally leave home. All attended
New Canaan Country School, where a classmate, Art Beane, teaches
and where several other °36ers also have or had children. Janet
ran the PTA there and that gave us a brief proprietary interest in
the place. Tom, after three years at Choate, is now in the Class of
63 and living in all that bare masonry in Quincy House. He likes
it. Alice is at Dana Hall, living in a frame house that must have been
several generations old when they poured the foundation for Hol-
worthy, It is more recognizable to me than Quincy.

Of all my extra-curricular activity, I think the most satisfying
was working in recent years on the Schools and Scholarship Com-
mittee for the New Canaan Club. I saw boys in Stamford and
Greenwich who wanted to apply to Harvard — encouraging some,
discouraging others, interviewing applicants for admission and
scholarship. That, plus Tom’s being there, does give me a con-
tinuing active interest in Harvard affairs,

In addition to living in strange places, our other forms of relaxa-
tion, coming down through the years, have been tennis, boats, swim-
ming and clambakes; golf, off-shore fishing and clambakes; and,

[ 1450 ]

 

_ 7

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

most recently, wading in the pool and clambakes, Ive also been re
constructing a Model A Ford. Someone gave me the damn thing
as a gift and it was so ugly I knew it had never been intended to

look like that. Making a thing of beauty of it became a compulsern

It is now beautiful.

From these and other symptoms, I am sure there is something i
me longing for the past. It has kept me from taking up mealeen are
chitecture (our house is colonial); modern art (you can practically

recognize any painting in the place); modern music (how can vou
hum it?); or even modern writing. I am anti-Presley, ant- beatenk,
- » UE adean's

anti-Castro (both Fidel and convertible); and antu- ICBM
see why we can’t fight with Big Berthas and Winchester titles the

way we used to. Space travel is something else. I can understand
that, because it takes me back to the days of Fdgar Rice Burroughs

and the Mfen of Mars and all those editions of Amazing Storien Te

is at least recognizable.

My best friends over the years—it makes twenty-nine, gory
back to freshman year — have, with only a few exceptions, been "44
classmates; six of us have seen each other regularly over the past
twenty-five years, and one, Justin Glickson, is vice-preadent of our
‘company. I met my wife at the Yale game in °33. AW in all, {
don’t know what I would have done without Harvard

EDWARD LINCOLN VIETS, JR.

 

HOME ApprESs: 986 Rushleigh Rd., Cleveland Ucipghes as, Cher

BORN: July 1, 1915, Milwaukee, Wis.
PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights Hligh School, Cleveland Ulesghen 84

"EARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB, tg}.

"NMARRIED,
¥

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HARVARD BROTHER: John Bartram Viets, ’38.
occupation: Writer; economics, psychology, criticism and personality writing,

] WAS not particularly happy in college, but the nostalgicism of
this Twenty-fifth is strong and puts a glow of happiness onto that

ast. The post-collegium courses in Humanity A, B and C and in
the Law-of-Averages 1, taught well. In fact, this classmate has be-
come the short-end exemplification of this immutable law. The
extremity position has been because of a combination of factors;
citable are three recent attempts in publishing. (Sympathy by
chartered submarine, please.)

I have never married — but quien sabe.

Being in the word business—my ghost and I thought to offer
a bit of belief. I believe the U-2 act (s), which were necessarily
official, to have been the most reprehensible doings of the United
States government. The Presidential acknowledgment of responsi-
bility was the most ignominious. His refusal to apologize or resign
was inexcusable. To request the Russian people to hear his self-
justification was sheer senility. I had a lot to say, in two of the
three publications alluded to above, about this—- which makes me
as lovable as a leper.

There are two dissertations in nearly-ready form. These are the
most significant since Freud. (Somebody has to be significant fol-
lowing him.) The titles are: “The Force of Life’ and “A New
Approach to Sex.” I have written briefly under the title “The
American Economist” and I hope to continue. My definition of
economics is exchange: I love to excoriate those who talk of “rate
of growth” as a force when it is only an adjunct of good frierid Law
of Averages. I deplore the inability to see inflation for what it
really is — UNreality. .

No analysis against Communism, but in testamento finale a few
beliefs and “woulds.” I favor severing relations with the Soviets
and abrogating all treaties with them. I think the U.N. is a mislead-
ing activity and a waste of time and money. The law could be
defined as a delegation of authority, This is its strength. The U.N.
has no delegated authority and hence no strength — why waste
time and spirit? The one thing we havé in these United States is
power. Is there any reason to feel guilty about our morality? Is

there any reason to denigrate our nation or allow it to be denigrated?

At a Leverett House party, resident tutor Theodore Morrison
read from his manuscript, and I would close similarly:

[1452 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFE PORT

Here’s to you, and here's to me
And to Hell with all the others.

A month after returning the above (September), U cnternd ¢
hospital for what I was led to believe was TB. EP contemplated bees
of contemplation. Twenty-nine days later, TP was releavwed with »
sarcoid removed. Complications, including three inches added te
neck circumference and wildly swollen checks — all of which went
away. The only reason for this is to have it on some other record
than the hospital’s.

Now at the Fiftieth, I hope to have a real bang-up sav on...
oh, on something. A quarter of a century deadline docurt ware me

FRANK WALTER VINCENT, JR.

 

HOME AppREss: 77 Larch Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Shady Hill School, Cambridge 38, Mae.

BORN: June 12, 1913, Baguio, Philippine IMands
MarRiIED: Mary Lydia Boyden, Sept. 7, 193%. Pamworth NOE eo oma
Frances, Feb, 26, 1940; Walter, April ty, 19493, Anne, Sharh p¢. tyes

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Knox Vincent, "32. Mae “44
OCCUPATION: Teacher of French.

MAJORING in French, followed by a Vear in Beamwe after goat
uation, led me into teaching the subject. Dam atl at st, sftee face

years at Middlesex (1937-41). and since 1gygS at Shady PROG as
Cambridge. Davy school is much casice on the negvene ai ier 7
find. Coeducation, too, makes for better Lagan chaos WE

Ded

explains in pare why the present job, in grates WUE fe ne

appealed for so long.
Meanwhile, Mary and [have mansyeal with were gory Fo

lf raca |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

to start three children on their way. If all goes well, one graduates
from Wheaton, and one from Loomis, both events taking place
the week before our Reunion!

AUGUSTUS PHILIP VITALI

 

HOME ADDRESS: 199 Court St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 369 Washington St., Dedham, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 12, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1936; LL.B., 1940.

MarriED: Mildred M. Carmean, Sept. 6, 1941, Fort Bragg, N.C, CHILDREN:
Florence Elaine, 1942; Philip Augustus, 1943; James Julius, 1946, Lawrence
William, 1949.

occupation: Lawyer; general practice; proprietor.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1950, secretary, 1950-56, Dedham Republican
Town Committee; member, Dedham School Committee, 1951-52; mem-
ber of Council, Norfolk County Bar Association, 1954, since 1960; chair-
man, local Selective Service Board, since 1955; member, Dedham Insur-
ance Committee, since 1956; director, Dedham Cooperative Bank, since
1960.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Rotary Club; American Legion; American and Massa-
chusetts Bar Associations, Dedham Tuesday Nite Club; Society in Dedham
for the Apprehension of Horse Thieves; Massachusetts Home Builders’
Association; Italian-American War Veterans of U.S., Dedham Community
Association.

IT is now twenty-five years since that day when I was awarded a
scroll which recited that 1 had learned something at Harvard in the
field of romance languages and literatures. Magna cum laude, in-
deed! I was not terribly surprised to discover how few people in
the world really cared.

As a departure from the serenity of the cloistered life in Cam-

[1454 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORE
twee

bridge, I yielded to the adventuresome attraction of the then
sounds of bugles, drums and gun fire, and te the glamor ef Som
Browne belts, breeches and boots, complete with spurs TP spwne the
year following graduation in the Army and EF found that, aso Phere.
vard R.O.T.C. graduate, I had received good profesuonal ery
ing in Field Artillery, but that the West Pointers naturaliy, bed
learned a great deal more about the other trade scurcty of artes
life. Nevertheless, the government pay checks came in regularity
every month and, for a young inexperienced bacheht, pea tone

living on an army post was a ball.
The following three impccunious years spent in Plarvard bas
SEP enets* Phat tage

School seem to have generated few impresvons stronger thas e
memory of the interminable, intensive grinding at case tewke ant
the frequent indulgence in student bull-sessens of which the cheers
nant themes invariably were problems in the ticht of Law and -.
uh, love. After the last sweaty-palimed. final exam in June. toes
I was again presented with a scroll which recwed that P had be seed
something in the field of law and, again, there was no surprise pea tpery
discovery of how few people in the world really cared.

Admission to the Massachusetts bar follauwed in Deaenter. tages
as the last qualifying step to the immediate commencement of ¢
professional career. However, the ink on my certifeate ef adore
sion was barely dry when the bugle blew. This tine the woos. wos
hardly novel and its tones were loud and clear o~ a peter pee
summons back to military service where [ was to paw the nest fee
years of my life. But this time there were no bongce any Sar Bree pe
belts, breeches, boots and spurs. Gone was the country fits ate,
phere of army posts. The glamor had been displaced ae rene ef
us found, by an earnest sense of grim urgency.

I, who barely had cnough knowledge of meghans ab prow epee
to understand a paper-chp or the manual devtcrity ty roasree eee te
was assigned to the training of motor mechanws — a geiow te
umph of the army classification svatcre® Well whats ws ferns
about that? The Army had given MOC prestous Cras ny be
ogy, hadn’t it? A prime mover is a prince tmavet, whetloe ve be :
orse or a truck, so—no critical nonsene alent po tite hee e

please.
This all got straightened out when FP wae tipper beverans Ue,

record disclosing that [had picked up a few posure ever cos vans
“omance languages, I was sone (miunabiie dita yp tee tae Veto os
‘ancan Theatre. There, in North Afews, bow at peace Pie re oe

f pace?

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

rerrogation of Italian prisoners of war. Later I had the dual role
of acting adjutant-general of the Allied garrison of Sardinia and of
liaison officer with what had just become the “co-belligerent” Italian
Army. At war's end I was in France, a liaison officer with the Allied
French Army —army classification had improved! Two things I
had acquired upon my release from military duty: the rank of Re-
serve lieutenant-colonel and complete surfeit of military life. My
fellow warriors in my R.O.T.C. class may raise brows in learning
that I have submitted to reclassification to the stand-by Reserves.

In February, 1946, finding myself a civilian again, I reread what
my law degree said about my legal education. My five years’ ab-
sence had somewhat blunted the edge of my appreciation of the
finer legal points, so that I had to spend some time in boning up.
Having also, in those years, acquired a wife and two children, and
facing the certain biological potential of generating more dependents
(two more did, in fact, materialize), it behooved me to open a law
office and get started on earning a living. I selected Dedham, my
home town, as my location. Frankly, during the first few months
I found that, in spite of the beautiful messages inscribed in Latin on
both my degrees, there were still, at that time, few people in the
world who really cared.

During the ensuing fifteen years, in addition to grindstoning in
my profession, there were also the unavoidable dabblings in local
town politics, the participation on municipal committees dedicated
to the solution of the weighty problems of street lighting, schools,
veterans’ housing, insurance of public buildings and all the com-
plexities engendered by the postwar growth of suburbia. There
was also service on the local Draft Board, in becoming the chair-
man of which I found a certain fittingness. Add to these the peren-
nial charity drives, the Rotary Club, the veterans’ organizations and,
of course, the inevitable P.T.A. All of which activities contributed
to the sustenance of the ever-deepening roots of my life in my home
town, whence would come to flourish a blossom of that domesti-
cated genus of civic flora known as “Pillar of the Community.”

I readily confess that I have found deep satisfaction in the general
practice of law in a smallish but growing town; in the challenge of
every problem posed by the cases 1 have been privileged to try or
settle; in the gratification that comes from being made aware of
the gratitude, however slight sometimes, borne by many clients for
assistance rendered them in unravelling the tangle of legal webs en-
meshing them; or even in the sense of triumph that results, after a

[ 1456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
long and arduous struggle of marshalling proper words and pir ses
in an adequate legal document.

And what about the adequacy of the financial return foe thew
efforts? I have long since abandoned the hope of some day beqearary
rich, or for that matter, handsome. Gradually, my despaie of the
first has evolved to gratitude that I have been able. at least, tes fered
off the wolf, just as, on the second point, my consternation at the
rapid loss and graying of my hair and the acquisition of aleut Gores

ounds of heft and ten inches of girth has, in ame, cyalved te quit
comfortable acceptance.

Corny as they may seem in this sophisticated world, my greatest
joys actually come from the little things, the homey thiaygs —. the
culinary creations of an affectionate wife, the competiteey greg
my four children for the privilege of replacing on my hurts feety,
each evening, my hot shoes with cool slippers, of pot haters,
while sipping on a long one, to some long-haired Wiad Cranatse 2
from my hi-fi or from my children’s instruments during there peas.
tice, and last but not least, from rereading those clegane deyrees I

received from Harvard. These will form the introduction to athe
report I am already working on—the one for our Clasw's bitrwed

Anniversary!

RICHARD EDWARD VOLAND

 

JOME AppRESS: 1400 South Lawn PL, Aurora EL
FFICE ADDRESS: Defrees, Fiske, Thomson & Sateen, tg Ss bata Be Be og

Il.
RN: March 24, 1916, New Rochelle. NLY.
epaRED AT: New Rochelle Senior Phph Sheed, New Ria bore WY

£ + ;

f pasate ft

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

marrieD: Cynthia Allen Putnam, July 3, 1941, Aurora, Ill, cHitprReN: Richard
Edward, Jr., June 9, 1944; Geoffrey Putnam, Sept. 24, 1947; Deborah Tuttle,
March 30, 1952.

occupation: Lawyer, partner in private practice.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Law Club of Chicago; Legal Club
of Chicago, Chicago, Kane County (Illinois), Illinois and American Bar
Associations; American Judicature Society; Aurora (Illinois) Country
Club.

UPON graduation from Law School, I took a job with one of Chi-

cago’s oldest law firms. Except for the war years, | have been con-

tinuously with this firm, of which I became a partner in 1948. My
work has been largely in the areas of business and corporation law,
with some admixture of trial and appellate practice.

During the war years, I served as air combat intelligence officer
with a medium bomb squadron (B-25’s) in southeast China. Our
operations consisted primarily of low-level strikes against Japanese
shipping off the China Coast and close support missions in aid of
Chinese ground forces. This experience afforded a unique oppor-
tunity to become acquainted with the geography and people of this
unfortunate country.

Music and reading continue to be my chief recreations. In recent
years, however, I have become a devotee of springtime fishing in
the Canadian wilderness. My ambition is to open a law office in
God’s Lake.

ROBERT HILGERS WALDINGER

 

HOME appress: Strawberry Hill Street, Dover, Mass,

OFFICE ADpREss: Chemical Manufacturing Co., Inc., Ashland, Mass,
BORN: Nov, 30, 1914, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass,

[ 1458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REFPORE

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: S.B. 1936.
marRIED: Ruth Dickinson Morse, June 25, 1941, Cambrulye, Van ree cass
Carl Peter, Oct. 4, 1944; Robert Fllior, June 27, tagh, Drrtettiy Dae etiers

April 24, 1948.
OccuPATION: President, small dyestuff manufacturing company

OFFICES HELD: Director, Nyanza Laboratories, Inc, Newark, New Jermew. toes

59; commanding officer, Naval Reserve Company t~4. tuce (i. prvuelest
Dover Junior Baseball League, 1952-58, secretary, Warrant Ceerctirree

Dover, 1960-61.
MEMBER oF: American Association of Textile Chenints and Cobecnes, bys
‘ Prem (eeccrey

salters Club of New England, Harvard Club of Benton, Des

and Polo Club.
MY first couple of years after graduation were spent av acres:
the previously neglected chemical knowledge necewury for apes
in the family dyestuff manufacturing company. ‘The fist port of
this postgraduate work in undergraduate subjeces was kappey apent
at Harvard. This was followed by a semester at MELT. when tes
admiration for the marvels of science was parallcled by a preserve
appreciation of the liberal arts education. “Tech's tv pic al evarcns
tion question which read “List the formulas...” was an sharp qed
trast to the “discuss critically” that we were used te, Iva was, hs
meant the spadework had to be done before the exam, cater than
shovel-work in it.

Before long I was to be most thankful for four veary of «rc ¢
— Naval Science. The advantages of the background BP qari
sion were considerable, especially to a newlyw ‘cal, Noe tt wat \ my
jobs and schools and relatively uneventful antisubmarine boty of or
ing our generation’s major war. Let us hope Mr. Renaeds can ty
tough enough to keep the peace more succesfully Chas tie Cree
previous Democratic presidents.

For the past fifteen years I have had the ame yob, but wet ata
ing problems. The greatest problem is the forener pete we
threaten our existence. I shall continue te werk for
in spite of the free traders’ and idealist accusatena ef ae a te
ing to impede progress toward “One World’ 0 gedere bw Gee
man and Japanese dves.

Living in the suburbs has brought the usial werk aa best
mittees, both civic and social, and the anevieatils chase ef
raising chore, Participation in the recent Preece bec.
most gratifying because Plarvard as alwaye was foe Tat 4
because the tangible evidence of the Procsamn a ces:

appeared on the Cambridge shy bine,

nt ty.

Me
a
ae,

f raca l

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Sports have been my principal hobby, and my wonderful family
shares this interest. We spend many pleasant hours together as
participants and spectators in both recreational and competitive
sports.

Approaching the celebrated twenty-five-year milestone, I find
myself excited and bewildered by the pace of scientific advance-
ment, apprehensive about the spread of communism abroad and
“soft-thinking” at home, but confident in the ability of the English-
speaking peoples to lead the way in achieving order and stability

for some time to come.

ROBERT GILES WALKER

 

MAILING ApprEss: Promised Land Farm, West Newbury, Mass.

CRAIG WALLACE

 

ME ADDRESS: 6 Crest Rd., Ross, Calif,

[ 1460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Steamship Corp, Led. 442 Cabfornea Sa, Sen Dearne wee

4, Calif,
BorN: May 2, 1914, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1936. DEGREE: $.B., 1936.
MARRIED: Polly Ordway, Jan. 8, 1941, St. Paul, Minn. cautnass Jesse Clenarn
Nov. 2, 1942; George Barclay, July 26, 1044: Charlorte, Bet. i tae®

OCCUPATION: Steamship business,
OFFICES HELD: Director, St. Paul and Tacoma Lumber Campany, raat 4s, Ses

Francisco Marine Exchange, 1957-59.
MEMBER OF: Commercial Club of San Francisco, Belvedere Tenna Obib, Sana

Rafael Yacht Club.

AFTER leaving the hallowed halls of Harvard. Pim sure we a’l
found things somewhat different on the outide. Plindaghe terse
always quite an attribute, one must often wonder what ene moyte
have accomplished during the last twenty-five years =~ opportune
ties grasped and the opportunities missed. To put it tultv, wane
rather earthshaking developments have transpired during the poewst
1936 to 1961, and I know those of us who gather newt June wel be
thankful we have been fortunate enouch to survive ther and te
look forward to the future. "

As a résumé: I entered the shipping busines in a howly capacity
in 1936, and after apprenticeship in an office on a Brokivn pet, |
was sent to a tramp ship owner's office in London, ia Janiaty, ato
A fascinating year ensued — not the Ieast of which, and aetua’y
the best of which, was mecting my future bride there wy Npal The
events in September, 1939, curtailed my Purepean hfe and after
filling sand bags for the British authorities unol the cnt of th«
month, I returned to the New York office. Polly and [were marron.
and then came the Navy, where [ wound up on a Naval Voor
ship, ending in command. The monotony always kewened on tte
occasion of races in the Atlantic with a simular vessel) guinea d be
Ted Motley with the outcome rarcly in deube.

Not liking the idea of New York commuting, after lease Oe
Navy, we followed the adage “Go West, veung man” asd Fewest
ourselves first in Seattle; then in the head etice af ty Fen oy Seo
Francisco in 1951, a very delightful place where we sre nee tose

settled with our three very enjovable teen-agers aod Prenat 4
most happy, even though Cambridge i in maw a0 fat away os bar a
used to be, and the Orient, with which Phase beara ee wae
sersonally acquainted recently, has becwme abeot epic horet

I find the shipping business has irs wpe antabene Lie gerry:

[1440]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

else but we do find friends of all nationalities giving us a picture of
the world in a far better focus than we might otherwise have had;
and all of us must hope, as the airplane shrinks the size of the earth
and as more of us have this opportunity of international intermin-
gling, it will furnish a means of diminishing the many differences in
this world. .

This leads to no philosophizing in this little article, but even in-
sofar as hindsight is concerned, I do hope we can, all of us of 1936,
feel we have done what we could and achieved a good and happy

life in spite of obstacles bound to have confronted us over a twenty-
five-year period.

HERBERT HENRY WALLEY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Buswell Park, Newton, Mass.

OFFIce appress: Parker-Hannifin Corp., Cleveland, Ohio.
BORN: Feb. 4, 1914, Natick, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1936(37).

MarRiED: Eunice Louise Weld, Nov. 18, 1939, West Newton, Mass. CHILD:
Cheryl Ann, Sept. 25, 1943.

occupation: District manager, Parker-Hannifin Corporation.
OFFices HELD: Director, Merit Engineering Inc., 1945-50, member, committee

A6 on electrical standards, Society of Automotive Engineers, 1950-53;
executive committee, Harvard Engineering Society, 1958-59.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society.

AFTER four years of training for electrical engineering, I con-
sidered myself fortunate, in the slow year of 1937, to step directly
from college into a job in fluid mechanics. A number of evening
courses later, the job became a “position” and paid off well enough
for me to consider settling down. In the fall of 1939, I married and

[ 1462 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
moved on to more lucrative affiliations. Salk ov bv drautas at the
start of hostilities, I was retained on highly reserwted cle web qerene
work for the duration. In the fall of 1953, our only Child wes beaver

Providence, Rhode Island.
At the end of the war, we moved back ta our home us New ton

and I took a flyer at self-employment as a consulting thot power
engineer. Unable to resist the lure of the immediate delle wither
my reach, I made the fatal mistake of cencentranng on one post
customer. My client folded financially overnight arnt alient ase:

ried me along.

For a change of scene, electrical engincering (munature pes
cision switches) provided an opportunity for me ta utiise te eet
Jege training. As chief engineer, TI watched this sasiatl qengeeny
grow to a major position in the industry, at which tune the ene ne es
sold out to a midwest firm who promptly consolitited thers Pek t
ings. Choosing to stay behind, I returned to my wartime acon tate,
to assist in their conversion to non-military prostuatoey of tant
power components.

Then came the opportunity of a lifetime in the preeracn oats
field. The chance to start with nothing more than a bau whe asd
build a new business was not to be overlooked. Pbowever. at bal
one major drawback. I would sce my wife and daughter om werk
ends only. Following three and one-half yeary kaving borne every
Monday at five a.m., and returning Friday might about nine oe kek,
I contracted a nerve disease which convinced me that work wo

not everything in life.
Good fortune was on mv side. An Opportunity appe are. f pace ad

the blue to represent a midwest hydraulic component moatifia torre
in the New England area. Now, w orking happaly eae ed pea bese,
I combine my engineering expericnce with ules anh mance ed
duties to promote the product and supervise dstrdbutiees Eby tone

and pneumatic system components).
Many are the times I have considered INN COUe rE PORE pa rete

spect, wishing I might relive them, now thar Dhave a wees idee
sepa. Plea l

periences to direct my thinking and whee my exe's,
(Foss . v.#

pause and recollect how much every colle eC Cite, eHe ty
my esteenicd Instructors and Cees roy ees a

icquaintance,
prs’. soudir: 48 bee 2 48

‘liot EYouse have contributed to a ncher, hap
ul life, and give heartfele thanks that Pwae atte te arent OE

[1445]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HERBERT SPENCER WALLIS

ee sent ct pene” Seepage: “enemy

t. meds
%. i
Yoonmorty
| a |

 

nome anoness: 1434 Wellesley, N.E. Albuquerque, NuMex.

oreice apoarss: Sandia Corp. Sandia Base, Albuquerque, N..Mex.

poss: Nov. 23, 1g, Boston, Mass.

parpanep as: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS EN COEEFGE: 19}2-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

aeannicn: Joan Stampfer, June 2, tgy9, Santa Fe, N.Mex. cHimpren: William
Spencer, Jan. ¢. t9¢1, David Meredith, Nov. 17, 1953.

occtpanios: Atomic weapons, liaison engineer.

mestanaos: Fennis Club of Albuquerque.

ESPENT the prewar years as a school teacher, mostly in New Mex-
ico, served five years in the British Navy; returned to teaching; was
married in Santa Fe. Because of the difficulty i in supporting a family
on teacher's pay, we moved to Albuquerque and the atomic weapon
business, Amusement takes the form of tennis, skiing, camping and
getting sunburned in the garden.

[ 1464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS JOSEPH WALSH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2526 N. Kenilworth St., Arlington, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2000 K St., Washington, D.C.

BorN: Feb. 24, 1913, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1939.

marrieD: Arla C. Graves, Sept. 1, 1947, Washington, D.C. cnip: Marian Lo

Feb. 7, 1953.
occupaTION: Attorney.
MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus; American and Federal Power Bar Assocra-

tions.

IT is well nigh impossible to believe that so many years have
elapsed since June, 1936, because I really don’t feel that old. even
though I do have some grey hair and a well-dev eloped paunch.

What have I been doing over the years since getting my A.B? A
long time ago some fellow said: “The law is a jealous mistress.” “That
statement pretty well sums up what I have been doing, Le., most of
the time.

Our family unit consists of four — wife, daughter, a monyrel dog,
named Mimi, and I. We live in Arlington, just over the Key
Bridge from Washington. I guess we properly can be classitied as

“suburbanites” — go to church regularly, attend occasional civ
and P.T.A. meetings and every weekend barbecue steaks on a grill
either on the patio or in the garage, depending on the weather. Of
course, one has to have the proper refreshments prior to trying the
steak. Incidentally, those traffic jams between Arlington and Wash.
ington are getting progressively worse. They sure help in the rare
ing of ulcers.

World affairs? Everything is fouled up. Too much Castra, tee
much Khrushchev, with nobody in power in this country ders

[ 1465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

much about it. Why don’t we start waking up and start doing
something constructive in order to put those wreckers in their
proper places? We sure aren’t going to get anywhere just sitting
back waiting for adverse events to happen as they have been hap-
pening since Korea all over the world. Continual appeasement, as
sad experience has demonstrated, will get us nowhere.

Hobbies: My daughter keeps me on the hop with all of her ac-
tivities. Right now we are in a horseback-riding binge. This morn-
ing, prior to my leaving for the office, we had a rock and roll
dance session. | was informed I sure wasn't good at it, which is very
truc, Next year, who knows what new activity it will be? In addi-
tion, having retained my membership in the Coast Guard Reserve,
I sull keep on the ball as far as boating is concerned.

PETER WARD

 

Manes apnarse: 233 EB. doch Sc, New York 21, N.Y.

orrick aApparss: New York Stare Dept. of Insurance, 123 William Sc., New
York, NY.

moan: Aug. 26, 19tq, Buffalo, N.Y.

parpanep at: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

VBARS IN CULLELE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1936; LL.B. (Cornell
LCawv.). 1920

avaneieo: Rhoda McKinney Seeckel, June 11, 1938, Muncie, Ind. cio: Peter
Hanultun, Nov, 22, 1939

occepaTton: Deputy superintendent and general counsel, Department of In-
suratwe, State of New York.

orrices Hep: Vice-president, FOE, 1940-41; president, Executives Association,
1QGOQ- FO,

naemarr ar: New York State, Tompkins and Erie County Bar Associations.

peaucanioxs: Tost Problems of Loss Distributions (1958); articles in various
legal publications.

[ 1466 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduating from the Cornell Law School, I practised in the

Ward & Ward firm in Buffalo until called into service in September,
1941, as a second lieutenant in the Field Artillery. By November
of 1945, Vd fairly well toured the States, spent over two years in
the Aleutians, and seen enough of Germany (but not of Paris) to
make me ready to return to civilian life—a Reserve major. Prac-
tised law in Buffalo until 1951, when we moved to Ithaca where ft
taught in the Cornell Law School for nine years.

Last June, I resigned from the faculty and became counsel for
the New York Insurance Department. My wife and I now live in
Manhattan. Our son is a senior at Cornell and will graduate at the
same time our Class reunes — “Dear Abby” — guess well have to
wait for the next "36 get-together.

As for travels, my most interesting trip—taken in the fall of
1957 — was to Liberia. As a guest of President Tubman, I studied
the educational system of the country and made recommendanons
to him for advancements in various areas of this field. Ortherwne,
our traveling has been mainly confined to the fifty States, several
trips south and west with a house trailer in tow. For the nonce,

we've given up such hobbies as leaf-raking, gardening, and shovcl-

ing of snow for Broadway and apartment living.

ABBOT KINSMAN WARE

Fee ern r ae tree cern oS Sane, *
ts

4
a

 
 

RITA Ree art ag pag PMR OO TN NS ys tmnaE Latin pgm:

‘bial oy Se IS sin CaS aa FrtiagelNeN RIE. OO odd «

 

HOME AppREsS: 1 Beech Tree Drive, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Auchincloss, Parker & Redpath, i705 EL St. NAW Washusyees,

D.C.

ORN: Sept. 5, 1914, Hingham, Afass,

REPARED AT: Le Rosey School, Rolle, Switzerland, Noble and ¢ piecing
School, Dedham, Mass.

[ 1467 ]

*
*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MarrieD: Ruby King, August, 1944, Jacksonville, Fla. cHimpreN: Elisabeth
Abbot, May 14, 1945; Nancy Jo, July 5, 1946; Abbot Kinsman, Jr., April
27, 1951; Deborah King, March 2, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Storer Preble Ware, Jr., '32; Nathaniel Ware, °34.

OccuPATION: Registered representative, New York Stock Exchange; account
executive.

MEMBER OF: Bond Club of Washington; Belle Haven Country Club; Varsity
Club.

AFTER leaving college on completion—in good standing — of
my sophomore year, I find that there are twenty-seven years to be
accounted for instead of the usual twenty-five. I should be a bigger
success than my classmates, but, alas, fear that isn’t so. My first
job was with an investment banking firm, Bond & Goodwin, located
at 30 Federal Street, Boston. I was a runner and ink-well filler,
then promoted to assistant statistician at the enormous salary of
fifteen dollars per week, which I would promptly lose every Friday
in a crap game. After several increases in salary I became a securi-
ties salesman for a few months. At this time the threat of war was
becoming more intense and I joined the Naval Reserve in 1940,
with the help of my good friend and classmate, Dickson Smith. .
At the end of 1940, was called to active service and spent most of
my time in the South Pacific. I got shore duty in Jacksonville,
Florida, and there met and married my present and only wife in
1944. I received my discharge from the Navy in September, 1945,
and settled in Washington, D.C, in December of that year. By
“settled,” I mean one room with wife and child. We progressed to
an apartment (very hard to find in those days) and finally a house
in Virginia. During the process we added three more children.

I like my job and enjoy my family. We recently bought some
land in the mountains of West Virginia and hope to build a house
there someday. My wife is now a good Republican and my eldest
daughter is a pillar of Christ Episcopal Church in Alexandria. I
trust that she makes up for her father’s rather erratic attendance.

[ 1468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY KFPORT

DUNCAN ORR WARREN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Robin Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Shaw & Warren, it University Rd, Cacibrotge 1a Woes.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1914, West Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: ‘Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936, €.F A.

MARRIED: Helen Margaret Davidson, March ra, tag Wet Newt SA ese,
CHILDREN: Cynthia Deering, May 22, 194g, Patrwsa Obet, Jae dt. toer.
Rebecca Ludlow, Aug. 13, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Lyon Warren, Jr. ‘34.

OccUPATION: Partner, Shaw & Warren, certified pubbe sm vent ects

MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club; American laserute of Cerne Pobis
countants; Massachusetts Society of Certiticd Publis Neqesccr aces

\.

SINCE leaving Harvard, my busines activines have been ot te
field of accounting and financial work. In the rare meanent when
I have time to think of the four pleasant vears at college. Pack wey -
self if the study of economics proved any ‘than an fat as the weeks
day world is concerned. The answer is that Po wrt these veare hel
been spent in the study of fine arts, zoology, oF Pract aly ave.
else. Though my professors always carcfully pointed est the mo
possibility of isolating economic phenomena, thew lab met terres
that it is the prime concern of every poh man, rey arte eb porte,
to nullify every principle of economics ever prosper let fy the
classical economists. This inevitably means that anyene wher bee ue
his impressionable days studicd such wereitces ae Mardell or Pesce
ends up in middle age believing that the poles tone sedi rhe polo
which elects them muse be insane. Despite thee eerie, Pes
main thankful to Harvard for stimulating inde pertent haloes of
thinking. In looking over our Claw Report of afew vemanes
was struck by the diversity Of occupations aid the eu bee ed ne»

[ 14% |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

carrying on their own businesses or professions. This independence
of thought and action is to me one of the principal contributions of
our Alma Mater.

After several years of working for large firms in the field of pub-
lic accounting and finance, I decided that working with smaller
business units would be more interesting and productive. Two years
ago, | went into partnership with Francis G. Shaw, a graduate of
Harvard Business School and a certified public accountant, under
the name of Shaw & Warren. As a small firm serving a varied
clientele, we run into practically every accounting and tax problem
in the book. The hours are irregular and long but compensated for
by the interest of the work. We are located in Harvard Square,
which I find very pleasant as regards both the amenities and necessi-
ties of business life.

I fail to see how all the questions to be answered in “narrative
style” can be covered without writing a book. Consequently, Pil
start with the important date of my marriage to Helen Davidson in
1948. We have had such a busy and happy family life that the
time has passed with terrifying speed. At this time, we have three
girls, aged five, nine, and eleven. Naturally, we think these kids are
very attractive and exceptionally intelligent. We have a lot of
fun with them, but we realize that with all the new educational
techniques it is going to be progressively harder to keep up with
them from the intellectual standpoint. Our home in Weston is
situated in a couple of acres of woods which gives us old folks
plenty of chance to work off our negligible amount of surplus
energy and allows the kids to burn up some of their unlimited exu-
berance. Having just moved a few months ago, we have declared
somewhat of a moratorium on community activities to provide time
for fixing up the homestead. Our hobbies are undergoing the in-
evitable change. My wife and I used to have many close matches in
tennis but have now degenerated to the phase of pat ball with the
kids. The game of squash still intrigues me, but my legs don’t co-
operate. One sport I can heartily recommend to my classmates is
sculling, which I keep up regularly for the six months of mild
weather. There’s no competitive push in this sport, and it’s beauti-
ful on the river on a hot afternoon. To wind up the hobby list, we
have all taken up skiing. Except for the youngest who considers
skis too slippery, the kids get a big thrill out of the sport, and we
look forward to some good weekends on the boards.

To complete this history in a few words, I note that as a Uni-

[ 1470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tarian my religious convictions are liberal. With respect to polit s
I am glad to vote for anyone (if there ts anyone) who stamds fe

less spending, fewer handouts, and lower taxes.

FRANCIS EMROY WARREN, U

 

HOME AppRESS: 1112 Larkspur Rd., Cheyenne, Wyo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1819 Warren Ave., Cheyenne, Wyo.

BORN: Aug. 4, 1914, Cheyenne, Wyo.
PREPARED AT: Shattuck Military School, Faribault, \linn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.
MmarrieD: Alpha Louise Morton, July 9, 1936, Dalla Teva tdivored sara',

Mary Adell Dolan, Oct. 18, 1959, Cheyenne, Wye. catpees  Peecdeen t
Emroy, 2d, March 27, 1947; William Morton, Oct. ja, toga, Weenty bea,

Jan. 4, 1951.
occuPATION: Ranching.
OFFICES HELD: President, Warren Live Stock Company, F. F. Warren Mery ge
tile Company, Cheyenne Securities Company, director. Naseem a Nate ad

Bank, Cheyenne, Wyo.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

LYMAN OTIS WARREN, JR.

   

HOME AppRESS: 7215 Fourth Ave., N., St. Petersburg, Fla.

OFFICE ApprEss: Veterans Administration Center, Bay Pines, Fla.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1915, Brighton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; M.D. 1941.

marrige: Joan Rober, Jan. 13, 1945, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Mary Ellen,
Jan, 10, 1948; John Bentley, July 4, 1949, William Wirt, Oct. 23, 1951;
Helen Katherine and Kai Rober (twins), March 29, 1953; Christian Steen-
strup, July 16, 1956.

occuPATION: Staff physician, Medical Service, Veterans’ Hospital, Bay Pines,
Florida.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Board of Internal Medi-
cine (diplomate).

] HAD the full treatment: four years of college followed by four
of the Medical School, with one at Columbia College of Physicians
and Surgeons. Then after a year on the Tufts First Medical Service
at the Boston City Hospital and four months at the Framingham
Union Hospital, there followed three years and nine months with
the Army’s “Flying Bedpan Service.” This was the medical section
of the Transportation Corps and provided a Cook’s Tour of Europe,
North Africa, the British Isles and the Philippines. Nothing heroic
or exciting happened except that I got married.

After the war I got back into the Boston City Hospital again,
finished up a residency, and we went up to Brewer, Maine, to live
and practice. This took up seven years. During this time I was city
health officer for a while, and health physician for the student nurses
at the Eastern Maine General for a period. About two years before
leaving Maine, I became a diplomate of the American Board of In-
ternal Medicine. Five children were born in Maine, Then, we de-
cided we'd had enough, and I was fortunate to get a job at the Vet-

[ 1472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

erans’ Hospital outside St. Petersburg, Florida, and we moved here
Another child was born, making a grand total of sin. We have twen
here, now, about seven years and think it’s great.

My hobbies, besides my wife, include weckend archeubegy ant
paleontology, that is, I am a sort of rock hound of collector of ba at
Indian artifacts and Pleistocene fossils. Incidentally, two ef the on.
standing experts in Florida paleontology are Hlarvardiscn (Las tee
Ray of the University of Florida at Gainesville, and Staniew Olan
of the Florida Geologic Survey at Vallahawee. Jean and P have
been favored by visits from both of these men and they tine Faroe
a partial skeleton of Borcostracanthornbanue th

A biee a pisectee:

Our best find:
Floridaglyptodon, a pony-sized armadillo-hke animal
don.

Well, so much for the narrative. You ask for my comvetioms tA
prefer to call them opinions. I favor medical care forthe a: ged uenhee
Social Security. I voted for Nixon because I fear Geme shun bet
think Kennedy may not be at all bad, in fact, may bequme a forte
outstanding president. My religious convictions are to wish feb cence
action did not have to be tied up to so much absurd abe My
faith: that the world and the creatures in it are worthy of worsdtoy,
that is, they have worth. If there is anything behind at, ety that
does, too. I believe, with President Fhiot, that man’s solace and refs a
lie in the love of his family, his work and in the enjoyment of nature

SAMUEL DENNIS WARREN

  

A |
ae : f .
é fe |
& i slic se mes 4
IME ADDRESS: Harlow Strect, Essex, Mase.
ee . re! ghug et ty . Pr vate gh

FICE Appress: Chace, Whiteside & Winslow, toe, ag bate

Mass,
IN: June 7, 1913, Manchester, Mase.

g t

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936. DEGREES: SB. 1936(37); Lt.B. (Univ. of Virginia),
1940.

annie: Jessica Despard, Jan. 27, 1945, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Samuel
Dennis, Jr., March 14, 1946; Henry Bayard, Feb. 13, 1950; Hugh Lennox,
April 24, 1951, Andrew Despard, Sept. 16, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Broker, investment securities.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Town Planning Board, 1949-54; Essex Republican
Town Committee, since 1948; trustee, Boston Home for Incurables, since
1957.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club.

I FIND that one of the most startling aspects of aging lies in the

recollection of myself in the years 1932 to 1936. My more com-

plete awareness of reality, acquired during the intervening years,
has been encouraged by a wife and four sons, who have been alert
in their attempts to increase the national demand for consumer
products and a variety of other things. (Query whether Professor

Galbraith would approve.) |

An objective account of my time since our last Report would
probably conclude that I have been excessively preoccupied with
an enterprise which seeks to license manufacturers to make and
sell an AC electrolytic power factor correction capacitor. The
performance of this novel device in testing laboratories and else-
where has impressed competent engineers but to date they appear to
have manfully restrained themselves from doing much about it.

Recently certain inevitable and other not unfavorable develop-

ments concerning this project have enabled me to enter the invest-

ment field in which I have been active since December, 1959.

Beyond giving me opportunities to enjoy myself and to observe
how truly old my Classmates have become (secure in the knowledge

that I have changed very little), I feel that our Reunion will be a

tremendously rewarding experience and for all that has been and

will have been done to prepare for it, 1 am sincerely grateful.

L 1474 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFE POR ST

NELSON DUDLEY WARWICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 235 Rex Ave., Philadelphia 18, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First Pennsylvania Banking & Toe Co. ageh & © he wense
Streets, Philadelphia 1, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: South Kent School, South Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1936; tam. (Univ, of Preece ts gees,

1939.
MARRIED: Flizabeth Grandin Brown, June 1, sgga Whitemarsh, Pa as mess

Nelson Dudley, Jr.. May 23, 1931; Elizabeth Grandin, Mar oa caee
Mary Manderson, July 6, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Trust officer.

OFFICES HELD: President, South Kent School Alumni Awe ratwan, 1g) 4 &! ose
agent, University of Pennsylvania Law School, ance tags, sreete, WY sowe

hickon Skating Club.
MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Cricket Club; Wisuhwhon Shaneg (hob) bere eed
Club of Philadelphia.

UPON leaving Cambridge, I spent three grinding veers at the
University of Pennsy Ivania Law School, Probal Iv the eatitoe ting
accomplishment during this time was the fact that Pomet the go
who was later to become my wife. On leaving law wheel beorre.
and embarked upon the practice of the lw in Philate!ptica et tag
This procedure was abruprly interrupred when were baal cree
placed his sticky fingers in the fish bowl and drew eae rey stes’s
number giving Uncle Sam a high priority on my wees Vive 6
few brushes with the Draft Board cone crniny the press ef ny
wife, I decided to enlist in the Firse Catv Trees whieh wee gece of
the Philadelphia National Guard.

In February, 1941, accompanied by twenes sit hewwa ot sper e
frigid box car, I traveled to Indiantown Gap NElesey Be seve rece
for further training. For the neve cightesn memeha Phat es as

[ t475 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

that my horse was fed and watered before I could do either. This
was excellent disciplinary training, but it became quite apparent
that I was not going to support my wife and new son in style on
the then current pay of a private first class. I, therefore, applied for
officers training and was shipped to the Armored Force School at
Fort Knox. After having my brains and intestinal fortitude tested
for seventeen weeks, I was appointed a second lieutenant and
shipped to the Fourth Armored Division at Pine Camp, New York.

The Division judge advocate, after looking at my Form 20,
decided that he had never seen anyone who played lacrosse and
appointed me the trial judge advocate for the Division. In addition
to trying to keep the population of the Guard House at a low level,
I was a liaison officer to the Division chief of staff (now General
Bruce C. Clarke), who was and is one of the most brilliant military
men I have ever met. I traveled to the Mojave Desert and then to
Texas and finally to England, at which time I took over as com-
manding officer of the Division Headquarters Company, which en-
tailed, among other things, trying to keep the general’s staff in a
pleasant frame of mind. I landed on Utah Beach in July of 1944,
and spent the next year or so trying to keep General Patton happy
and seeing Europe at government expense. In due course, I was
mustered out and returned home to be greeted by my elder daughter
whom I had never seen. For the record, my second daughter was
born in July of 1947.

After thrashing around for a few months, I entered the trust
business as an assistant trust officer of the Jenkintown Bank & Trust
Company in 1946. In 1950 I joined the Trust Department of the
First National Bank of Philadelphia, which in turn was swallowed
up through merger by my present employer. It seems almost im-
possible to realize that I have spent almost fifteen years as a trust
officer. I have found the ever-changing human equation intriguing.
I feel that being able to help people in the management of their
possessions, which involves their everyday existence, has been re-
warding. I look forward to continuing this work until retirement
unless I get fired for talking out of turn or somebody offers me
$75,000 a year.

My chief diversion has been helping with the organization of the
Wissahickon Skating Club and having the dubious privilege of
directing the hockey program at the Club, for tired old men and
energetic young ones. T have been forced lately to consider the
meaning of a Harvard education since my son is now at college and

[ 1476 |

oe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my daughter is preparing to enter Wellesley if they will have her

Basically, my years at Harvard in retrospect have provided me with
a sense of values which I hope has remained basically constant oy
a changing world of computers and missiles. T hope that PT have
been able to pass this meaning on to my children. Certainty, book.
ing backwards I feel that over the years I have been extremely for.

tunate. For all of this, I am grateful.

ALEXANDER WASSERMAN

 

HOME ADpRESS: 2282 Albany Ave., West Hartford, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Wasserman’s Dept. Store, Stafford Springs, Conn,

BORN: Aug. 20, 1914, Stafford Springs, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Stafford High School, Stafford Springs, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.
MARRIED: Loris Calegman, Jan, 22, 1939, New Haven, Conn, cuirpars Moers

P., May 29, 1942; Michael P., March 12, 1946.
OCCUPATION: Merchant.

SINCE I left Harvard in 1936, I have been Ieading a quict nortnil
life. I married three years later and became a father in theee more

years and again about four years later.
During the war I worked at Prate & Whitney Nureraft Corpse:

tion and then became associated with Wasserman’s Dy partinent
Store in Stafford Springs.

Our life has mainly centered around our boys and there iteresee
Martin is now a freshman at Williams College ard Michael ree
the ninth grade at King Philip School in West Perfor bo ort
to encourage them in their religious endeavor, Lor and | tant
ourselves participating very actively in synageyne work auf tee’.

[1377 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

enjoying it. This consumes most of our time, and adds to OUr social
as well as our spiritual and educational well-being.

TALBOT HOWE WATERMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1248 Trumbull College, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 272 Gibbs Laboratory, Dept. of Zoology, Yale University,
New Haven, Conn.

BORN: July 3, 1914, East Orange, N.J.

PREPARED AT: East Orange High School, East Orange, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1938;
PH.D., 1943.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Professor of zoology, Yale University.

OFFICES HELD: Associate, Society of Fellows, 1938-40, research associate, Psy-
choacoustic Laboratory, O.S.R.D., 1941-43, Harvard University; staff mem-
ber, Radiation Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1943-
45; scientific consultant, OS.R.D., OF S., AF., 1945; secretary, Committee
on Research, Sigma Xi, 1946; executive fellow, Trumbull College, 1946-
56; instructor in biology, 1946-47, assistant professor, 1947-52, associate
professor, 1952-58, professor, since 1958, Yale University, instructor in
invertebrate zoology, Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, 1947-
2; secretary, Bermuda Biological Station for Research, since 1951; asso-
ciate editor, Journal of Morpbology, 1951-54; A.1.B.S. Advisory Commit-
tee on Hydrobiology, ONR, since 1956, AEC, since 1957; A.I-B.S. Ad-
visory Committee on Biology, ONR, since 1959.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Zoologists; Society for Experimental Biol-
ogy; Society of Naturalists, Marine Biological Association of the U.Ky
Society of General Physiologists; Connecticut Academy of Arts and
Sciences, A.A.AS.; Corporation, Bermuda Biological Station for Research;
Corporation, Marine Biological Laboratory,

pupLicaTions: Research papers and reviews in scientific journals; editor and
contributor, The Physiology of Crustacea, 2 vols, Academic Press, New

York, 1960.

[ 1478 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE our Tenth Anniversary Report my professional career has

moved from its immediate postwar state of suspended animation ty

an active and mid-career level which has proved to be ment sate.

fying. From my present vantage point, I can say this firmly, al-

though there have been times when climbing the acadenuc greased

pole or struggling for an effective solution to some research of

teaching problem has clouded the cheerful prospect. Perhaps one
reason for my general feeling of fulfillment is that my main tn-
terests in comparative physiology and biological oceanography ony:
inated well back in undergraduate experience at Harvard and have
continued to grow and fascinate me ever since. In this sense, U feck
quite fortunate because my youthful infatuations have not dissolved
or shifted but have instead come into focus stage center.

The main point of my scientific interest now lies in the spatial
orientation of aquatic animals particularly in the open sca and at
great depths. This is part of the more general subject of anural
navigation which includes the migration of fishes, birdy, and many
other animals. For some years, my principal preoccupation has
been with the possibility that submarine polarized light serves
aquatic animals much as sky polarization is used as a compas in
the orientation of bees and other terrestrial arthropods.

In the course of this research, I have been forced to do quite a
lot of aqua-lunging in St. Thomas, Bermuda, and Hawai, as well as
considerable shipboard work at sea there and chewhere. Siwe
nearly nothing was known previously about underwater polarized
light, we have had to work first on this aspect of submarine optas

before biological experiments on visual physiology and behavwe
could be effectively planned. In addition to the pleaunt!, vopere
patetic life required by such a program, the international coopers
tion involved in executing it has been a stimulating and rew ards
experience. Over the years, my research associites have inc hate Lt
in addition to Americans, English, French, Swedish, West Gerran
and Japanese scientists.

International collaboration was also prominent inthe eherres of
a two-volume reference work on physiology which has post heen
published. Over thirty contributors participated in this and abaue
half of them were from various British and Puropean unverutis
and marine laboratories. At the outset of such a task, the bee sreste ¢
has quite unrealistically optimistic ideas of the tine and cifoee es
volved. What seemed at first like the partome job of a vear ne
two swelled to an incubus of more than four years aecmtingy froes

[ 1479 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

the first tentative letters seeking co-workers to the final brain-
washing job of completing the subject index!

Like most scientists nowadays, much of my research activity has
been made possible during the past decade by the support added
by government agencies to that already provided by my own in-
stitution, Yale. For all of this time, the Office of Naval Research
has provided substantial aid financially and otherwise, while more
recently the National Science Foundation has greatly assisted my
constantly expanding research needs. While such relations clearly
complicate the position of the private university today and add to
the perennial problem of the proper relation of teaching to research,
the effective stimulation and support of creative research is more
than ever of paramount and, probably in the end, decisive impor-
tance to the United States.

Still being a bachelor, | have little new to report in my personal
life. Twentieth-century music and contemporary graphic and
plastic arts continue to provide me with much pleasure, and the
piano remains a refreshing hobby. In the out-of-doors, SCUBA
and tropical beachcombing seem to have replaced my earlier en-
thusiasm for mountains. At my age, I even tried to take up surf-
boarding last summer at Waikiki!

EARL MAYNARD WATSON

  

HOME AppREsS: 44 Robin Rd., Wakefield, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Truman Hayes & Co, Insurance Agency, Inc. 10 Post Office
- Sq. Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 25, 1914, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936,

[ 1480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REFPOKT

MARRIED: Marjorie Perrin, Oct. 8, 1938, Medford, Maw. cautoass Jaa fay

29, 1942; David, July 4, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Insurance brokers-treasurer.

WALTER JOHNSTON WATSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 219 E. Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Lil.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: July 27, 1913, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A-B., 1936.

MARRIED: Nancy Jane Lawson, Sept. 5, 1958, Chicago, HI.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hathaway Watson, Jr. "38, MBA. “gt.
OCCUPATION: Promotion and sales, King-Stevenson Onl Company, Ine

MY first job after graduation was with the Lumberman’s Verual
Casualty Company in Chicago, where, as a statistical traswe, Powe
initiated into the mysteries of IBM machinen Pleven monehe barer
I left to face the cruel world again and after a temporary acerentr 2
job decided to try the oil fields, joined the Adams Oh) & Gras Corn
pany in Wichita Falls, Texas, and was later transfceresd ter eathern
Illinois. Adams and Standard of Ohio formed a working apreerme nd
about this time and I served them jointly as an oul sent, Nota hovel
bought Adams out and I stayed on until joining the Nwas King OF
Company of St. Louis.

A year later the draft board started breathing down cy nee
and I took a trip to the east coast, intending to enti spect ine ee
turn. Stopped to sce my brother, then w inshirge up an MELE ae eee
Business School, who told me of the LA. degree they were str.
ducing as a means of training junior evecutives foe defer poset
I signed up, was deferred, and found that geang bach ter head

"

after five years wasn't exactly casy. EP adjusted ard wae ee og mens

( 1450 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

in pretty good form until Captain Fuchida of the Imperial Japanese
Navy led his aircraft to Pearl Harbor. Before long I was in uni-
form myself at Quonset Point, Rhode Island. Three months in
Oahu, six months in Espiritu Santo, punctuated by a fabulous twelve
days in Auckland, and I was back in the States. Eleven months later
I returned to the Pacific, spending six months at Kwajalein, eight in
Saipan, three at Okinawa, two in Hong Kong and back to civilian
life. .

Co-founded the Hug & Watson Drilling Company and drilled for
oil in Hlinois and Montana for eight years. Sold out, returned to
Chicago after a twenty years’ absence and tried life insurance and
real estate before getting back into oil three months ago. Am now
engaged in soliciting funds for the King-Stevenson Oil Company, a
very successful young corporation with extensive operations in the
United States and Canada.

Still active in the Naval Reserve and consider Senator Symington’s
“single service” a very dangerous concept.

Married Nan Lawson of Chicago, an artist, two years ago, first
try for both of us. No progeny as yet, but you can’t always count
out an old goat.

GEORGE MOORE WEBER

 

HOME AppRESS: 265 King St., Pottstown, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: Westinghouse Electric Corp., Lester, Pa.

porn: April 28, 1903, Lewistown, Pa,

PREPARED AT: Princeton Preparatory School, Princeton, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933,

marriep: Florence Vivian Keagle, May 15, 1937, Ha
Alyce Anne, Aug. 6, 1938 (7. J. M. Creswell Js May sar iene CHILDREN:
McK., April 30, 1941; William B., April 4, 1943. 1 1960); Elizabeth

[ 1482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Engineer, nuclear power.
MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Pirsburgh (Pat

Chapter, Society for Non-destructive Testing
OTHER than a matter of record for the Class Report, chances are
that the biography of one who has lived obscurely, if pleasurably,
would be of little or no interest to anyone.

Despite facing up to inevitable rough seas and calin weather,
I have sent two offspring to college and a third is preparnny. Oue
elder daughter was married this year on a rainy Mav dav. Abou
three hundred invited guests (plus gate crashers) showed up at the

house to complete the festivities.
I have, at one time or another, tried my hand at writing some

short stories and poetry for the amusement of my famuly and rity +
self. I seriously doubt any publisher would be impressed by ans

of it.
Westinghouse Electric Corporation has been my employer fee

many years. My assignments have varied from tcacher to cnyincet

to extensive traveler in the interest of nuclear powcr Component

production.

Recent visits to Cambridge and vicinity have contirmed my be
lief that Harvard College has in fact become co-cducanenal Thus
seems to be somewhat out of character. I trust that the Opprnite we
has not yet found residence in the Yard. Harvard oughe to att to
its facilities to accommodate qualified applicants whose rejpceteors ty

the admission authorities seems almost whimsical.
With the candidates promising a gold brick for every vote ant

literally blowing their lungs out over Qucmoy and Matsu and the
stunt-like kitchen debate, isn’t it about time we try anew tach? What
Us ' | §
. rig
* »

about poor Joe Doak’s intellectually curious son who misht back t
frontier enough to add a cubit or so to our stature?

Why be awed by the enigmatic Sovicts? They will pretiatity
knock each other out. The sports page ts better reading anda be

nore factual.

a |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GERALD JOSEPH WEBER

 

HOME Appress: 706 Cherry St., Erie, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Knox, Weber, Pearson & McLaughlin, 23 W. Tenth St., Erie,
Pa.

BorN: Feb. 1, 1914, Erie, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Strong Vincent High School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cz laude, 1935; LL.B. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1939.

marniep: Berta Drechsel, Aug. 21, 1947, Asheville, N.C. cHtLprEN: ‘Thomas
Joseph, April 15, 1951; William Gerald, Aug. 31, 1953; Mary Ruth, April
19, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Democratic Campaign, Erie County, Pa., 1951, 1959;
city solicitor, City of Erie, Pennsylvania, since 1952; president and treasurer,
Erie Guidance Center; president, Torch Club of Erie.

AFTER college, I went to the University of Pennsylvania Law
School in Philadelphia. I enjoyed the law school and Philadelphia.
After graduation from law school in 1939, I was admitted to the
bar in Pennsylvania in 1940, and began to practice in my home
town, Erie, Pennsylvania. In those late depression days things were
slow, and most young lawyers were given space in the office of an
older lawyer and were given occasional small cases or large hopeless
ones to gain experience. They were very carefully protected from
the character-destroying effects of monetary compensation. In our
city, at that time, all new lawyers entered practice under these con-
ditions, although today a large number are given direct employment.
Nevertheless, the old system had its merits, as I have found most
of my contemporaries in the profession to be men of wide experi-
ence and great character.

I was not too long employed at gaining experience, when the

[ 1484]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
war made a five-year interlude. Drafted in March, tyg:. Po receued
infantry training, then went to Countcr-Intelligence School, ari
os

was appointed a special agent in the U.S. Army Counter Pac
gence Corps. I took part in the North African invasion, spent ters

months in various parts of Morocco, thence to the Italian meaaen
landing below Salerno, and working my way north with the batch
Army until the Italian surrender. In Italy, [ moved about a great
deal, on assignments, and saw a great deal of the country, Atis
the end of the war, I moved north into Austria and was located in

the American Zone headquarters, city of Salzburg, unul Mav. tus:.

where I was in charge of the C.LC. detachment for the province. |

entered the service as a private, went through all the non-enan
grades, received a combat commission, and was discharged as a ¢a)-
tain, to become a U.S. War Department civilian employee at the
same job. I was awarded a Bronze Star, and several cammpangn stars
In Austria, I met my wife, Berta Drechsel, a Ph.D, from the Uno.
versity of Vienna.

In 1947, I felt that if I were ever to practice law aya, | had
better get back to it, since a five-year interruption carly in your
career can deprive you of a great deal of that invaluable cxapenenee
about which we had been told at the outset of our davs at the bar.
So I hurried back, feeling very inadequate for a while, because of
my long absence, and got vigorously to work. [owas married in
August of 1947, after my return home.

I have worked quite hard at the law, because IT have enjoved te
I know of nothing that I would rather do, nor of any proup that |
would rather associate with than lawyers. By lawyer. Pmean men
who practice law generally, who represent diverse chenty and wii
are primarily advocates. They represent something that to meu
the end product of a liberal education, something that w beeorss +
more rare aS we progress to ever greater specialization When J
think of a lawyer, I think of him primarily ay an advewate. Tbs
was his historic role. The increasing complexity of the whete t.'!
of a lawyer’s activity, the drive toward specialization, the prow ty of
administrative bodies, the decline of litigation of ats re-try tion t)
narrower fields, all tend to restrict the ficld of advocacy. We ates,
to conform. No one wishes to be the champion of a eew ot
an unpopular cause, or an unsympathetic defembant. Etisn ator.
comfortable and far more lucrative to lead a chene re
rituals of administrative procedures and tay fetures. _ t Ls .
that our country will need advocates in the haere pet fis |

[ rae ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

future, as much as we shall need nuclear physicists and builders of
computers.

As for specialization, if I make claim to any, it is in the field of
municipal law. I have been, for the past nine years, the city solicitor
of the city of Erie. This has broadened the scope of my activities
in legal practice and has also given me a great insight into the work-
ings of municipal government. To be a competent lawyer, you must
know your client’s problems as well as he does, and my job has
taken me into many fields of governmental operations. I find the
organization and operation of cities to be a fascinating field of study,
and I have devoted considerable time to municipal activities outside
the strict field of their legal affairs.

Naturally, to be interested in government, you get active in poli-
tics. I have been county chairman for two successful Democratic
campaigns, and have participated in many others. My toughest job
is to try to get qualified men to run for office.

I have always been a Democrat in politics, although I do not agree
with all Democrats and sometimes admire the stand of those who
oppose them, even though they fail to recognize that we have
passed into the second half of the twentieth century. I believe in
sound public finance, but this does not necessarily mean less public
spending. In my mind we should pay the current costs of govern-
ment from current revenues, and if public expenditures are de-
manded, legislative bodies should levy the taxes to provide them.
I see far too much of a tendency, at local government level, to pro-
vide for current programs and even current operations out of deficit
borrowing. Statesmanship in local government is now measured by
how much the local leader can secure from Federal funds. Much
of the Federal money supplied to local governmental units is spent
wastefully and on projects that local taxpayers would not support
if they had to pay from their own funds. The Federal bureaucracy
that administers such projects aids and abets this system.

Having now filled up the two pages of the questionnaire, I shall
stop.

[ 1486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN SKINNER WEBER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 132 Windemere Rd., Rochester ta, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Weber Automatic Sales Co. so8.\ Avis Se, Rewhestee i NY

BORN: Oct. 2, 1913, Chicago, Il.

PREPARED at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRIED: Dorothy T. Needham, Barnard “yo, June ty toca VMartaccen beng
Island, N.Y. CHILDREN: Edward A., 2d, June rg. tase, Margaree SC for 4
1953; Jane O. April 17, 1954; William Ny Ove. ta. tues. Barbora ©).
April 16, 1957; Paul B., March 14, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Owner and operator, automatic merchandiung buune ws.

I TOOK a job with the stock brokerage firm of Hornblower &
Weeks, Philadelphia office, in the summer of 1934, temas ere
for three years. I might add that I studicd for and obtained a US
Army reserve officer’s commission during this perusal Proved vy
to Hornblower & Weeks’ New York office in tyig. as a weerty
analyst, remaining there until going on acuve duty with Ce Vrers
in the office of the Secretary of War, in Scprember. roar Mee
being on Washington duty for two veary TE received a tractor bo
the Holabird Quartermaster Depot, Baltimore, Maryland where i
completed the officers’ motor transport course.

Late in 1943, I was sent to Yale, of all places te prea apes:
knowledge of the Chinese mandarin linguayge. After than andes >
traveling, including a trip over the Hump, E fourm! my seta ros
in early 1944. My jobs in that theatre covered: tranipert of o>
plies and financial and hatson matters, To make a bere atery st
I wound up as a captain inthe U.S. Army and amare ine € 8 ©
Nationalist Army, having received a bronce seat peti fos
former and the Breast Order of Yun Phu feos the face be

[ 1457 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

turned to the States and went off active duty in November, 1946,
having completed more than six years in the service.

After a brief period in the export business in New York City, in
1947, 1 took a long rest traveling around the country and trying
to find a good business to go into. Incidentally, I met my future
wife, Dorothy T. Needham (Barnard ’40; S.M., Wellesley ’42), dur-
ing this period.

After attending an automatic merchandising convention in At-
lantic City, in 1949, I journeyed to Rochester, New York, and pur-
chased three vending businesses. I have been at that ever since. I
might also add that I was married in 1950, and at this writing have
six children — three boys and three girls, aged nine to one years.

ANDREW GERRISH WEBSTER, II

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1924 W.. Tenth Ave., Kennewick, Wash.

OFFICE AvpRESS: 805 Kennewick Medical-Dental Center, Kennewick, Wash.

BORN; June 3, 1914, Bar Harbor, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D., 1940.

Marriep: Catherine Maclnnes, May 5, 1943, Hyde Park, Mass. CHILDREN:
Caroline Helen, Oct. 7, 1945; Andrew MacInnes, Dec. 16, 1946; Harrison
Briggs, June 3, 1952; Constance Neale, April 22, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon, private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Surgeon, active staff, Kennewick General Hospital, Lourdes Hos-
pital, Kadlec Hospital, since 1953, member, board of trustees, Mid-Columbia
Symphony Society, 1954-57, budget committee, United Crusade, president,

Explorers’ Club of Kennewick, 1958, Benton-Franklin Counties Medical
Service Bureau, 1960.

meMbER oF: Benton-Franklin Medical Society; Rotary Club; Elks Club; Ex-
plorers’ Club; Mid-Columbia Symphony Society; Kennewick Education

[ 1488 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Study Group; Kennewick Chamber of Commerce, Amerwan Board nf
Surgery (diplomate).
THE first six years after Harvard College were amply titled ty
Harvard Medical School and an internship on the surgical serve
of the Boston City Hospital. Nothing in the years at Camberatoc
ever forewarned me of the startling flow of human Misery that
swirled through the wards of that large city hospital

In World War II, the Navy ordered me aboard the destrover
USS H. P. Jones, as ship’s doctor. Shortly thereafter, E marred
Catherine MacInnes — the most fortunate event of my life. Dunn
the next two years in the Atlantic and Mediterrancan, the shup kh. nt
a wide variety of successful missions and received a Navy Unit
Commendation Award. In 1955, I served at the Chelsea Naval Pn.
pital under several of my former Harv ard Medical instructor and
finally was transferred to the Farragut Naval Hospital in northern
Idaho. My wife and our first child, Carrie, were able ta accurparny
me, and we liked the region so well that we determined te rerun
to the Northwest to live.

After separation from the Navy in Scattle, we embarked en
harrowing trailer trip through the southwest and back to New Bry
land. Recapped tires didn’t stand the load well and blow -ours es.
curred daily.

Back home in Boston, I completed three more yeary of hespeta!
surgical training and our first son, Andy, was born. In mud. Vag
we migrated to Oregon and began the practice of surgery in Viet
ford where we remained until moving to our prescnt hee ation is
Kennewick, Washington, in 1953. Kennewick is in the scion acot
southeastern part of the state closely associated with the Planters

Atomic Works.
Our family was filled out to two and two by the arrwvaled Placn
vp ete f

son and Connie in ’52 and ’54. Needing more room, we feo
a house, blending the modern with carly American New Proleet
style, in 1955. In the same year, seven other doctors and base

porated to build offices for ourselves.

Professional and civic duties have been demanding ant new a:
but my wife and I both feel our children and there educates a
most important. We always take family vacations ea ce?
and have ranged up and down the West Coast andas farina dh
muda and Florida. In the fall, the hunting fever vee ree, we be
load many rounds for a converted German Nery Miser a boos!

e bees aofiacs

for a pack trip in British Columbia, My tuck bas be

f paSa ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

grizzly bear, bighorn sheep, elk and mountain goats, but I’ll have
to try again for a Kodiak bear next year in Alaska. A recent year-
round hobby has been the care and training of a young quarter-
horse. Fortunately he has been most cooperative and good-natured.

On the serious side, my wife and I remain staunch Yankees, vote
Republican and believe strongly in responsibility of the individual.

We enjoy good books, good legitimate stage, but most of all, our
four lively youngsters.

EARLE HANSON WEBSTER

a
\
eA

  

ate ME ARM IRE i 7
se SOR EO PELE TE PONE E

 

HOME apprEss: 146 Lewis Bay Rd., Hyannis, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Lewis Bay Rd., Hyannis, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1915, Bridgewater, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1936; M.D., 1940. .
MARRIED: Mima Allen, Sept. 6, 1946, Wareham, Mass. CHILDREN: David Jenni-

son and Peter Beaton (twins), July 31, 1950, Mark Allen, Oct. 2, 1951-
HARVARD BROTHER: Everett Powell Webster, 46, s.M., 47, M.B.A., °50.
occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: President, Barnstable District Medical Society, 1958-593 chief
of medical staff, Cape Cod Hospital, since 1959.

FOLLOWING graduation in 1940 was internship at Hartford Hos-
pital, Hartford, Connecticut. Then came a tour of duty in the Navy
until 1946, which carried me throughout the Pacific. The years
1946 and 1947 were spent on a tour of active duty with the United
States Public Health Service, and in 1947 1 commenced my practice
in Hyannis, Massachusetts, where I remain at present.

Anesthesia envelops fifty percent of my practice; the remaining

fifty percent is devoted to general practice. There is still a strong
interest in the U.S.P.H.S., where 1 hold a reserve commission in

[ 1490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the grade of senior surgeon. I was privileged to de @ sheet tose
of active duty in 1956, which involved a course in Adunta, Ganges

— epidemiology and national emergencies.

In September, 1946, I marricd Mima Allen, a South peadusce, frou
Pennsylvania. July, 1950, saw the arrival of Peter Beaten anc
David Jennison, and in October, 1951, the arnval of Mark Alen
brought the total male population of the Websters tw four, where
it has remained. Our location is ideal for boanny, fistuny, hunting
and occasional camping trips to nearby Sandy Nech. We've Frac
aged to sandwich trips with the boys to Bermuda, Cuba, Pecres
Rico and through the United Srates. ‘During the past sear, a ttapot
portion of my time has been spent as chicf of scart at the Cape Cont

Hospital, where we are underguing a bread cxpansen progr sre,

ARTHUR HENRY WEED

 

BORN: Jan. 16, 1915, Milton, Mass. paneses: Arthue Plenry Weed oi ba eee

Haydock.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Afilron, Mas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1934.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Roger Haydock Weel, “yg. ta, "bs, Odacloe Pbareng Weed

"4, M.Doy "45.
piep: Nov. 4, 1933, East Brewster, Mase

ARTHUR HENRY WEED entered Plarvard wiret esut € lace.

While in college he was active in sports as a men tet ed the fete
} . .
ae ae Ye. } bY i

team) and assistant manager of the hockey teoace aod played poe
mural football. Hle was ia his suphernore teat whens be wed foe

dentally killed while on a bicycle trip. le wae segvice J By
nother and two brothers.

2

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HENRY JAMES WEEKES

HOME ADDRESS: 201 South St. Gananoque, Ont., Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Parmenter & Bulloch Mfg. Co., Ltd., Gananoque, Ont., Canada

BoRN: May 22, 1915, Regina, Sask., Canada.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Campion College, Regina, Sask., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1936 (38).

marriED: Doris Catherine Smith, Sept. 9, 1942, Truro, N.S., Canada. cumopren:
Catherine Ann, July 23, 1946; Peter James, Oct. 12, 1950.

occupation: Manager of marketing.

AT the risk of repetition of what has been published in previous
Class Reports, I attempt, with tongue in cheek, to review my career
since graduation. Twenty-five years seems a long time in some
ways; in other ways, it seem that 1936 was only yesterday. While
I can lay claim to no large estate, I can assert with confidence
that the past twenty-five years were most interesting and I en-
joyed every minute of them.

After graduation, I joined the industrial engineering department
of Dominion Rubber Company, Ltd., in Montreal. When I left
this firm, a subsidiary of the U.S. Rubber Company, in 1944, I
formed a partnership with an engineer and set up a plastic molding
firm called Thermoset Plastics, Ltd., in Dorian, Quebec. When we
incorporated in 1945, 1 was vice-president. I sold my interest in
this firm in 1947. In 1947, with my younger brother, who gradu-
ated in engineering from McGill that year, I formed a partnership
known as Weekes Brothers Construction. This enterprise was set
up in Regina, Saskatchewan. Our main line of business was highway
construction. We sold this firm in 1951 and I joined the Hydro-
electric Power Commission of Ontario, as an area manager in the
Frequency Standardization Division in Toronto. This you may
know was a $700,000,000 project to convert all generating and utili-
zation equipment in Ontario from use on 25-cycle power to use on
60-cycle power. In 1955, shortly after I became assistant operations
manager of the project, I joined Canadian Line Materials, Ltd., in
Toronto, as assistant general manager. This firm is a subsidiary of
McGraw-Edison in Chicago. In 1957 I joined the Anthes-Imperial
Company in St. Catharine’s, Ontario, with the nebulous title of
assistant to the executive vice-president, but with the nominal title of
sales manager of the Warm Air Heating Products Division. Last
March, I joined Parmenter & Bulloch Manufacturing Company,
Ltd., as manager of marketing. This company, located in Gana-
noque, Ontario, in the heart of the Thousand Islands district on the

[ 1492 J

2 5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
St. Lawrence River, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Tow need
Company in the United States.

If any classmates should perchance be more of a “pothing stew”
than I have been, then the forthcoming Class Report will prevute

some interesting reading. Seriously though, J hope to stay put fos
some time to come, as I think that the firm of which FE art now ao

member is the one I’ve been looking for since 1934.

** CHARLES IGNATIUS WEIR, JR.

 

BORN: May 26, 1914, Troy, N.Y. parents: Charles Ignatius Were, Pleten Vio wt
TRANSFERRED FROM: Washington University, St. Loum Mo,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B, magna cunt bende, wit, ave eat

PH.D. 1941.

marrieD: Gertrude Locke Burgess, Jan. 21, 193Q, Welledew Pb Misc come
DREN: Michael, Sept. 17, 1942; George Burges July ti. tose. Dyaeowt Soe
gent, Nov. 2, 1946.

pieD: June 20, 1955, New York, N.Y.
wwow: Mrs, Charles I. Weir, Jr, S. Fast Screct, Amberg, Mace,

AFTER leaving Harvard, Weir entered the edicatieral felt svt
was at Cornell University in 1947. Later he became acea sate f wires

NBC-TV in New York City. He was survived by hie wife avd

children.

t sg geal

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

SAVILLE GABRIEL WEISMAN

 

HOME ADpRESS: 516 Washington St., Cumberland, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 59 Greene St., Cumberland, Md.

BorN: Oct. 17, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Evander Childs High School, Bronx, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: $.B., 1936; M.D. (New York Univ.), 1940.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Frances Baron, Sept. 1, 1940, Cumberland, Md. cxtpren;:
Robert Lee, Nov. 16, 1942; Richard Morris, April 3, 1947; Elizabeth Ann,

June 7, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Robert Lee Weisman, °64.

OccUPATION: Physician, practicing internal medicine,

OFFICES HELD: Various committee memberships, Memorial Hospital and Sacred
Heart Hospital, 1946-60; president, medical staff, 1956-57, secretary,
medical staff, Sacred Heart Hospital, Cumberland, Maryland.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Medical-Chirurgical Faculty,
Maryland, Allegany-Garret County Medical Society; American College
of Cardiology; B'nai B'rith, Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; Cumber-
land Country Club.

SINCE graduation I’ve acquired a medical education, a wife, three
children, a mortgage, and various odd possessions including a cat
and horse. During the same period the personal losses were heavy,
and also gone is the illusion of having enough time. The knowledge
that this isn’t true distinguishes the Twenty-fifth Class Report from
the Tenth. |
I attended the New York University College of Medicine and
interned in various New York City hospitals. The Ninth U.S.
Army Air Force provided a postgraduate review of French, Ger-
man, and contemporary European civilizations. My wife’s return
to her home in Cumberland, Maryland, during the war, crystallized
the idea of practising medicine in a small community. The pattern

[ 1494 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of life seemed to flow at a slower pace than in a metropolis Phew.
ever, internal medicine consumes time, and the new waral prod tere
of too much leisure hasn't affected me. COne doesa’t starve ay thi
field but contrary to certain opinions it's plain, damned hard work )

For relaxation we’ve tried golf but a psychounalyan wil be
necessary before the game becomes a pleasure. “The hore. enn
nally purchased for our young equestricnne, has interested: roy
wife, and maybe I'll be next! The most succesful release os travel.
The tension sloughs off at the city line. The local hills are be sure
ful but far places lured us — Canada, Mevico, F urope, the USK,
and Israel, have well rewarded our curnnouty, Alwo they ve enalled
me to exercise my cameras which is an old hobby. Anether meoce
or less active diversion is playing records on a turntable. bron a
second-hand phonograph in Leverett B— 23, this has grown te a
super duper stereo system, capable of many decibels and a roinimises
of distortion.

It is interesting to realize that in the twenty-five Vea wine
graduation, we've eliminated the automaue gadyets and play eve:
ords one at a time —less rumble, flutter and wow! If meee tone
were available I'd read more in fields previously neglected — ar he.
ology, anthropology, not to mention internal medicuve tw

The last twenty-five years haven't convinced me that our wa cel,
economic and religious theories are more than very premitive ones
We faced Fascism twenty-five years ago and now our prolfere i
Communism. Certainly our world can’t be the same unter the
impacts of big business, big labor, big science amd the far beweb
Frontier religion and frontier attitudes fail us now, we need nore
than magic words. However, all is not lit — mv hopes be work
the Classes of ’64 and "69!

lf rane l

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

MORTON BUCH WEISS

Bye oeterteter teem gaan

  

4OME ADDRESS: 556 Ford Ave., Kingston, Pa.

FFICE ADDRESS: Triangle Shoe Co., Inc., Narrows Shopping Center, Kingston,
Pa.

rN: May 7, 1916, Coatesville, Pa.

PARED AT: Coatesville High School, Coatesville, Pa.

RS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; LL.B., 1939.

RiED: Florence Levant, Dec. 26, 1939, Brookline, Mass. (divorced 1951);

Anita Gilbert, Sept. 28, 1951, New York, N.Y. cuitprRen: Stephen M.,

“eb. 20, 1941; Amy Ellen, Oct. 8, 1945; Deborah Ann, June 14, 1948; Jane

usan, Sept. 24, 1953; Carol Mae, June 20, 1955.

‘TION: Vice-president and secretary, in charge of buying and mer-

andising, Triangle Shoe Company, retail shoe chain.

HELD: Director, National Association of Shoe Chain Stores, since 1950,

rvard Club of Northeastern Pennsylvania, 1958-59, United Fund of

oming Valley, since 1960; chairman, United Jewish Appeal of Wyo-

r Valley, 1958; president, Jewish Community Center of Wyoming

'Y, SINCE 1959.

F: Rotary Club and Masonic Lodge 355, Kingston, Pa.; B’nai B'rith

» and Irem Temple Shrine, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. American Jewish

ittee; Keystone Consistory, Scranton, Pa.

a while as I leave my expensive home in my big Cadillac

) my air-conditioned office, thence to send in a substan-
ution to the National Association of Shoe Chain Stores,
am a director, for the purpose of lobbying against the
um wage bill and particularly for the purpose of lobby-
he extension of the minimum wage provisions to retall
der what the hell it is all about. Certainly $1.25 pet
enough for a family to get along on in this day and
s part of the game and tied in to my own survival |
) fight against it. Strange world, I bring this up in
request for a statement reflecting our points of vicw.

[ 1496 ]

oon Hb NN Senge jp Et et gage
tele t 5 eompnswen sestan: satle ioe AE. + nt MRR Toa ta
sects wean ited PPM ol

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

I sometimes think that we are not always sure what our pone of

view are.
After college, I went on to law school and became a member ef
TE then went mee ey

the bar with no intention of practising law
family’s business, and by dint of hard work, perseverance, arnt apo

: >
tude I worked my way to the top. I am sure the fact that was ty
family’s business had nothing to do with it. In the meantune, UT have
sired five children, ranging in age from twenty to five. Uhiv alone
keeps me stepping, and in order that my son ¢an conunue to sper

$5000 a year in college (small “ce” because it iv the Univerury sf
ay ob were

Vermont), we just have to beat that minimum wave bel
this one week before the election, and if Harvardiman Acrnety was

elected said bill may be history by now.)
As I try to think back over the past twenty-five Veary if mere

to me that most of my classmates who were poor am? radaal es
those days are now rich and conservative. They used to ea: Tare the
reactionary of the group, but actually my philosophy wasimeh eed.

the-road then and it is about the same now. IT have dene the ssl

amount of travel, including a trip to Isracl in sy¢e wath a Uneed

Jewish Appeal Study AMlission, at which time Thad the oppectists
to meet with all the leading officials of that country and to clsnceve

at first hand the struggles of a young nation trying te fied a erat
place for itself in the ‘scheme of things. Talo get a bre kak when |
hear Mr. Nasser tell how he won that little war, because | wae cies
enough weapons which were captured from Fevpt (whah were
manufactured behind the Iron Curtain, by the wav) te fh ue
wars of that size.

As I sit here and realize that I have nothing more to ean
thought comes to me that if such is the case the past twenty foe
years must have been fairly prosaic ones for me, Nenethe lea, tery
have been, by and large, reasonably satnfactory year, ant b fies

the future with no scrious complaints abour the pase

§ genmart

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HAROLD PHELAN WELCH

 

pove amare oayetr Ouk Glen Drive, Southfield, Mich.
opera aroaree, bord Meeoe Co, The American Road, Dearborn, Mich.

mean: Aprilia tyes, Stanton, Nebr.
meopaaro ar Stanton Ehyh School, Santon, Nebr, Murdock High School,

Warm hendon, Mave.
VEARO IN COCRELE: 1Q1d-19j4 Decares: A.B, Page cum late, 1936, AM. (Univ.

of Chic aged, rages
Stanann: Phylls Kewler, Aug. go tgy%, Cambridge, Mass. cHitp: Phyllis

Jean Gadopreds, March a, toyg (ot, George MecWnight, June 16, 1956),
caasoomiroas  Tunethy Wayne McKnight, June 18, 1957; Holly Beth

Mi binghe, Nov. tye tyty.

travian mona: Claude Emernon Welch, vp, "32.

wert rarios: Monger, spectal financial projects, Ford Motor Company; financial
aulyus concerned promarily with aspects of public ownership of Ford

work.
Vestine oe: Detroit Seviery of Financial Analysts; local square dancing club.
MY twenty-tive years aftce Harvard have been a kaleidoscope,
ranging from the green of vouch, through Army brown, to the gray
of hae and tlinnel Of the fire there remains, I trust, only our
fordtled merion and divet-stained golf clubs.

After graduation [went to the University of Chicago, the better
to cquip myself for some sall vague career involving economics.
1 was gratitied — if not surprised — to discover that there is at
lease one institution, besides Harvard, that is worthy of respect
for its educational standards and capabilities.

Inv tg38 LE accepted a civil service position with the S.E.C., then
at its height of New Deal enthusiasm. Without necessarily espous-
ing all its crusading ideals and stratagems, T found my fifteen years
there to be a stimulating experience. The S.E.C. has aptly ‘been
called: the postgraduate course, par excellence, of corporation fi-

[ 1498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nance. I gained a lasting respect for the ability, devotion and plain
hard work of my colleagues.

My government career was interrupted by three-plus years in
the Army, as one classified under limited service — i.e., those who
generally were disqualified for challenging responsibilities, but too
“essential” to be spared.

Shortly after the war came marriage and the realization, through-

euc subsequent years, of all the joys, comforts and understanding
that come only through love and companionship. In my w ife 1

have found all these, as well as countless talents to supplement
whatever abilities I may have. She has prodded me gently in direc-
tions that, in retrospect, were clearly the correct course. Together,
we enjoy maintaining our little green patch of Michigan woods,
with its interesting wild life and enough of nature’s obstacles to
create a series of “green thumb” challenges.

I have spent my last eight years as a financial analyst at Ford
Motor Company. My responsibilities are concerned primarily with
the varied aspects of public ownership of the company’s stock —
S.E.C. registrations of the apparently endless public offerings by

the Ford ‘Foundation, stockholder reports and discussions w ith in-
vestment analysts. I enjoy immensely the exciting and fascinating
automobile business.

Our primary interest, outside projects at home and office, ts the

anticipation of visits from or to our daughter, son-in-law, and two
wonderful grandchildren.

CHRISTOPHER MINOT WELD

 

4E ADDRESS: 921 Greenwood Ave., Winnetka, III
(cE ADDRESS: Dartnell Corp. 4660 Ravenswood Ave, Chicago yo, Ut

rF 5

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
porN: Nov. 3, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

marrieD: Marguerite Rogers, Aug. 1, 1942, Garrison, N.Y. cHitpren: William
Sloan (adopted), Oct. 9, 1938 (72. Barbara Lowe, July 5, 1959); Ellen
Walker, May 30, 1940 (adopted); Marguerite Van Winkle, May 14, 1944;
Christopher Minot, Jr. April 6, 1949.

occupation: Publishing; vice-president and secretary, Dartnell Corporation,

OFFICES HELD: Church warden and Sunday School superintendent, since 1954;

director, Management Forum of Chicago, since 1957, Kiwanis Club of
Ravenswood, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago.

PUBLICATIONS: Office Manager’s Handbook; articles for management reading in
various publications.

LOOKING back, my life since graduation seems to be not at all
unusual. It includes most of the things common to the lives of all
of us who were turned loose in 1936 on an inhospitable world that
was far less settled than it appeared to be at the time.

First came the years of scrambling — at very low salary — from
New York to Oklahoma and back again. Then, there was the Na-
tional Guard and a wonderful opportunity to get that “year of
service” over with quickly. The year of service, as it did for so
many, came to an end five years later, and I wondered at the time
what I had to show for it.

These things I had: a wife and three children, an urge to live in a
part of the country other than the East and, 1 suppose, more ma-
turity and sense of purpose than before. In due course, our fourth
child arrived, and the family was complete.

The postwar phase was for us, in one way at least, very like the
prewar period. There never seemed to be enough money to do all
the things we wanted to do. By some means or other, though, we
had enough to eat and were clothed fairly decently. The kids had,
and are having, respectable educations, even though none has so
far managed it back to Cambridge. It is our hope that they will one
day be law-abiding citizens who are a credit to themselves and
their communities.

After ten years with Rand McNally & Company, I joined the
Dartnell Corporation here in Chicago, some six years ago. We're
busy publishing materials on various aspects of management and
management problems. Although my field of interest is the full
run of our publishing activities, my most particular concern is the
educational job we are doing for salesmen, sales managers and other

[ 1500 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

executives by means of training films, conferences seminary chime
and similar meetings. I fully expect that this sort af thee wel
continue to be my main interest for the rest of my werkiny bre.

PHILIP SALTONSTALL WEED

 

HOME ADDRESS: Dolliver’s Neck, Gloucester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gloucester Daily Times, Gloucester, Maw, New York Phere
Tribune, 21 Rue de Berri, Paris 8, France (through Scptemdwet, pte)

BORN: Dec. 11, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.
mMarrieD: Anne Warren, Feb. 6, 1937, Boston, Maw. contpess Phe gs Selecre

stall, Jr., July 6, 1938; Eloise, Mav 6, tggo0, Natharine, June te raat, Nowe,
Nov. 30, 1948; Helen, April 20, 1954.

HARVARD SON: Philip Saltonstall Weld, Jr. ‘60.

OCCUPATION: Newspaper publisher; president, Furepean edtsey New Pore
Herald Tribune, Gloucester Daily Times and Newbery port Dome News

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Alumni Awoctaton, tg¢ ga Plarerhid 6, earn
Company, 1958-60; trustce and vice-prowdene, Ineruce of ( emery ee wy
Art, 1946-52; trustee, Shore Country Dav Sched taet te eh eernaes,
Massachusetts Newspaper Information Camnstuttee, tge* Aer presndeod,
United Press Newspaper Fditors of Mawachuwery s9c* 4

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club.

RUEIL-MALMAITSON, December 2¢, 1q4a; ==

Nothing like a gray Christmas in the Par wi:burte ts gorse # 6
man on which side of the ocean he belongs De. Regen Nero,
our movie star classmate, juse dropped by for a yet ef tieken. en
holiday from Auxerre where he's been hosting “Lea Ves ye
Coups,” opposite Simone Signoret.

Reg says: “You've got a bie of bale tn the bese, he pecan ote
pressant aftermath of hepauitis” Bue Phi berrece fe be ect bees

[ssee]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

simply this medieval malady, nor the overseas call from a son in
the Marines, nor the fact of an eldest daughter announcing a happy
engagement (to Arthur C. Hodges, ’57) 3500 miles away, nor even
that life’s mid-mark, a 46th birthday, flashed past within the fort-
night. And no slight intended against France or the job I’m here
to do.

There’s a point after which one does not transplant successfully,
especially if the home soil remains utterly congenial. So what am
I doing here? I've rattled it off so many times the last nine months,
I can almost speak it in French. “For ten years I’ve owned and run
two healthy daily papers north of Boston, in Gloucester and New-
buryport. Last December 29th, my friend who was running the
New York Herald Tribune asked me to go to Paris to head its
Furopean edition. I agreed to take it for eighteen months.” Why?

Vanity and curiosity, I suppose, plus eagerness for possible ad-
venture, tempered by family caution toward too long a commit-
ment. I had to learn whether, after so long as a proprietor outside
any pecking order, I was still employable, and whether my own
two papers might not run better without me. For the latter, yes.

The Paris work has been stimulating, the more so since the New
York Times invaded the territory staked out seventy-three years
ago by James Gordon Bennett, Jr. For the sake of the 250 relatives
living off Times New York earnings, I hope Uncle Arthur Sulz-
berger knows what he’s doing here. Without doubt, this league is
the world’s most expensive in which to operate a daily newspaper.
Like owning a yacht, if you must ask what it will cost to compete
here, you shouldn't.

But it will be a happy gaggle of Weld women that deplanes next
June in time for the Reunion. Home is a white, concrete block
overlooking the entrance to Gloucester harbor. Some say it re-
sembles the Peruvian Embassy, others a giant Esso station. A Thistle
moors in Freshwater Cove out back and if the tennis court is busy,
there’s that lovely grass at the Essex County ten minutes away.
Dozens of cousins and old friends abound.

My sophomore tastes persist. Each year | salivate most actively
when sailing to the New London Boat Races with a merry crew of
males, Martinis and sea water definitely do mix. So it’s plain that
the Common Market must surge along without the Welds. To stay
beyond, we'd be missing too much fun at home.

[ 1502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CYRUS CURTIS WEIEIITS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5280 Ridge Trail, Littleton, Colo.

OFFICE AppREss: Republican State Hugtrs, 31g Shirley Navow Pbaeet Pe aeee,
Colo.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1914, Detroit, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Cranbrook School, Bloomfield Hilly Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES! A.B, 1936, MBA. 093%.

mMarrigD: Barbara Holt, July 3, 1936, Providence, RU crowen Paeee twee,
Nov. 2, 1940; Wendy Lou, Nov. 13, tog2. Chentapher Bruce Now ny
1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clark Thompson Wells, °33.

OCCUPATION: Politics, assistant to chairman, Republaan Neate Ceotead € orem
mittee.

OFFICES HELD: Precinct commuttceman, Denver, ocr ¢¢. tae prevashonw, @ ppoed
City Kiwanis Club, 1954, vestryman, Se. Tismethy eo Ppem rgd © hues &,
1958-59; member, board of trustees, Town of Pow Wael tyey borer ones
Regional Planning Commission, tg6o,

MEMBER OF: Park Hill Lodge, A.F. & AML: Cawrnney Naa Pore, 2}
Jebel Shrine; Harvard Club of Colorado, Denver Athhens (bade, © codenenn
bine Country Club; Garden of the Gesls Club,

PuBLIcATIONS: Currently working on Mastcr’s theuy wha hewilf be pees
pleted when this gocs to pres subject: “Pobim al Barge ty 6d See
Eugene D. Millikin.”

WHEN I graduated twenty-five vears ago, | weree’y anew fd than
of my classmates who “knew” what they wanted te slo Pow ve pro!
ous of the ones who had a natural talent for enue st Pop re fy
cine, or for law. And I thought that these men whee fee rere Fed
a ready-made, lucrative posinon in the “famuty” Bere ween eos
luckiest guys alive. Thad none of thew, and ewan we were a!
in the throes of the Ploover-Rousevelt ae presmon Percece bea Plio

vard Business School simply because thie rnruneny pooped as
be the finest employment agency in the cuuntey Bus, Bad weg yg’ |

{rse3 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

now consider myself to be the lucky one. For, though it took me
twenty-odd years to mature and to find myself, I think I have done
just this with three important ingredients —a wonderful place to
live, a happy home and family, and a satisfying occupation.

Having graduated from Harvard with a political science major
in 1936, I have traveled full circle since that time. I have worked for
large companies (Walter Baker Chocolate Company, Remington
Arms Company ); for small companies (Salem Engineering Company
in Salem, Ohio); and for myself (owner and manager of Culligan
Water Conditioning Company of Denver, 1946-56). But now I am
back with my first love, political science and politics, and I have
converted what has always been my avocation into my vocation.
The full-cirele transition, or evolution, has another aspect, too,
since my first ballot was cast for FDR in 1936 and my latest one for
Richard Nixon. Age, plus business experience under Roosevelt and
Truman, have tended to mellow and crystallize my political philos-
ophy in the “moderate-progressive” category.

My present job — executive secretary of the Colorado Republican
State Central Committee —is fascinating. People —the principal
component of politics— fall into three general groupings: those
who act rationally, a larger number who react irrationally, and the
vast majority who are indifferent. My “magnificent obsession” is to
combat the political apathy of the general electorate. The old credo
that “bad officials are elected by good citizens who do not vote”
should be extended and modernized to fit the critical age of atomic
tensions —“‘ultimate peace depends upon the fw! participation of
all people in the political process.” So much for my occupation, ex-
cept to say that I hope to complete my Master’s degree requirements
in political science next year at the University of Colorado, with the

possible intention of obtaining a Ph.D. at a later date and trying to
counteract the pseudo- and the ultra-liberal teaching which is so
prevalent today on the liberal arts campus,

A word or two about my location and my family. Regarding the
first, World War II brought me and my budding family to Colorado
under the auspices of the Remington Arms Company, manufacturer
of small arms. My position exempted me from military service, and
when the war ended we had so fallen in love with Denver and the
West that we soon decided this was the place for us. The climate
is ideal, the pace of life is moderate, and the skiing is superb. We
occupy a large home overlooking a beautiful lake-and-mountain
panorama, and as our children leave us for college and matrimony

[ 1504 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

we would be more than delighted to entertain any clisanates © hes
might be out this way. Barb and I shall celchrate our twenty fish
wedding anniversary just three weeks after the Twenty -hith Clie
Reunion. Our three children are averave solid craven amd ose
family unit is a ught one. The elder boy, Pete, preferred the retest
and the rugged, forsaking his Dad's footsteps for a Dartinuth edhe.
cation (Class of ’62). Our daughter, Wendy, hopes te enter Wem
College next fall. The youngest, Chris, will keep us froin getting toes
lonesome or fuddy-duddy for another six veare

Aside from family and politics, | manage to find time fog a warwty
of activities — civic and recreational. In the spring of ruven | was
elected to serve on the council of my town government. Dhue pent
has many interesting ramifications from the stand paint oof cversraveen-
nity service, and I find that it es in closely with my pens hane foe
politics. Two social sports which I pased up in college Pan tonhag
most enjoyable — squash and skiing. T wih now that UE hetot
waited to take them up. I also find pleasant diverven bow ling with
my wife and family, and golfing with my friends In bred. oy hte

is full, purposeful and thoroughly gratifying. Ine longer envy snv-
one.

FRANK AMOSS WELTY, JR.

  

HOME appress: 220 Rams Horn, Dubos, Wya

OFFICE AppRESS: Welty's of Wyornung, Dubor, WC ya.

BoRN: March 19, 1914 Dubos, Wye.

PREPARED AT: University of Wyoming Preparatory “a heed, fan seus, BE pe

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-197}.

MarRIED: Alta Koenig, September, tag conte Pramk Acnewa pd Se premeniion
1942,

HARVARD SON: Frank Anna Welty, gal, “Ay.

f aerz i

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

occupation: Owner, general merchandise store (grocery, hardware y
clothing, lumber and building material, wholesale fruit ang y eget
. eS
L SPENT the first few summers after leaving Harvard Workin
tral crews for the US. Forestry Department and worked vine
in my father’s store here in Dubois, Wyoming. “tS
| was married in September, 1940, to Alta Koenig. We Moved ¢
Seattle, Washington, the day World War Il broke out ang after
working there for two months 1 joined the Navy. ‘They put tre
through gunnery school and 1 was then attached to a V.C, Squadron
on small carriers as a tail gunner in a torpedo bomber,
1 had a son born in September, 1942, Frank Amoss, 3d. I was out
of the Navy as soon as the war was over. We moved back to Wy-
oming, as | wanted to be close to some good hunting and fishing
and away from so many people.

My wife and 1 took over my father’s business which is a general
merchandise store and have operated it since that time. I haven't
had much ume to fish but have taken time to hunt here and in

Canada and Mexico, and there still aren’t too many people in Wy-

oming. Our business venture has been quite successful and has

grown into quite a mail order business through the years, with
orders for western clothing and other western items coming from
various parts of the country.

Business gets very slow here after Xmas which has made it pos-
sable for me and my family to get away and travel for two months to
Mexico and the warmer parts of the United States. Our son,

Frank Amoss, 3d, entered Harvard College in September, 1960.

BARRETT WENDELL, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 62 Hart Se., Beverly Farms, Mass

Liso6 ]

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
{CE ADDRESS: | Shattuck St., Boston, Mass,
oN July 12, 19835 Beverly Farms, Mass.
ake at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,
vEARs IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937- DEGREE: 8.8, 1936042 h
mareiep: Margaret Mitchell, July 29, 1937. Nantucket, Vase ose
Day, Feb. 25, 1940. .
HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Lee Higginson Wendell, ")&
OCCUPATION: Administrative assistant, Harvard School of Public He:
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Organization and Extension, NS. Cour ak Be
of America, 1949-51; chairman, Republican Finance Comesteee,
Mass., 1950, 19523 commander, Post 96, Dept. of Mawachuwern
Legion, 1955; secretary, Yacht Racing Unon of Mavushunerty A

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Essex County Club, Man testy
Club.

FOLLOWING the receipt of my degree (January, 191°),
turned to Chicago to enter the stock exchange firm of Win
Mitchell & Company, a phase of life which was to be five
Apart from being a reasonably normal, voung marned, “city 4
ment”-type of existence, it was notable (ta me only) for two tt
One was the beginning of a deep interest in the Boy Squuey
ticularly in the organization of new units. The other was the
of some fairly strong convictions about certain of the New |
economic philosophies — for example, the TVA, or agocule
price supports.

All of this ended abruptly with Pearl Harbor. There frthov
about four years in the Navy divided roughly as follows eers
months in Akron in the office of the Inspector of Naval Ausee
seven months in training (including thirty days in chemacal w arfie
the reason for which escapes me); the balance in and acrured
Philippines attached to LCE (L) Flot. 24. On returning. F weppe
in Chicago just long enough co get separated from the weve om
to have two front teeth replaced, thence back ta Beverty Bsr
where my wife and sister-in-law were then hving. In thsrty shove
it was clear that a country-like community of two theese! wash
was infinitely preferable to Chicago (where two theanamd wnab on
frequently be found in the space of two ar three bhewhe)

Beginning in April, 1946, nest of the newt nine years wun cheveted
to the securities business, mostly with the inveemmense hem af ( satin
& Burr, Inc, and the balance in wholewhing ts mastreel frre
Then, in December, 196g. in a complete depustuse free the pos. I

went to Harvard Medical School, as secretary af ate Alera se
cation, and later as Adminatrative Awareane ge Meme Ve 8 orient

[ 507 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

rofessor of environmental health and safety at the Harvard School
of Public Health.

Meanwhile, Beverly Farms provided many opportunities to take

art in community life. I served as superintendent of an Episcopal
Sunday School for three years. I resumed working for the Boy
Scouts, something that has remained more or less continuous. |
became interested in the affairs of the local American Legion Post,
largely because of its position as a focal point in the community for

a number of activities, many of which were concerned with young-
sters. These experiences have been most rewarding.

STRAFFORD WENTWORTH

 

HOME Aporess: Foothill Boulevard, Route 3, Oroville, Calif.
orFice AppREss; La Mirada Olive Co,, Corning, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1914, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

MarRieD: Marion B. Hodgson, Feb. 4, 1939, Dover, Mass. CHILDREN: Franklin,
July 20, 1940; Brandon, Nov. 14, 1942.

occupation: General manager, La Mirada Olive Company.
orrices HELD: Chairman, California Olive Advisory Board, 1947-51; president,

Oroville-Wyandotte Irrigation District, 1948-52, Fellows Club, 1955
Feather River Olive Growers, 1954-56.

MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club of California; Aircraft Owners and Pilots
Association; Butte County Farm Bureau,

FOR twenty-five years my main accomplishment seems to have been
the physically safe transit for my family group through a deteriorat-
ing world. As long as possible I have held out against my classmates,

the inquisitors of the Twenty-fifth Class Report, who seek to have
me reveal how I did it. You see, 1 am not a whit interested in that

| 1508 }

ee 7

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

backward look. It is bound to expose that neither [nor my genera:
tion has added one basic improvement to man's cultural work! of
man’s moral worth. Nor, if the overture is prophetic, will the gen-
eration we have created do any better. And all T have perwonally
done about it is to pay the minimum amenities to things as they are
and to pick the crumbs of pleasure along the way. [hope there are
those I have fooled better than I have fooled myself.

While Hitler, Mussolini, Hirohito, Stalin, Chamberlain, Rouse.
velt, etc., played fire and firemen, I fiddled around in a half-hearted
attempt to find inspiring employment. This wound up in a be-
wildering revelation of lack of talent. Thinking this nught be cor-
rected by more Harvard, | sought and gained admission to the eve-
cutive factory on the west side of the Charles. I staved just bong
enough to get in on the annual appeals for money.

In one more attempt to take root, I married my childhood sw cet.
heart, rented a house in Newton Lower Falls and began ming the
8:15 to Boston. Arriving in that great metropolis, I would putin a
day of association work among dedicated people who put up with
me because I was the boss’s son. I did not like what I was deing, in
a year I retired.

My loyal wife at this time began insisting that she wanted to cat
all the rest of her life, and that the small booster that had been pat
in the bank for us from the estate of a thrifty grandfather was dhe:
appearing. Also, we were about to add to the consuming publ,
We agreed that agriculture might provide a comfortable resting
place while we figured out our great career. The good fortune, ot
this case, of a still depressed economy allowed us to pick up an olive
grove of one hundred acres in Palermo, Butte County, Colifeenea
complete with a Hearst-built mansion, barns, shops, bunk houses -
the works. We became olive growers and have remained, while eure
two sons have been born, grown, and departed — Frankhn te he
stint in the Air Force, Brandon to Claremont Men's College.

The call of greater duty led me into local pohtics (irnpaten che
trict) and industry association work where | reached the evaleed
positions of president, chairman, etc., before being eyected forestls
as a result of the espousal of noble causes not acceptable to the inne
jority of my constituents.

By 1954, the returns from California ripe olives had shrunk te the
point where I had to make the choice of being the mun with the
hoe for the rest of my days, or getting a job ao PE couhs eupawoee
someone else to do the work. Since no evtablished Comnpeany we oe

[ tsag ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

close enough and had enough respect for my talents to make me a
big executive, I got together with other hard-pressed olive farmers
and organized a cooperative. This cooperative made me president
and we purchased a cannery. When the organizational work had
been completed, I abandoned the presidential. role and became gen-
eral manager.

Our life has allowed many happy diversions. We wore out skiing
before the war and never returned to it. Instead we began airplan-
ing in 1946 and, from a PT-19 to a Cessna 140, to a Stinson Voyager,
to a couple of Staggerwing Beeches, we have put in fourteen years
of exciting travel from British Columbia to Peru and San Francisco
to Trinidad. Our greatest joys seemed to concentrate themselves in
Mexico. In 1956 we acquired an interest in a hotel there, a charming
parcel of poor construction known as Hotel Catalina and located in
Zihuatanejo, Guerrero. This has not turned out to be a wise invest-
ment. Its operation is a frustration almost beyond belief. But we
enjoy being there and for four years have been shuttling back and
forth for a few days at a time. Almost always we find a Harvard

man among the happy customers.

SIGMUND WERNER

 

¢ . .
MAILING ADDRESS: Y% Perini Corp., 73 Montwait Ave., F ramingham, Mass,

[1510 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GRANT FUGENE WHESNER

 

HOME ApDprREss: Ritters Lane Road, R.1). 3, Reading. Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 539 Court St., Reading, Pa.

BorN: April 14, 1913, Reading, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School and Albright Callege, Readiog. Pe

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREFS: $.B 1934, tam, Ipigi gr!

MARRIED: Jean Beverly Lincoln, July 15, sgiqg Waltham, Vinee
Jonathan Lincoln, Aug. 13, 1943; Douglas Wenrwourth, bebo coat

OccUPATION: Attorncy-at-law, private practice.

MEMBER OF: Bellwood Hunt; Wyomissing Rading Club, Pony Chott Gewntae
advisory board).

ese pee +

I FOUND myself struggling in iggo to start a poate peated +f
law. I did not wish to go into insurance work and meant te seco
becoming a clerk in some large othee. The war tate @bre te pan
sible. I worked for Jacobs Aircraft Company unl tented nv the
Navy as a licutenant (j.g.) and found inveclf bach at Ploew sed iO eae
munications) for the third time. TP was sent te the Seweh Peers
where I was fortunate cnough to be late for every mince tvs piece
This was satisfactory since Thad more dhubes abeart ey beseers
than the Navy. After the war, the active war, wae ner, bw oa wet
to Japan to help install and build the Navy Coma een deores
(called, for some unexplainable reason, Radke Debye re besos na
Yokosuka). In this way, EP learned semeshirngs of qeercpie tant wr’
and have done much on my own and in my beaowse tebe felt
real estate and construction contract work, OW the teal meee aha
ter, seven months in’ Honolulu was the greatest aiet te be ew
loneliness of the war years.

Tama Pennsylvania Dutchman and come foo fires ak Phas
liked horses and animals all my Ute. When es lew wheel Beas
some riding and cquitution. When my beve were eb gen 5 wa

[see]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

bought them a horse, then another, so each would have his own,
then one for Dad so he could go along, and finally one for Mother,
for wasn't she doing much of the work? The next step was thir
acres and a barn and a new house in the country. Then two brood
mares and finally one fine thoroughbred colt (we lost one and the
mare). The country has been a real purpose in life. We all work
hard at the barn and finishing my home. I teach equitation and
train hunters and jumpers. Everyone says | shall in all probability
break my neck and I guess they are right. The farm has brought
us close together and close to the land (not close enough to assure
a decent garden as yet), and my charming wife and I have found
something for ourselves when the children go — which will not be
too long from now. In fact, my wife, Jean, has issued an ultimatum
to our two sons, “If you don’t have a little daughter with long pig-
tails so we can find the best pony for her, I shall never forgive you.”
As I get older (how I have come to hate the word), I realize the
tremendous influence Harvard had in the sum total of my personal-
ity, and I hope I can have my sons go there and hope that I shall be
able to send them (as my wonderful parents did for me).

We have traveled a little: Canada, Florida, New York for some
shows, to all the major horse shows in the East, always with the chil-
dren. We seem to have found ourselves and our desired way of life.
The farm gives us sufficient projects to last for two lifetimes, and
we are healthier and happier for the work, for we have come to
believe that modern living has come too far from some of the sim-
pler things in life. We spend most of our time as a family; we do
what we can for our community; we appreciate the national prob-
lems and contribute as we can. In two titles from Manning Coles
(freshman English instructors would shudder), we “Toast to Yester-
day” and “Drink to Tomorrow.”

[ts12]

=—— 5TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

PAUL WESSINGER

 

aacmorial Drive, Cambridge 38, \Mass

—IS ABEKEN WESTBROOk, F—

 

moir & Assoc, Inc, to F. goth Se. New

[sey ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

STANLEY CHARLES WESTERVELT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1020 Marshall St., Boise, Idaho.

HOWARD NORMAN WESTHAVER

 

HOME ADpRESS; 938 W. Skyline Drive, Morristown, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Trade Street, Morristown, Tenn.

BORN: June 22, 1914, Waltham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MarrieD: Marjorie Atherton, Oct. 2, 1937, Stratford, Conn, cHILpReN: Bar-
bara Carol, March 31, 1940 (a. Jay R. West); Marjorie Gail, July 17, 1945.
GRANDCHILD: Jeffrey West, March 28, 1959.

occupaTion: Works manager, Berkline Corporation, chair manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Chamber of Commerce; president, Boys Club of Morris-
town, Inc., Morristown Theatre Guild, Furniture Manufacturers Associa-
tion, Band Boosters, Morristown.

Messer OF: AF, & A.M.; Moose; Country Club; Society for the Advancement
of Management, American Management Association, Southern Manufac-
turers Association; U.S, Power Squadron; U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary.

[1514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER about three years with credit and tnsurame atanteos ne,
finally settled down to labor — with Bridgeport Bras Cartsrprasny uss
the personnel department. Considered a poor candidate foe hs
armed service, even with ROTC training, JP remained there aed
1945, when I went to the Connecticut Tclephone & Plevtra Cre.
poration, manufacturers of telephone equipment. Started i as per
sonnel director, progressing to vice-president: of manula turns
Continual changes in management aided my advancement vant wah
time as there was no place to go — burt one. In ges LT bec ame works
manager of the Berkline Corporation, largest pombe of upied
stered chairs in the world. At the same time, fete the freyrd ¢ tes
of the North for south of the Mason-Dixon Line. Feud the tea

erature no different and for the past three vears have been als
jected to the severest snow of the century in the South — ne dither:
ent than New England. But plenty of fishing, boanng, shang tu ater)
and long summers, also some occasional golf.

Politically —an avowed Republican who votes Deowarang os
much as Republican. Strong Presbyterian, babv-utter foe a grog
of such teen-agers at church, Leader of the Band Romacrs which has
put Morristown on the map, to become intcrnatonal tC hansprons
These along with activities in the Boys’ Club make me reatire that
while the spirit is willing, age docs take its toll.

The family consists of a “wife, undertanding and mere por ade,
two daughters, one in high school, the other married and the ¢ ere
of my being a grandfather once — by pubhcatian tung, tw ac’

I, like many others, could write pages about mewlf, but whs
take all the space. I’m interested in the “other fellow ~ Mev te

we'll see you in June.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

CHARLES DIMICK WESTON

  

HOME ADDRESS; Franconia, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Whitney-Weston Corp., Franconia, N.H.

BoRN: May 20, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.

prePareD AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.

marriep: Barbara Eaton, April 8, 1939, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy,
Noy. 26, 1940; Joan, Sept. 27, 1943.

occupation: Principal, vice-president, treasurer, Whitney-Weston Corpora-
tion, building contracting.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president of sales, Wheeler Reflector Company, 1952-555
director, since 1955, vice-president, since 1958, Profile Club; vice-president,
treasurer, Whitney-Weston Corporation, since 1955; director, since 1956,
vice-president, 1958-59, president, 1959-6o, Franconia Ski Club.

MeMseER oF: Profile Club, Inc.; Profile Golf Club, Rotary Club; Franconia Ski
Club.

THE sudden challenge of autobiography, at least in my case, in-
variably produces a numbing fright from which a hasty retreat
seems the only prudent course. The twenty-five years which have
passed since graduation in the acquisition of wife, home, and chil-
dren, with the thousand knotty but rewarding problems of raising
the latcer, have somehow raised havoc with the carefully ordered
ambitions, careerwise and otherwise, which characterized our emer-
gence from college.

These twenty-five years have seemed to Barby and me to re-
volve around our two daughters. Nancy is a graduate of Colby
Junior College and is now happy and very much occupied at the
University of Pennsylvania. Her accomplishments, both scholastic
and extracurricular, have so far burst several buttons on the parental

vest. Her younger sister, Joan, graduating this year from Miss Hall’s
School in Pittsfield, Massachusetts (her major concern at present

[ 1516 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

seems to be that her graduation activities will conthit with Rare os
festivities), has already managed to get herself accepted at gee,
Both of these young ladies seem to be able without toe muah ec
to give their parents a very bad ume on shi hill, termes Goure. ete,
and both manage to produce in both of us a feehnyg akin to awe at
the sure purpose and maturity of this new young generation

Vocationally, most of the activities of the twenty-five Vea base
been expended in the sometimes seemingly fruitless effort tu keep
income and outgo in their proper relationship! “The details of ets
struggle seem to have been fairly fully cov cred in Peersieus repres,
so a thumbnail sketch will suffice here. Sales and «ales Wuaraye tae
activities for Pepperell Manufacturing Company in New Vouk
(1936-40), Kendall Mills in the Boston area (iggy ge), and Wheels
Reflector Company (industrial lighting. 1gso-¢¢) serving av vee
president for sales, preceded the formation of our present contract
ing operation in Franconia, New Hampshire, in rgeg. Fev thie bree
occupation, we have found life far from relaung, despate the gen
erally accepted theory that the hectic aspects of buunes are kere
behind in the city. However, the rewards of Ieing tn spwatacul oe
country, in a fine and friendly community, go far te Crornspwe ate
for the trials of keeping a modest young enterprise on an even keel

As for avocations — skiing, tennis, and golf are at our gQescesee ys
and sailing which we all love we manave to enjoy via the toute of
charter — last spring being climanxed by an unforgettable crusa a
the Virgin Islands. Those making the mistake of MENG geet
slides do so at their peril! The twenty-five yveary then, hase bean
busy, happy and rewarding, and they have passed wath inne 9
rapidity. We look forward cagerly to shanng remenarem ce of
them at the Reunion.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RAYMOND WEXLER

 

HOME ApbRESS: 7 Dewey Rd., Lexington, Mass.
orFicE Appress: Allied Research Associates, 43 Leon St, Boston, Mass.

BorN: July 12, 1914, Fall River, Mass.
prepareD AT: Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., CU72 laude, 1936; 8.m. (Massachusetts

Inst. of Technology), 1939; PH.D. (Univ. of London), 1951.
marrieD: Ruth Lubin, April 28, 1940, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Joan, Oct. 5, 1944.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Wexler, '27, A.M., 29, PH.D., 30; Harry Wexler, ’32.

occupation: Meteorologist.
orrices HELD: Abbot Lawrence Rotch Fellow, Harvard, 1953-58; senior me-

teorologist, Allied Research Associates, 1958-60.
MeMBER oF: American Meteorological Society; Royal Meteorological Society.
PusLications: Numerous meteorological articles in Journal of Meteorology,

Quarterly Journal of Meteorology, etc.

IN the first part of my career as a meteorologist, I served as airline
forecaster, instructor to Air Corps cadets and adviser to the Chemi-
cal Warfare Service. Since the war | have specialized in the physics
of clouds, the detection of rain by radar and, more recently, the
utilization of the infrared for satellite meteorology.

Have resided in Spokane, Washington, Santa Maria, California,
the Utah desert, Washington, D.C. Asbury Park, N.J., Chicago,
Walton-on-Thames, England, as well as Falmouth, Massachusetts,
and the greater Boston area. The two years in England were spent
as a Fulbright fellow at Imperial College, London, 1949-51.

A teen-age daughter prevents life from getting dull. During a
family trip to Europe this summer so that I might attend a Hail Con-
ference at Verona, Italy, I found my presence scarcely sufficient to
discourage uninhibited males (all ages) from direct pursuit of our
sixteen-year-old. American tactics are more devious.

[ 1518 ]

J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES LINCOLN WHEELER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: P.O. Box 902, Falmouth, Mass.

LEONARD BUTLER WHFEILDON

 

HOME ApDprREss: 9 Willow St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Herald, 300 Harrison Ave. Bostoa on, Mise.
BORN: May 15, 1915, Ashland, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, VU ae.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: AB, C1000 Lotede, 11%
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Newspaper editorial writer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Boston Prew Chit.

TWENTY-FIVE years, Pam suddenly resminsdest, as an eatresce
variable measure. It is so short in terms of the thine DP heqw feel
still hope to get done. It is so long in term of the chance Csbent A
say “erosion”’) in me.

When I left Harvard TP was revolved ta became a new apye eons

{ tsig ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1976
2d eventually to wrt editors This, by and large, is Whar 7 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
; nd of question an it’s Oct
<. Lf OCEAM wth 2 find Oeccnen Abs answer (advice to tte WELL, the calendar here says it's ober, vate Vt ceally chee t
art) COMTI HH) ENE ©. ass. ) fost, achieveg the eer possible that twenty-five years have Passed. Vie vears base
ur b een interesting, active, and busy ones, and Vd say net tow heen

jity with a news assignment on the Boston Trans ore e.
Jor a syamdcated SCIVICE I Washington (after 4 fou’ diq There have been a few problems along the wav, and they have been

e Navy), and settled down to writing €ditoria]s fi “Year met and solved satisfactorily. 1am in reasonably gowd healthy and
“fin 1048. Lam still with the fferafd, OF the we have a happy family. ¥ am sull with the Nanomal Sewunty
sg lost ts glamor for me sometime early in ; Agency, over fifteen years now, and V enjoy my work and ww ever
797 and ointes there very much. My work 1s very interesting aml neces:

x every year I have stayed with it. But Pm ha Ppy

wouklat want to do anything else ly of a confidential nature. Since January, tote, V have been on

sari .
a new assignment which covers new ficlds for me. In the man, we

r / was going to write so .
f ap wise winnin water mienow haven't lead a quiet life here in Maryland, yet by no means are we salentaty
fave the Pp. Ls color Paintings ; That’s about it in a nutshell. Now just a few deta.

.

Following graduation, 1 worked in Boston and the satanic
area until January, 1942. Memorable events in thee years Wo tee,
it were certain vacation trips — Quebee ONE Yeat, UpIKt Naw Nek
well be married. It’s a proposition to state and Lake Champlain area one year, a thy to the ott sD nt
in 1940. Also, I made several mountain-clinbing tps ww the Boe

dential Range of the White Mountaing, a fonn of recre sen ot
exercise I had been very fond of since \ was a wy, la ee yee
college years, it had been our fannly custom to spond a Weck ot
two up there in the White Mountains in Septet Velote ats
so it was in those early years that \ developed this mourtaen ghee
enthusiasm. Another event 1 remember most witty wth< Stes
ber, 1938, New England hurricane With any walorgnd’s AY
ences, Also, I like to recall the arrival on the Wachh wcns Ns
T, S. Williams in 1939. His remarkable catcct, pot tos ext VV
almost covered the entire twenty-five VCats SEE Unt yates Ay
In December, 1941, the wat came an WWW tora he
which affected so many of us. Yue to poor ria, We Woy
down regularly from time to tine for walt wsViwd

I had been turned down for service even tart wt qa

year naval ROTC course, So there wastho yw aay gar
desing to serve in the war effort Ww sbWaysbaorsvens Vy a
ns bad eyesight business, One dy showy ae Wood We

skta little, sail a Little, dabble at bridge, and
y on Tuesdays, which 1s pleasant, if lese

 

 

\

read a newspaper article which wht Nh Wear 7
People an the countey wh Know the Wypes Ay

Hol went on to acai th My Naan \°

Pps ngage and abo ined tha aves

elec Uaptne vay yg

Poy

(pc an Hal Ue, Pe oe Vy
ny gy ray
Leaman Fis abe os co

je ge -

pil

Pn

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

HORACE ANDERSON WHITE

 

HOME ApprESS: 1205 E. Newton St., Seattle, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 212 National Bldg., Seattle, Wash.

BoRN: Aug. 13, 1914, Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Broadway School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1936(37).

marriev: Anne Torbert, Oct. 30, 1937, Boston, Mass. cH1LpreEN: Pamela Apple-
ton, Feb, 10, 1940; Horace Anderson, Jr., Sept. 17, 1942; Candace, Feb. 21,
1946; Elizabeth Torbert, Dec. 14, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederic Hall White, Jr., ’33.

occupation: Lumber and plywood, manufacturer and sales.

OFFICES HELD: President, Gooeyduck, G.C.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Seattle Golf Club; Seattle Tennis Club.

SHORTLY after Anne and I were married we bought a large home
in Seattle and commenced that process of getting established. Those
were the carefree years with few if any responsibilities. The arrival
of our first child was followed shortly by the recall to active duty.
Little did I think when I took that Naval Science course how it
would affect us and take almost a five-year chunk out of our lives.
I enjoyed naval duty in spite of its inconveniences — starting out
as a skipper of a small converted fish-boat, a member of the YP fleet
of the inshore patrol, in port almost every night, a honeymoon that
ended all too quickly. A new command sent me next to the Aleu-
tians for that campaign, thence to Miami and a DE. A few convoys
and we became attached to a jeep-carrier as a hunter-killer group.
Interesting, exciting at times and amusing best describes two and a
half years up and down, over and I thought sometimes under the
Atlantic, even to the bonus visit at the Boston Navy Yard due to a
timely encounter with a local whale! The balance of the war was

[ 1524 ]

ents e abba

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spent in the Pacific, then to moth-balls and release and bak to
Seattle to pick up the threads of normal living.

Shortly after the war I entered the wholesale end of the hinter
and plywood industry and later branched out into the manufac turinsy
phase. These were busy years we found as our family grew te
present proportions. We live in a section of the country that ts
just Coming into its own as an outdoor summer sports area, with
heavy emphasis on boating. In the summertime, hving mi the city
was ‘for the birds,” summer camps for the children beac neere
expensive and we weren’t sure if they were actually petting av much
out of it as we thought they should. We rearranyed our hives fee
the better we believe, by building a summer home on Rarnteat
Island across Puget Sound from Seattle. While this move elias.
inated the summer camp problem, I'm sure others took ther place
We've had a great time rearing four children in this sctuny, We
enjoy doing things as a group —the family project keeps all ayes
interested. All play a lot of tennis and, not satisfied wath normal
hours, have just completed the latest project of installing myh
lights on our court. I’m within a relaxing hour's commute by ferry
which has its advantages.

We are Episcopalians and “middle-of-the-road™ Reputsla ara
Summer life in the country, which now includes some winter week:
ends, and vacations give us more time to fiddle with projerte —
such as growing oysters and clams. We're now trying fe get @
private salmon run started. We raise golden retrievers play fae:
weather golf,” but most of all enjoy sailing. All race, mentty on
class boats — the youngest in El Toro's, and Anne amd bin Henry
Garrigue’s (34) thirty-foot San Juan clas Caly pro, a wanrang bent

Pamela graduates from Skidmore this spring and will predvotly
teach in or around Boston this coming vear. Horace. Jr. geahastee
from Westminster, with college board results te come beer, Carte
will be a sophomore at St. Nicholas and Beth a seventh grater of
Helen Bush, another girl's school here. Anne's nother bees oy Berek
line and an occasional trip east every few vears with @ verrt wor
in Boston keeps us in touch.

The lumber industry, subject to the policgal whines of these aw tee
call the tune for the housing business certainty has see bevels pe cae
and bitter vallevs. The ever-changing concepts af ceneccin ct ef
the tree into lumber, plywood of pulp-chipe and tty markerog are 4
continual challenge to which FP devote my entire (nem tecre ste cue! |
time. We are weckend workers and plavers with never ena Ste

[acre }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

to do all the things we'd like — perhaps the next twenty-five years

will bring some of these aspirations closer to reality.

 LEMOYNE WHITE

SENSES ELT NN NPE TES PE ty

OLLI TL

  
  

   

LESS Eta Sad MBAS ih ed ns esa eh ae de

A AO MNRIITECLNAIE OE PERIOD EMGASN LLG AOE

j

BoRN: Sept. 24, 1914, Los Angeles, Calif. parents: Charles Carroll White, Edith
LeMoyne.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D., 1940.

marrigp: Alice Patricia Farley, Nov. 3, 1945, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN:
Wendy Pierrepont, Sept. 23, 1947; Benjamin LeMoyne, Nov. 26, 1948;
Stephen Eliot, June 30, 1951; Cornelia Farley, Dec. 28, 1952.

piep: Dec. 9, 1958, Boston, Mass.

wivow: Mrs. LeMoyne White, 20 Hilltop Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

LeMOYNE WHITE'S death, in December, 1958, brought to a close
a life that left an indelible impression on his family, his many friends
and on his profession. :

Dr. Ives Hendrick has written the following account of his pro-
fessional life:

“LeMoyne White served medicine with distinction in three closely
inter-related areas: internal medicine, clinical psychiatry and educa-
tion. From Harvard College, he went directly to the Harvard Medi-
cal School; he graduated in 1940, and received the much sought
appointment as intern to the East Medical Service of the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital, where he served for nearly two years.
A few months prior to the conclusion of this medical training, he
entered wartime service for three years as flight surgeon to the Air

Transport Command in Washington, D.C., sometimes accompany-
ing transport missions to Casablanca.

“As with many of his medical contemporaries, his interest in

[ 1526 ]

rom eno

ee nel

257TH ANNIVERSARY REPORE

psychiatry crystallized during his wartime service. After haha

Dr. White returned to the Massachusetts General Pbeqaat a,
specialty training in psvchiatry, serving as avastant mate ged
resident for two years and supplementng this with sendy ot ey
Boston Psychopathic Hospital. For the neve eyche veirs he wre ne
the psychiatric staff of the Masachuscets General Phespeent wis
appointments as clinical and research fellow an pouchoatey. ssc see
psychiatrist and associate psychiatrist. Durnny this matunins pet
of his professional life, he also served in the ‘Wellesley Rewari
Project’ in preventive psychiatry of the Plarvard: Sa heed of pho,
Health, under Dr. Erich L indemann. At the Gime time, os bareiee
his knowledge and understanding in his speciilty, be stushed at the
Boston Psychoanalytic Institute of Boston. including teaming ants
sis with Dr. Ives Hendrick. This training was completed the year
he died. He was posthumously clected a member ef the Boston
Psychoanalytic Society.

“During the final decade of his life he alo became mere sod
more intensely interested in psychiatric teaching of meds al crust res,
beginning with a teaching fellowship of the Jesh Maes. Jr.
Foundation and serving as instructor until 1gc6 an povctaitey ot
the Harvard Medical School, devoting an increaumy bra tee of
his busy days to this vocation.

“In 1956 Dr. White accepted the invitation of the Vises bre ers
Institute of Technology to apply his shill and interest bea one
field, as director of the Psychiatric Sceton of the Mestesl Sree
To this work he devoted the last vears of his bite, revealing ured
maturity and judgment in correlating the polis of the Peon aot
faculty, with psychiatric services ta studenty by hans and hea
staff. During his last vear, he alvo scerved as a teacher at the Beare
Psychiatric Hospital.”

Dr. Stanley Cobb has said of his professonal work. “Phe bow »
what he wanted in life and did net try tee qh the hurries ese he
wasn’t really interested in. He had strong private feelers aban d
sincerely disagree with people. At tines be cuulht Nave uproaredocot
very mad, but he knew how to handle st. bbe bnew Mew bees es
psychiatric problems ta skeptical surgeons and mache of pew we
out compromising his ideals of what povcteatey wie tbe hel me ore
confused them with jargon ner angered thems with shee

para Mae
talked about sick people and what te cer fee thes 1
genius,”

Dr. Erich Lindemann whe followed Pre ©,

om we

we ace fof FP ow

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARWARD CLASS OF 1936
*spcltatric Service of the Massachusetts Genera] Hospi ital 25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT
AGH, he made psychiatry accepta able to ma any ‘A , ais its most active form. Vt was charactermste of Vere
ones who were suspicious of it. For a number Y Btouipg at kins ntinued to work, cho ough painfully envrics. » alto wy te
Tviser of the nurses, helping them in their Personal Years, he that Jast da ay of his life, and also managed a final trp mw the hunting
Lgrowth, It was a logical next step that he ded; cated fa Pro ed, coming home w! ith a handsome wood duck.
- work with college students at ALI.T,” "mse self : °
or Lem did in fis personal hfe, he did well
<r hus shots on a profusion of interests. He devon, | STEPHEN SIMON WHITE.
spare time to the pleasures of the wilder ness, whi .
of trout and salmon fishing, hunting for duck o ms
en as not, just plain observing. His Powers of o b- a
remely acute, which made him a delightful Com
canoe tip. And above all, he took such sheer
ursuits that those about him were inevitably
S177.
waunts was an Island in the St. La Wrence
ortheast of Quebec. Flis mother’s fami]

/ it as a royal grant in the 18th cen tury,
nul s hands unul 1948. Its attraction,
speaking population, was the tidal
and Howed over vast areas of mag-

ratory water fowl Each Septem-

He Was nor

 

HOME ADDRESS: 79 North St., Lexington 73, Mas.
orrice appress: Educational Services, Inc, 164 Main Sey Woatcrtos a Mass.
porn: Nov. 22, 1915, Boston, Mass.

with 10,000 milling ducks, blue prepared AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mas.
yintal and farther off, out of YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1938-1939.
geese. Bemg a sensitive man, marniep: Miriam Wheeler, Nov. 1 1942 New York, SA, Geteas Vive,
” these experiences whether rence, Dec. 22, 1949; Geothrey, Sept. y. 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Mark Willian Weiss ‘33, 044 86.
occuPaTION: Educational rescarch and des cloprne st,
MEMBER OF; National Press Club, Overseas (ich Vee ge ob,

king tor partridge 1 in New
’ him so well in medicine

the field: patience, pet-

re reflected in all lus TWENTY-FIVE is a succulent round westxt es) ce
’ for eryoyment, pave Man C0 pause, looking { for partern. Weis care that on Na wt |
rality. : (0 put his rettospection nt print, and boys (ts ele. a _

ud only have been I grasp too cagerly at the OPPOTUTLY,
his wate, Pat 4 AS few of us are likely wo forget, we wate vytecye hy
7 world, from al depression when we left Harvard, ant Pease Aa : wh

enings £0 or lis Whom the general was distros nly spate ec Ya

4

4

tributions (0 not p brctend that | had foun ihn ly Ny ae sk aw yo yoy.
sonal com Which Mngt matel WV stat nh tha tel;  \ Lo
4 pubbe om Progam, Wt Was Uitinet cw 8 he we

| ped cit rewarly ¢ ul in \ Wt Ve my Weve het y .

Hole =f Mshlewithany IV anyon ep ype
| co

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
72V pitacipal hobby, now as twenty-five years ago, rema

rd more reading.
: 2 None. 1 never was graduated
War record? Ne & from Hary, rd

arged from Stillman. It is now Clear that m IY Stran .
Ithout any after effect, but it Was not at all clear a ° rhalmene
Anny prudently refused to have me a few years lare © time,
4 my goverment service has been limited to a fe T. Con.
mberstips and some mimnor consulting Services fo Com
the Atomic Energy Commission. * such
nave disposed of my religious and political con Victi
rly, their absence, above. As for my social] cons
on 2 planet upon the verge of agony. I am can
; ; n
s/ can toward fostering 4 rational approach to the
nense interwoven dilemmas, because I believe the
mn lies exactly there. This, basically, is the pur
Science Study Committee, and the reason we
a into more ambitious efforts. We do what
4y measutable nibbles at an incredibly enor-
at others will nibble too. I am not opti-

vy that [ am not idle.

TANLEY WHITE

ra
0.
§

by $M, (' Califo

mip. ¢ ibid: } ! #
0
DREN? fhe

ins re .
2din
&§

  
   
    
   
   
  
    
 
 
   
 
 
  
  

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
gpnvARD BROTHERS: Edward Thomas White, "38, Robert Shaw \Wtae, ‘ge Che:

ceased)- . : : :
pation: Assistant chicf geologist. (regional geulogy), US. Grek gs a

Survey-

wetp: Member, National Research Council, 1948-44, sewtetary. Dace
OO nic Geology Publishing Company, since sq,

EMBER OF: Geological Socicty of America; Society of E connie Creudegeere,

M Geochemical Society; American Mineralogical Soctety, Segma Nv, Comes
Club; American Association for Advancement of Severe (inertet of
council, 1956-58) 5 Geological Society of Washington (owe preatera,

1960). tat
PUBLICATIONS: Eighteen articles in scientific journals of gewlege al survey poh:
lications, on topics in structural, regional and econome gookgy.

SEVENTEEN members of the Class majored in geology, and of toes
number four have gone on to follow careers in the field. Lao
ractise this profession in industry, one in teaching, and one bros»
self) in government service —a spread that is quite represent ating
of the profession as a whole. 1 hope the others have had as bute
occasion as I to regret their choice, for to me wt has been tew ato

in countless ways.
After graduation and graduate school, both at Warvard asd

Caltech, I joined the U.S. Geological Survey and have temuned a
member ever since. The Geological Survey makes yeoboge mays
and engages in other types of geologic research that creas out
knowledge of the earth and its mineral resources, Mest ob way ony
work has been in areas of the castern and central states hat questa
metallic ore deposits, and during the last twenty Vere we Lav
lived for a time in six different states. V spent the bet puted v
war in the Geological Survey's search for new wun ef tec,
and critical minerals and the last part In terrane inteliccae bee
Corps of Engincers as a member of the Survey's MWetisy Gat,
Unit both in Washington and the Philippines, Thea te aban
very pleasant years in the Michigan copper deat tse
® 6 . a ..¢ | 1 oo€ : | oy
“shore of Lake Superior which is a wondertl pave tes vay
likes woods and snow — we do,
Within the Geologic Division of the Survey, tats ove
i .

practice for some time to rotate vonlognts wyatt ae
trative assignments, Keeping much ob the Seo gy.
hands of
herarchy removed in spirit ftom this

tation rucans a sharinge over the Ves wh Ls)

CON so that no mndividial haste VIN My pore oy

Practng trealagists tery to tee ae oo
eo ‘
“ay Jo,

yy,
\

) ; \ \ : . 1!

‘

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

career for which he was actually trained. I took my first turn dur-
ing 1954-56 when I] came to Washington to be assistant chief of the
Mineral Deposits Branch and last summer began a second as assistant
chief geologist for Regional Geology.

I seem to have been less successful (if that is the right word) in
compartmenting my life into professional, extracurricular, and pri-
vate segments. Perhaps this is an occupational disease. A geologist’s
life with its alternation of outdoors and laboratory or desk is never
monotonous, and serious preoccupation with a hobby except for a
little gardening in season hasn't seemed very necessary. Civic activi-
ties are confined to my scientific, rather than residential, community,
and professional councils, and societies are no less demanding than
their more popular counterparts. My family is a continuous and
delightful preoccupation that helps keep everything else in perspec-

tive. Its junior members are still too young to warrant any serious
predictions.

FRANCIS JAMES WHITFIELD

 

HOME Appress: 500 The Alameda, Berkeley 7, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5413 Dwinelle Hall, University of California, Berkeley 4, Calif.

Born: March 25, 1916, Springfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. sunma cum laude, 1936; A.M. 19373
PH.D., 1944.

marrieo: Cecylia Stanislawa Rudzka, April 21, 1950, San Francisco, Calif. cHILD:
Damon Stanislaus.

occupation: Professor of Slavic languages and literatures, University of Califor-
nia,

[1534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD WRIGHT WHITNEY

 

HOME apprEss: 2860 Monroe Blvd., Dearborn, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Detroit Ordnance District, Detrom, Mich
BorN: Nov. 12, 1914, Princeton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: North High School, Worcester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: B.B.A. (Clark Univ.d, rges.

MARRIED: Thelma Shaw, March 24, 1946, Princeton, Mass, comm Shaw, Feb 2&
1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Gibson Whitney, "29, £p.s4., "41

occupation: Contract negotiator, government purchaung.

OFFICES HELD: President, Veterans Association (Clark), tag 4°, Plumews ed Vd.
lagers, 1958; chairman and exccutive board member, United Ottee A Peve
Workers, 1950-54; treasurer, Holden Plavers Club, tgs, cssnamersertert,
1959, neighborhood counselor, 1960, Boy Scouts; pubbory diectne, Pavers
Guild of Dearborn, 1959, Community Chea workce, March of Dhmnee

worker; Red Cross solicitor; district chairman, Raho Bere barnpe and
CARE.

MEMBER OF: Veterans Association and Marned Couples Chit e€herke, bas

men’s League, Unitarian Church, United Othee Workers, Congdon € bits,
Chaffin Church; Players Club; V.F.AWW.; Chathim PFA,

Dhewrwete ad bb
lagers, Dearborn Players Guild; Whitmore Bolles PEA, Verred (bib
(Greenfield Church).

IF YOU think it is perplexing to write one of these thingy cnnabee
yourselves lucky. I shall have to white another enc for Clark Cae
versity in Worcester. However, I shall have cleven Sears tt whan
to improve my alleged literary talent. I graduated sive lf Freer
Harvard three years ahead of time, Inthe fall of neg y 4, the pases hoo
of a new Ply mouth scemed much more appealing than aacndhng
three more years in Cambridge. To mre and ter miv father, tf woe 6
foregone conclusion that FP would) join han ov the Wihseney vrs

facturing Company and help or hinder hink depending: cay cha perce

[1535]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

of view. However, eight years of working for a relative broadens
one’s education, if in a rather different way than that presented at
Harvard.

The Burke-Wadsworth Act of 1940 resulted in my receiving
greetings from Uncle Sam many months before Pearl Harbor. I
was single, over twenty-one, and disgustingly healthy, so my asso-
ciation with the government began. Unfortunately, as my IQ was
much higher than that of my captain and as we both were deplor-
ably lacking in tact and diplomacy, my army service was completed
without my being designated a gentleman by Act of Congress. |
was still over twenty-one and healthy when I returned from combat,
though in the meantime I had ignored Washington’s advice about
entangling alliances and had married a native girl. Fortunately, I
was stationed in England at the time, and my wife is more intellec-
tual than I.

After leaving the altar, 1 decided I would go back on campus,
and even though Worcester was more convenient for this purpose
it was not necessarily better. Most of the veterans, regardless of
age or antiquity, were freshmen, so an over-zealous election steward
was taken aback when told that I was not only a sophomore but had
been one in good standing for fifteen years! The following year
the same gentleman was further confounded by an apparent con-
tradiction in arithmetic. Alas, 1 was a senior, not a junior, and had
not informed the office of my intention of taking extra courses and
graduating ahead of time. On graduation I thought I would test
the slogan “There’s no one with endurance like the man who sells
insurance.”

Eight years later, a peculiar set of circumstances that can only
be classified as poor labor relations between the company and the
professional workers led me to take a Civil Service examination. One
of the questions was “What piece of fire apparatus will not go down
a one-way street?” I remembered that a former Harvard man and
fellow townsman of mine would have answered “A fire boat.” I
did so, too. Strangely enough, that was the correct answer, so
here I am way out west surrounded by Lions, Tigers, and Red
Wings and engaged in preventing over-enthusiastic suppliers of
matériel for the Armed Forces from hoodwinking poor old Uncle

Sam. My job, whatever drawbacks it might have, reminds me of
an umpire who once said, “. . . well, you can’t beat the hours.”
Thus it leaves me plenty of time for harassing unsuspecting teachers
at PTA functions and pretending to do unimportant non-acting

[ 1536 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

duties for a neighborhood Players Guild, which tasks my brent
suffering wife finishes most adequately and ctficiently.

At the urging of my teen-age son, 1 further extended my krre
time at a committce mecting of the Scout Troop in which be tsa
patrol leader. Either I was qualified by previous expericme. te.
an unwilling attachment to the National Guard, or sitang tor cbse
to the Troop chairman, because I now find myself ta be ads ances nt
chairman and neighborhood commissioner, and although PE grouse 4
lot about all the time I have to give to the Boy Scouts, Lethink |
can truthfully say it is one of the most rewarding hobbies to have,
and when the time comes for me to write another report bhe thes
I hope to have been instrumental in helping equip counties Gack
Boy, and Explorer Scouts with character, principle, and integrity.

+ M. DUANE WHITNEY

 

Born: May 30, 1914, New York, N.Y. panrsts: Seanton Whaney, ‘er, ble ewe
Duane.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groron, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1934

HARVARD BROTHERS: Stanton Whitney, Jr "34. Fabwasd Barkey VWoksroey, ° 54
piED: Dec. 30, 1943, Tucson, Ariz.

AFTER graduation, Whitney entered the trust departinent of the
Guaranty Trust Company of New Vork City. Ia June. teen he
enlisted as a private in Troop B, 21s¢ Reconnamunce Spandren, New
York, and was later transferred te Troop DD, soot Cavalry. Naw
York National Guard. Promoted to corporal he woe eal te
active service in January, sogs, at Fort Devens Mawes hecerra bs
September, 1942, he reported at Camp Camptell Keneushy, #0 4
technical sergeant. Ele was then sent to Coonnell Cateye, fewe

[1537]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

graduated second in his class and received his commission as second
lieutenant, supply officer, Army Air Forces, in June, 1943. He was
assigned to Davis-Monthan Field, Tucson, Arizona, where he was
still stationed at the time of his death. He was survived by his mother
and two brothers.

JOHN DENTON WHITTEMORE

 

HOME appress: 57 Valley Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

orFice appress: H. A. Whittemore & Co., Inc., 150 A St, Needham Heights.
Mass.

BORN: May 3, 1912, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.B.A., 1938.

marrigp: Harriet FE. Martin, June 16, 1942, Savannah, Ga. CHILDREN: Sharon
Fleming, Aug. 3, 1946; John Robert, Feb. 26, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Donald Hollis Whittemore, 16; George Alan Whittemore,
18; Lowell Whittemore, ’30, LL.B., ’33 (deceased).

occuPATION: Vice-president, H. A. Whittemore & Company, Inc., manufacturers
and distributors of fishing tackle.

MEMBER OF: Bethoron Lodge; Wellesley Country Club.

John Denton Whittemore

Without titles after or before

Except after 23 years Lt. Col. I can claim

Having ventured not too far except for a wife and the war

Unless Fate takes a turn, I expect to haunt Boston the rest
of my life

Being a cautious and easygoing guy, I waited till 30 to
give a girl the eye

The results of the union are one girl and one boy

Till the call came to muster my career was selling box paper

[ 1538]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Five years later I returned as Mister

I took on a family caper

For the fellow w ho did not know a LURE from a BALE ne
how to box a SKATE

Still after 15 years the fish Pm trying to take.

CHARLES WIGGINS, Hl

 

HOME apprEss: Auburn Sereet, Framingham Center, Maw.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dennison Manufacturing Co, Framingham, View

BorN: March 12, 1913, Cambridge, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough, Dedham, Maw, Cate Sheed) Sines Boee

bara, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: Aw, 1934
MARRIED: Janet Stone, May jo, 1939 Framingham, Maw conse Paleh Dire

beth, Dec. 31, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Wiggins, °33.
OccuPATION: Paper convertor, Dennison Manufacturing Company
IN 1936, as I remember, Adolf and Unele Jee were thrornainy
warm-up pitches in Spain, our National CCU MNY wee preset gettess
its head above the waters of depression and there was e Ierves fee
in the White House. After twenty-five scary and queretere!
effort on the part of many concerned (very ‘anall etfoet anv sns pee.
four years in Navy, two of which were on an cwort catnet Poesy
around the Pacific), Mao and Mr "R° have token the pouce of
Tojo and Adolf, we shall have exchanged ule pression Coe pt pees,
our scientist friends, bless their fusev hethe bea have pw bos
the factor of rhe bourh jue for hicks and aeef thie wreess thers
will be another Democrat in the White Plow Nee mouth peo ores
but probably par for the course, Pechape aretha ft twenty Foa ee ge
Will tell whether we can stand the eran

[esis]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

DELANO WIGHT, JR.

    
   

espa

   

HOME Appress: P.O. Box 243, Gresham, Oregon,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cascade Manufacturing Co., P.O. Box 7587, Portland 20,

Oregon.
BorN: March 7, 1913, Brookline, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Arizona), 1937.

marrieD: Alice Thomas McGinley, Aug. 31, 1940, Baltimore, Md. cuipren:
Barrie, June 17, 1942; Wendy Cecil, March 13, 1944; Edward Delano, Jan.

27, 1947-
HARVARD BROTHER: Crocker Wight, ’38.
OCCUPATION: Sales engineer.
OFFICES HELD; President, Kiwanis Club, Gresham, 1960.
MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club; Oregon Museum of Science & Industry.

MY son, Barrie, who is a freshman at the University of Arizona
this year is following in my footsteps, for after a trip to the South-
west with Kirk Bryan and the Harvard Geological Survey in 1934,
I transferred to the University of Arizona where I graduated in
1937 with an A.B. in physics, Physicists being a dime a dozen in
1937, I worked for Western Electric, Bethlehem Steel and the Eagle
Pencil Company before settling down to become a product engineer
in the material handling industry as indicated in our Twentieth
Anniversary Report.

After five years in Maryland and ten years in Michigan, we mi-
grated to Oregon where I create all kinds of ingenious mutations
of standard lift truck attachments for the Cascade Manufacturing
Company. In my spare time, when I’m not engaged in some activity
of the Kiwanis or Gresham Chamber of Commerce, I attend courses
at Portland State or Multnomah College; teach daughter, Wendy,
to drive; chauffeur son Edward to school, church, or the bowling

[ 1540 ]

25 TU ANNIVERSARY BERET

alley; or take my wife to concerts and plays in peachy Braet
Last summer, we drove to the annual Riwanis convention et VE
Don’t forget that the center of the United States is new ot Ore cou.
We can hardly wait to see Alaska and Plow an.

We live on top of a goo-foor butte with a vicw of floue pean an
over gooo feet high which are snowcapped the vear round NV tees:
hour drive takes us to the beach, and we can be tee feet bech as
Timberline in an hour. Although it rains a lot here, we wher have
thunderstorms, which makes it possible for me to make were pera
tape recordings — a hobby that combines buch mv fern Pere prewraay,
and my urge to tinker with electronics.

All in all, it’s a good life in the bese of all pesuble workiy ant
I hope we can keep ic that way, although my Geyer counter wnt
cates 360 counts a minute at the bottom of my ‘how repeat rch
now, two years after suspension of nuclear tests in the strmaphere
To me, the challenge of the future lics not wo muah an tee heelys al

improvement as in the field of mental health and hunun engin cisg

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN WILD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 62 Fmerson Rd. Winchewce, Maw.

orFice avoress: Mardea-Wild Corp, gam Coduertiee Se Seema ile gh Vl ee.

BORN: June 18, 1914, Somerville, Mae.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Factcr Academy, Faster, NE

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1944.

MARRIED: Jane Fllen Brande, Ont. g sogr, Wialrneere, £1
Franklin, ed, March tg. toes, Renicem hh Nrworee fly pa ag: boone
Jean, Aug. 19, 1948, Robert Chevesgeher, Noe * tee

OCCUPATION: EF accutive prewde ne, NE orebe re V8 LS € ese grene ge oem, Bppeers sag one die

orrices tip: Commmooned, USAR. tear. eee poreernterse Asher B wires -en

[sar]

sere et @ Pag ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

By-products Association, since 1950; treasurer, Winchester Babe Ruth
League, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Winchester Harvard Scholarship Committee; Winchester Uni-
tarian Society; Kappa Epsilon Pi Fraternity; Pi Era Associates; Winchester
Country Club; National Curling Association; National Golf Association,
Bass River Yacht Club, New England Tanners Club; Tanners Council
of America; Leather Industries of America; Canadian Manufacturers
Association; Phillips Exeter Alumni Association; Eastern Middlesex (Har-
vard) Alumni Association; Manchester Bath and Tennis Club.

THE prospect of our Twenty-fifth milestone is a sobering jolt,
and yet the event itself may very well be quite the opposite. I was
told recently that the Class of 1935 consumed some $5700 worth of
spirits at last year’s Reunion. If Stan Deland gets his way we un-
doubtedly will beat the Class of ’35 in output. If we surpass them in
consumption, Heaven help us! Nevertheless, I plan to face that
possible situation equipped lock, stock and “bottle.”

What has happened to me these past twenty-five years? Let's
pass over the losses and reflect on the gains. First and foremost are
my wife and four offspring. I still kid myself into believing that I
can manage the wife, but the two older boys — currently at Exeter
Academy — are a real threat to my physical supremacy. Conceding
will not be too painful, however, for they are taking me back
through those cherished teen-age years. I know of no more re-
warding experience. The younger ones are moving up all too fast.
As a unit the family continues to dominate my interests.

My efforts in the business world have been modestly gratifying.
Buying raw materials (fish oils for the most part), incorporating
them into a finished product (through the medium of sulfonation)
and selling them to the tanning industry has been my vocation. |
get a particular kick out of this three-phase work when the cycle
shows a profit. I dread the day when that may be regarded as
criminal.

In recent years I’ve managed to reduce travel, Eastern Canada
and Labrador continue to call each spring when the more popu-
lar trend is to Florida. The seal hunt is like a disease from which
Vil never recover. Seal spotting from a comfortable twin-engine
aircraft is a far cry from the old days in a crow’s nest. This phase
of my work is a crap game but much more fun than the dice.

For recreation I look forward each winter to curling. Sailing
and swimming in Cape Cod waters are the highlights of my sum-

mers. Have any of you classmates observed lately that the clock
seems to be running faster?

[ 1542 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY HOOD WILDER, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: Dedham Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Marsh & McLennan, Inc., 140 Federal Se, Benton sa, Mew

BorN: Aug. 22, 1913, Lowell, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1936.

marrigp: Isabel Farley, May 25, 1940, Needham, Mass. ciutoars: Joba Welly
Feb. 17, 1944; Alison, Jan. 26, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Churchill Wilder, ’39.

occupation: Insurance broker, assistant vice-president, Marsh & Mil ensan,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Allegheny Airlines, 195 3-56, All Amerwan F ngiosening.
1956-58.

MEMBER OF: Tennis & Racquet Club; New Bedford Yacht Club, Crusung Cheb
of America; Hasty Pudding; Fly Club.

MY father’s death during the middle of my senior year nevese:
tated my leaving to join his firm where I remained until shortly
after the outbreak of war. Although T held a pilot's heense, | was
rejected by the Navy and Air Force because of a congenital eve
condition. This did not prevent me from joining an ants-subénarine
patrol unit of the Civil Air Patrol, operating out of Rehotath,
Delaware. During seven months of duty there. PE buile up enough
flying time to qualify for a waiver and, incidentally, prek up an
Air Medal, then and now a rare bird for a civihan.

I was commissioned in the Air Force with pilot ranng and oe
signed to the office of the commanding general, Au Trampecet Cares
mand, as a special assistant. Three vearw later (heutensrst tos trapee
I had done enough paper work to laste me a lifetime, beast bok glee
seen a great deal of the world. Vhe Arcue parneulorly fre niare d
me, definitely a minority sentiment. Upon heaving the wre. f

[ t543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

joined the international brokerage firm of Marsh & McLennan,
where I now am. | enjoy it.

After seventeen moves in twenty years of married life, we have
at last settled down in an 18th-century farm house, which over the
last few years has been in a state of continual rehabilitation. My
son is at Middlesex, and daughter at Milton Academy. A new Alden
sloop that I keep in commission from early spring to late fall is my

pride and joy and year-round hobby, although I still enjoy bird-

shooting as much as ever.

JULIAN AUGUSTUS WILHELM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5908 Anniston Rd., Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE Appress: National Labor Relations Board, Washington, D.C.

BORN; June 26, 1914, Sandusky, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Sandusky High School, Sandusky, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936, DEGREES: AB., magna cum laude, 1936; LL-B., 1939-

MARRIED: Elizabeth Pingree Lawton, March 30, 1940, Newburyport, Mass.
cHiLDReN: Anne Elizabeth, Jan. 28, 1944; Peter August, Oct. 16, 19495
Charles Julian, April 15, 1953.

occupation: Acting supervising attorney, Office of the Chairman, National
Labor Relations Board.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and venerable dean (president), Harvard Acacia
Club, 1938-39; senior steward, Harvard Lodge, AF. & A.M. 19413 vestry-
man and clerk, Holy Trinity Episcopal Church, Southbridge, 1946-553
director, Southbridge (Mass.) Taxpayers Association, 1948-50, South-
bridge Council of Churches, 1948-55; vestryman and lay reader, Diocese
of New York, 1957-60; legislative counsel and director, Dobbs Ferry,
Ardsley, Irvington and Hastings-on-Hudson, New York, Council of
Churches, 1957-60; member, General Council, Koinonea Foundation,
Maryland, 19605 chairman, Washington Area, Camps Farthest Out, since
1961.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and New York State bars; Federal District Court

[ 1544 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Massachusetts; American Bar Awocinon tworetan, Pabed Reais
Law); Bar Association of the City of New York fasen sare Vee os
Society for Industrial Security; former scoretaty, Cahsue Gauoery €!
Southbridge; National Geographic Society, Planvard Nomi €fit, Hy
vard Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Harvard Law School Awsws satires, feserwes area 09
ber, Harvard Clubs of Worcester and Westchester.

PUBLICATIONS: Lecturer on Labeling, Practising Law Ineeeure, New Vici tors,
1957 (talk from notes issued to course).

SINCE leaving college J have had a full and vaned hte, metates
both disappointments and joys, with which evervene we cootrented
sooner or later, whether he or she recognizes it or net, Ohne can be
used, in tune or out of tune, to help in that noble devin, ag he ve
she can take a less noble course. My friends in Government why are
searching ask the question, “Why did Germany, a Cheetiun natin,
permit Hitler to exist? Is the answer to be found in Seo Nuyatine s
De Civitate Dei?”

My family and I are trying to find the answer in our bies ant
so I give you our life. I entered Harvard Law School nnme dare!
after graduation, having been advised that my hite’s plan te enter
the foreign service was not possible because ‘of an WEY Be ee
eye from birth, 1 became associated with the largest trial tea os
the city of Boston and shortly thereafter marned ny weerndertol
wife, who was the daughter of the most Prominent attorney os
Newburyport, Massachusetts, Peter Lo Lawton, After wane there
years with this firm, which was then called Badger, Pratt, Dyes te &
Badger, I accepted an offer of a position with the beyal she peartine cst
of the largest optical company in the workd, Aimer an Cdrers al
Company, in Southbridge, Massachusetts, Prose to the pestis of
senior attorney and was instrumental in formulating, wath soeeher
Harvard man, Henry S. Woodbridge, a democrate plan foe ttes
trial relations unique in American industry .

Our family, which included a boy and a gick sent ste rete heey
into the religious and social life of this sinall communiey sof st wae
fun! Then, our second boy was born in a snowstorm en eyen The
doctors termed his case a rare discasc, the sceunsd of sea hid cece of
Worcester Memorial Hospital. They sand he would never bee be
yond six years of age and man had no anweer Ple hades oe bow
tures before he was one and one-half year old iment ef won we
were unaware of until later N-rave showed there Paassope dbo es
lifting him out of a carriage. My wife yuse mised qari ioe bo oe oe
he fell over in bed and broke his thigh. Nt ere andere bat bw wa

2

given up with pneumonia av his peculiarly thevelegwe fg hee bese #

[ tsac)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

of lack of calcium could not maintain normal expiration. A miracle
or what? After a long night of praver and the prayers of others,
he suddenly recovered. Since that time he has not broken or frac-
tured one tone because of the disease.

As lack of further opportunity in Southbridge became apparent
in sgsg, FE found, with some reluctance, a much better paying job in
New York City with another Harvard man, Lawrence A. Apsev.
I discovered later that he was a very spiritual man. I had been
bothered with asthma, brought on perhaps by our second son's
condinen, E have noe had it since. Work in New York was at a
much more intensive pace than that in Southbridge. I was drafted
as Labor counsel, corporate security officer and secretary of the
commercial hazards committee of this much larger company, a
small duPont in its fields. P became active in such organizations as
Faith at Work, Laymen’s Movement for a Christian World and
Camps Farthest Our, all interdenominational religious organizations,
Iwas asked to he lay reader in Grace Episcopal Church, Hastings-on-
Hinton, New York, where we moved from Southbridge. Our
sceond son was given medical and therapeutic care in New York
City which would not have been found had we staved in South-
Drudge. This culminated in his dramatically suddenly standing up
and walking, which electrined our church, as the members knew
we had been told he would never even be able to sit up, with his
only partially developed spine. However, he walked with some
disticulty and needed braces. There came again a compelling need
in syde to change joby with reluctance again because the family
did not want to keave ties made in this community which was even
sitaller than Southbridge, though with a much different flavor of a
New York suburb. After praver, | accepted my present job with
the chairman of the National Laber Relations Board, whom I knew
to be a deeply spiritual man as president of International Christian
Lealernhip. Our second son is now walking without braces and
attending a unique school in Montgomery County, Maryland, where
we are now living; this school is devoted (both facilities and teach-
ers) to children with orthopedic handicaps.

We do not know what the Lord will want us to do tomorrow or
the next day. We are all happy here now in Bethesda, Maryland,
and my work is extremely rewarding, being in the public interest
and for the protection of management, unions and employees, I have
beeome active in ICL, [CCL and in Koinonea Foundation, which is
an interdenominatonal organization which has a unique early church

[ 1546 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

flavor and trains, with spiritual undergirding, those who want to
help the world help itself toward the nobler plan which was men-
tioned at the beginning of this epistle.

My daughter was just elected into the National Honor Socicty,
but she has decided not to go to Radcliffe. My elder son shows
signs of being a good football player like his old man was (not at
Harvard, however, else I never would have lasted, let alone making
a magna). It is too early to tell whether either or both of the boys
will get to Harvard. We are leaving this in the hands of —1 don't
need to tell you.

My wife is coordinator in the primary department at St. John’s
Church, Bethesda, and I teach the ninth grade in the Sunday
School there. I do other things which I haven’t mentioned in the
line of religious activities and at present gardening continues to be
my chief hobby. However, my work, as it always has, continues to
occupy most of my time. The problem is to fit work and other
activities into His plan. Following His command to see the best in

everyone and have patience helps, yes, in industry, labor or govern-
ment, I do believe.

PHILO FRENCH WILLETTS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 457 Wilcox Ave., Kirkwood 22, Mo.
porn: April 14, 1914, Camden, Ark.

PREPARED aT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MaRRIED: Cynthia Pickering, June 17, 1939, Ansonia, Conn. campars, Nebr

P., April 14, 1941; Philo French, Jr., July 1, 1943; Johan W., Feb. », rug,
Anne, 1949.

occuPaATION: Commander, SC, U.S. Navy.

[ 1547 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ISPENT World War II as a Reserve naval officer and when the war
was over, the family decided that we liked service life. I transferred
to the Regular Navy and have made a career of it. Although this
life has its hazards and hardships of being away from home, it has
its compensations, Three years ago, aboard the USS Essex, as sup-
ply officer, I visited Hawaii, Guam, three ports in Japan, Okinawa,
Philippines, Hong Kong, various U.S. ports, then around the Horn,
visiting Canal Zone, Valparaiso, Rio de Janeiro. Then we made a

cruise to Ireland and the United Kingdom, and I took a little leave

and visited London, Paris and Amsterdam. I plan another few years

in the Navy and then retirement and then shall possibly try to

earn a day’s wages watching the ticker tape.

My son, Phi, Jr., has applied for the Harvard Class of 1965.

MARVIN WILLIAMS

 

HOME appress: R.D. 1, Winfield, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Weis Markets, Inc., Sunbury, Pa.

BoRN: June 10, 1915, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

PREPARED AT: G.A.R. Memorial High School, Wilkes-Barre, Pa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1936.

Marriep: Louette Glaser, Aug. 25, 1940, Newton, Mass. cHmpren: David,

March 29, 1941, Jonathan, Nov. 26, 1944; Ellen, Feb, 2, 1951.
HARVARD BROTHER: Harold William Williams, ’4o.

OCCUPATION: Superintendent of real estate and equipment, supermarket chain
store.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Cubmaster, Kingston, Pennsylvania, November to
December, 1950.

AFTER twenty-five years, I can report that I am healthy but
neither wealthy nor wise. I still have almost all my hair and a few

[ 1548 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
of my illusions. Along the way, I have picked up an estra eho
a dog, a wife, three children, and some debe.

We live in a beautiful mortgaged house on the banks of the
Susquehanna in the suburbs of a sleepy community af three hun.
dred, half-way between the larger, but just as sleepy, Communitws
of Sunbury and Lewisburg.

Since graduation, I have worked on a newspaper, done perenne!
work in an electronics plant, become somewhat of an expert on
packing pickles, and run a wholesale grocery operation. Four wears
ago, I moved from Wilkes-Barre to W inticld and went to woek
for a medium-sized chain of supermarkets. | locate, bakh esparp,
and maintain supermarkets, designed to bring glamor and exeire-
ment into the dull lives of central Pennsylvania houvewiven EP work
for a couple of Yale men, who are otherwise not bad wirts ae all
For the first time in mv life I] have become involved in burkhog
things. It’s a pity nobody ever told me before haw wrsfving tha
kind of work can be.

My elder son, Dave, is a sophomore at Franklin and Morvdhall
Jonny is a junior at Lewisburg High School, and Ellen mom nits
grade.

Many of my neighbors are on the statf of the Federal Pemten.
tiary at Lewisburg. It would be my pleasure to put ina geast

word for any of my classmates who might run afoul of the federal
government.

THOMAS WILSON WILELTAMSON, JR

  

HOME Aporess: 32 Maple Se, New Hedlfond Mase
BORN: Sept. 28 8083. New Bedford, Maw
PREPARED AT! Mfiddllesex School, Concord, Vee

f tean t

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

marrigD: Faye Wright, Feb. 1, 1944, New Bedford, Mass.
occupation: Operating engineer — construction.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Bedford.

TWENTY-FIVE years out of college scems like a long time, espe-
cially as it is more than half my lifetime, but it has passed relatively
fast and now seems to be moving faster every day. Actually, I
have been out twenty-seven years, as I was forced to leave at the
end of 1934, due to financial and other reasons. At that time I took
the first job available, which was in the insurance business, in New
Bedford, Massachusetts. After three years of that I left, thoroughly
fed up with a job I didn’t like, and sick of office work.

Since then I have been in construction which I have always liked,
because it has kept me moving around out-of-doors and doing some-
thing I consider worth-while. With construction and war service
I have seen a large and varied part of the world. I have worked in
most of the eastern states, Trinidad, Turkey, Venezuela and Canada.
My war years took me to Mississippi, California, Hawaii, New
Guinea, Biak, Los Negros and Manila, serving as mate on an Air
Force air-sea rescue crash boat. On Feb. 1, 1944, just before I went
into the service for the second time, I married Faye Wright, of
Lakeland, Florida, whom I had met on my first tour with the Air
Corps in 1940. Thanks to her understanding and tolerance of my
nomadic nature, we have had a happy, if uneventful, sixteen years.
Unfortunately we have no children, and any attempt at adoption
runs into our itinerant way of life.

For a while there was a chance that we would settle in Peoria,
Illinois, After working there on a large housing project, another
man and I set up a partnership and took over the maintenance of
that project. Although quite lucrative, after a year and a half Id
had enough of catering to the public, and when we received a chance
to go on a job in Iskenderun, Turkey, we left about as fast as we
could pack. This was a wonderful place to be located, as it placed
us in the center of easy access to most of the Middle East. We took
vacations in Istanbul, Cyprus, Jerusalem, Aleppo, Beirut and Damas-
cus, traveling by taxis, air lines and the American Export Line. Re-
turning home we stopped in Greece, Italy, France and Spain. Also,
while in Turkey, we picked up the other member of our family, a
dog, who has been with us by boat, plane and auto ever since.

The job in Turkey convinced me that being a construction super-
intendent was too much for my peace of mind, so on my return -

[1550 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to the States I gave up the boss-end of construcnion. Sunce thea |
have been a member of the Opcrating Engineers Union, working as
a batching plant operator in New Hampshire, onthe Se paw ree
Seaway, in Venezuela, Canada, and on the Ohio River. The ecturna
are equal with none of the worry and waking up at night wonlenmng
if I had, or hadn’t, forgotten something. In general, ws much betree
for my health, because real work keeps my weight down, which, foe
other reasons, has become a must.

Through the years I’ve been happy with my lot. There may be
a few things I would do differently if it were powuble te de then
again but, in general, I have no complains. With this Plook forw and
toa possible soth Reunion.

EDWARD SNOW WILLIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Hanover House, Regents Park, London, NW &) BP ngi aed

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Rathbone Pl., London, W. ¢. Fingland.

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1914, Pittsfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Pittsfield High School, Pitesichd, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936, DEGREES: A.B, com Linde, 101%, 14 &. tole

MARRIED: Olivia Munson Russell, July & toga, Benton, Maw cot pene Me herd
Russell, May 3, 1945; Grenville Norcoer ad, Oot, 1 toa, Deke Veacuw on,
Dec. 6, 1952.

occupation: Contract specialist, US. Navy Purvhaung Orfive, Lewkon bing
land.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of London, Benton (Maw) Bag Neem genes, Fein te
of Salisbury Cathedral (England), Londen LT abeary.

AT the moment of writing, the statistics abewe are quereet bus
a change of locale appears to be impending. Since my ere ceed ball
is now an obsolete model and shows uyne of were and herd aoe
Tam not in a position to attempt prophecies aleut thes

[sse]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

I had commenced the practice of law in Boston when the entry
of the United States into World War II resulted in my entrance
into the Navy as a reserve officer, in which capacity I continued
until 1946. At that time, having meanwhile married and our first
child having been born, a conflict arose between the desire to re-
sume the practice of law and the desire on the part of all three of us
to continue the possibly bad but well-entrenched habit of eating
regularly. The conflict ended in a compromise whereby I became
a civil servant of the Navy Department concerned with matters of
supply, purchase and contracting —a field having many legal im-
plications. Until 1951, I was at the Navy Bureau of Ordnance in
Washington, and since then I have been at the Navy Purchasing
Office in London, which ] helped to establish. This is the Navy’s
organization for handling off-shore procurement in Great Britain,
Europe and the Near East for the Military Assistance Program and
the support of naval forces in the area.

My principal hobbies are the study of art, architecture and his-
tory, especially English late medieval history; and for the pursuit
of these, two years in England have provided, despite the press of
official duties, a most splendid opportunity, especially since business
has also required a good deal of travel in interesting parts of the
Continent.

My two boys are at school in Buckinghamshire, the elder at
Public School at Stowe and the younger, following his brother, at
a preparatory school nearby. Both hope, in due time, to go to Har-
vard, but as Pete Keyes observed in the Twentieth Anniversary
Report, this idea, though admirable, is unfortunately unoriginal —
and only time will tell. Young Helen is at day school in London.

[1552]

eda is

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SIDNEY STEVENS WILLISTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1138 Connecticut Ave. NW, Washington 4 DC,
BorN: April 10, 1913, Lynn, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Northampton High School, Northampton, Mase

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B, 1936.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Stoddard Williston, Jr. “33.
occuPaTION: Acoustical and electronic engineer — semi-retired.
MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers.

MY first serious post-graduation effort was to try the teaching heh!
as a physics laboratory assistant at Amberst Callege. In the fall af
1940, I joined the Submarine Signal Company in Reston for work in
electronics. In July, 1941, however, I was invited by Unele Sant te
“proceed to” the Jacksonville Naval Air Station. Since Thal never
flown in an airplane, I was considered well qualited to teach student
fliers how to navigate planes and how to recegnize enemy planes
and ships from the air! A year later, | was shifted to the ante ails.
marine warfare training program where [ remained for the dhir strewn
of the war.

Following this, I once more tried teaching for a year Capi at
Amherst). Then I worked in a Washington aude store fe a fee
months. In 1950, I went to the Naval Research Laberstory te werk
in the sonar program. Since 1953, U have been reared fren an tree
professional work and have concentrared on karning wxnerhs
about the investment business. Now Lam much more full of bv
edge but much more empty of the commenhty ef the tell

The future? T hope to utilize some of mu bine le tive pep ee tes
to attain a more favorable balance of payments (Une ke San and
Thave a common problem with gold’)

Religion: Christian — no formal atfihanen,

[essa]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

Politics: Washingtonian — no vote.

Hobbies: Audio, electronics, living.

Suspended Hobbies: Sailing, tennis, photography.
Hair: Yes, very gray.
Weight: College plus seven pounds.

THOMAS WILFRED WILLS

a

 

OME AppRESS: 3375 Ullman St., San Diego 6, Calif.

"FICE appress: Convair (Astronautics) Division, General Dynamics Corp.,,
soo1 Kearny Villa Rd., San Diego 12, Calif.

RN: June 27, 1911, Oklahoma City, Okla.

PARED AT: Worcester School, San Diego, Calif.

.RS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREE: $.B. (Stanford Univ.), 1937.

ariED: Edry Miller, Dec. 21, 1941 (died 1950); Hazel Wolfe, Oct. 12, 1953.

CHILDREN: Melinda, March 7, 19455 Nancy, July 8, 1946; Thomas Ward,

April 8, 1948.

PATION: Chief of personnel administration.

ES HELD: Treasurer and member, board of directors, Personnel Manage-

nent Association, San Diego.

3ER OF: San Diego Kiwanis Club; Mission Valley Country Club; Personnel

Janagement Association.

ER attending Harvard from 1932 to 1934, I transferred to

ord University and graduated with a Bachelor of Science de-

n 1937. Following this, I did graduate work at Duke Univer-

forth Carolina.

gan working for Convair in San Diego, California, in July of
nd have been with this company continuously. Most of these
ave been in varying kinds of industrial relations work, About
rs ago, a new division of Convair was formed for the de-
*nt and manufacture of the Atlas Intercontinental Ballistic

[ 1554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Missile. T joined Convair-Astronautics as cenplos ment trantcer acd
was promoted a year ago to chief of personnel adimevcer ttre, nN rere
responsibility for employ ment, employ ce service ard alety fe
this division of some 24,000 employces Mi pomerpal hedtaes ore

golf and sailing.

PAUL LINCOLN WIESON

 

HOME appress: Ward Road, Southboro, Maw

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Corp, tgo Willow Se, W alehacn, Vise.

BoRN: Dec. 12, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips F-xcter Academy, Facter, NUE.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. D#GRLE: AB, IQi4E ESF.

marrieD: Helen E. Fagan, Feb. tg. toat, Newton Cenese, Via. cmos cede
Peter, Nov. 23, t9gts John. June tA togt. Pheenay, Sepe ob. ppg. Bee
beth, Dec. 27, 1945; Patricia, June as. teat. Willan Aug ot) pag tee,
Nov. 28, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: John B. Wilson, “32.

OCCUPATION: Labor relations, scmority specsalng,

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 19¢g. chairman, taten Sewehbentsa Sa heed € pane
mittee; member, since te¢g Chairman, seca poten Nowe Beveee Seek oan
Regional High School Committee, member, Neaehtede Se Reed Spied € 0m
mittee, 1959-60,

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Worvcewer, Se Vack o Gydd (hid No eets enn
Southboro Boosters: Club.

SINCE graduation. TP have spent one year wath the BEE VL Me
ington, D.C, two years covenng Ncw Panton Ce ee
apparel, twenty years in the insoranee Pease ee tigen eet eet
of New Eng land and the last two soars wank Rayelesnd nt ee hate
relations ficld. The base ts appeabng wee miele were fen
travel, so more tine with the farmaly.

[ sess]

neh

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

We have one son in college and all the rest are in public schools
not only because I have a schoo! committee job (the pay is tough)
but most of all because we cannot afford otherwise, probably. We
have a thirteen-acre set-up in the country. Although it is ideal for
farming and hunting, I do neither. I do not seem to have enough
time keeping the house repaired.

As for politics, the school committee, even in a small town and
regional high school deal, takes up a lot of time. I enjoy it a lot
more than my family does, I will probably stick at it until I take
a beating at the polls. All in all, life has been pleasant with our
children enjoying good health and managing to get by in school.

HAROLD WINKLER

 

HOME AbpRESS: 1020 Keeler Ave., Berkeley, Calif.

OFFICE appRESS: Pacifica Foundation, 2207 Shattuck Ave., Berkeley, Calif.
BORN: June 24, 1944, Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1936; PH.D., 1942-

marnriep: Grendel Southern, Dec. 28, 1949. cumpREN: Matthew, June 22, 19525
Michele, March 12, 1954; Karen, Dec. 8, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Mark Winkler, '28.

occuparion: President, Pacifica Foundation — owns and operates non-profit

educational radio stations ~ KPFA, KPFB, Berkeley, San Francisco, KPFK,
Los Angeles, WBAI, New York City.

PUBLICATIONS; Articles in professional journals.

I SPENT most of the last twenty-five years teaching and studying
problems of government, with an ever-increasing conviction that

the essential difficulties relate not to knowledge nor to research,
but lie in the political areas of getting good men into responsible
positions, and in maintaining free and enlightened public opinion.

[1556]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPOST

I find expression for this belief by my present ec uupatee ef
heading a small foundation that builds and Operates cadiee af ste
(no commercials) dedicated to free expression of all pores of vase
on political, philosophical and artistic matters We try te create a
responsible public by operating on a basis of voluntary lence wr
port. This weird economic process docs produce approvonately 6
half million dollars a year which maintains a minunal eperanen, We
win all kinds of prizes and awards, we both enthrall and dismay the
FCC. Despite all predictions, we show amazing Siubiles. es rn us

der intense competitive circumstance.

This is the main drift at present. Actually. since tyia PE hove
taught government at Harvard and at the University of Calor
I have been involved in several business activities ranging froen
construction to titanium extraction, During the war niv acy
ments in the Navy varied from teaching at a Wave Scheel tn ay.
nal officer of the USS Shangri-la. My wife and 1 and even our
three little ones, have traveled for several vears in Purope. | have
dabbled in politics. I work around our Rerkeley Couthw hess acyl
grounds, moroscely replanting as my children tear apart.

It has been a rich twenty-five years, buc To remain a dark pers:
mist about the short run, with, I think, nerve for failure. Vy hope
and joy lie in the next generation. Tam delighted ard arnared bs
the vigor and decision of younger men entenng ouf of aniraten
Their idealism appears so much more realistically baw Devout of
dogma or even doctrine, coming from all parts of the Potts al
spectrum, they agree only on a passion for freedoms anf epsaliry
Perhaps they’ll control this world before we shrewd mehlie aed
worriers blow it up. Or they may remain fragmentzed for ant of
any larger outlook, a unifying philsophy. Whether the US has
the time and lcadership to acquire a comenwin, meaningful ent
realistic, for a world wherein the USSR, Ching Ufraia Svarh
America are out of control is the major issue.

I am grateful that Harvard offers continusus enlychtenme nd wt
this direction. Other insatutions and founder mine fone eters
timidity, I feel, and take risks in faver of wend wiventerw that feos
speed the achievement of this consensus

[tegr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

GORDON WINLOCK

 

HOME ApprEss: 4835 W. 143d Pl., Midlothian, Il.
OFFICE AppREsS: Box 66, Des Plaines, Il.

BoRN: Oct. 25, 1911, Kent, Tl.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREES: $.B. (North Carolina State Coll.), 1937;
s.M. (Iowa State Coll.).

MarRIED: Grace Elizabeth Maynard, March 27, 1938, Dillon, S.C.; Helen
Miyazaki, June 13, 1953, Japan, cHitpren: Helen Munroe, April 23, 1939
(m. Keith Aanes, June 5, 1960); William Gordon, Jan. 7, 1956; Margaret
Daws, March 22, 1958; Irene Munroe, Oct. 18, 1960.

OccuUPATION: Teacher and owner, Win-Lee Import Company, Des Plaines,
Illinois,

OFFICES HELD: Commander, AMVETS, 1950-51; secretary, South Suburban
Social Studies Club.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Pi Alpha (language fraternity); Theta Chi; Illinois Edu-
cational Association; NAACP.

PUBLICATIONS: History of Tobacco Growing in North Carolina, 1860-1920.

I HAVE been a teacher and observer of society, since Harvard.
War record: Africa, Italy, France, Germany, 1941-45, ended as
captain of artillery. Now a reserve officer. Was administrator of
U.S. Army, Air Force and Navy Dependent Schools in Japan,
North Africa and Italy, 1951-56. Traveled all over the world,
lectured also. Read, write and speak French and Spanish, some
Arabic. Would like to be Ambassador to Morocco, but don’t know
President-elect Kennedy well enough. Collect stamps, coins, cam-
paign buttons and literature on Civil War. Am very gregarious. I
am a devout Episcopalian, following in family footsteps. Uncle
was Herbert Eustace Winlock, Harvard ’06. He was superb
archaeologist and helped dig up King Tut, with Carter Expedition
for British Museum. He was later director of the Metropolitan

[1558]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Museum of Art, New York City, Great-grandfather was Wiliam
Crawford Winlock, graduate of Hlarvard, and a great wwe
there.

I am a strong Democrat and was a friend of FDR. Je. white t
was at Harvard. I wish I had continued at Plarvand but Po datn’e
make the football team, was young and f let it get the best of me,
I loved Grays Hall and the good food and Baston, People were
wonderful to me there, all except my French teacher, whe was 4
“heel.” He was a blue blood, but didn’t know how to Ucat young
students. I hope he has lefe our Harvard. P shall wineday give
Harvard a lot of money, if my company makes a lot of money. As
yet, L can’t. I'd later consider. giving to your fund.

From Harvard, 1933, to Ripon College, 1933-35. Nerth Carolina
State College, 1935-375 Iowa State College, 8g ty gn, UC naveruty of
Iowa, 1950-51. Have mainly been principal of high shook and
taught French, American government, cconomicy hw, cine and
Spanish. I now teach high school at Blue Wand Pligh School, Hhie
Island, Illinois. Have tenure, pay is good, and VU stay bere nila
much better job shows up. Would love to be on Kennedy vy Pee
Corps, or in African affairs. I'm married to a gorgeous Japanese
girl, some thirteen years younger, We are very happy.

GEORGE PARKER WINSHIP, JR.

 

HOME ApprESs: tog Beechwood Rd, Beetol, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: King College, Bristol, Penn.

BORN: March 17, 1914, Provadence, RE

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windwe, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1@16, Deanne 2B. marge come heeds syyt eee be
high Univ.), 1938, po, (Un. of Narth (srodenas, reel

( s5s0]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

marrieD: Clara Dale Echols, Jan. 5, 1944, Washington, D.C. cHitpreN: Susan
Dale, June 27, 1945; James Parker, June 25, 1948, David Bonner, Dec. 10,
1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stephen Winship, ’q1.

occupation: Professor of English, acting dean of faculty.
oFFices HELD: Deacon, First Presbyterian Church.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; usual professional associations of
college English teachers.

puBLicaTions: “The Printing History of the World,” Studies in the Early
English Periodical, ed. R. P. Bond, Chapel Hill, 1957; “The Novels of
Charles Williams,” Yale Review, 1951; “Page to Sir Launcelot,” Canadian
Red Cross Junior, 1960-61 (serial for children); other professional and
juvenile publications,

FOR thirteen years I have been professor of English at King Col-
lege, a very small liberal arts college belonging to the Presbyterian
Church. Far from being a southerner, I am somewhat of a pro-
fessional Yankee, but my roots are growing deep in this community
in the shadow of the Great Smoky Mountains. I am now one of the
senior men in the college; | own a “log cabin” or at least a handsome,
modern house faced with well-weathered logs; my daughter and
my sons are fully engaged in the social and baseball doings of the
city.

in the dark days after graduation I did odd jobs: proof-reading
at the Harvard Press, indexing, and so forth. In 1937, I was a teach-
ing fellow in English at Lehigh, proceeding to Chapel Hill for doc-
toral study. During World War II, I was a technician in Signal In-
telligence, working on Japanese radio transmissions. I also became
the husband of a naval officer (we had met in graduate school).
After demobilization I returned to Lehigh to teach, finished my dis-
sertation on eighteenth-century journalism for the University of
North Carolina, and came to King. I have since enjoyed a sabbati-
cal year at Yale, financed by the Ford Foundation, for study of
literature and religion.

There has been a great deal of public protest about the pressure
on university faculties to publish or perish. In the little colleges,
on the contrary, the class and administrative load make it hard to
write, or even read a book. Perhaps we need the pressure. I try
to read and write, but my list of credits is small: this year one pro-
fessional article, one short piece on books for children, and one

juvenile serial that I wrote years ago. I have a long-term project
on religion in modern fiction.

One change that twenty-five years has made in my life is an

[ 1560 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

increased awareness of the church. It is not that Ear satisfied wirh
the strength and clarity of its voice. Rather, if hterature iv the
audible aspect of our culture, as we suppose when we study the
older periods, we have today a confused and feeble Chrastumes. |

welcome the signs, too few, of a resurgence of rehygious athiernatwe
in modern literature.

ROY WILLIAM WINSOR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1007 Prospect Ave., Pelham Manor, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 E. 57th St., New York 22, N.Y.

BorN: April 13, 1912, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Carl Schurz High School, Chicaga, IL

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: A.B, Cie Litude, toi

MarRigED: Martha March Ricker, Oct. 22. 1918 Minncapola, Mion ensoass
Ann March, April 27, 1940; Mary Wilcox, July at. tog: Raber bdo ort
Feb. 20, 1945; Catherine Louise, Oct. 6 1958.

OccuPATION: President, Roy Winsor Productions, Inc. tole ems ged pacts
package producer,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Pclham Country Ohi, Wieged
Foot Golf Club.

SHORTLY after graduation I became one of avy greenhorns selected
to be members of the first apprentice group at CIN Kunhe in Neve
York. Significantly, the plan was dernched two vearw bree bs
1937 I left for WCCO, the CBS-owned station in Minne ape be.
cause fifty dollars a weck there struck me as more attractive thot
thirty-five in New York. This kind of quak thinking hee never
deserted me. In 1gg0 I became a director at NEC oy Chae age, thea
radio director at the Leo Burnette Company, book tf Nie

‘ wrul,
finally — in 1ggo— 1 moved to Hlekete, Sample, Phurmunert, ts

[ 1360]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

supervise that agency’s Procter & Gamble radio programs in the
United States and Canada.

BSH became Dancer, Fitzgerald, Sample and I became radio direc-
tor. When the agency, in 1945, decided to move to New York, I
chose to become a free-lance producer, writer, director. My staple
was “Sky King,” boy masochist, which, along with several other
programs, I wrote and directed until 1950. Then I moved to New
York to become television director of the Milton H. Biow Company.
There I created and produced three daytime serials, “Search for
Tomorrow,” “Love of Life” and “The Secret Storm.” I also cre-
ated “Nothing But the Best,” a half-hour nighttime program and a
critical and a commercial success. In addition to this I was nabob
over a department of sixty and of such television programs as
“Lucy,” “Racket Squad,” etc. When the Biow Company was about
to orbit in 1956, 1 went into business for myself as Roy Winsor
Productions, Inc. We produce “Love of Life” and “The Secret
Storm.” I supervise “Have Gun Will Travel.” Our client is Ameri-
can Home Products. Oh for another!

Family life is bizarre. Five members of it fully enjoy dissolute
dependence by excluding the sixth, me, from their fun and games
because they maintain that I cannot always be right. I reject this
as prejudice. Martha Winsor is a model of patience and grit. (She
has won a ten-year battle with cancer of the parotid and that is
quite a big win.) The four issue range from nine to twenty. They
are normal Americans. ‘This may or may not be good. To touch
on travel I can say only that I have ridden from Pelham to New
York 5200 titillating times.

Commercial television and radio have been financially rewarding
but artistically disappointing. A dollar is a good thing, but com-
promise from fear dilutes entertainment as surely as designers, in
pandering to the whims of the housewife, have created ten years of
faceless automobiles, The price of having to sell corrodes pride in
workmanship.

My convictions are my own, to be shared selfishly only by me.

I do, however, have an observation to offer. It is harder to find

competence than honesty. Very few persons ever realize maximum
effort and their best possible form of expression. Quality is com-
promised by quantity. The vast disgruntled find escape in activi-
ties or in euphoria with a twist of lemon. Ultra-progressive educa-

tion may have spared the psyche but it has also obs

, cured the pur-
posive character of work. P

[ 1562 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

On the brighter side are good health (watch it!), pound golf, post
reading and a childish determination sull to figure out what et ns
that 1 want to be when I grow up.

LEON WISH

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2644 Monterey St., San Mateo, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Naval Radiological Defense Laboratory, San Franwmee ie
Calif.

BORN: June 9, 1915, Malden, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1936.

MarrieD: Helen Tobias, Aug. 30, 1942, Boston, Masa. comnomsw. Suwen Pedi,
July 3, 1949; Elizabeth Hope, Oct. 12, 1952.

occuPATION: Research chemist.

MEMBER OF: International Club — Hilton Inn; Amerwan Chermas al Sa wey,
American Contract Bridge League.

PUBLICATIONS: “Ion Exchange as a Separations Mithes VINE" fuses of the
American Chemical Sociery, 76, 3444 1984. “Counting Friy wavy foe Sop.
tunism-239 Beta Rays,” Nucleonics 04, tor, 19th. “Chranenserve Baden
chemical Analysis by Ion Exchange, Development of a Sespaenenad Seysre
tions Scheme,” Analytical Chennistry, 34. yi tote. “Ossenetative Mantes
chemical Analysis by Ion Exchange — Uranivainy and Tethuemerny” fone oe af
Chemistry, 32, 920, 1960.

WHEN I look back over the past twenty-five veare PF can cho.
guish certain phases of growth (or lek of growth). Nftce berg
ejected into the maelstrom of the depresvion-mblled waoehd ov ry i®
I found that my four years at Harvard did not prosate me wih ¢
vocation, IT spent the next few years in sort of a dave were ig
for a way to make a living. F inally, by usng my chem ol tracey
and working and studying, Twas able te obeamn a reyrtered pharcee

cist’s license in) 1940. 1 APENe CWO Scare in drupe eteces se a phate

[ 1563 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

cist, but as I look back there are few pleasant memories of this
period. I felt stagnated and depressed.

In 1942 I met and married my wife and a period of change was in
the making. Two months later I was drafted into the Army and this
was the turning point in my career. In six months I found myself
back in school studying chemical engineering at the University of
Pennsylvania. After a year, I was suddenly transferred to the Man-
hattan District of Engineers under very secretive conditions. I was
assigned to do chemical research in the atomic energy field. I was
completely fascinated by the atom and it has become my life’s work.
After separation from the Army in 1945, I returned to Harvard for
two years of graduate work and then accepted a position in Oak
Ridge, Tennessee. I can’t say that I regretted leaving Boston, but
I certainly didn’t think I would stay away as long as I have. Life
was very pleasant and in 1949 Susan was born and we had a new
interest.

In 1950 I was offered a position with the Navy in San Francisco.
The lure of California was too strong and we arrived at the end of
the year. In six months we purchased a home in the San Mateo hills
overlooking San Francisco Bay and are still there after ten years.
We have seen this region develop from practically farm land to a
highly-populated suburban area. By the way, I almost forgot to
mention the arrival of our second daughter, Elizabeth, in 1952. I
am now living in a woman’s world.

Life in California has been extremely satisfying. Raising our
children, landscaping and maintaining a home, have occupied a
large percentage of our time. We have enjoyed our vacations in
the state at Lake Tahoe, Yosemite, Laguna Beach, Disneyland, etc.,
and have only scratched the surface of things to see. I have found
time to dabble in woodworking, mosaics, bridge and music. The
last consists of learning to play the violin after having played the
piano since childhood. Actually, I am keeping my elder daughter
company with the expectation that she will keep up her interest in
the violin.

As our children approach their teens, the necessity for more space
increases so that our next big project will most likely be an addi-
tion to the house. We are planning this within the next few years.
My wife and I eventually would like to move into the fascinating
city of San Francisco, but let’s not rush our lives.

[ 1564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT STEVENSON WOLCOHE!

 

HOME ADDRESS: 429 Hale St., Prides Crossing, Maw

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day, 74 Seate Se, Rentenny, Mvce.

BORN: Feb, 3, 1914, Milton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.E.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1936038).

MARRIED: Ruth Robb Blaine, May 16, t9s8 Ipowich, Maw comtpees Root ft
Blaine, July 21, 1943; James G. Blaine, zd, April aA. tyget, Nee WB o sone,
Dec. 12, 1950 (stepchildren).

HARVARD BROTHER; Samuel Huntington Wolcot, Je. "34.

OccUPATION: Brokerage; registered representative.

MEMBER OF: Owl Club; Harvard Varsity Club, Someret (hab, Vinge Phe

Club.

I AM probably the last member of the Class to get married fut the
first time in 1958. Marriage is an cxccllent institute that | eben
have investigated long ago. In twenty-five yeary Phase worked fos
varying lengths of time at medical school, banking, army poled, qe
mercial flying, real estate and brokerage, all of whah hove bees
interesting but in none of which has there been any ourtaantog
success. I can best summarize the last three Scars by a qucrrt Fae
ance sheet.
Current Assets: Current Lasbaliey |
1 Attractive wife b Mortyayve
3 Marvelous stepchildren

Fixed Assets:
I Adequate house Net Worth
2 Depreciated aucomobiles a bane of BL speprecse ase

Deferred Asscts:
1 Paid up Life Insurance
1 Plot in Moune Auburn Cemete ry

f ache t

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT LEE WOLFF

 

HOME apprEss: 10 Follen St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Holyoke House 5, Cambridge 38, Mass.
BorN: Dec. 22, 1915, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1936; A.M., 1937;
PH.D., 1947.

MARRIED: Mary Andrews, Nov. 24, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Rosamond
Capen, June 28, 1942; Katharine, Oct. 12, 1944; Robert Lee, Jr. Feb. 4,
1947; James Andrews, May 24, 1956.

occuPATION: Professor of history and chairman, Department of History, Har-
vard University.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Balkan Section, Research and Analysis Branch, Office of

Strategic Services, 1942-46, assistant professor and associate professor of

history, University of Wisconsin, 1947-49; associate professor and professor

of history, Harvard University, since 1950; member, executive commit-

tee, Russian Research Center, Board of Scholars, Dumbarton Oaks (both

Harvard); council member, Mediaeval Academy of America.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Historical
Association; Tavern Club; Club of Odd Volumes (both Boston),

Publications: A History of Civilization, with Crane Brinton and J. B. Chris-

topher; The Balkans in Our Time; The Golden Key, to appear in April,

1961; many monographic articles; editor, Vol. Il, University of Pennsy]-
vania History of the Crusades.

I HAVE written at length for most of our previous Reports, and
so this time will spare my enthralled classmates a complete auto-
biography, and shall limit myself to the five years since we last had
the chance to tell each other all. If what follows sounds smug and
pompous, don’t think I didn’t suspect it might.
Harvard University is a wonderful place to work. I find the
students, both undergraduate and graduate, constantly rewarding,
and believe in our policy of a single Faculty of Arts and Sciences

[ 1566 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that teaches both. One of the yrcatcrt watisfactyors geothie we
younger scholars, whom one has had a hand an teases stat ee
their own careers of teaching and research in other wrens t
have been chairman of the History Deparenent for tow fi ves:
only, and find myself caught up in a heavy correspemtense wo:
other universities who want young instructors fren Plaexar foove
who want Harvard to take on some of ther own peatists T's
History Department now has the largest number of qomccnte rc cre
in the College, about one sixth of all Plarvard and Rade fete vent
graduates; and, in addition, over three hundred gradusice radeon
working toward the Doctorate. Think of the barcane rate pres
bilities here! I continue to enjov my old awauten wih Pew!
House.

Research and writing form a natural part oof my work, Pact ct ns
not always easy to find time enough for them. Bor weersl vers
I have been editing a volume of a cooperative hntory ef the Cie
sades, which has brought many more headaches than pleawieey, bot a
is now finished and will appear this spring, Needless te aay. Phos e
large plans for books that may never be written: One maby ace!
effort will soon be published: The Golden Ney. Uhs nia post at
of my hobby of collecting Victorian novely a siudy ef the feces
of George MacDonald, an obscure and forgotten Soot wher one
had an enormous public, and is still interesting Cbd wea road ©
the Back of the North Wind, asa chill’). 1 Started out tex wets
a short essay on him, and found it turning into a beh

Another continuing hobby and dehyhe mwotravel Vil we of as
spent fifteen months “abroad during 1946-6", the three eller at |
dren in school in Switzerland, where they really shad bac bee
the baby suitably stashed away with a nurse, andiany wire aot d
footloose on the Continent. We spent about three mete ry Sons
and Portugal, and about the same le myth ef tere ay Nae a bow
Italy proper. Trips to Yugoslavia and Gireeve and Peeves no?
family summers in England and France reunited wut a ee yen
In May, 1960, we got back to Prylaind and Secindast baat
just a month, and shall be off ayain this auemee wa boca the
have a house on Martha’s V1 Incy ard, where we aperd tae :

} bo o7 EG é
those summers when we do not go abeoeas
Like all of you, I thoroughly Chey ne faa pede of
move into the Yard with them nev June te ghee fe eo ee

how enjovable they really are.
As middle age fastens its tentacles Over fieee pea F

teeta t

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

me, I find I also get a lot of pleasure out of sitting in a club with
congenial friends, talking my head off, and staying up too late
with a glass in each hand. Unless this happens a couple of times a
week, restlessness sets in. And restlessness is bad for you.

+ HARRISON WOOD

 

BORN: Oct. 22, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa, parents: Walter Abbott Wood, Dorothy
Harrison.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.
pDIED: Sept. 1, 1938, Berne, Switzerland.

HARRISON WOOD graduated with our Class. While in college
he was a member of the Harvard Mountaineering Club and in 1935
took part in the American Geographical Society expedition to the
Yukon Territory, Canada, which made the first ascent of Mount
Steele, He was a member of the Appalachian Mountain Club,
American Alpine Club and British Alpine Club.

After college, Wood entered the field of public relations and at
the time of his death was associated with the firm of Hartwell,
Jobson & Kibbee of New York City. He was a trustee of The See-

ing Eye, an organization founded by his mother for the training of
dogs to lead the blind. He was survived by his mother.

[ 1568 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPOKT

BERNON TISDALE. WOQODLE. JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7 W’. 73d St., New York 23, N.Y.

BORN: May 11, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Los Alamos Ranch School, Orowi, No Mice.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Self-employed — various.

MEMBER OF: Association Ex-Members Squadron A, Marhattan € bee (5.

I HAVE a sincere sense of loss in not having staved with the € fas
of 1936, or in not having returned later to Harvard Thon yer

ticularly poignant now “that twenty-five seam have pawed bs
retrospect, I feel that Harvard was the place for me, altheaics the
adjustment from a tiny school — forty-five beave woe as
demically difficult for me. Why should this have been wd Pen
if | have not thought about it for a long tune. it bears es acuicste as
at this point. I did not know Plarvard of the Penton area poe

sonally; I could have as easily chosen Princeton, for matin, where
my father went. But at the time of the Calleye Heard eueca f
made my choice on a general basis of teputatean Pree anh 6
small school, there was no question of being motivated mt ahewe bs
school friends, nor did T have any clear tlea of what fowisa tee

complish, except the very general one of Cues es ane eb ara ns
IT remember that the great choice of courses and the very beeps
attendance in most of them was a formidable expencnee af four
This is a good place to make the observation that Phaewar decree «
has superb facilitics of every hind, amd of all thea, Pott ee tare
time but for a fraction.

I regret to say that TP have noe been is contact with spc peso

bers of the C Lass; therefore, Eby pas these ppeebucty hig tere et
biography which, under the curcuimnstaneey woelkb weor te fa oe

[ 054) |

ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

personal interest only. I might make the observation that various
trips, Europe mostly, have been very interesting and, sometime in

the not too distant future, I would like to divide my time, perhaps
equally, between the two continents.

ROBERT EMMETT WOODS

 

HOME apprEss: 24 Duffield Rd., Auburndale, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 470 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 22, 1911, Revere, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Hebron Academy, Hebron, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936.

Marrieo: Eleanor McMahon, November, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Thomas Francis, Nov. 19, 1936; Mary Louise, Sept. 20, 1943.

occupation: Traffic equipment engineer, State Area, New England Telephone
& Telegraph Company.

A WONDERFUL wife and two fine children. In my twenty-fifth
year with the same company, excepting three years in the Army. A
gradual turning from liberalism to conservatism. A feeling that if I
had it to do over, I'd never work for a big outfit but would rather

work at something where my own abilities, ambition and desire
would be the controlling factors.

[ 1570 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN ARTHUR WOODWARD

 

HOME apprEss: 1309B 47th St. Los Alamos, N-Mex.

OFFICE appRESs: Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, Bow stay Peo Neon,
N.Mex.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1915, West Orange, S.J.
PREPARED AT: Columbia High School, South Orange, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935.

MARRIED: Miriam Hurwirt, Sept. 23. 1935. Cambenige, Maw crsapmes pat
Joseph, Oct. 18, 1937 (died Dee. ya. 1965); Marke Rimemmary, Nowe &

1941; Elliott Warren, Sept. 18, 1945; Barbara Fillen, Mav ta ree*
HARVARD SON: John Joseph Woodward, 's9 (dececaed ),

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Horace Woodward, ‘y3, are. “pp. em, b8, Edens
dore Woodward, "41.

OCCUPATION: Wage and salary administrator.

HENRY COLLIFR WRIGHT

 

HOME aporrss: Ide Road, W ilhasmeow a Maw.
OFFICE apnaess: Williamstown Meds al Awon naece

Nabexene Biewecd WO ii peeenei ee a,
Mass,

f aeroe t

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

porN: Oct. 16, 1913, Douglaston, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: $.B., 1936; M.D. (New York Univ.), 1941.

marriED: Helen Shepard Newell, Dec. 8, 1945, Northampton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ann Shepard, Sept. 19, 1947; Mary Newell, Nov. 29, 1949; Katherine,
April 29, 1951; Henry Collier, 3d, Oct. 11, 1952; Martha Blose, Jan. 17,
1957-

occupaTION: Internist, Williamstown Medica] Associates; physician at Health
Department, Williams College.

OFFices HELD: Chief of medicine, 1954-59, chief of cardiology, since 1954,
North Adams Hospital, president, Berkshire County Heart Association,
1955-58; member, board of directors, Massachusetts Heart Association,
1957-59.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians; American Medical Association;
Massachusetts Medical Society; American Board of Internal Medicine

(diplomate); American Heart Association; Massachusetts Society of In-
ternal Medicine.

PUBLICATIONS: “Treatment of Ventricular Tachycardia,” American Journal of
Cardiology (to be published).

PROFESSIONALLY my life in these twenty-five years has been
a busy and satisfying one. Medical school and an internship, then
military service in an army general hospital in Ireland, England and
France during the war years. Two and one-half years of residency
training at the Brooklyn Hospital and at Bellevue led to certification
by the American Board of Internal Medicine. Since 1948, I have
been living and practising my specialty in Williamstown and the
surrounding Berkshire County area. With the feeling that a group
practice is the ideal way to practise medicine, I was able to start
such a one with a fellow internist, in 1958, in our own modern,
well-equipped building. Within a year a pediatrician and a surgeon
joined us, and in June, 1961, our ranks will be augmented with an-
other internist, and an obstetrician. There have been yearly oppor-
tunities for graduate study at various medical centers, and member-
ship in a number of local and state medical societies.

Personally, life has also been happy and rewarding. Marriage in
1945 to a Smith “girl,” and the gradual addition of four Smith pros-
pects, and only one Harvard possibility. But life is never dull with
five “fry” ranging in age from thirteen down to four years old.
Hobbies, when there is time, include gardening on our four and
one-half acres, raising Shetland sheep dogs, and boating and camp-
ing with the family in the summer. Life in a college town offers
many stimulating activities, also. Big hope — that the next twenty-
five years will be as full and happy as the last twenty-five.

[1572 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANA CLARENCE WRIGHITING FON

 

BORN: Jan. 15, 1913, Lexington, Mass. panests: Sydocy Ruel) Wry drogen,
’97, Marian Jewert.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.EL.

- YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: $.8. 1936.

MARRIED: Molly Elizabeth Shepard, Feb. 19, tesa. Scamfard, Caen, Cecqvar aewsd:
CHILDREN: David Shepard, Dec. 26, 1944, Stephen 1). June 1a test

pieD: Oct. 12, 1955, Cedar Rapids, lowa.

AFTER graduation Wrightington entered the slupping buses
with the Grace Line in New York, and latce worked fue the Parsons
Pacific Line and the Seaboard Navigation Company. bree tyes
until 1950, he was associated with the Pehyt Corporate iin New
York, in their manufacturing and tratfic” department, Ele then
joined the Minute Maid Corporation and at the tame of hee ih eth
he was a sales executive for the Container Divigen of the US
Rubber Corporation.

During World War II, he served as a heutenant cesnmantes with
the U.S. Navy in Greenland and Iccland. In tags he heated «
Naval Reserve training cruise to Halfay and was promeerd te the
rank of commander. He was survived by hiv two worn

Testy]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

PAUL DOUGLAS WYLIE

 

HOME AppRESs: 773 Ashby Drive, Waynesboro, Va.

OFFICE ADpREss: Specialty Control Dept., General Electric Co., Waynesboro,
Va.

BoRN: Jan, 25, 1913, Malden, Mass.

prePARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1936; ED.M. (Univ. of Virginia),

1955+
Marriep: Anne Gardner, July 6, 1940, Mt. Airy, N.C. cumpren: Carol Anne,
Oct. 18, 1942; Paul Douglas, Jr., Aug. 27, 1947; Ruth Gardner, Feb. 8,

1950.
OCCUPATION: Systems analyst; electronics.
MEMBER OF: Kappa Delta Pi; Phi Delta Kappa.

HAS it really been a quarter-century since we left the sheltered
confines of the Yard, degree in hand, setting forth to seek fame,
fortune and happiness? Surely it seems such a short time ago that
I arrived in Waynesboro, Virginia, in 1936, to embark on a career
in teaching. How strange, also, to pause in retrospect and realize
not one but three careers have occupied my efforts and that the
parade of years has passed inexorably onward. Fame as well as for-
tune may well have passed me by, but certainly, and this is in the
final analysis the most important, happiness has been my reward.
The Fifth Anniversary of our graduation found me with some
success and advancement in my teaching career —I had advanced
to the position of assistant headmaster of Fishburne Military School
in Waynesboro, Virginia, and already I had entered onto a second
career —I was serving on active duty with the armed forces as a
member of the staff and faculty of the Quartermaster School.
Having served throughout Europe as a battalion commander in sup-

[1574]

occa teres © ceteris

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

port of both the First and Third Armics f retuened ny nye tae,
teaching position.

Uncle Sam again interrupted my civihan careers m tuck, wie b
was recalled to active duty, this time for service as ane. peatoe
general with the Second Army where TP was astened as cha fl bs
vestigations & Complaints Division, A riny Inspector Creneral Sea tuys
Upon relief from active duty, I returned to the books lectures as]
notes of a student at University of Virginia and was aw ardesf ie
degree of Ed.M. in 1955.

That year, too, was momentous in that we marked my pirearecey
into a new career field. In the spring of iyes. TP beceame ayenietet
with the specialty contro] department of General Electr Carr parny
in Waynesboro, Virginia. Having served in various marutactices :
assignments, in August of this vear T was assigned as a suction
analyst 1 in a computer group and am currently avasting an sleveteep
ing a computer application to manufactunng operations

Like the rolling stone which gathers no mow, Po have ahve
neither fame nor riches in my multi-faceted career. My ene shies
ment — happiness — received its initial impetus wheal i tug, |
married Anne Gardner, a native of Elillsville, Varginsa, wher wos
teaching in Waynesboro as was I. In igg:, our fie ghiht) Gare
Anne (now a student at William and Marv College) was bern ds
1947 Paul Douglas, Jr., and in 1950 Ruth Gardner were bern Vy
time and energies, other than that required in making a byes hove
been well occupied with the headaches and pleasures of brie con eye
a family.

Political and social organizations interes me but shri, a!
though I do maintain interest in Phi Delta Rappa and KRajgee Pe
Pi into which I was inducted while a graduate student at (nieces
of Virginia. I have retained a love of good muse amd beds wo 5
I carried away with me in 1936 and indulve myself in beech my cece t
and literary libraries. For outdoor recreation Present ns af ee 6
not-too-well-played golf game and to a very hetle purrs. ve
the house.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

RICHARD JULIAN YOUDIN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 939 Garrison Ave., Teaneck, N.J.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Longines-Wittnauer Watch Co., Inc., 580 Fifth Ave, New
York 36, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1916, Newark, N.]J.

PREPARED AT: Cherry Lawn School, Darien, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1936(37).

MARRIED: Gwladys Margaret Williams, Aug. 15, 1944, Cairo, Egypt. CHILDREN:
Michael William, Nov. 4, 1945; Peter Alexander, July 3, 1948; Elizabeth
Ann, Oct. 16, 1952.

occupation: Department Head: “Mr. Wittnauer.”

HARLAN ERNEST YOUEL

 

HOME aAppREss: 400 N. Negley Ave., Pittsburgh 6, Pa.

OFFICE Appress: Gulf Oil Corp., Gulf Oil Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
BORN: Feb. 20, 1909, Portland, Oregon.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Alaska, College, Alaska,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1936.
UNMARRIED.

[ 1576]

25TH ANNIVERSARY BE POaT
OCCUPATION: Economist in charge of internatwnal ecomernuey Golf OM bee,
poration.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Fownsuce Olah of Preedbar g's.

WHILE I was in college, I decided that what [wanted was 6 fi!
interesting life. I have subsequently had mo reason te alter thes
view. One must also know what he wants and where he wants po
go, though I have found the goals are achieved as in acing. by ¢
series of tacks. The course has led from Wall Screce. te murine ces.
struction, to wartime jobs with the British and CUorted Scares Gas.
ernments, to a school of international affairs, buunew forces asin gy,
a tour of duty in Okinawa and Japan, back to an connote res anh
job with the Brookings Institunon and to the od buunew whah
combines economics, planning and international atfain

On the private side there have been interests in arty books the
theatre and people of all types and kinds. TP have sen wenethins
of the world and hope to sce much more in the comung sear Every
year adds new interests and sharpens old onexw I feel as though f
were just beginning to learn something of this amannyg thing. we
call life. One of the samples we were sent for these shety hes wemed
to be adding up debits on one side and credits on the other P have
found little in the way of experience that FP have been unite ts
gain something from, and the hard lessons have been Che beers
teachers. Some of my aims have changed of been dhe athe, base
that seems to have been the result of growing older and in woe
cases, wiser, together with some increase in deenminggen ba eny
profession there has been of late vears much dephonng of vale
judgments, yet the older I get the more Po sccm te firmed thor the
process of living entails the making of more and more wstue puts
ments.

Since forecasting scems to be one of the pringipal acces of
my profession, I have formed the habit of booking abe sd ste ee
future, but since, as a rational man, TP know thot mur freer che oe ae
best very imperfect, I have tricd to shed dluwon Cha bilinee, f
think I shall continue to find the future more interes than the
past.

f eae t

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

ROBERT SWISHER YOUNG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 412 Carlile Ave., Pueblo, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1925 E. Orman Ave., Pueblo, Colo.

BorN: Nov. 3, 1914, Bowie, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Fort Scott High School, Fort Scott, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1936; M.D. (Northwestern Univ.),
1941.

marriep: Helen Marcroft, Sept. 10, 1938, Colorado Springs, Colo. CHILDREN:
Robert Swisher, 2d, Jan. 18, 1940 (7. Norma June Camack, Sept. 1, 1960);
Frank Marcroft, Aug. 7, 1941 (7. Sandra Lewis, Sept. 3, 1960).

HARVARD SON: Robert Swisher Young, 2d, ’62.

occupation: Orthopedic surgery, private practice; industrial surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant chief surgeon, Colorado Fuel and Iron Corporation,
major, U.S. Army Reserve; district chairman, Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Orthopedic Surgery; Western Orthopedic
Association; Rocky Mountain Orthopedic Club.

THE long hours in the labs of Mallinckrodt and the biology build-
ing prepared me very well for the ordinary pursuits of the years
ahead; unfortunately, someone failed to impress President Conant
with the problem of the 25th Anniversary Report, hence I have a
neglected facet, and having none of my literary roommates to bail
me out, I shall go it alone, as it were.

From Cambridge it was off to Chicago and medical school,
brightened by a trip to Colorado to take a bride. By the time Helen
and I left Chicago for Henry Ford Hospital we possessed a fine
son, a medical degree and high hopes. Pearl Harbor soon sent Helen
home with her then two sons and the young doctor off to the
Southwest Pacific. Throughout the war years we dreamed of the
day when we could all be together and take root, but it was not
soon to be. After disposing of the Axis a new problem arose, or
perhaps I should say was recognized and faced as such. The desire

[1578 ]

2ST ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for more and particular know ledge would net pertat roe tee trae
off the Seven League Boots, so for the nert four veaew we bred ov
Kansas, Hawai, Pennsylvania and Colorade AE tho te te end
that the medical powers-that-be finally put the warp of appeseal
on our qualifications to do orthopedhe surgery.

After a fourteen-year odyssey we settled im Ramug but nea fe
long. The face of fortune smiled on us and Carbs ade bee eee
home. When one considers the long year in Care hentoe, Ch ages
Detroit and Philadelphia, with New Guineas pungtes aarti m be don
it is not hard to realize how dehyheful sumdune amd Crews ae cas
be. These have been good vears, “filled with work, teens: ged wan,
friends and travel. For Helen and me, when the pend: sletive wets
unduly heavy or the pace too fast, its off ty the hit qeamery and
a rousing battle with the rainbows and Brow ns «+ @ wewkler fal was
to clean out the cobwebs of daily hfe.

For the perhaps unusual clasmate who muy be goarny ee
Cambridge for the first time, P would awure hin of one of bfee
rare moments. Two years ago I returned to Plarvand Spore, be
the first time since 1936, to vit my Clas of irwn Aebw eat
from the Hotel Commander to the Yard the vesre pulled beh an!
it was as if 1 had never been away — to me thane were the nee of
friends and the places of memory, as fresh and ume hanged as ont 6
fall day in the mid-thirtics. W ith the background of sock ones

perience, I am looking forward with great Aritw apratoerey fre the
forthcoming Reunion.

WILLEAM SANE ZEMAN

 

HOME apnaraa: tg Linwokd Drive, Wow Bl acefssesd € ssc
OFF apomsas: ¢ Coram) Se, Pbareferedd, ( ssn,

f acco]

annonces

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936
BorN: Dec. 30, 1913, Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1936; LL.B. (Univ.
of Connecticut).

marrigep: Evelyn Shimelman, June 8, 1936, Millerton, N.Y. cHipren: Peter
Michael, July 14, 1931; Andrew Howard, May 7, 1946; Mary Ann, May
18, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Peter Michael Zeman, '63.

occupation: Partner in law firm of Zeman, Daly & McNamara.

OFFICES HELD: 19§2 deputy chairman, Connecticut Commission on Civil Rights;
1958 chairman, Greater Hartford Chapter, United World Federalists,
vice-president, Greater Hartford Foreign Policy Association, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: The Royal Society of Arts.

SINCE leaving Harvard in June of 1936, I have had considerable
expericnce in the ficld of labor relations and civil rights, Prior to
1945, in addition to studying law, I spent several years working for
the trade union movement in both organizational and administrative
capacities, For the past fifteen years I have been engaged in the
practice of law with special emphasis on labor relations and work-
men’s compensation.

From 1949 to 1952, | was a member, and later deputy chairman,
of the Connecticut Commission on Civil Rights. During this period
I was chairman of the Law Enforcement Committee of the Com-
mission and responsible for the administration of the Connecticut
Fair Employment Practices Act and the Connecticut Public Ac-
commodations Act, For the past several years I have been active in

the local chapters of the United World Federalists and the Foreign
Policy Association.

BENEDICT FRANCIS ZIMMER, JR.

MAILING AppRESS: 6118 Sheridan, Chicago 4o, Ill.

[ 1580 ]

wee

os step strep Mo HOT
put aidnd! papel ;

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM ZIMMERMAN, II

  

HOME ADDRESS: 804 13th St., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Code 6430, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington 24, 1.C.
BorN: March g, 1914, Evanston, Ill.

PREPARED aT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Hl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: A.B. (George Washington Univ.), tooo
MARRIED: Isabel Edith Ryan, June 15, 1935, Swarthmore, Pa, campers: Wil-

liam, 4th, Dec. 26, 1936 (77. Barbara M, Lamarx, Feb. 7, 1959), Isabel Satan,
July 17, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Johnson Phelps Zimmerman, “41.

occupPaTION: Chemist, U.S. Government.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, 1943-59. president. tose at. tott-
56, local P.T.A.; member of board, Alexandria Community Welfare Coun:
cil, 1950-52; vice-president, Fairfax County Council of P.T.A.s to¢*-40

MEMBER OF: American Association of Geographers; Research Socwey of
America; International Union of Crystallography.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Preparation of High Purity Silver Chloride.” J 405 ve
1952; “Gallium Purification by Single Crystal Growth.” Scarace tip. twee.

“Preparation and Purification of Materials,” in Vol, Vi, Merbods of be.
perimental Physics, Academic Press, 1959.

HAVING left Harvard during my freshman year, I can now say
that it was probably one of the best things thar could have hap-
pened to me. It made me change from a spoiled sycophant and
playboy to a hardworking young man, I finally obtained my obe-
gree from George Washington University by going to night « hewd
over a period of fifteen years and then continued with some grahuste

work, also at night.

During the depression years, I worked as a photographer for the
Public Works Administration, then transferred to the Sol Cense ev 6
tion Service. In 1940 I tried my hand at selling bfe wnurane f
started at the Naval Research Laboratory in Scpeember, sags, be
as an analytical chemist and for the last twelve scare ae an inerry ares

[158s]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

research chemne, studving purification of materials and the mecha-
nisms of crystal growth,

Av with all of us, except for those born with a gold spoon in their
mouths, there have been times when we wondered where our next
real might come from, In even the most discouraging times, my
wife, with a never-failing optimism, has provided the needed sup-
port.

As can be seen from the informanon given earlicr, my principal
interests and efforts, outside of raising a family, have been centered
on doing what Ecould to improve the educational facilities in our
home county of Fairfac In the lave fifteen years, we have scen our
wheol pepulanon increave from approumately five thousand to
nearly sty thousand. In such a burgeoning area, it has been a real

problem to provide clasreom space for an additional four, five or
wt thousand students each year, My son. an honors graduate from
Swarthmore, togerher with ‘his wife, is now at Columbia completing
his third year of gratuice srudy and my daughter is a freshman at
a fine hetle Friends college in North Carolina.

Having spent a major part of my life working for the government,
Texpeet PE shall conninve unal Preach retirement age. Much of the
time, there «oa bck of deadhnes, with time for mature and con-
udered theught, which ina program of basic research most often
leads to results which are sativfving to the individual and add a
Little bit to the sum total of human know ledge. If I have time, I

would hike to spend at least part of my later years in teaching. This,
1 feel, ts ene way that men, particularly professionals, can help to
perpetuate what we hke to call “the American way of life.”

[ 1582 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD ANTHONY ZRAICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 81 80th St., Brooklyn 9, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 303 Fifth Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

BorN: April 8, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936; LL.B. 1939-

marriED: Lorraine Boutross, June 29, 1947, New York, N.Y. cHitore~: Pamela,
March 24, 1948; Patricia, March 29, 1949; Edward Anthony, Jr. May tt,
1953; Karen, Sept. 24, 1957.

occupation: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, R. G. Hadad Foundation, since 1946; president, 1947+
50, trustee, St. Nicholas Young Men’s Association; president, 1954, member
of board, 1951-53, 1955-60, Salaam Club of New York; treasurer, 1955-57.

president, board of trustees, 1958, 1959, St. Mary’s Orthodox Church.

AFTER a rather hectic time trying to make a living at law, the
war came along just in time to nick any success in the bud. Served
in the Air Force, ending up for approximately two vears as a group
intelligence officer in heavy bombardment in Italy (the Fifteenth
Air Fo orce, which did as much as any to bring the war to an end).
The Air Force did one thing for me, it convinced me to go on my
own and not to work for anybody. Consequently, I reopened un
law in 1946, and have not been sorry. Not that I do more than
barely manage to support my family (and it’s not a small onc), but
the law gives me a great deal of satisfaction, and has also allowed
me to travel rather widely, abroad and locally.

I think I have stayed rather conservative in all respecty and |
remain a dyed-in-the-wool Republican, Though rather strongly
active in the Orthodox Church, I still believe chat no intclhyent per-
son can be intolerant of any other.

My marriage has been a good one, and I am blessed by the fact

[ 1583 ]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

that our children are spread in ages — from twelve to three — so
that we have almost at all times had a “young one” at home. The
kids, bless them, are the biggest joy in life.

Still drink as much as ever, remain interested in all sports —
although as a spectator in all except fishing and bowling — enjoy
conversation immensely. Can’t stand “movies” or the “stage” — yet
enjoy television which doesn’t insult one’s intelligence and which
you can turn off at will.

Still look every year for a strong Harvard football team.

JEROME SEYMOUR ZURKOW

 

HOME ADDRESS: 450 West End Ave., New York 24, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Zurkow, Jobrack & Kranzler, 165 W. 46th St., New York 36,
NY.

BorN: February 3, 1916, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, Bronx, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1936. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1936; LLB.
(Yale), 1939.
Maraigp: Ruth Hilde Somer, May 14, 1950, New York, N.Y.

turer in Law, Yale Law School,
MEMBER OF: Inwood Country Club.

PpusLications: Book reviews, Vale Law Journal.

occupation: Lawyer, partner of Zurkow, Jobrack & Kranzler, Visiting Lec-

AT College, 1 had made up my mind to be a lawyer without really
knowing what that meant beyond the immediate necessity of sev-
eral years of hard study at law school, Though enrolled at Har-
vard Law School, a last minute change brought me instead to New
Haven. I must say, shamefacedly for these records, that my apostasy
has never been regretted. Law school life was cloistered only in
the sense of complete absorption in the concentrated activity at

[ 1584]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hand. Those were years of stimulating exposure to qurk trims sat
profound scholarship, with new books and ideas in constane fre
across my desk as Law Journal Article and Book Revew Eibroe
From 1939 to 1942, I served as law scerctary to one of the wre
judges of our State bench, followed by a long sant any the Nevers
with military intelligence and with the Judge Advacste Cncrals
Department. Since 1946, I have been in private Law pratee.

Recent years, profession-wise, have been largely contined tes real
estate and corporate activity, including many of the new by -evparted
techniques in sy ndication and. sale-leaschach, which bevame the
subject of the first law school seminar of its hind, mututed by me
several years ago upon joining the Yale Law School ficuley asa
visiting lecturer in law. Teaching, concurrently with ative bw
practice, has required a revaluation of many thingy bong taken fue
granted. The experience of facing, cach week, the thallenye ef
fresh, intelligent young minds has been healthy and row anhing

I no longer indulge the perilous pleasure of utting on the V se
side of the football stadium and vociferously rooang for Plarvard
but do manage an occasional visit to Boston to renew bf Plarvard
ties. Both my wife (better known as concert punt Pbhke Sane)
and I are happy victims of wanderlust. P have acquired from hee a
love of music and she from me a passion for “contemporary paintueg,
the latter solely on a “don't-do-it-voursclf.” collectue’s base Fae
an ardent, ever frustrated, cight-handicap golfer, my wife a rend.
top seed grower and gardener.

HYMAN WILDTAM ZUSSMEAN

 

HOME Apowrss: ¢ Canterbury Rul. Svarwdele, NOY.
orice apoavse: Geigy UInchserrral Chern sh Apdiey, SY

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

porN: March 19, 1915, Boston, Mass.
prepareD at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1937. DEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1936(37); A.M.,
1938.

marerigD: Bernice Brickman, March 17, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Mark
Stephen, Dec. 2, 1943; Robert Lawrence, June 6, 1948.

occupation: Chemist; president, Geigy Industrial Chemicals Division.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Alrose Chemical Company, 1947-54; director,
Chemical Specialties Manufacturers Association, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Chemists’ Club, New York; American Chemical Society; New
York Academy of Sciences; American Textile Chemists; Colorists’ Asso-
ciation; National Association of Corrosion Engineers; Society of Cosmetic
Chemists; Harvard Club of Westchester, etc.

puBLicaTions: Articles on ultraviolet stabilizers for plastics, fluorescent agents,
surface-active chemicals, anti-bacterial agents, cosmetics and detergents,

coordination chemistry, carotenoids of the chicken retina, in various
technical journals.

AN optimist with a strong streak of fatalism, I generally hold that
this is the best of all possible worlds, but in weaker moments I have
considered how thin is the line between Pangloss and Job. I have
been fortunate in many ways.

My bride of these many years is a sensitive lady of great percep-
tion (ie. she sees through me), tempered with understanding and
tolerance. Our two sons are a source of pride, although I note with
some disbelief that they beat me at chess with increasing frequency
and are often better informed on baseball, the Civil War and existen-
tialism, to name just a few subjects.

I have been fortunate at my work. This may not have been obvi-
ous when I left the Harvard Graduate School in 1938, apathetically
abandoning a career in biology for a job selling premiums and adver-
tising, nor four years later when I returned to scientific work, with
a very considerable reduction in pay. The next year was spent on
pharmaceutical chemical research, mainly extracting female sex hor-
mones from thousands of gallons of pregnant mare urine. Chemistry
was stimulating, but I was becoming terribly self-conscious about
the unremovable stench. With a new sense of direction at last, I
sought fresher, less odoriferous fields, where with devotion and
application I rose to the post of research director for a small com-

pany in industrial chemistry — then began moving into sales work
again. For the past eleven years, I have been associated with the
American branch of an ancient and distinguished Swiss chemical
organization. Having attained a very modest degree of material
success, I am now an armchair chemist-salesman-administrator, still

[ 1586 |

257TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
working hard but deriving some little sansfacaon from what Tho yw
is a useful and certainly challenging life.
After years of moving back and forth acrows the country ute,
we have (after a fashion), settled down in suburtas, until the ben +
are ready to leave the nest. My work, too, is mercaungly sedentary,
but with not infrequent visits abroad. Taving isn’t post meov crower,
so I don’t mind slowing down. In retrospect, | suppose [hase o«'
lowed. The aspirations and ideals have worn well, the esninven
has largely gone and there is still some hope for wistom an the
golden years. Now, as I reflect, I fecl (while Po did't at the tree,
perhaps, appreciate its full worth) I was fortunate to share Plars vests
great traditions.

