*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Var Cl

\

ao 1937
it Anniversary -

Ny

 

CAMBRIDGE
printed for the Class

I962

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1937

Records of the Class

BRENT MAXWELL ABEL

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Alvarado Rd., Berkeley 5, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: McCutchen, Doyle, Brown & Enersen, 601 California Sc, San
Francisco, Calif.

BORN: May 6, 1916, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 19373 LL.B. 1940.

MarRRIED: Georgiana R, Powell, May 17, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. cHrupren:
Brent Maxwell, Jr., Oct. 24, 1948; Molly D., Nov. 21, 1952.

occuPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Captain, USNR (retired); member, 1954-60, chairman, 1960,
Committee on Administration of Justice, chairman, Conference of State
Bar Delegates, 1961, State Bar of California; lecturer in law, University
of California, since 1955; trustee, Phillips Exeter Academy, since 1959;
president, San Francisco Branch, American Cancer Society, 1960, Harvard
Law School Association of Northern California, 1960, director, San
Francisco Republican Alliance, 1960; treasurer, 1961, secretary, 1962, Bar
Association of San Francisco.

MEMBER OF: Pacific Union Club; Berkeley Tennis Club (president, 1955),
Harvard Club of New York; State Bar of California; American Bar Associa-
tion of San Francisco; American Judicature Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles on legal subjects.

MY chronology indicates three years of Harvard Law School, one of
prewar law practice in New York, five of the Navy, and sixteen of
law practice in San Francisco.

Compared to most, my Navy experience was thoroughly reward-
ing. There were three years of sca duty in the Atlantic sandwiched
between a year of shore dury at the beginning i in Corpus Christ
Texas, and another at Minneapolis at the end. On account of the
seniority acquired from taking naval science as an undergraduate,
my sea duty included responsibilities which I found terrifying, chal-
Ienging, or funny by turns, and sometimes all three at once. For
example, my first hour afloat was spent in simultancously ayuming
command of a subchaser, an escort unic of four ocher subchasers,
and a fifteen-ship convoy of tankers, all sailing at nighe from che

(1)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

blacked-out port of Curagao to meet another convoy in mid-ocean.
To this day I do not understand how this expedition came off with-
out mishap. Later on I commanded a destroyer escort, USS Buckley,
which achieved particular distinction on account of her successful
ramming and sinking of the surfaced German submarine U-66, in
the central Atlantic, after a brisk struggle, which included hand-to-
hand fighting. The Buckley had no casualties, although about half
the submarine’s crew was lost, and we took the others prisoner. The
Buckley later received a Navy Unit Commendation, which still gives
me a warm sense of accomplishment.

Our postwar move to California was loyally accepted by a wife
seasoned by the Navy to frequent changes of scene. The move was
undoubtedly a key decision. We have loved being Californians, Our
children were both born here and, aside from vacation trips east (to
Wyoming, for instance), have known nothing else.

Professionally, I have been with the same firm since we came west.
We have fifty-four lawyers, of whom fourteen are in our Los
Angeles office. My work is largely in the field of wills, taxes and so-
called estate planning, but I also have a fair amount of other practice
of a business character. I have spent a substantial amount of time on
the management of the firm since becoming a partner in 1954, and
particularly in the recruitment of topflight young talent across the
country. For the past four years, the planning of our new offices
has been a major and fascinating interest.

I have spent a great deal of time on the work of the organized bar.
My particular interest has been legislation concerning the adminis-
tration of justice. I have shared responsibility for drafting a number
of bills related to this subject (aimed at simplifying and expediting
court procedures, etc.) which are now a part of California law. This
year (1961) I have been chairman of the Conference of State Bar

Delegates, a representative body of four hundred or more lawyers
from all over California who meet annually to consider proposals
for legislation in this field. Currently I am treasurer of the Bar As-
sociation of San Francisco, an office which, if traditional democratic
processes are followed, will lead to the presidency in 1964.

The other things which take me out of the house more often than
they should are Exeter, the work of the American Cancer Society,
an occasional teaching chore at the University of California, and some
light politicking as a Republican. The opportunity to serve as a trus-
tee of Exeter, which I have been doing since 1959, has been particu-
larly fascinating. It has brought me east three times a year and has

[2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

helped me to keep my own children’s educational sights suitably
elevated.

Now thirteen and nine, the children absorb most of our domestic
energies. We keep an old cruiser in the Sacramento River delta, to
which we retire for weekends all year round, other commitments
permitting. This is an aspect of California life about which most
visitors and many natives never hear, but it provides us with a re-
juvenating change of tempo and climate. The Sacramento delta
contains literally a thousand miles of navigable sloughs, rivers and
other waterways. To anchor in the shadow of a tall oak tree on a
levee, while the sun sets and the kids swim in the slough and we broil
a steak in the cockpit — that, gentlemen, is living. This may not be
educating the children in the conventional subjects, but we think
it is giving them something else of value. |

And now, let’s get on to the next twenty-five years. I am not con-
scious that any particular milestone has been reached. If I have any
opportunities to change direction in the future, I hope it will be
toward some form of public service. The next two decades promise
to present problems too complex to permit standing on the sidelines.

GURDON ROBINSON ABELL

HOME aApprEss: “Vinland,” Perrin Road, West Woodstock, Conn.; Star Route,
South Woodstock, Conn. (mail).

OFFICE AppRESs: AVCO-Everett Research Laboratory, Everett, Mass.

BorN: April 23, 1916, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Poughkeepsie High School, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937(38).

MarrigD: Anne Catherine Carew, April 7, 1956, Rome, N.Y.

OCCUPATION: Senior research scientist and member of senior staff, AVCO-
Everett Research Laboratory.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers (and professional groups thereof);
Mount Mansfield Ski Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Sundry technical papers.

THE Twentieth Report found me a happy government scientist
with a new wife. I soon found out that titles and responsibility are
no substitutes for money when supporting a family, and followed
a host of my friends who had left government service for the 50-
100% higher salaries of industry. Incidentally, it might be that this
loss of scientific personnel by the Services is the reason we can spend
so much on defense and get so little. Anyway, I lucked into a fasci-
nating job as number one electronischer in a research laboratory

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

near Boston, working in the new field of high-temperature gas
dynamics — missile re-entry, nuclear fusion, space propulsion, exotic
ower generation and all that.

Anne and I have a farm in Connecticut and an apartment in Arling-
ton, share a ski lodge in Stowe, and sail out of Marblehead. Be-
tween times, I have visited many curious places while chasing mis-
siles, and Anne has picked up her A.B. at Boston University. (Quite
a five years! )

SAMUEL ADAMS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 461, R.R. 4, Terre Haute, Ind.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937.

Marrizb: Sibyl Jane Mehaffy, Oct. 5, 1940, Little Rock, Ark. cumpren: Zabdiel
Boylston, Dec. 10, 1942; Mitchell L., Sept. 23, 1944.

HARVARD SON: Zabdiel Boylston Adams, 65.

HARVARD BROTHER: Zabdiel Boylston Adams, Jr., ’31 (deceased).

occupation: Proprietor, Cottage Herb business (starting January, 1962).

MEMBER OF: Terre Haute Country Club.

FIRST of all, I would like to acknowledge Gorham Brigham’s ex-
pression of “thanks from all of you and himself” for my eighteen
and a half years as Treasurer of the Class with a “you're very
welcome.” I really got a great kick out of it and much satisfaction.
Judging from the various treasurers’ reports of other Classes,
made accessible to me by the Secretary, I feel the job was adequate
in that the figures seemed to remain black — thanks to the help of
all of you. I am delighted to see that the figures are still that way
and that I’ve joined Bob Holcombe in his position of emeritus —
knowing full well that the positions of Secretary and Treasurer
are in good hands.

My next monetary gesture in Harvard’s direction came about
when I was asked to “chair” the local effort for the Program.
There turned out to be only eight—too small for organization,
a bit heavy for one — but I took it on as a solitary effort, anyway.
I thoroughly enjoyed surpassing a quota that was one-third too
high in dollars and participation. The amazing part of this experi-
ence was that I only knew one of them (and he never did budge).
None had been back to Cambridge in years, and the gencral
response was, “How much do you need?” One contributor changed
in a matter of seconds to eight times his original offer, As is often

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the case, the generosity of one man makes the difference between
a good job and an outstanding effort.

Our two boys, Zab and Mitchell, have done very well in school
and in their various activities. Both won scholarships to secondary
schools. Zab elected to stay home at the local high school and
Mitchell chose to go to Western Reserve Academy in Hudson,
Ohio. Zab is a freshman this year at Harvard, and Mitchell hopes
to be a member of the Class of 66. Sibyl and I have pointed out
the pros and cons of their various choices in life, let them decide on
their own — “provided the costs are not great!!””—and let them
live with it. All on the basis that even parents don’t know all the
answers. It has seemed to work out well and given each of them
independence and a sense of responsibility. They seem to be pretty
well trained for “sliding down the razor-blade of Life.”

The problems facing a so-called “executive just resigned” at-
tempting to re-enter the “market-place,” coupled with serious fam-
ily illnesses, are many. I discovered, however, that this combina-
tion of things is not insurmountable nor so tough after all.

After realizing that in the usual channels of employment the
members of the Class of ’37 are really considered “old men,” I took
off on the usual paths. Most of these efforts had good merit, but
they didn’t work. The present herb effort Sibyl and I have looked
into for a number of years now, and we feel confident that this
avocation can be worked into a profitable vocation. As of 62, we
are going to put on the market nine hardy, popular, perennial
culinary herb plants— “Fragrant, Flavorful and of beguiling
Beauty” — by the hundreds, then by the thousands, and so on. We
have a grower equipped to handle this on a mail-order basis. By
degrees, as a supplementary effort, probably on a local scale only,
we'll get into dried herbs and the various specialties of the Cottage
Herb business.

To conform, then, to instructions: “Be as concise as you can—
but mail in fast,” I shall take it upon myself to refer people inter-
ested to past Reports and avoid repeating any of my “Life since the

spring of 1937.”

HENRY MICHAEL ADLIS

HOME AppRESS: 12 Burns St., Lynn, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: 610 Summer St., Lynn, Mass.
BORN: Jan, 4, 1917, Lynn, Mass.

[5]

HARVARD CLASS | |

prepareD AT: Lynn Classical School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1937(38).

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Michael Joseph Adam Adlis, *32.

occupation: Real estate; owner; buying, selling and managing; exclusive fran-
chise, Mary Carter Paints, North Shore, Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: B.P.O.E.; Thompson Engineering Club; Pioneer Club; Harvard
Club; Business Men’s Club of Lynn; Massachusetts State Bar Association;
Lithuanian Social Fraternity; Harvard Varsity Club; McDonough Square
Associates; Lynn Retail Liquor Dealers Association, New England
Beverage Association; Lynn Liquor Dealers’ Association; etc.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-authored three sports juvenile novels with Robert S. Play-
fair, °36.

TO henscratch one’s life for unprivate review is an awkward privi-
lege. Omission is a sign of laziness, modesty unfair to Class record,
and wishful thinking is bad reporting. Harvard self-portraits, self-
illumined, are of necessity slanted, sometimes suspect and often in-
nocently comical. The canvas shows through the Harvard paint no
matter how smugly applied. But just to shake Secretary Bulldog-
Smith off the seat of my pants, I will modestly finger-daub a brief
self-portrait. |

After three years at Harvard Law School, I flunked the physical
for the Army, although I had a certificate for commission as second
lieutenant from Harvard ROTC. As next best thing to do, I gave
up three barroom businesses and took a job as an industrial engineer
for Naval Propulsion Gears at the General Electric Company.

Right away they sent me back to Harvard for nighttime, state ex-
tension, industrial courses. I landed right back at old Sever Hall.
In the room where I studied the metaphysics of Faust and the pure
reason of Math Il, I spent three full lessons on the design of a better
monkey wrench. I also found out how to shave with least fatigue
and the most economical ways of toasting odd numbers of bread
slices. And all this time the nostalgic airs of the rehearsing Glee
Club wafted through the classrooms. I always loved the Harvard |
Glee Club.

Anyway, I plowed through Gilbreth’s motion study, production
planning and control, industrial management, advanced tool design,
and other allied classic subjects. After graduating cum laude from
the design of monkey wrenches, I was sure my school days were
over. I was wrong. The U.S. Navy enrolled me in still another
course, on “factory methods.” I liked this course because it was on
company time and premises.

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When the war ended I was purchaser of tools and in charge of
factory layout at Gear Plant No. 1, General Electric Company. I
thanked them for my stay and went back to my three saloons. In a
saloon nobody discusses political, social, or religious convictions un-
less they are prepared for enmity, so I pass this topic. They say
“there is a curse on saloon money,” so I advanced into real estate.
Lately, with my brother, “Big Mike,” Harvard ’32, 1 took up a
franchise for Mary Carter Paints, the biggest and fastest-expanding
paint company in the world. Our main outlet is at 36 Union Street,
Lynn, Massachusetts. Be smarter, buy Carter!

HERBERT MONTWID AGOOS

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Kennedy Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFicE appRESS: Allied Kid Co., 209 South St., Boston 11, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Ruth Samuels, Dec. 28, 1948, Boston, Mass. cyHiLpreN: Edward
Emerson, April 15, 1950; Katherine Florence, Dec. 1, 1951, Peter S. A.
Oct. 31, 1953; Julie Alexandra, Nov. 4, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Julian Elihu Agoos, ’4o.

OCCUPATION: Leather tanning; division manager, Allied Kid Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Kid Leather Guild, 1952-57, New England Shoe &
Leather Association, 1960, Allied Kid Company; president, trustee, Founda-
tion for Character Education; member, corporation, Institute of Con-
temporary Art, Boston; member, board of overseers, Design Division,
Institute of Contemporary Art; member, board of overseers, Shady Hill
School, Cambridge, Mass.; member, Visiting Committee, Busch-Reisinger
Museum, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

IT is flattering to know that despite an adequate supply of bad writ-
ing pouring daily from the presses, and although class lives of variety
and freshness seem less likely than ever in 1962, the Secretary at least
awaits our prose with bated breath. Is this sufficient readership? If
you have lived most of your adult life during the past twenty-five
years, it is hard to escape the feeling that you and your contempora-
ries have shared more than your predecessors the same pressures
toward uniformity of experience, conformity of thought, and the
pervasive anxiety produced by world-wide tension.

Following graduation and a leather tannery apprenticeship in Wil-
mington, Delaware, memorable only for a close call with anthrax, I
returned to Boston in 1941 to the headquarters of the Allied Kid

[7]

HARVARD CLASS O

eleven-year-old son who has committed to memory the statistics for
the past fifty years of the Baseball Register, and a ten-year-old
daughter still unreconciled to being a female, I find myself becoming
equally inept at soccer, baseball, football, skiing, hockey, basketball,
and swimming, to name a few. The two younger ones are just ap-
proaching the barrier.

Twenty-five years ago most of the Class of ’37 must have looked
forward to the long-range future with confidence and excitement.
Today the near possibilities seem grimmer. Sull a few prospects
close by remain to lighten the gloom and lift the heart, not the least
of which is anticipating our coming Reunion!

EDWARD HAMBLIN AHRENS, JR.

HOME aApprEss: 3 Leonard Rd., Bronxville, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rockefeller Institute, New York, N.Y.
BorN: May 21, 1915, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB, magna cum laude, 1937; MD.,
cum laude, 1941.

marrieD: Bonnie Fobes, Sept. 12, 1940, St. Paul, Minn. cHitpreN: Sandra
Huntington, July 21, 1942; Peter Forsyth, Jan. 22, 1944; Burgess Keith
(girl), Sept. 8, 1946.

occupation: Professor and member, Rockefeller Institute, department chair-
man, clinical investigation and biochemical research.

MEMBER OF: Association of American Physicians; American Society for Clinical
Investigation; American Society of Biological Chemists and other scien-
tific societies; Phi Beta Kappa; Practitioners Society; Onteora Club;
Bronxville Field Club (all New York).

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous scientific papers in fields of chemistry and medicine.

THE simple facts are easily listed, it’s the reckoning which is tricky.
For me college was followed by four years at Harvard Medical
School, then a year’s internship in pediatrics in New York City
leading to four military service years. What seems best in all this
was the all-pervading sense of inquiry in the faculty of the medical
school, which certainly must have aroused in me subconscious
desires to find out how people stay well, rather than to learn
only to treat their ills; a wonderful wife acquired during medical
school, a hearty respect for babies’ and children’s recuperative
powers; and in my capacity as medical intelligence officer, which
required much writing and editing, all silly pride in authorship was

[10]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

beaten out of me, a loss I have not regretted in subsequent years as
scientist and report-writer.

In 1946 I decided to try my hand at medical research at the
Rockefeller Institure (New York City) and have not stopped trying
since. I’ve had my own department there since 1952, and have re-
cently moved into a fine new laboratory which accommodates our
twenty scientists and technicians in spacious comfort and tasteful
surroundings arranged through the artistry of a skillful mother-wife
team — and only a few feet away, the small specialized hospital ward
where our clinical observations are carried out. When friends ask
what I do, it seems simplest to say I work on “cholesterol.” This
seems to satisfy the questioner, who firmly believes he knows what
that means — and a furtive look comes into his eye as he reaches
for another devilled egg. Actually, my interests center on the bio-
chemistry of fatty compounds (of which cholesterol is only one of
many), and in studies of the body’s ways of assimilating, using and
disposing of these compounds. Due to recent technical advances, in
which we also have a stake, our difficult field has opened up in a
most exciting way, giving us reason to think we shall soon under-
stand much better such processes as arteriosclerosis and diabetes.
The “polyunsaturated fat” bit is one of our contributions, and our
precise method of feeding patients became your Metrecal. I'll be
working in this fatty field all the rest of my days, which is my an-
swer to friends who ask in astonishment, “Are you still working on
cholesterol?”

Amazingly, scientists travel a fair amount in line of duty. Bonnie
and I have been fortunate in making several trips to Europe, one of
which was a Sabbatical year with the three children in Swiss schools,
we parents in London. This was surely our most rewarding year —
touring, new languages and customs, independence for all, skiing in
Austria for Christmas, Easter hollies in Italy, and for Bonnie and me
a London flat backing on Hyde Park, close to concerts, theatres, good
food, museums and countless excursions in that history-packed and
beautiful countryside.

Our children are rapidly growing up and away, and we see the
day coming when we shall move into New York and smaller quar-
ters. An old summer house in the Catskills, two and a half hours’
drive from New York City, will satisfy for horticultural experiments
and entertainment of friends, and keep us close to the mountains,
tennis and skiing. I think our London year makes us long for city
living after fifty. What if the closets are too small?

[rr]

HARVARD CLASS O

WILLIAM TYLER ALDRICH, JR.

HOME abprESs: 671 44th St., Los Alamos, N. Mex.

oFFice apprEss: Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, P.O. Box 1663, Los Alamos,
N. Mex.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1915, Brantford, Ont, Canada.

prepareD AT: Wilbraham Academy, Wilbraham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B, (Boston Univ.), 1940.

marriep: Mary R. Bausman, Nov. 15, 1944, Chicopee, Mass. CHILDREN: William
Tyler, 3d, Nov. 7, 1947; Charles Linton, March 5, 1954.

occupation: Scientific research; group leader and staff member, Los Alamos
Scientific Laboratory.

OFFICES HELD: Member, New Mexico State Central Republican Committee,
1951-60, Los Alamos County Republican Central Committee, 1951-60;
probate judge, Los Alamos County, 1953-57; member, P.T.A. Board, 1960-
61; member, board of directors, Los Alamos Heart Association, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: V.F.W.; Del Brazo Associates.

AFTER graduating from Boston University Law School, I entered
the U.S. Army by “invitation.” Served five years with Provost
Marshal and Military Intelligence. Saw service on Okinawa and in
Korea. Returned to the U.S. and spent one dull year working for
Springfield Fire and Marine Insurance Company. Joined the AEC
in 1947 and moved to Los Alamos. Joined the Los Alamos Scientific
Laboratory in 1951. While the weapons work has slowed some-
what, there are other fascinating projects, such as Rover (nuclear
rocket propulsion) and Sherwood (controlled thermonuclear re-
actions) to take up the slack.

Los Alamos is a town of about 13,000 population and an ideal
place to live and bring up children. In winter you can skate, ski,
play tennis and golf within a space of five miles and all on the same
day! Within twenty miles are several Indian pueblos, where life
goes on as it did hundreds of years ago. We formed a group last
year and built an Olympic-size outdoor swimming pool. Since my
elder boy is more at home in than out of the water, this has been a
popular project.

We miss New England in many ways but are really quite content
with job, church, choir participation, and life in general.

FRANCIS POST ALLEN, JR.

HOME Appress: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

orice appress: E. & F. King & Co. Inc, 640 Pleasant St., Norwood, Mass,
BORN: June 26, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937-

MARRIED: Virginia Richmond, Feb. 28, 1941, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Virginia, Jan. 14, 1942; Peter Flanders, Feb. 8, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Chemical distributor, president and treasurer, FE. & F. King &
Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Incorporator, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, director, The
Frederika Home.

MEMBER OF: Chemical Club of New England, Inc., New England Water

Works Association; Dedham Country and Polo Club; Buzzards Yacht
Club.

THE prospect of covering twenty-five years of one’s life since
graduation from Harvard, in “concise” fashion, is rather frightening

©
until you realize how very fast these years have passed and how

little has really happened.

Summarizing my business career — and after all, whose business
career doesn’t have to be the most important part of one’s life in
these days? — my timetable would read as follows: graduation —
real estate business with Meredith & Grew, Inc., in Boston for three
years — called to active duty in the Navy, October, 1940 — five
years of anti-submarine patrol and minesweeping in the Atlantic and
Pacific concluded in 1945 with rank of commander, USNR and no
Purple Hearts — brief stint of real estate development work prior
to my affiliation with E. & F. King & Company, Inc., in 1949.

After working my head off for this fine old company for ten
years, I was able to purchase control of the company in 1959 and
am now serving as its president and treasurer. We represent many
of the major chemical producers companies as distributors of a
complete line of acids, alkalies and solvents to New England in-
dustry. We have our own sales force, large bulk storage facilities
in each of two warehouses and operate our own fleet of trucks.
Needless to say, we have few dull moments, but I am quick to say
I find the whole experience both challenging and fascinating.

The tremendous amount of time which such a job requires has
meant a sharp curtailment of many fun things in life, such as being
with one’s family, traveling, reading, sailing, skiing, golf and tennis.
We still spend some time at Cape Cod every summer. We've had
a few winter vacations in Florida and Bermuda and took the
children to Europe last summer, so probably I shouldn't complain
too much.

I am still proud to have gone to Harvard, continue to enjoy the

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

many friends I knew in college and am looking forward to “oy,
Twenty-fifth” with a great deal of enthusiasm.

JOSEPH ALLEN

HOME apprEss: 46 Willow St., Southport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Duke Endowment, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N.Y,

BORN: July 27, 1915, Oswego, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

marrieD: Margaret Bigelow, Dec. 21, 1940, Jaffrey, N.H. cumpren: Margetta,
Nov. 7, 1942; Hollis, June 2, 1945; Peter Bigelow, April 3, 1947; William
Howard, Feb. 1, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Howard Hollis Allen, °32; John Hollis Bloombergh, °3q.

occupation: Assistant to the chairman of the board.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Pequot Library, Southport, Conn.,
Unquowa School, Fairfield, Conn.; member, Scholarship Committee, Har-
vard Club of New York; member of a sub-committee of the College
Entrance Examination Board on Sponsored Scholarship Services and Rela-
tions, member governing board, Cooperative Bureau for Teachers.

MEMBER OF: Pequot Yacht Club, Southport, Conn.; Harvard Club of New
York; Rockefeller Center Luncheon Club, New York.

THINGS have certainly changed a lot since 1937 — at least for the
Allen family. The family didn’t even exist then. Now we are six
and will become seven with the addition of a son-in-law a few days
before Reunion week. About the only thing that hasn’t changed is
the political situation. Remember, we had a Harvard man and
Democrat in the White House in 1937. Now we have a Harvard
man and a Democrat in the White House. In fact, we’re still
priming that poor little old beat-up pump. I wonder how long we
can go on paying people not to do things and continue to grow
stuff we not only can’t eat but can hardly afford to store.

Life for us changed abruptly when we decided to move to New
York’s ex-urbia. Back in 1954, aspirations to climb the industrial
ladder to tycoonship gave way to a long-time repressed interest in
education. Education is now getting to be big business. Recent
figures suggest that America is really waking up to the importance
of man’s knowledge and its dissemination to our small fry. I read
a few days ago that we now spend as much on education as we do
on smoking and drinking.

Be that as it may, it is extremely interesting to be so closely
associated with education and have an opportunity to visit about

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thirty-five colleges across the country each year as administrator of
the Alfred P. Sloan Scholarship Program. Through this project,
the Foundation offers partial aid to some 484 undergraduates most
of whom are incredibly able and responsible young men. They’re
just like we were! We are so filled with stories of juvenile delin-
quency and so over-concerned with our children who don’t seem
to measure up to our distinguished accomplishments when we were
teen-aged, I believe we overlook the fact of life that there is a
tremendous generation of kids coming along who will, I am confi-
dent, solve the dreadful problems inherited from us. Have any of

your kids, in the midst of a bawling out, ever said to you, “Okay,

so you're perfect?” I know you are and so do you and your wife,
but, after all, how can junior know? Maybe he’s stupid.

More seriously, life proceeds apace with family well and ap-
parently happy. All hands await with bated breath renewing your
acquaintance at our 25th gam in June of 1962.

[The Secretary has learned that as of April 1 Allen will join the
Duke Endowment, where his duties will consist of helping to coordi-

nate various programs involving higher education, hospital and medi-
cal services, etc. |

RICHARD HAAS ALSCHULER

HOME ADDRESS: 375 Hawthorne Ave., Glencoe, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bureau of Secretaries, 165 E. Ontario St., Chicago 11, Ill.
BORN: Aug. 12, 1915, ‘Chicago, IIL.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, IIL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937:

MarRieD: Emily H. Kirchheimer, March 17, 1942, Chicago, Ill. cHitpreN

William Richard, Oct. 18, 1945; David Michael, Oct. 15, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Samuel Alschuler, Jr., ’33.

OCCUPATION: President, Bureau of Secretaries.

OFFICES HELD: President, Couples Club, North Shore Congregation Israel, 1947;
packmaster, 1957-58, pack chairman, 1958-59, Pack 27, North Shore Area
Council, Boy Scouts; member, board of directors, Chicago Chaprer,
American Jewish Committee, since 1959, Glencoe Community Chest,

since 1960, member, board of trustees, Chicago Planetarium Society, 1961;
director of several corporations.

MEMBER OF: Lake Shore Country Club; American Civil Liberties Union; Art

Institute of Chicago; Independent Voters of Hlinois; North Shore Human
Relations Committee. .

HOW many of us are doing what we expected to do when we
graduated? Maybe the pre-meds stayed in medicine but most of us

[15]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

were more flexible. For example, I never went into government sery.
ice as I planned, whereas many Harvard graduates who trained for
professions now work for the government.

College was great, but it was never intended as a prep school for
the clothing business. College taught us to organize our ideas in
logical written form but clothing factories are filled with hard-
w orking people who are not interested in written proposals or
logical rhetoric. I developed a few ulcers before | learned that most
people (including myself) are more emotional than rational, and re-
spond more readily to indirect stimuli than to the “plain and simple
truth.” The ulcers disqualified me for military service, but after

struggling through years of what is pleasantly known as “collective

bargaining’ > I achieved an excellent modus vivendi with the union
representatives. Their business agents were honest, dedicated,
and underpaid, the same as I was, so mutual respect and understand-
ing blossomed into genuine friendliness that made it increasingly dif-
ficult for us to drive hard bargains with each other.

People in the clothing industry always complain about business,
but I had plenty of reason to complain. After twenty years even |
got tired of hearing me complain, so I left the clothing industry and
started a service business of my own. My industrial experience is now
being applied to office work. We analyze typing operations for all
kinds of offices, determine realistic production standards, and estab-
lish compensation on a piece rate basis. Most offices are so loosely
operated that we can save them money while earning some for our-
selves, as well as the girls who do the work. I’m happy with my
small business, but I'll be happier when it becomes less small! |

The hobbies pursued while pursuing a bride were supplanted by
hobbies pursuant to catching my wife. Before we married we both
seemed to enjoy sailing, tennis, and camping. I guess I would still
enjoy all those hobbies if I hadn’t sold the boat in favor of our
house, forsaken tennis for golf, and decided not to be a pal when
our boys go camping. Now I’m trying to figure how to achieve the
physical fitness desired by President Kennedy, without too much
exercise.

Although I believe in the two-party system, I treasure the privilege
of being politically independent. I like to think both parties will se-
lect their best candidates in order to attract my support, and I’ve
got to keep thinking that way to justify my independence.

We've taken vacations in most parts of the country except New

[ 16 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

England and we anticipate coming to Boston with our boys for the
Class Reunion.

GRAHAM GILLETTE ALVORD

HOME ApprEss: Pepperell Road, Kittery Point, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Portsmouth High School, Portsmouth, N.H.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1916, Weymouth, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1937-1939. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937(39);
ED.M. (Univ. of New Hampshire), 1955.

MARRIED: Jean Drake, March 17, 1945, Winchester, Mass. cHILpREN: John
Graham, Jan. 3, 1946; Betsy Sargent, April 24, 1947; Christopher Drake,
Dec. 16, 1948; Joseph Macdonald, Feb. 16, 1951; Andrew Aiken, April 5,
1954; Graham Lovejoy, Aug. 31, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Education: guidance counselor.

OFFICES HELD: Executive officer, LST 133, 1943-44; vice-president and director,
Frederick Gas Company, 1950-61; president, New England Drama Fes-
tival Council, 1956-57, Portsmouth Teachers Association, 1953-54, New
Hampshire Lay Preachers Fellowship, 1958-61, trustee, Rice Public Library,
Kittery, Maine, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: New Hampshire Lay Preachers Fellowship; First Congregational
Church of Kittery Point; Seacoast Symphonette; Seacoast Savoyards;
New Hampshire Guidance Council; American Personnel & Guidance
Association; New Hampshire Education Association; Portsmouth Teachers
Association; numerous P.T.A.’s.

FROM early years my aim has been to live a simple life of high
quality. Although distrusting ambition, I once found myself saying
that I wanted to be the best unambitious man in town.

I ended college with the idea of teaching economics in public
secondary schools, and proceeded to spend two interesting years in
Washington in the gas business, hoping to gain practical experience.
Four years in the Navy followed that, gave me much excitement
and once or twice a sense of achievement and worth I had lacked
before. When the war ended I was delighted to settle down with
my new bride into a blissful seventeen years of family life. My
children number six: boy, girl, then four boys — all healthy, comely,
affectionate and studious: in short, paragons.

Professionally, I have followed a nondescript career as teacher
and recently guidance counselor, all in the same place, Portsmouth
(New Hampshire) High School. My keenest interest, intellectually
and socially, has been in religion and the church, focused now in
lay preaching in the Congregational churches. My long-suffering

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

wife has had to cope alone on something like 175 Sundays out of
the last five years.

My politics have been consistently Democratic in national elec.
tions, and fairly often in state affairs as well. I love theatre (acting,
writing, directing) and music (singing and fiddle-playing), and
wish I had more time for them. I also like to hike and bicycle and
swim.

In the church my thirst for worship has never been quenched,
and I find the Christian religion endlessly stimulating to the intellect
and emotions. I only wish the problems of church organization
were less baffling.

I could cheerfully use five “live-over-again” pills to become first
a preacher, then a lawyer, then an actor, then an accountant, and
finally a politician.

My hunch is that the problems of the next few generations are
inconceivably vast, more than anything else in the dissolution of
family life as the liberation of women proceeds apace. I look on the
growth of governmental power no longer with alarm; it is inevitable
in a technological, expanding population like ours. I wish people
would get over the emotional shock of contemplating this shift in
our traditions, and get rapidly down to business on the planning of
bow it is to be done. We deplore too easily the blindness of the
South in opposing the inevitable move toward full citizenship for
the ex-slave. We are equally culpable in fighting against the twen-
ticth century’s inexorable demands on the role of government in
shaping home life, city development and education.

JOHN FRANCIS WARREN ANDERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Smithway, Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: E, T. Wright & Co., Rockland, Mass.

BORN: November 16, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Great Neck High School, Great Neck, N.Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(38).

MarrieD: Madelyn H. Houghton, May 5, 1950, Boston, Mass,

occupation: Advertising manager, E. T. Wright & Company, manufacturers
of Wright Arch Preserver Shoes For Men.

I FAVE read with profound respect the “profiles” of other Harvard
men as sent to us by Bentinck-Smith as guides to follow in making

[ 18 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

out our Class Report. So many have accomplished so much in so
little time.

However, I suppose they are the types who would take the fastest
plane across the country so as to be able to accomplish more when
they get there. Personally, 1 have been more an observer than a
participant in such intense activities. I would probably take a train
or automobile across the country, my face pressed to the window
enjoying every passing scene.

Since graduation, I suppose my intervening years may be divided
into four phases:

Phase One: Bachelor life in New York City where I learned more
about life than I ever did in the cloistered walls of Harvard.

Phase Two: The war years— most of it spent at sea — learning
how valuable life itself can be.

Phase Three: Trying to find the meaning of life in graduate
study, in reading and in writing, in seeking to find the expression of
life in words and on paper.

Phase Four: Marriage and the regularity of work where by taking
on the responsibilities of life you find, in turn, the fullest enjoyment
of life.

What life has in store for the future nobody knows. However, if
one lives honestly with oneself, seeking the true values, putting forth
a sincere effort to make a better life for one’s family and associates,
it can only result in a life of lasting satisfaction.

PHILIP MORTON ANDRESS

HOME ADDRESS: 3823 The Oak Rd., Philadelphia 29, Pa.

OFFICE ApprEss: Andco Sales-Engineering, Inc., 5823 Greene St., Philadelphia
44, Pa.

BORN: June 24, 1914, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Jane Spence Timmons, Oct. 18, 1941, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:
Philip Morton, Jr., June 14, 1944; Susan Timmons, Feb. 21, 1947.

occuPATION: President, Andco Sales-Engineering, Inc., electronic manufacturers’
representative.

OFFICES HELD: National director, Electronic Representatives Association, 1959-
61.

MEMBER OF: The Union League of Philadelphia; Philadelphia Cricket Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Wrote companion articles on galvanometers and bridge circuits
for Review of Scientific Instruments and AJ.E.E. Transactions, 195}.

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

T EMERGED cautiously into the cold world of 1937, had completeg
four years of teaching mathematics and science at Graham-Eckes
School in Florida and Boston University, and had just been married
by the time the Army commission from Harvard ROTC came to
life with World War II. Five years more of industrial ordnance,
and nine years out, I was again emerging into a new, if not so cold,
world to begin a sales-engineering career in industry. This led
to my own business, an electronic manufacturer’s representative
firm, Andco Sales-Engineering, Inc. My wife, Jane, has meanwhile
helped me in so many ways that it would be unfair to take anything
like sole credit for any of my particular claims to fame. One such
claim is, I think, having developed into a tolerably good Phila-
delphian, despite a strictly New England upbringing. Another is
my part in raising two children: Andy (Philip, Jr.), now a junior at
The Hun School, Princeton, New Jersey, and Susan, a freshman at
Springside School in Chestnut Hill, Pennsylvania. We try to do
things as a family, to live a conservative and reasonably orderly life,
to take part in our fair share of civic or church affairs, and to al-
ways get home for Mattie’s cooking by the fastest and earliest
transportation, We head for the Jersey shore on holidays, take
pride in our home in Germantown, complain about the heat, love
to discuss the Friends (Mrs. A. is of Quaker ancestry) and feel that
we couldn't live anywhere else in the world. However, we did
make Switzerland our headquarters for ten weeks this past summer,
where we occupied a chalet and spoke French. We go to the
Orchestra regularly, visit the zoo and try to keep Daddy from
overdoing in business. We worry and wonder about how the U.S.
can do a better job of preserving freedom on earth, yet at the same
time, we are confident that the vital force which makes ours the
stronger of the two worlds, though not presently very evident in
much that we read, or see, or hear, lies in the strength and integrity
of individual character in this country and that this force will
become more and more a significant factor as our consciousness of
the dangers to this freedom continues to grow. This to me is our

secret weapon, irrespective of multi-megaton bombs. Greetings to
all of my Classmates! I am still proud to be counted as one of you!

[ 20 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP HOLT ANGIER

HOME ADDRESS: Route 9, Box 301, Tucson, Ariz.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Diggs Realty, Mortgage & Insurance, s0q40 E. Broadway,
Tucson, Ariz,

BORN: Dec. 21, 1912, New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn., Storm King School,
Cornwall, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1936. DEGREES: A.B. (Chico State Coll.), 1951; am
(Univ. of Arizona), 1953; a.m. (Stanford Univ.), 1955.

MarRRIED: Ethel Edwards, 1943, New Haven, Conn. (died September, 1950);
Barbara Michell Upjohn Barton, Dec. 19, 1952, Tucson, Ariz. CHILDREN:
John H. Barton, Jr. (stepson), Dec. 12, 1940 (7. Nancy Shroeder, January,
1961); Benjamin G. Barton (stepson), May 21, 1945. GRANDCHILD: Peter
Ellery Barton, Aug. 10, 1961.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Roswell Parker Angier, 31; James Severy Angier, "34.

OCCUPATION: Real estate salesman; manager of real estate exchanging department.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Chapter 16, International Traders Club, Arizona
Traders Club.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi.

CARL JOSEPH ANTONELLIS

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Oak St., Winchendon, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 Central St.. Winchendon, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1915, Revere, Mass. |

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; Mv. (Tufts Coll.),

1941.

MARRIED: Rita Fewry, Aug. 19, 1941, Providence, R.I. cumpren: Carl, Aug.
14, 1942; Paul, June 23, 1946; Jean, Sept. 17, 19495 Peter, June 6, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Senior surgeon, Henry Heywood Hospital, Gardner, Mass.;
surgeon, Winchendon Hospital.

MEMBER OF: AOA (national honor society); American College of Surgeons
(fellow); Southeastern Surgical Congress (fellow).

WAR service followed graduation from medical school (’41) and
a brief internship. Served in Burma with the “Burmese Surgeon,”
Gordon Seagraves, as member of surgical team and hospital staff.
This crystallized interest in surgery.

Returned to U.S. in 1945, practised a year in Boston, then gave
up same to resume specialty study. After three years of surgical
residency at Cushing V.A. Hospital and New E ngland Medical
Center started surgical practice in Winchendon, “Massachusetts.
Upon completion of these years again left for further study, this

[20]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

time at St. Luke's Hospital, Chicago, followed by Myers Clinic
Hospital, West Virginia. Returned to Winchendon, resumed surgi.
cal practice and joined staff of Henry Heywood Hospital in Garg.
ner, Massachusetts.

Vocation as above. Avocations: music, still piano, but also enjo
this in conjunction with second hobby, electronics. Am exceedingly
interested in electronic theory and am in a continuous stage of half.
comprehension — but enjoy it.

One son in college, Clark University, interested in geology. Sec-
ond son, now amateur swimmer with several titles, has already rep-
resented U.S. in competition; shows leanings toward Harvard and
medical career.

State of world is perturbing but this state of affairs has already
become status quo — for many years. I do not look for much clari-
fication in my lifetime.

RICHARD BURSCH APPLETON

HOME ADDRESS: Via Veneto 24, Leghorn, Italy.

OFFICE AppRESS: U.S, Army Engineer Division, Mediterranean, APO 19, New
York, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1937; LL.B.
(Columbia Univ.), 1940.

MarrieD: Lily Beth Hanson, Oct. 12, 1946, Yokohama, Japan. CHILDREN:
Richard Hanson, Nov. 16, 1947; Brian Hanson, March 18, 1950.

occuPATION: Attorney-Adviser to the Contracting Officer, Mediterranean Divi-
sion, Corps of Engineers, U.S, Army.

OFFICES HELD: National director, The Milicary Government Association, 1952-
55; commission as major, Judge Advocate Corps Reserve, U.S. Army, since
1954.

MEMBER OF: Reserve Officers Association of the United States; Society of
American Military Engineers, Bar of New York State; Bar of the US.
Court of Military Appeals, Harvard Alumni Association; Columbia Law
School Alumni Association, American Red Cross; Washington Foreign
Law Society, Washington, D.C.

PUBLICATIONS: “Reforms in Japanese Criminal Procedure Under Allied Occu-
pation,” Vol. 24, November, 1949 -— Number 4, Washington Law Review
and State Bar Journal, “The New Family Courts of Japan,” May, 1951,
Focus, published by National Probation and Parole Association, New
York City; lecture on “The Law of Japan” before Washington Foreign
Law Society, published in “Studies in The Law of the Far Fast and
Southeast Asia,” by the Society in cooperation with the George Washing-
ton Law School, 1956, Washington, D,C,

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RECIPE for my career? Take two parts government lawyer, one
part military engineer — mix. The most recent part of the cocktail
is mostly military engineer. But that’s getting ahead of the story.
After graduation came three years at Columbia Law School, the bar
exams, private practice in New York City. No clients came that
paid me. Then “Greetings” from Uncle Sam arrived; June 13, 1942,
I was drafted. Lawyers had no special prerogatives as far as the
military were concerned. After basic training as a private in the
Infantry, I got my commission at the Infantry School, Fort Benning,
Georgia. Then Military Government School, Civil Affairs School
at the University of Chicago, and assignments as legal officer in
Philippines Civil Affairs and assistant general counsel to the US.
Military Governor in South Korea, 1943-46.

Married a girl from General MacArthur's civilian personnel head-
quarters and transferred to Tokyo. Prosecuted twenty-two Japa-
nese war criminals — then shifted from trial work to the reform of
the Japanese legal system. Spent five exciting, challenging years
with “SCAP” (Supreme Commander Allied Powers) — reviewing
proposed Japanese legislation, drafting a new Code of Criminal
Procedure and new Supreme Court rules, lecturing to Japanese
judges, lawyers and general public on the new Constitution and
legal reforms, 1946-50.

Took a group of Japanese judges and lawyers and a newspaper
editor on a three months’ tour of the States in 1950 — Exchange of
Persons Program —to study legal institutions. Invasion of South
Korea came while we were in Washington, D.C. Back to Japan on
first ship from mothball fleet. Resigned and took my wife and two
children back to the States in 1951 to grow roots at home. Bought a
house in Bethesda, Maryland. Got a job in OPS, Metals Branch;
shifted to the Renegotiation Board. Became active in Christ Lutheran
Church, Bethesda, and in local community affairs. Beth took a re-
fresher course in school teaching and was about to start again in the
excellent Montgomery County school system.

Although I had been a New Dealer in Roosevelt days and admired
Truman’s courage at the time Korea was invaded, I voted for Ike in
1952, along with a number of other registered Democrats! But
when the budget-balancing came, the Washington Regional Re-
negotiation Board was abolished, and it was not easy for a Democrat
to find a job in Washington, D.C,, in the first Republican administra-
tion since Hoover's.

The Army Recruiting Office was looking for a “dedicated, quali-

[23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

fied lawyer” for a position in Athens, Greece, as civilian attor:
adviser to the contracting officer in charge of contracting for «
struction of military bases in Greece and Turkey. The task w
challenge — it demanded 1 imagination and ingenuity as well as kne
edge of government contracting procedures, It was building so;
thing, helping a part of the free world threatened by aggressi

Beth and the boys were eager for the adventure of moving overs
again.

"So we went off toa New Frontier in 1954 — long before Ke
nedy coined the phrase. I suppose it was really part of the Trum
Doctrine, but it was the idealistic part of what Truman had creat
— the Point Four idea of helping under-developed nations — as w
as the construction of military bases ready to strike at an aggress
— the military engineering challenge — that appealed to me. Iw
a

“New Frontiersman” before the New Frontier administration -
rather than a Dulles “Massive Retaliation” man!

In 1956 the office was transferred to Leghorn, Italy, and in 195
the Mediterranean Division of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineex
took over our office. My work now included legal counsel in con
nection with a challenging, interesting military construction pro
gram in sixteen countries in the Mediterranean Region — including
\taly, Morocco, Libya and Eritrea, as well as Greece and Turkey —
with travel to such exciting places as Paris, Heidelberg, Rome,
Casablanca, Vienna, Istanbul, Ankara, Athens, Cairo, Asmara, Tel
Aviv and Jerusalem. That's been my whole career — challenging,
interesting, exciting; travel around the world; filled with a sense of
duty and high purpose — and damned little money in the bank!

DONALD BUDD ARMSTRONG, JR.
HOME aApprEss: 430 E. 63d St., New York 21, N.Y
OFFICe appREsS: Interpublic, Inc., 485 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N.Y.
BoRN: June 23, 1915, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.; Briarcliff High School, Briar-
chiff, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937-

Marriep: Marion Lee Rising, Aug. 9, 1940, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1955)3
Eleanor Dippel, January, 1955, New York, N.Y. cumpren: Judith Lee,
March 22, 1942 (am. Duncan Keir Alexander, June 10, 1961); Donald Budd,
3d, May 1, 1944-

occupation: Marketing communications, chairman of the board, Communica-
tions Affiliates, Inc., director of Interpublic, Inc,

[ 24 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, McCann-Erickson, Inc., American Marketing
Association.

MEMBER OF: American Sociological Society; American Society of Political and
Social Science; American Psychological Society, Standing Committee,
American Association of Advertising Agencies; Technical Committee of
Advertising Research Foundation; American Marketing Association, Mar-
ket Research Council, Copy Research Council; American and World
Associations for Public Opinion Research; Harvard Club of New York
City; The Sleepy Hollow Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Dynamics of Mass Media, Publicity and Advertising (Columbia
University Press); occasional contributions to Printer’s Ink, Advertising
Age and other advertising trade publications.

THIS is a peculiarly difficult assignment. In a world where almost
total concentration is on tomorrow and the year after that, and
where rewards are based importantly on “What have you done
for me lately?” it seems virtually impossible to switch gears to
retrospection.

I think I can remember having the good sense to realize that I was
an extremely fortunate young man when Harvard gave me a
diploma twenty-five years ago. Certainly, in every year that has
passed since 1937, my appreciation for Harvard values has increased
and deepened. .

When Washington was pusillanimous, Harvard stood up and
faced McCarthy down. I trust that it will be Harvard that will un-
mask John and all the little Birches. I am proud of Harvard for its
educational and cultural values. I love Harvard for its guts.

As a wise old Oxford graduate said — “The purpose of college
should not be to teach you how to earn a living. It should be to
teach you how to live.” And that is Harvard too.

In desultory preparation for this report, I re-read the diaries of the
Third, Tenth, Fifteenth, and Twentieth Reports. As a list of oc-
currences, signifying motion without much definitely described
direction, they were neither very stimulating nor very alarming. I
had nothing to do with the invention of the atom bomb, or the
Cuban invasion, or the deodorant commercial. I am still doing about
the same kinds of things that I reported in the Twentieth. And I
am still enjoying myself enormously.

The advertising business is a terribly demanding one, and people
keep telling me that I work too hard (and play too hard). I
wouldn’t have it any other way. Of all the people I have met, the
most widely interested, and therefore the most interesting and the
most fun, are those in the advertising and related communications

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

businesses. Sure, we have our con men and our stinkers, but r
much less than our share of them.

Government and the “intellectuals” criticize advertising for |
too persuasive — perhaps a left-handed compliment. But, ina w
where the only war that can be won is a war of ideas, our gov
ment spends less to promote our ideological position than the
of one Polaris submarine, or about one-twentieth as much as
Communist adversaries.

Maybe professional advertising practitioners could be of some.

service to our government's propaganda program if our gove
ment paid more attention to real needs, and less time on the proba
spurious, short-term advantages of a Madison Avenue whipping b.

1 think that if 1 were faced with World War III again, I might;
differently. 1 might prefer the more extreme stand of going

prison, rather than “civilian public service” as a conscientious G
jector. But the smoke jumping was exciting, and the work
mental hospitals was useful, I hope.

lf L could change anything, I would like to have a longer day ar:
a much longer year. Who wouldn't?

Daughter, Judith, is married to a fine Dartmouth graduate name
Duncan Alexander, and they are in the Army, and very happy —
and that's great. I am to become a grandfather in the spring — ane
that’s appalling! I could wish that Judi had finished at Bennington
but how do you insist to the young that there is plenty of time wher

they can’t even hope that the human race would survive another
war?

for him.

Son, Donald, hopes to make Harvard in a couple of years. But,
my God, how his marks will have to improve! We're all rooting

All suburbanites have my firm recommendation to move into the
big city. You get to know your wife again. The freedom is spec-
tacular. And when you go to the country, you see it— instead of
being trapped into myopically mowing your own back yard.

Among the things 1 thought I never would do were—join a
country club, and take up golf. So I did both three years ago.

That golf is a real monkey on your back, isn’t it! Next thing you
know, I'll be giving up reading to take up bridge.

Anything else? Well, twenty-five or ten years ago I was an
enthusiastic advocate of psychoanalysis for all. Today, I think that
the analyst is much more proficient at describing problems than

[26]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

helping in their solution. And []l save other attitudes and preju-
dices for debate over booze next June.

The advertising business has traveled me throughout a large part
of the world. Before Armageddon, I fully intend to see and live in
all of the world. There is still a huge amount of living to do, and
based on the past twenty-five years— with luck—I confidently
expect to live it, hugely.

HORACE CONRAD ARNOLD

HOME Appress: 45 Shelwood Drive, Rochester 18, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastman Kodak Co., Kodak Park, Building 2, Rochester 4, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 7, 1914, West Bloomfield, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: East Bloomfield High School, East Bloomfield, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Edna Jane Bennett, July 13, 1940, East Bloomfield, N.Y. cCHILpREN:
Gary Conrad, June 26, 1945; Susan Mary, Sept. 14, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Senior cost engineer, Eastman Kodak Company, specializing in
accounting methods projects.

OFFICES HELD: Former vice-president and secretary, currently president, Har-
vard Club of Rochester; Cub Scour Master, committeeman and treasurer,
1953-56; treasurer, local School District, 1956, 1957; associate director of
Educational Program, Local Chapter, National Association of Accountants,
1955, and other committee chairmanships in prior years, chairman, various
school and community committees.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants; First Presbyterian Church
of Pittsford, New York; Harvard Club of Rochester; Monroe Golf Club
of Pittsford.

PUBLICATIONS: Received national Lybrand awards for “outstanding contribu-
tions to the literature of Industrial Accounting” for: “The Development
of a Product Burden Rate,” December, 1951; “Simplifying the Detail Side
of Expense Control,” July, 1954, both in National Association of Ac-
countants Bulletin, currently co-authoring a publication on functional
budgeting for Community Chest agencies of Rochester and Monroe
County, New York State.

LIFE has been good to our family. We thoroughly enjoy our
home, neighbors, friends and relatives. We lead a suburban life with
rather hectic activity at times. We have had wonderful vacations at
Bar Harbor, Nantucket Island, Myrtle Beach, Atlantic Beach,
Mackinac Island, Canada, the Adirondacks, and Canandaigua Lake.
Trips we are looking forward to: the West Coast, Hawaii and
Europe, in that order. Susan has already taken the Alaskan trip by
auto trailer with friends of the family.

My wife is active with the Red Cross, P.T.A., University of

[27]

HARVARD CLASS OF all

Rochester Alumni Association, local Republican committee

various other groups. Gary has been pitching ball since Li
League, but would rather be known as a batter. With present
dications, he will have received eleven high school varsity letters

the end of his senior year in 1963: four in baseball, four in soce
and three in basketball. However, football is his real love, t

Pittsford does not have that sport as yet. He spent last summ
starting on his sixteenth birthday, as a board marker at a local sto
brokerage firm. Susan will enter ninth grade next fall. She dc

very well at the piano, and writing essays; and most of all she
crazy over horses.

My business career started with the Brookline Trust Compan:
Brookline, Massachusetts, two weeks prior to graduation. Realizir.
that the banking business did not hold much hope for a satisfyin
standard of living, 1 decided to switch to industrial finance. Th.
transition began in 1941 with the Dennison Manufacturing Compan:
of Framingham, Massachusetts, which presented an outstandin;
opportunity to learn industrial accounting, a process which to quot

my accounting professor “can only be learned through the end of :
pencil.” (Evening Division, Bentley School of Accounting anc
Finance, 1940.)

Then, having decided to stay with industry I wished to follow this
career with the Eastman Kodak Company which just happened ta
be near my home town. I state unequivocally that if one is to work
for someone else, a better employer would not likely be found.
Nevertheless, were I to start again I would go into the brokerage
and investment counseling business where the clientele is essentially
your own. This absorption for the financial part of life directed me
into the fascinating hobby of organizing and managing several
joint ventures and individual investment accounts which have now
been operating for the past dozen years.
During the last two years I engineered, jointly with Dr. John G.
Hill, research director of the Rochester Council of Social Agencies,
a system of functional budgeting and financial reporting for Com-
munity Chest agencies of Rochester and Monroe County. This sys-
tem is now being installed in Rochester and in a large agency in
Philadelphia. We have presented our plan (with Eastman Kodak

color slides) in several cities in addition to Philadelphia, Pittsburgh
and Syracuse. We shall also make this presentation at the Canadian
National Conference of United Fund agencies in Montreal in Febru-

[ 28 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ary, 1962, and at the United States National Conference in San Fran-
cisco in March, 1962.

CECIL MACDONALD ARROWSMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 1912 Creek Hill Rd., Lancaster, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schick, Inc., 216 Greenfield Rd., Lancaster, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1915, Rhodesia, South Africa.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

MaRRIED: E. Elizabeth Cool, Feb. 15, 1941, Montclair, N.J. cHrpren: Peter
Noel, Dec. 28, 1943; Jane Lilian, Dec. 27, 1944; Leighton Macdonald, July
8, 1950.

occupation: Director of administration (plant manager), Schick, Inc., manu-
facturers of electric shavers and other appliances.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Lancaster County Chapter, American Red Cross, since
1956; director, since 1957, president, 1960, Lancaster County Mental
Health Association, chairman, Lancaster City Personnel Committee,
1959-61; director, miscellaneous other charitable and business organiza-
tions. .

MEMBER OF: Media Heights Golf Club.

WHEN we needled the bonus marchers in ’36 with our Veterans of
Future Wars parody and the salute of the outstretched, itching palm,
none of us realized how quickly the joke could become reality. The
years between graduation and Pearl Harbor seemed only long
enough to get a job, get married, break someone else in on the job
and leave. |

Actually a lot did get started in those years, including a family.
So the spring of ’46 found us with doubtful economic prospects, two
children and a couple of country acres near Stamford, Connecticut,
the latter having been acquired on a weekend leave in 44. Apart-
ments and building materials were equally scarce, so we bought an
assortment of Sears, Roebuck tools and a load of used lumber and
started to build our own house. Our ignorance of design and tech-
nique was complete, but we managed, working weekends and nights,
to enclose enough space for camp-like living and soon had expanded
the edifice into what we believed to be the only three-bedroom
garage in New England. We often felt sorry for ourselves, but those
were some of the best years, with the war close behind for contrast
and no doubts about purpose.

While I learned the building trades, Betty learned patience and
how to raise kids in the woods. The “garage” was just enough to

[29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

infect us thoroughly with the do-it-yourself germ and by the ti
the disease had run its course we had a pretty ambitious project unc
way. The last months of part-time construction were a real dr.
but we did finish and had quite a structure to show for our labors

butterfly roof, walls of glass, radiant heat and all the other mode
appurtenances.

Just as the finishing touches were being made Betty decided s.
would rather live on a farm. It seemed only logical to move on
soon as we were threatened by weekends full of dull rest and recre
tion. | suppose we had just had too much of the place we built. 1]
any case the only resentment I’ve felt about leaving it rises in ir

when I think of some guy lounging on the terrace and spillin
martinis where I spilled only sweat!

We did not let our ambitions get out of hand on the farm, so thing
were still under control when in ’55 my company moved to Lancas
ter, Pennsylvania. We went, too, and soon found a bigger, mor
challenging farm. The old house (ca.1750) was wonderful, and w:
enjoyed the surroundings to the full while still relatively young anc
energetic, The available energy was adequately tested because
even a small farm must be farmed. We tried some crops, a horse
sheep and chickens with varying degrees of success. Real farmers
have my sympathy and respect. In 60 we went compact in housing
and reasonable in crops and livestock.

The company with which we went to Pennsylvania was Schick,
Inc. I’ve been with them since the war and have spent more time in
industrial relations than any one other area. My present assignment
combines responsibility for production, industrial relations and pur-
chasing. The only work not connected directly with manufacturing
was a six months’ stint representing the company in Washington.

Housebuilding kept hobbies in the distant background for quite a
period. Even though boats have always been my chief interest, and
we lived near Long Island Sound, there was no opportunity to in-
dulge. We had started off in good style before the war with cruising

vacations and even the purchase of an old fishing schooner to live
aboard. Hitler interfered with the latter project, but we had a
couple of summers to enjoy sailing a big, solid windjammer. In
recent years we bounced among vacation charters, outboards and
sailing canoes. Lately, living somewhat inland, we’ve learned the
attractions of trailer-boating, which now competes with golf for the
available leisure time.

I’ve continued to enjoy music since the days with the Gold Coast

[30]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and other bands around Boston. Playing has been spotty, and the
old trumpet is patched in many places, but it has supplied a lot of
enjoyment over the years. Most of the noise produced has been
pretty amateurish, but at one point a group of us stayed together
long enough and played often enough to produce passable Dixie-
Jand, which is a barrel of fun for the horn blowers if not for the
listeners.

When the war started and tankers were being sunk daily off the
Jersey coast, I offered the schooner as an anti-sub picket boat com-
plete with crew. Volunteers were eager in those days, and we
could have staffed the old boat several times over. The sense of ur-
gency did not seem to extend to the Navy people in charge, and
after early acceptance we were held up by technicalities until the
need passed. In spite of this rocky start with the Navy I ended up in
the outfit and served as captain of a minesweeper, transferring to
submarines about the middle of the war. My service years were a
pretty typical mixture of boredom, interest and some scares. I
managed to cover a lot of water, get a silver star and to be under
water not far from Nagasaki when the bomb dropped.

I don’t remember seeing John Kennedy around Cambridge, but I
voted for him and would again in spite of the fact that being older
than the President is almost as uncomfortable a reminder of the
passing years as the necessity to write this account.

JOHN EDWARD ASHLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 1015 Kenyon Drive, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the Director of Civilian Personnel, HQ Dept. of the
Army, The Pentagon, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1912, Pachuca, Mexico.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MaRRIED: Marjorie Middleton, Aug. 17, 1940, Schenectady, N.Y. cyrupren:
Richard Middleton, June 20, 1942; Jeanne, Sept. 10, 1946; John Edward,
Nov. 4, 1947; Willard Bishop, July 5, 1949.

occuPATION: Employee Development Officer, in the office of the Director of
Civilian Personnel, HQ Department of the Army, The Pentagon.

MEMBER oF; F, & A.M.; American Society of Training Directors; Toastmasters
International; Training Officers Conference (Washington, D.C.).

WARTIME military experience was as a captain in the Field Artil-

lery from 1941 to 1945. Saw service in France, Germany and Bel-
gium with the zgznd F.A. Bn. Formerly a high school teacher, and

[31]

eal LUN

from 1946 to 1956 was a training officer with the Veterans Aq
ministration, Since 1956 have been with the Department of th
Army. Am an Employee Development Officer in the office of th
Director of Civilian Personnel, HQ Department of the Army ir
the Pentagon. Briefly this job entails: (1) The determining of the
nature and extent of the need for training and development of civil.
ian employees and their supervisors, both civilian and military,
throughout the Department of the Army; (2) Providing professional
and technical advice, guidance and assistance to all elements of the
Department of the Army involving training and development; (3)
Preparing appropriate sections of regulations, manuals, circulars and
pamphlets that provide direction and guidance for training and
development projects; (4) Planning, developing, conducting and
evaluating institutes, seminars, conferences and workshops; (5)
Directing and administering the Army’s Research and Study Fellow-
ship program.

My wife, who received an A.B. and an A.M. from Albany, New
York, State Teachers College, is a high school teacher in Oxon Hill,
Maryland. My eldest son Richard is in the U.S. Navy. My daugh-
ter Jeanne and son John are both high school students, and my
youngest son Willard is a student in junior high school.

Sports inchide swimming, golf (not very good) and walking.
Hobbies are photography and radio—very adept at dismantling,
not quite so good getting them together again.

JOHN PAUL AUSTIN
HOME ADDRESS: 310 North Ave. N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Coca-Cola Co., P.O, Drawer 1734, Atlanta 1, Ga.
BoRN: Feb. 14, 1915, La Grange, Ga.

PREPARED AT; Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.
YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; LL.B, 1940.

marrizep: Jeane Weed, July 12, 1950, Chicago, Ill. crmpren: John Paul, Jra
April 30, 1951; Samuel Weed, May 28, 1954.
OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Coca-Cola Company; president, Coca-
Cola Export Corporation,
MEMBER OF: Capital Club, Atlanta, Ga., Racquet and Tennis Club and Links

Club, New York City; Royal Johannesburg Golf Club and Rand Club,
Johannesburg, South Africa,

AFTER graduating from Law School in 1940 I practised law in
New York City. In the late summer of 1941 I applied to the U.S.
Navy for a commission in the Naval Intelligence and was com-

[32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

missioned an ensign in the latter part of 1941. After a period of
training at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, I was qualified for Naval
Combat Intelligence and served the remainder of the war with
torpedo boat squadrons in the southwest Pacific. For various and
sundry activities along the way I was awarded the Legion of Merit.

Following the service, I returned to the practice of law in New
York until July, 1949, when I joined the Coca-Cola Company,
working first in Chicago, where Jeane and I were married. During
our married life we have moved our domicile eleven times — one
move being to Johannesburg, South Africa, where I was responsible
for our business in Africa, south of the Sahara. Our family then in-
cluded two young boys, and we all found this to be an exciting
period in our lives.

After being transferred back to this country to head up the over-
seas end of our business, I was required to travel extensively in most
of the one hundred countries where we are represented. Once a
year, however, Jeane and I would put a car on the boat and set off
for Europe to combine a little pleasure with business.

Of more recent date, I have been transferred to Atlanta, Georgia,

where we are now busy entering into the life of one of the great
communities in our country.

PROCTOR HOWE AVON

HOME ADDRESS: Vista Road, Wilbraham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Monsanto Chemical Co., Springfield, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 12, 1915, Wellesley, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Beacon School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cu7 laude, 1937.

" MaRRIED: Anne Katherine Forbes, March 1, 1941, Taunton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Proctor Howe, Jr., Dec. 14, 1941; Joanne Forbes, April 10, 1945; Cynthia
Jane, May 27, 1953.

occupation: Director of overseas manufacturing — plastics products, Monsanto
Chemical Company.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Chemical Engineers; Harvard Clubs of
Boston and Springfield, Woods Hole Golf Club.

IN looking back over the last twenty-five years, I find there are no
earth-shaking events to report nor any notable personal accomplish-
ments. I have worked for only one firm, the Monsanto Chemical
Company; married only one girl, Anne Forbes; vacationed at one
place, Falmouth, Cape Cod; and except for about four years, have

[ 33 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

lived in one state, Massachusetts. Possibly not exciting enough for
some, but interesting, pleasant and satisfactory to me.

Starting in June of 1937, I served Monsanto in a variety of
engineering capacities, mostly at Everett, Massachuserts, until 1947,
when I was made responsible for plant design for the now extinct
Merrimac Division there. In 1951, promotion to chief engineer
occurred, but in 1953 the division was eliminated in a major realign-
ment and I was moved to St. Louis, Missouri, as director of engineer-
ing for the Organic Division. It was my good fortune to be selected
for the AMP at the Business School and I therefore hold a second
Harvard “degree” as a member of the thirty-second AMP group.
In 1958, my activities turned to foreign operations, and I returned to
Springfield, Massachusetts, as director of overseas manufacturing
for the Plastics Division, not an accurately descriptive title for the
function which is concerned with evaluating and promoting new op-
portunities, negotiating licensing agreements and contract admin-
istration work. The job is fascinating and involves a good deal of
travel outside of the United States.

As for hobbies, both Anne and I played tennis and badminton up
until we moved to St. Louis (I was inveigled into the presidency of
the Massachusetts Badminton Association for two years). Shortly
thereafter Anne took up golf and two years later I also succumbed.
This is now my main recreational pursuit, but with our sixteen-
year-old daughter playing good tennis, I’m dusting off my racquet
on occasions. We still have season tickets to the football games and
after last fall we are beginning to think there is hope. Bridge still
interests us, but we don’t play very often. The collection of old hot
jazz records is in excellent condition and it gets a workout every
once in a while.

Up to now, the Avon family has been disgustingly healthy, for
which we are most thankful, although there are times when the two
adults are convinced they will not survive the teen-age periods of
the others,

We are working on our fourth house, a comfortable thirty-year-
old structure, with ten acres of land and a ramshackle extra cottage,
in Wilbraham, a small town we find delightful and most conveniently
located, being one and a half hours from Boston, two and a half
from Cape Cod, three from New York and eight from Europe.

[ 34)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD PHILLIPS AXTEN

HOME appREss: 96 Abbott Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Raytheon Co., Lexington 73, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Port Washington High School, Port Washington, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: $.B. 1937.

MarRiED: Caroline Wilson, April 19, 1941, Cleveland, Ohio. cHiLpren: Cynthia
Wilson, Jan. 24, 1943; John, 2d, and Anne Brinton (twins), July 6, 1945,
Richard Phillips, Jr., July 30, 1950.

occuPATION: Secretary, Raytheon Company, electronics manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, New England Chapter, Public Relations Society of

America, 1956-61, Junior Achievement of Eastern Massachusetts, Inc.
since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Corporate Secretaries; State Club (Mass.),
Museum of Science, Boston; Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; Wellesley
Country Club.

PuBLICATIONS: “The USS Texas in World War II.”

SOMETIMES, as I look back to 1937, I get a bit of the feeling that
“you can’t get here from there.” Certainly the route has been cir-
cuitous.

After about a year and a half following college, working in Cleve-
land steel mills as a wire drawer and cold roll inspector — during
which time I had successfully fought off several moves to put me
in the accounting department —I found that at the time they hired
me they thought Id said “finance” rather than fine arts when they
asked my major in college. Despite the confusion I was allowed to
remain and worked for another year in the mills before volunteering
for the Navy V-7 program, out of which I got my commission early
In 1941.

On reporting to the battleship Texas in January of ’43, the captain
asked what subjects I'd been teaching as an instructor at the New
York Midshipmen’s School. When I told him navigation and sea-
manship he said, “Fine — you're in gunnery!” I was, too, for the
next two and a half years through convoys and invasions, ending up
as ship’s gunnery officer at Okinawa.

On some of the long bridge watches I decided that when I re-
turned home I wanted to get into public relations. Ringing door-
bells on Madison Avenue, everyone told me the same thing — “too
bad you haven't any newspaper or magazine experience” — until
one day I found one of the deans of the business, Farl Newsom,
telling me I should get into public relations, When T pointed eut my
editorial ignorance he said that was immaterial — that as his Eer's

[35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193

contribution to returning veterans they were taking on four young
men with or without P.R. experience and that “we've got three, and
you can be the fourth.” .

In 1948 I moved a few miles up the Hudson to become director
of public relations for the Alexander Smith carpet company which
was establishing its own advertising and public relations department.
The next seven years, like the years at Earl Newsom & Company,
were stimulating and educational ones which did much to make up
for the five years of wartime interruption in my business career.

By this time I had learned, among other things, how to make
steel and steel products, make gunpowder and use it, make carpets
and rugs and promote them. With these qualifications it was, of
course, highly logical that I should move into the electronics in-
dustry. I returned to the Boston area in 1955 to join Raytheon
Company, where I have been happily employed ever since. For
the first six years | wove my way through a welter of space-age
jargon, clinging for reassurance to the fact that my basic assignment
was jollying up our various “publics” as at Alexander Smith, and
that it really didn’t matter if I couldn’t recognize a klystrom from a
parametric amplifier.

In July, 1961, I was elected secretary of Raytheon —a position
I find has a most satisfying diversity of duties. Thus, while my life’s
path has been circuitous, I can never complain that it’s been rutted.

My family life has, in contrast, had a steady, straight-line sort of
progression to it; highly rewarding and equally satisfying. Despite
our belief that Cynthia would be uninterested in going to Wellesley
(her mother’s alma mater) because of its close proximity to home,
three preparatory years at Westtown School near Philadelphia ap-
parently satisfied the “away” urge and she is now ensconced as a
freshman in Severance Hall. (I find it’s quite a change to call for
a daughter instead of a date!) Anne has succeeded Cynnie at West-
town, where, like her sister, she’s the fifth generation on her mother’s
side to attend this Quaker school.

John, Anne’s twin and also a sophomore, is a day student at Noble
and Greenough in Dedham, where he’s enjoying a well-balanced
and rigorous diet of intellectual and athletic pursuits. John and
Anne, who will enter college in 1964, are maintaining reasonably
open minds as to what colleges they hope to attend. On the other

hand, Phil, who is in sixth grade in Wellesley Hills, suffers from no
such objectivity — he openly and vociferously states his intention of
going to Harvard. Furthermore, with his vigorous attack on life,

[ 36]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard will be well advised, when the time comes, to bow before
the onslaught with a minimum of fuss!

To my wife Caroline goes major credit for the fact that our four
children seem to be progressing satisfactorily in spiritual, intellectual
and moral development toward becoming useful citizens in a troubled
and troublous world. We hope from here on to be able to provide
them with an increasing amount of travel to broaden further their
tolerance and perspective. Caroline and I had a fine trip to Europe
in 1960, and John spent last summer in Britain with various rela-
tives of mine, while we reciprocated by having seventeen-year-old
Janet Axten from Harrow join us here. We are hopeful that some-
how the six of us may get both a trip abroad and a tour of our own
great country en masse before the fledglings take wing.

What do we do between 6:45 A.M. and 11:00 P.M. besides work?
We, variously, attend either Episcopal Church or Quaker Meeting
on Sundays, participate in the normal suburban gamut of social and
civic activities, vote Republican (usually) although we're not so
conservative as we were twenty-five years ago, pay a seemingly
endless procession of bills, engage in heated family discussions (wit-
ness Cynnie’s query, “Are you two arguing or agreeing furiously?”),
and, currently, work with increasing anticipation and pleasure on
various assignments leading to Reunion in June.

FREDERICK AYER, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Walnut Road, Wenham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ford, Larson, Greene & Horan, rooo Connecticut Ave. N.W,
Washington, D.C,

BORN: Dec. 28, 1915, Topsfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. €t(72 laude, 1937; LL.B. 1941.

MarrieD: Anne Proctor Moody, Nov. 16, 1941, Hamilton, Mass, cHiILDREN:
Frederick, 3d, May 15, 1943; Ruth Zeile, April 1, 1935; David, Feb. 22,
1948,

HARVARD SON: Frederick Ayer, 3d, 65.

HARVARD BROTHER: Neil Rice Ayer, ’47, MBA, ’55.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; author.

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, Republican State Finance Comm., since 1948; state
chairman, Citizens for Eisenhower-Nixon, 1952; various charity drives;
vice-president, Henry Regnery Company, Chicago.

MEMBER oF: Authors Guild; Society of Ex F.B.I. Agents; Myopia Hunt Club,

Racquet and Tennis Club; Metropolitan Club; Thursday Evening Club,
Harvard Travellers; State Club.

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JOHN PALFREY AYER

HOME ADDRESS: 921 Pine St., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Presbyterian-St. Luke's Hospital, 1753 W. Congress Pkwy.,
Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; MD. (McGill Univ.), 1942;
s.M. (Univ. of Illinois), 1951,

marriep: Lee Zimmermann, 1948, Tucson, Ariz, CHILDREN: Nathaniel Farwell,
Aug. 16, 1948; John Palfrey, Jr, May 3, 1952; Katharine Fauntleroy, June
25, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Bourne Ayer, Jr. '33 (deceased).

oocuPaTion: Pathologist. ;

orFices HELD: Associate Pathologist, Presbyterian-St. Luke’s Hospital, Chicago;
Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, University of Illinois.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association and other medical societies.

puBLicaTions: Medical publications.

AFTER graduation I attended McGill University Medical School,
graduating in 1942. After interning at the Boston City Hospital, I
joined the Army and was sent to languish in the jungles of Panama
for three years. In 1946 I came to Chicago and entered the medical
speciality of pathology at the Presbyterian Hospital of the city of
Chicago. Here I met my wife, who served coffee at odd moments to
interested interns. We married in Tucson, Arizona, a place where
I had never been before (or since). After the first child we returned
to Boston where I worked in research for Dr. Shields Warren at the
Cancer Research Institute for ten years, incidentally also teaching at
the Harvard Medical School. I returned to Chicago in 1961 to be
associate pathologist of the Presbyterian-St. Luke’s Hospital —a
merger having been consummated during my absence. The com-
bined institution is huge and occupies most of my time.

++ GASPAR GRISWOLD BACON, JR.

BorN; March 24, 1914, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Gaspar Griswold Bacon,
’08, Priscilla Toland.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREE: 8.B., 1937.

Margiep: Greta Keller, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Benjamin Bacon, '33, mp, ’40, Robert Bacon, ’ 42.
piezo: Sept. 12, 1943, Venice, Calif.

AS an undergraduate Bacon was a notable success as an actor with

[ 40 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Hasty Pudding Club shows and had a leading part in The Foeman
of the Yard (1935), The Lid’s Off (1936) and Come Across (1937).
His talent for acting was developed during the summer vacations by
appearances with groups like the Bass Rocks Summer Theater and
the University Players at West Falmouth, near where his grand-
mother made her summer home. He joined the U.S. Army Air
Corps in 1938 as an air cadet but was later forced to resign because
of an injury. The connections he had made in summer stock led
to a job in Hollywood where he appeared in various motion pictures
under the stage name, David Bacon. Among the films in which he
had parts were Ten Gentlemen from West Point, Someone to Re-
member, and a serial picture, The Masked Marvel.
He was survived by his wife, his parents, and two brothers.

SYLVESTER HAROLD BAGRAN

MAILING ADDRESS: Eden Roc Restaurant Club, 23 Y O Vedado, Havana, Cuba.

HORACE CONVERSE BAILEY

HOME ApDpRESS: Hook Road, Bedford, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chemical Bank New York Trust Co., New York 15, N.Y.

BORN: May 16, 1914, Weston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Ware, Sept. 10, 1938, Dedham, Mass. cHitpreN: Elisabeth,
Aug. 20, 1942; Harry Louis, 2d, Nov. 22, 1943; Margherita, Sept. 1, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Wesley Bailey, °34; Henry Ravi Bailey, °36; Vincent
Ravi Bailey, ’40.

OccUPATION: Banker, vice-president in charge of southwest United States,
Chemical Bank New York Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, United Fund of North Westchester; chairman, Finance
Committee, District Nursing Association, Mount Kisco, New York.
MEMBER OF; The Brook, New York; Harvard Club of New York; Bedford

Golf and Tennis Club.

AFTER leaving Cambridge I spent several years before the war in
the textile industry. From 1942 to 1946, I served in the Navy on
board various craft and finally as operations officer on the staff of
Commander, Underwater Demolition Teams, Amphibious Forces
Pacific.

From 1946 to 1952, I worked for a bank in Boston and then trans-
ferred to New York, where I have been in charge of the bank’s

[41]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

business in the southwestern part of the United States. I am
presently on a leave of absence from the bank trying to help establish
a subsidiary in Germany of a Texas corporation. It is a fascinating

experience albeit somewhat frustrating because of the European
manner of doing business.

The most interesting part of my life since leaving college has been
bringing up three children who now seem about grown. Our elder
daughter is in London working for IBM; our son is about to gradu-
ate from St. Mark’s and our youngest is about to go off to boarding
school. Obviously things are going to be different from now on.
Betty and I shall probably play more golf, do more sailing and travel

more often.

WALTER HODGKINS BAILEY

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Florence St., Portland 5, Maine.
BORN: Jan. 20, 1916, Portland, Maine.
PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; SM. (Univ. of New Hamp-
shire).

MARRIED: Gladis N, Grant, Sept. 7, 1940, Waterville, Maine (divorced). CHIL-

pren: Harriet Bernice, Oct. 2, 1945; Edward G., March 27, 1950; Christo-
pher G., July 25, 1952.

AFTER obtaining my S.M. degree at the University of New Hamp-
shire, I pursued my first love, medicine, by becoming employed by
Brewer & Company of Worcester, Massachusetts. After desired
training “from bottom up,” which started with unloading freight
cars of bottles, I became their “detail man” (professional service
representative) for central Ohio. Also married my nurse six months
after being assigned to Ohio, transferring base of operations from
Columbus to Springfield to Xenia, and then, with the advent of the
war, back to Columbus. After six years, anticipating the birth of
first child, I “quit the road” and started my own B & B Drug &
Chemical Company, which was later moved to Durham, New
Hampshire (seat of the University of New Hampshire). However,
after years of refusal, 1 was forced to follow physicians’ advice and
try Arizona for my health. Six wecks’ test proved the wisdom of
following their advice, so I returned east regretfully, put my drug
business “on the shelf,” gave up my wife and family (of three by
now) to return to Tucson for eight years of benefit. The benefit
has proved to be such that I can now “stand” eastern winters and

[ 42]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

am tolerating my second one well —So Far. Well-enough to hope
at least to Look healthy when I see you at our Reunion.

DONALD WILLIAM BAKER

HOME ADDRESS: 273 Charlton Ave., South Orange, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co., 350 Park Ave., New York

22, N.Y.
BORN: June 11, 1916, Watertown, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
MarRriED: Elise Brewer Connett, May 24, 1941, South Orange, N.J. cuitprEN:
Kathryn Kellogg, Dec. 24, 1943; Donald William, Jr., Aug. 12, 1947.
OccuPATION: Banking; vice-president, Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.
OFFICES HELD: Governor, 1952-57, president, 1955, New York Chapter, Robert
Morris Associates; director, Pure Food Company, Inc., Mamaroneck, N.Y,
since 1958, Niagara Insurance Co. (Bermuda) Ltd., Hamilton, Bermuda,
since 1959; trustee and treasurer, Orange Orphan Society, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Orange Lawn Tennis Club; Skytop
Club.

AFTER wetting my feet briefly in the banking business and acquir-
ing a very wonderful wife, I got somewhat damper as a cruise guest
of Uncle Sam. With two years in sub-chasers fishing the Gulf
stream and Caribbean waters behind me, I finished the war in the
heavy cruiser St. Paul, as a member of Admiral Halsey’s Fast Carrier
Task Force in the Pacific.

With the end of hostilities, it was back to suburbia, commuting
and banking with the added attraction of several small children.
Time since then seems to have passed in pretty much of a happy
glow. There has been a little beaching in the summer, a little skiing
in the winter and mowing lawns or raking leaves in between.
Kathy will be a college freshman this fall. Bill is now in the Second
Form at Pingry and has already set his sights on the Yard.

The past year has been one of the most eventful in my business
life. In June I moved from the canyons of Wall Street to Park
Avenue and 52d Street. After chasing the moths out of my old grev
flannel suit, 1 quickly became acclimated and like it. In September,
over the objections of one of our more recent Harvard graduates, we
more than doubled our size by the merger route to become the
fourth largest bank in the world. |

The future right now seems to hold more of a challenge than ever
— two children about to enter college and build a life of their own,

[43]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and a new bank that promises to become one of the leading financial
institutions of our country. Elise and I are looking forward to the
next twenty-five years with great expectations.

JAMES PETER BAKER

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Burncoat St., Worcester 5, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1913, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Ihe Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Temporarily retired.

MEMBER OF: Worcester County Musical Association; Players’ Club of Worces-
ter; Bridge Club; Navy League of the United States; Military Order of
the World Wars; Harvard Clubs of Boston, New York and Worcester.

UPON leaving Harvard I joined our company, the Baker Lead
Manufacturing Company, as assistant treasurer. ‘This initial business
venture was interrupted by the apparent approach of World War
I]. In spite of mal de mer, I decided to join the U.S, Navy and I was
commissioned an ensign at the third graduating class from the USS
Prairie State in New York City, in June of 1941. Having requested
duty in the Atlantic Theatre because of many trips to Europe and
none west of Chicago, the Navy ordered me to the Pacific, where
I joined the USS Helm (DD-388) in July with every assistant title
they had to offer, including that of athletic officer and Ward Room
Mess treasurer. Never having expected “to go over the top,” that
is exactly what happened. The Helm, the only ship completely
manned and under way on December 7, 1941, was the first ship to
leave Pearl Harbor after the Japanese attack—a day I shall never
forget. After the Coral Sea, 1 was detached from the Helm and or-
dered to communications duties at Pearl Harbor, where I eventually
became communications officer on the staff of Commander Sea
Forces, Hawaiian Sea Frontier. I remained at this post until war’s
end, when I left the Navy as a lieutenant commander.

Shortly after my return home and due to the loss of my father,
I became president of the Baker Lead Manufacturing Company,
which was voluntarily liquidated a few years ago after many decades
of business activity. There seemed to be little demand for our
products of lead pipe, lead traps, and lead bends, etc. After scttling
other family affairs, I thought I would become re-employed, but I
find it very easy to procrastinate after once embarking on a life of

[ 44]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unemployment. I fear my next position will be that of apple polisher
and apple vendor.

As for travel, my last trip to Europe was in 1938, and other than
two months in the Hawaiian Islands a few years ago, my peregrina-
tions seem to be confined to those states east of Chicago with great
emphasis on the Worcester-Boston run. My hobbies include bridge,
reading, gardening, amateur theatricals, music and art appreciation,
dancing, and the mixing of martinis and other tasty liquids. My
political convictions remain Republican.

WALTER BAKER

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Upland Ave., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Trimount Clothing Co., 18 Station St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: July 6, 1913, Providence, R.I.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Dorothy Buchsbaum, Jan. 25, 1953, Brookline, Mass. cHitp: Robert
Warren, Aug. 9, 1956.

OccUPATION: Office and traffic manager, Trimount Clothing Company.

FOR me and I imagine most of us, the short interval after graduation
until the war was one in which we started in one direction — not
knowing if it was sure or permanent. I started in the jewelry busi-
ness working with a diamond importer, learning both the facets of
a diamond and the facets of a business which, even today, is tied to
three continents, with syndicates and monopolies.

The war stopped all that and for over four years I taught B-24s
to fledgling flight engineers and worked on B-24s and B-29s as a
turbo-supercharger control expert.

After the war the diamond business was no longer available and
for almost two years I was in the movie field as assistant manager and
manager of various Boston theatres. By this time the motion picture
theatre was in a state of danger: television, etc.

My next change saw me a salesman for the Trimount Clothing
Company. For five years I traveled over Pennsylvania, Indiana,
Kentucky and Tennessee. Between trips I married my charm-
ing wife in January, 1953, and our son was born in August, 1956.
When he arrived, an opportunity to leave the road and work in-
side the firm arose. Since then I have been running the office and,
among other things, acting as contact between our firm and our thou-
sands of customers.

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Now that my son is five, once again to grow up through his eyes
is all that a man can ask.

IRVING BANNER

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Fay Lane, Needham Heights, Mass.

OFFICE appReEss: 408 S, Huntington Ave, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

BORN: July 24, 1917, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB, 1937; S.M. (Iowa State Coll.), 1939.

marriep: Betty Leone Share, Jan. 9, 1945, Long Beach, Calif. crtmpren: Myra
Jane, Jan. 13, 1947; Mark Joseph, Oct. 13, 1949; David Saul, Aug. 7, 1951.

occuPATION: Executive, ski clothing manufacturer.

puBLICATIONS: Article in Journal of American Chemical Society (62, 344, 1940).

SOME people find it most difficult to write about themselves; others,
from the looks of previous personal reports, find it quite easy. The
intervening years from the present to the days spent at Harvard
seem to cover enough time so that an autobiography replete with
activities should be forthcoming. But I suppose the ease of auto-
biography depends mostly on one’s personality rather than on the
contents of one’s life.

When I graduated from Harvard, I had high hopes of continuing
in organic chemistry. But personal matters came up to interrupt
these plans with the result that the year 1937-38 was spent in my
family’s business, far removed from the chemistry laboratory. The
following year, however, found me at Iowa State College doing re-
search under Dr. Henry Gilman from whom I received my S.M.
degree in the summer of 1939. Before I could resume my studies
leading to the Ph.D. degree, more family problems arose removing
me once more from the academic field to the business world.

This time there was no returning to the study of chemistry. I
entered the business in Boston where I remained until I heard Uncle
Sam’s call in World War II. After a series of typical maladjust-
ments so common in the Navy, I found myself first a radar and
finally a sonar officer. My tour of duty included many stateside
posts before overseas duty in Okinawa, By coincidence or destiny’s
design BUPERS insisted on sending me repeatedly to Long Beach,
California, where, in January of 1945, 1 married. Asa result of this

happy union, our house is now alive with the bedlam of three chil-
dren — my daughter who is in high school, and my two sons who
are in junior high and grammar school respectively,

[45]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At war’s end, after discarding the idea of going into the field of
radio engineering, I returned to our business in Boston where I have
remained ever since, in spite of a few temptations to return to ac-
ademic life. Several years ago the prospect of manufacturing ski
clothing attracted me. We gradually converted our business into
this field so that now my brothers and myself are engaged exclusively
in this business. The next time you bust a pair of ski pants marked
“Franconia,” you can cuss a little bit at me, because that is our
brand name.

At the risk of sounding “corny,” my hobbies and convictions ac-
quired at Harvard have persisted. I have suffered, and am suffering,
through a social and political era that I feel to be reactionary. The
era of McCarthyism and the past decade and a half of the “cold
war’ are examples of phenomena I decided to hate while at Har-
vard. I have been proud of the way Harvard has remained in-
dependent and non-conformist during these times.

Since a good deal of my time in business is spent in traveling, life
has not become a routine. I have seen most of this country exten-
sively and have been abroad a little in the pursuit of ski fashions.
But it is always great to get back home to the family and com-
munity affairs, which sometimes even include a little squash, golf
and, yes, — Harvard football.

DAVID ANDREW BARBER

HOME ADpRESS: Dover, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1916, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; LL.B, 1947.

MARRIED: Rebecca Cox, Oct. 24, 1942, Norwood, Mass. cHmprex: David
Andrew, Jr., Dec. 14, 1943; Joan Stewart, June 22, 1947.

occupation: Self-employed, estate appraisal, free-lance writing.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Rivers Country Day School, Weston, Mass.

IN 1937 I received a Bachelor of Science degree in English Litera-
ture. A quarter of a century later, I am still a little perplexed about
this because I don’t recall ever having taken courses in science. Of
this, my wife has sometime murmured, “Never look a gift horse in
the mouth” or, “Let sleeping dogs lie.” While somewhat unsettling
to me, these remarks are probably accurate considering the scholas-
tic grandeur Harvard has since attained.

In 1947 I was granted an LL.B. by the Law School, My daughter
[ 47 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF

once asked why it took me ten years to get through law school
when most people made it in three. I hastened to explain that
directly after college came employment in the story department of
a Hollywood studio, then a hitch in the Navy, then employment in
a shipyard and not until after all that — law school.

Although his biographical samples seem to me to take the form of
novellas, Bill Bentinck-Smith has asked us to be concise in this re-

port. So, briefly, law school was not followed by law practice.
Instead, I entered the investment business and spent roughly thirteen
years tinkering with stocks and bonds and trying to interest others in
my thoughts on same—or, in some instances, my firm’s convic-
tions. I am still doing the same thing but for my own account and
from my own phone.
As to the present state of the world, the picture seems a bit
cloudy. But last summer as the helicopters chugged to and from the
summer White House, barely clearing the roof of my Cape Cod

home, I took great heart. I knew that there was a Harvard man “up
there” taking care of things.

LAURENCE LUTHER BARBER, JR.
MAILING ApprEsS: P.K, 566, Ankara, Turkey.

PAUL WILLIAM BARENBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 8008 Venetian Drive, Clayton 5, Mo.
BorN: Nov. 3, 1916, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.P.H. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1939.

MarrieD: Ann Bernstein, Sept. 4, 1942, Passaic, N.J. cuttpreN: Naomi Ruth,
Dec. 6, 1944; David Joel, April 27, 1949.

occupation: Government “Administrative Assistant,” County Health Depart-
ment; self-employed owner and operator of residential properties,

member or: American Public Health Association, National Association of

Sanitarians.
FIRST, let’s fight World War Il. From 1942 to 1956 I served in the
US. Armed Forces, generally in the fields of medical equipment
supply and maintenance. In the North African Theatre of Opera-
tions, my initial duties involved the installation and servicing of
technical medical equipment. V-J Day found me in command of

(48)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Army Medical Depot at Naples. Subsequently, I served in
various Capacities in the United States—- my proudest as officer in
charge of the Armed Services Medical Equipment Maintenance
Course. Our most pleasant duty befell during the Korean fiasco,
when we posted at the Panama Canal Zone.

Since 1956, our concern has been to furnish a stable home for our
growing children. Our daughter completed her high school studies
last year, was a finalist in National Merit Scholarship examination
and is now attending Washington University, having been awarded
a four-year honor scholarship. David seems to be following quite
well. |

Wanderlust got the best of me in 1959 when I turned up as a con-
sultant to the government of India. For many weeks, | traveled,
saw, talked and wrote about the development of medical equipment
maintenance facilities in India. I have a letter of commendation from
the Ministry of Health to prove it!

HERMAN H. BARGER

HOME ADpRESS: 612 Lakeview Drive, Lake Barcroft, Falls Church, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

BoRN: Nov. 28, 1915, Springfield, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; 1L-B. (George
Washington Univ.), 1955.

MaRRIED: Dolly A. King, May 3, 1943, Buenos Aires, Argentina, CHILDREN:
Lesli Kristine, July 18, 1950; Brian King, June 21, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Abraham Clifford Barger, ’39, M.p., '43.

occupPaTION: Foreign Service Officer; deputy director, Office of International
Trade, Department of State.

OFFICES HELD: President, board of trustees, International School, 1959-60; mem-
ber, executive board, American Men’s Association, 1959-60 (both in
Djakarta, Indonesia).

MEMBER OF: Foreign Service Association; pacor, Inc.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous newspaper articles in American and foreign press.

HAVE tux, will travel” might be an appropriate tag for the last
twenty-five years. My work, first as a foreign correspondent in
Asia and Latin America, then Navy duty in the Atlantic and Pacific
during World War II, and eighteen years in the Foreign Service, has
necessitated much travel abroad. Fortunately, it has been inter-
spersed with long tours of duty in Washington, D.C.

My last tour overseas was at Djakarta, Indonesia, where for two

[ 49 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF

years I served as Counselor of Embassy for Economic Affairs. This
was a most interesting place, the work challenging, the people
charming. The highlights of that tour were trips to Bali, Sumatra
and Borneo. I was honored to be entertained in Borneo by a chief
of the Dyaks, who won renown during World War II as having cut
off more heads than anyone else. Last fall I made a quick trip to
Europe for conferences with the Germans and the British.

During my two years in Djakarta, I was an organizer and active
member of the Harvard Club in that city. Most of the members
were Indonesian medical doctors who had received postgraduate
training at Harvard Medical School. 1 also served as chairman of the
International School of Djarkata.

My family and I are well settled, for the time being, in a nice, new
home on a lake a few miles from Washington. The children are en-
joying their stay in the States, especially since everyone speaks
English. However, they are now learning French. Problems of ad-
justment for them, in all our moves, have been relatively small, and
I feel they have had a most enriching experience because of their
travel. I plan to be stateside for another two years or so before going
overseas again.

I’ve never had time to develop any serious hobbies, though I con-
sider myself a most enthusiastic golfer— when I have time. The
whole family plays golf, although it’s seldom that we're all out at
the same time. My one chance to relax away from the office
usually is at the Monday night Little Men’s Marching and Chowder
Society.

I do not customarily look back, but twenty-five years out of
college does mark a milestone of some sort. If I had it to do over I
would not change it in any important detail, Pve enjoyed variety
in my jobs, traveled to all continents, been exposed to many cul-
tures. I have a beautiful wife and two wonderful children. But,
really, I’m more interested in looking ahead to the next twenty-five.
They will be challenging years, but I’m an optimist.

EDWARD TEFFT BARKER

Home appress: 206 Lockwood Rd., Syracuse, N.Y.

oFFice apprEss: 300 First Trust Bldg. Syracuse, N.Y,

porn: March 7, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa.

preparea at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREES: AB. 1937; La, tog,

[50]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Elisabeth Hinrichs, June 16, 1946, Washington, D.C. cnivpren;
Frederick W., 2d, Oct. 24, 1947; Christopher C., Feb. 11, 1951; Elisabeth
A., Sept. 25, 1952; Edward S. T., Aug. 13, 1956.

occuPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: President, Council of Social Agencies of Syracuse and Onondaga
County, 1956-58; vice-president, Council of Cultural Agencies, since 1961;
secretary, YWCA, 1948-51; vice-president, Midtown Hospital, since 1959;
trustee, Manlius School, since 1960; vice-president, Citizens Council on
Urban Renewal, 1959-61; chairman of the board, Planned Parenthood
Center; trustee, Council of Churches.

MEMBER OF; Century Club; Cazenovia Club, University Club of Syracuse;
Onondaga Golf and Country Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and
Syracuse; New York State Bar Association; Harvard Varsity Club.

AFTER graduation I spent three years at the Harvard Law School,
following which I signed on as a law clerk with the firm of which I
am now a partner. From 1941 to 1943 I wrote legal memoranda, filled
loose-leaf services and ran errands. From 1943 to 1946 I was on the
legal staff of the Office of Scientific Research and Development in
Washington, D.C. In June, 1946, I married Elisabeth Hinrichs,
Vassar ’45 (good move) and honeymooned in Europe, youth hostel-
ing (poor move). In the fall of 1946 I returned to Syracuse and be-
came reassociated with my present law firm.

I have made limited investments in several small business ventures
(poor move). I have also puttered in the stock market (pretty good
move).

So far as religious beliefs, personal attitudes, etc. are concerned, I
am an Episcopalian by inheritance and a Unitarian by inclination; I
am skeptical about the life hereafter; I have not been able to elimi-
nate completely the possibility of exhumation in connection with the
alleged physical resurrection. I believe that peace of mind and per-
sonal happiness are the goals of society. I am perplexed about
human destiny.

So far as political and economic philosophy is concerned, I am a
nominal Republican favorably disposed toward what I have seen of
the Kennedy Administration, with the exception of the handling of
Cuba; I favor trade unionism but not the excesses, e.g. Jimmy
Hoffa; I am concerned about spiralling wages and foreign compen-
tion; I am concerned about population growth and its effect upon
standards of living and health; I am an anti-segregationist; I am
opposed to such organizations as the D.A.R., American Legion,
John Birch Society and all other super-patriotic organizations. |
believe men should be judged in terms of their empathy, tolerance,

[5]

wwouol UU)

humility, personal loyalty, emotional control, intellect, honesty, and

generosity; not in terms of personal wealth, appearance, pigmenta-
tion, religious affiliation or nationality.

As to Harvard I have the following feelings:

Physical plant: the Georgian is majestic, the modern is somewhat
chintzy. .

Student body: improving in quality but far too many beards and
an excess of personal sloppiness.

Faculty: undoubtedly first rate but difficult for an alumnus to
assess.

Administration: first rate, with fine human beings at the helm.
Greatest need: an alumni center. The alumni who anted up

$80,000,000 deserve more hospitality than Wadsworth House and
the “Bick.”

WILLIAM JOHN BARKER

HOME ADDRESS: 761 Franklin St., Denver, Colo. .
OFFICE ADDRESS: KOA-TV-Radio, 1044 Lincoln St., Denver, Colo.
BORN: July 15, 1913, Denver, Colo.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Denver, Colo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

marriep: Margaret Ann Odlum, April 4, 1936, Harrison, N.Y.; Lydia Day
Downer, July 17, 1951, Pueblo, Colo. cumpren: William John, Jr., Dec.
16, 1937 (m. Susan Geiger, July 9, 1960); Patricia Raine, Sept. 10, 1948;
Richard Gordon Downer, Oct. 3, 1938 (stepson); Robin Day Downer,
Nov. 8, 1942 (stepson). cranncup: Kevin John Barker, May 3, 1961.

occuPATION: Radio Personality, KOA-TV-Radio, NBC Affiliate, Denver.

MEMBER OF: Denver Press Club; American Federation of TV and Radio
Artists (AFL-CIO); Sports Car Club of America.

pusticaTions: The Wayward West, Doubleday, November, 1959.

REMEMBER the depression? It and I went steady in the Hollywood
of the late 1930's. During those uncomfortable times I was variously
a motion picture set designer, short subjects dialogue director, free-
lance cartoonist and writer. All this was pretty hungry going, and
so go I did—back home to Denver in 1941. There I wound up
with the Remington Arms Company as (of all things) a quality con-
trol engineer writing shop manuals on the subject of “How to Make
Ammunition for War and Profit.” In 1944, eager to sce our product
in practical, everyday use, I joined the Infantry (103d Cactus Divi-
sion) as a combat artist-correspondent in the ETO. Far as I know,
I never managed to shoot anybody, but they made me a staff ser-
geant and gave me the Combat Infantry Badge, two battle stars, the

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Bronze Star and Good Conduct Medal. The last of these, in all
candor, was undeserved.

After the war I returned to Denver. Here I edited a magazine
titled Rocky Mountain Life for two years, then became an account
executive for Galen E. Broyles Company (advertising). Next The
Denver Post employed me as a staff writer and columnist for a then-
new Sunday rotogravure magazine called Empire. You may recall
one story I uncovered as assistant editor in 1954: The Search for
Bridey Murphy. 1 was the first to write of this fascinatin’ poltergeist
who was to become a household haunt throughout America a year
and a half later. My role in this spooky business was simple and, as
it turned out, rewarding. Briefly, my brother-in-law, a Yale sort
named Robert S. Gast, told me in 1953 that a neighbor of his in
Pueblo, Colorado, Morey Bernstein, had hypnotized a local house-
wife and that, under trance, she spoke as if she’d lived a hundred
years earlier in Ireland. Gast vouchsafed Bernstein’s character, said
he’d known him all his life, that he was a man of wealth, a business
genius and that hypiosis had been his intensive hobby for ten years.
So I wrote a four-installment report on the “Bridey” case. Seven-
teen months later, with some encouragement from me, Bernstein’s
book, The Search for Bridey Murphy, was published by Double-
day. Bernstein was totally unprepared for the fact he’d produced a
runaway best-seller — or for the abuse he received from sceptics. He
asked me to go to Ireland and check the things his Pueblo subject had
muttered when in her Miss Murphy state, and I did so in early 1956.
My findings were syndicated and dramatized on the Pall Mall “Big
Story” television show. Then I went to Hollywood to enact the role
of a reporter (myself) in Paramount’s sorry version of Bernstein’s
book. :

By curious coincidence, Nat Benchley, ’38, was out there at the
time appearing in his first movie — something or other he’d written
for MGM; so we had a Lampoonish reunion, along with Ellis Jones,
the Pasadena sawbones.

I wrote a column for the Post’s weekly for ten years, and for the
last three of my employment there, wrote a daily column, “The
Wayward Reporter,” as well, The best of the Sunday efforts was
published in late ’59 by Doubleday, under the title of The Wayward
West. I had begun my night conversation show for KOA-Radio,
the 50,000-watt NBC affiliate in Denver, at the time the book came
out. I found that six columns and five broadcasts weekly was too
much, and so abandoned the newspaper to go into radio exclusively.

[53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

| now do three programs daily during the work week: “Barker
by Daylight,” 1:10-3 pm; “The Barker-Rayburn Report,” 5:30-5:45
po; “Wayward Barker Show,” 10:30 pat-midnight; and life is a
comfy thing. A TV show is contemplated and may be in schedule
by the time you read this. Lydia and the children are all fine,
thanks — and how are your folks?

EDWIN ALLEN BARNES, JR.

HOME ApprESs: 10 Sunny Brae, Bronxville, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Motors Overseas Operations, 1775 Broadway, New
York 19, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1914, Far Rockaway, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.; Far Rockaway
High School, Far Rockaway, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., magria cum laude, 1937.

MaRRIED: Mary Elizabeth Anderson, June 14, 1940, Crestwood, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Betsey Anderson, April 24, 1950; Bradley Allen, Feb. 27, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald King Barnes, ’27.

occupation: Director, Employee Benefit Plans, General Motors Overseas
Operations.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Windsor Foundation, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Bronxville Field Club; Harvard Club of Westchester.

pusLications: Column and articles in Financial Reporter, Commercial and
Financial Chronicle, 1938-42.

HAVING been thoroughly prepared by Money and Banking, In-
ternational Trade and Accounting I to confound Wall Street, it
probably was a surprise to no one but myself that I left that field in
1940, without stirring up any more dust than when I entered in 1937.
It was in 1940 also that my bachelorhood came to an end, but there
is no discernible causal relationship between these two major events
in my life. |
The course of the next few years was, as for most of us, shaped in
large part by world events. Traveling became a habit for Betty and
myself, which may have had some bearing on my joining Pan
American Airways upon relinquishing a naval uniform in 1946.
In 1950, Betsey joined us, fortunately in New York and not in
Huchuetenango. Although Brad likes to be right up with his sister
in everything, he didn’t come along for another couple of years.
By then we had embarked on the full family life, forsaking the air-
plane for the automobile, Pan American for General Motors, and
Greenwich Village for Westchester County. Since then we have

[54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

concentrated on keeping our Wellesley and Harvard replacements
in fighting trim.

We are now settled suburbanites, enmeshed in the tennis, golf, and
chauffeuring of children routine. They, the children, are at the pet
stage. White mice or hamsters, anyone? Hobbies? Who has time
for them? Unless rebuilding old homes is considered a hobby. We
are working on our second now. It does absorb the interest, fill the
spare time, and consume the spare cash. Betty says only once more
for her though, and something much smaller — about 2’ x 6’, all
bronze.

JOHN DAVID BARNES

ADDRESS: 34 Court St., New Bedford, Mass.
BORN: Nov. 23, 1914, New Bedford, Mass.
PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES; A.B. 1937; M.D. (Univ. of Maryland),
1943. 7

MarRRiED: Eloise Sherlock, July 24, 1937, Hyde Park, Mass. cumpren: Henry
David and Walter Frederick (twins), Oct. 17, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Physician; private practice.

AFTER graduation from Harvard College in 1937, I spent one semes-
ter at Harvard Business School and then took courses as a special
student at Tufts College and Harvard, in order to go to medical
school in 1939. I entered the University of Maryland Medical
School, and received an M.D. degree in 1943.

I had an ensign’s commission in the U.S. Naval Reserve which I
relinquished, and accepted a commission as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the
Medical Corps, U.S. Naval Reserve. I interned at the U.S. Naval
Hospital, Newport, Rhode Island, and St. Luke’s Hospital, New
Bedford, Massachusetts. During World War II, I was junior medical
officer for twelve LST’s and served in the European and Pacific
Theatres. Prior to overseas duty, I was medical officer for the Naval
Supply Corps, Harvard Business School. Just before discharge from
the service in April, 1946, I was examining officer, Recruiting Serv-
ice, State of New Hampshire, U.S. Navy.

- Lentered the private practise of medicine in New Bedford, in June,
1947, and have been engaged in same since.

On July 24, 1937, I married Eloise Sherlock of Hyde Park. We
have twin sons, Walter and Henry, aged twenty-three years, Walter
is a medical student at Vanderbilt Medical School, and Henry is a
graduate student at the University of Rhode Island.

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

From 1948 until 1961, my chief hobby was boating. In 1961 I
purchased eight acres of seashore-country combination property
and built a country home in Westport Harbor, Massachusetts. Gar-
dening will probably be my chief hobby in the future.

I feel that I have been very fortunate. My work is stimulating,
and sometimes rewarding. My health has been excellent.

JOHN BRADFORD BARNEY

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Stonybrook Rd. Cape Elizabeth, Maine,
oFFice appress: Union Mutual Life Insurance Co., goo Congress St., Portland,
Maine.
BoRN: Dec. 18, 1915, Bridgewater, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; Cert. Meteorology (Mass.
Inst. of Technology), 1943; u.B. (Univ. of Michigan), 1951.
marriep: Grace L. Larsen (a.8., Univ. of Minnesota, 1945, A.M., ibid., 1946),
Aug. 19, 1950, Minneapolis, Minn. cuitoreN: Mary Wadsworth, Jan. 23,
1952; Ann Downing, Nov. 12, 1953.
occupaTion: Associate counsel, Union Mutual Life Insurance Company.
OFFICES HELD: 1943-47, Air Weather officer, captain, U.S. Army Air Corps
(major 1955); 1951 — clerk, Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity, University of
Michigan Chapter; 1955 — assistant trust officer, Arizona Title Guarantee &
Trust Company, Phoenix; 1959 — assistant vice-president, Canal National
Bank, Portland, Maine; 1960— associate counsel, Union Mutual Life
Insurance Company, Portland; 1960—treasurer and director, Portland
Symphony Orchestra; 1961— instructor in trusts, American Institute of
Banking, Portland; 1962 — instructor in insurance law, Life Office Manage-
ment Association, Union Mutual Life Insurance Company.
MEMBER OF: Fellowship Lodge, AF. & A.M. Bridgewater, Mass.; Harvard
Club of Maine; Hennepin County and Minnesota Bar Associations, 1951-
55; Cumberland County and Maine Bar Associations; Maine Bankers As-

sociation and Maine Bar Association Committee on Uniform Commercial
Code.

pustications: “Manual on In-Station Punching of Weather Observation Cards,”

Air Weather Service, 1945; “Uniform Commercial Code,” Portland Uni-
versity Law Review, Spring, 1961.

Vocation: Last nine years for a lender, this year for an insurer, I
still seem to be twisting and weaving gossamer into strands of ink
and talk which actuate the financial puppets of our economy.
Family: Trying regularly to promote bliss, I attempt occasional
flute and piano ducts with sweet spouse; and all four of us bat the
badminton bird, swim or float, hike, cook out, skate and scldom turn
the television knob.

[56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Other Diversions: Cultivating house, yard, fairways and greens.
Decelerating speed reading to the comprehension level. Guessing
weather... ,

Social and Political: Still recognizing interdependence of all beings,
including carnivores. .

Religious: Following lead of sweet spouse.

LEONARD BARON

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Fairview Rd., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Robert Leonard Corp., 95 Bridge St., Lowell, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1915, Roxbury, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Roselle Miller, 1940, Boston, Mass.; Shirley R. Robbins, June 20,
1948, Boston, Mass, cHILDREN: Jonathan M., May 18, 1944; Nina, May 1,
1951; Alex, April 18, 1952.

OCCUPATION: President and director, Robert Leonard Corporation, clerk and
director, Baron Peters Company, Inc., Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Industrial Advisory Committee, War Production
Board, 1940-41; president, Temple Emanuel, Lowell, 1949-52; member,
board of directors, 1954, chairman, since 1960, Friends of Music, Boston
University; co-chairman, New England Friends of the Ghetto Fighters’
House, 1959-60; chairman, Greater Lowell-Lawrence Community Con-
certs Association, 1956-59; president, New Arts Symphony Orchestra,
1960-61; member of corporation, 1957-61, trustee, since 1961, Boston Opera
Group.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

FACED with the choice upon graduation of a career either in
business or in music, my decision, after a brief stint playing in a
ship’s orchestra, was inevitable — I went to work for Dad, and with
a great to-do about starting from the bottom. A few years later,
associated with two others, I went off on my own; upon my leav-
ing for the Service, my father later joined me in this new venture.
The outsiders have since been replaced by my two younger
brothers. The family operates several firms in the quality dress
field — considered successful.

My especial pleasures have been the developing of the businesses
and the creative aspects of fabric design and dress styling, the latter
involving frequent trips abroad, both to standard fashion haunts and
to many far away places over the entire globe. My wife accompa-
nics me on most of these trips. We are now a bit jaded and travel
only far afield or to visit friends.

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

My first marriage, though not successful, is justified by my eldest
son, Jonathan, who handles the obstacles more smoothly than did I.
He should make Harvard next year but —as they all say .. .? He
rates me square for questioning his sometime desire to chuck for
music his talents in mathematics, science, and languages. We have
reached a fair truce under which he limits his musical activities to
playing four instruments, in two orchestras, spending the balance of
his “spare” time composing and attending concerts. Nonetheless,
he is consistently an honor student at Andover, and in the long run
makes his decisions soundly (i.e., agrees with me).

As to my martial accomplishments, the Quartermaster Corps
thought little of my Harvard education, putting me through every
school they had, twice in the case of basic training. I ultimately
emerged a combat second lieutenant but laid my weapons aside for
greater service in the WAC procurement program. Service termi-
nated with my first marriage. A few years later | married Shirley.
To ease commuting to the newly started business in Lowell, we lived
there four years, after which we moved to our present home in
Weston. In our travels abroad we discovered two angelic children
whom we adopted, and regarding whom Shirley and I rarely speak
without cloying sentimentality or obnoxious enthusiasm. They are
outdoorsy and integrate with our exurbanite environment.

While resident in Lowell, I started a career as an unpaid organiza-
tion man — from which I am resolutely retiring. First, I found my-
self organizing a Reform Jewish Temple, of which I became presi-
dent. Though this is the belief of my choice, such practice runs the
hazard that it may be diluted into a lazy man’s religion, and that
withdrawal of irrelevant but colorful traditions leave it arid. Cur-
rently, I feel theocracy in all religions nonsense and an anachronis-
tic imposition. Religion should incorporate new revisional think-
ing and revolutionary thinking. Next I was involved with the
Boston University Friends of Music, serving on the board of direc-
tors for several years, soon as co-chairman, later as chairman. Effec-
tively bringing the activities of the Boston University School of
Music to the favorable attention of the national music community

was exciting and, again, creative. My wife soon was involved in
organizations encompassing the arts, resulting in many valued asso-

ciations.

My interest in music remains composing and listening. Unfor-
tunately, fifty or so concerts attended annually have resulted in a
discrimination frustrating to my Own composing and to measuring

[58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

up to the standards I set for composers, particularly with my added
difficulty of inadequate musical training. Possibly this is something
for the future. I have, nonetheless, composed through the years,
with a moment of triumph the writing of a concerto in rhapsody
form, followed through to performance by the Buffalo Philharmonic
and major radio networks.

Shirley and I are kept alert under the stimulation of fairly exten-
sive contact in the arts. Shirley designed the costumes for the Bos-
ton Opera Group with great talent, is active in the Cambridge
Festival and the Boston Symphony Orchestra Youth Concerts. So
our interests and hobbies are in common, except that she never ac-
companies the children and me on our Sunday hikes or on modest
mountain climbs.

Politically, I am concerned about our democracy, which I feel
self-defeating in the face of forces such as Russia and China. Our
political leaders, more so the Democrats, are lured first by political
expediency, then by the decision of the masses (never been proved
to be proper), and only last by what an elected elite should properly
do. Maybe Kennedy will learn (with all his faults, he is a Harvard
man), but I fear there may be short time to sponsor his training,
which he should have had before he eagerly went after the big job.

I look forward to the next twenty-five. The last twenty-five have
been largely preoccupied with getting the family on the way. In
this next period, the long before and the short (if any) thereafter
must justify itself.

FREDERICK PARK BARRETT

HOME AppRESS: 164 Madison Ave. Holyoke, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nonotuck Manufacturing Co., South Hadley Falls, Mass.

BORN: July 5, 1916, Framingham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: $.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Virginia Boley, Aug. 3, 1940, Holyoke, Mass. cuitpren: Laura
Virginia, March 23, 1943; Cynthia Esty, Dec. 19, 1946; Frederick Park, Jr.
July 27, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Edward Barrett, Jr., ’30.

OccUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, Nonotuck Manufacturing Company,
copper wire fabricator.

OFFICES HELD; Vice-president, treasurer and director, Nonotuck Manufacturing
Company; director, American Pad & Paper Company, Holyoke Hospital,
Holyoke Y.M.C.A. Holyoke Chapter, American Red Cross, Holyoke

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Taxpayers Association; trustee, Peoples Savings Bank; finance chairman,
Holyoke Republican City Committee.

MEMBER OF: William Whiting Lodge, AF. & A.M, Annisquam Yacht Club;
Harvard Club of Springfield.

THE years since 1937 have been good — though not spectacular —
ones for us. Except for a stint in the Navy during World War I], I
have held the same job. While this may not seem like progress, the

company has prospered and since 1955 has been a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Beryllium Corporation.

Ginger and ]—sometimes individually, but often together —
have found time to devote effort to church, charitable, civic and
political affairs. We see signs of this active interest and participation
sprouting in our children —and perhaps with luck it may in some
of our complacent contemporaries.

As a member of the Schools Committee, I interview local candi-

dates for Harvard—an experience that is too seldom rewarding
and too often frustrating as time goes by.

FRANCIS WASHBURN BARTOL

HOME ApprEss: 19 Old Connecticut Path, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radio Station WKOX, Framingham, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1915, Milton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

marRiep: Ruth P, Geddes, Oct. 31, 1939, Seabrook, N.H. cHitpren: Linda
M., Nov. 9, 1942; Wendy P., Dec. 7, 1950.

occupation: Chief engineer, Radio Station WKOX.

AFTER leaving college, I spent a year traveling. Worked for Ford
Motor Company in Wellington, New Zealand. Returned to the
States and took engineering degree at Lowell Institute of M.I.T.
Entered radio business, first with WHDH, Boston, and then with
WEEI, CBS, in Boston. When war came along, served three years
with Signal Corps, two years in the South Pacific. Married just as
the war began and had one child before leaving for the service. Re-
turned to civilian life in 1946, and after another year with CBS took
present job with Radio Station WKOX in Framingham, Massachu-
setts, as chief engineer. In 1948, moved residence from Boston to
Wayland. Mave two daughters, one of whom is presently at Endi-

cott Junior College in Beverly and the other is at Meadowbrook
in Weston.

[ 60}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CORNISH BASSETT

HOME ADDRESS: 198 Randolph Ave., Milton 87, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Truesdale Co., 101 Water St., Beverly, Mass.

BoRN: April 16, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1938.

MARRIED: Jean Campbell, June 11, 1941, Pasadena, Calif. (divorced 1959).
CHILDREN: Thomas Campbell, March 1, 1943; Stephanie, March 31, 1945.

occuPATION: Financial adviser, Truesdale Company, chemical distributors.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Brown & Locke, Inc. (equipment rentals), Souhegan
Wood Products (moldings).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Phoenix-SK Club; Union Boat Club,
Milton-Hoosic Club; Duxbury Yacht Club.

FREDERICK ROBERT BAUER, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 32 Washington Sq., New York 11, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Blair-TV, 717 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 19g, 1916, Wellesley Hills, Mass.

PREPARED AT: South Kent School, South Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Janet Simis, Oct. 5, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Bettina, Aug.
16, 1941 (m. Robert Hinckley, Bowdoin ’58, Nov. 4, 1961); Jan Elliott,
July 25, 1943; Frederick Robert, 3d, Sept. 7, 1949.

occuPaTION: Research director, Blair-TV, television station representatives.

LAST time around, I was about to go into at least semi-retirement in
the lotus land of Santa Barbara. Happily aroused from lethargy, am
now back at an interesting and promising job in New York. Since
the description of the job entails a trip through advertising termi-
nology, I won’t go into it except that it is worth getting up in the
morning.

The Times recently quoted Dean Bender to the effect that the

Harvard of today would never produce another FDR or JFK. To
this, Amen.

CLARENCE HENRY BAUM, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Round Grove Farm, West Lebanon, Ind.

BoRN: April 6, 1915, Danville, IIL.

PREPARED AT: Danville High School, Danville, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B, 1937,

Marriro: Helen Kavanagh, Dec. 29, 1945, Chicago, Hl. cttoren: Philip Joho,
Feb, 27, 1948; Miller, Feb. 9, tor.

[61]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occupation: Grain and livestock farming, owner-operator.

OFFICES HELD: County chairman, Christian Rural Overseas Program, 1953;
township chairman, American Farm Bureau Federation, 1945-46; chair-
man, Warren County Beef Cattle Committee, since 1953; secretary-
treasurer, Warren County Soil Conservation District Board of Super-
visors, 1942-52; Indiana delegate, American Shorthorn Breeders Associa-
tion, 1954-57; panel member, Purdue Farm Science Conference, 1961;

vice-president, Baum Building, Inc., since 1955. .

MEMBER OF: Indiana Farm Management, Corn Growers, Livestock Breeders,
Cattle Feeders, and Swine Producers Associations; Warren County Ex-
tension Committee, Beef Cattle Committee, Soil Conservation District,
and Farm Bureau; Indiana Historical Society; William Henry Harrison
Trail Commission; American Society of Agronomy; American Soybean

Association; Purdue Agricultural Alumni Association; Purdue Hall of
Fame.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in The Shorthorn World, and Chicago Drovers
Journal, and local newspapers.

WHAT does a Harvard degree mean to an Indiana farmer? Culture,
learning, college friends? As much as we love them, they have been
neglected. Academic knowledge? Not essential, really, except for
the most important thing we learned: using our heads. To survive
today a farmer must be able to read and reason intelligently, and
know how to search out answers to unfamiliar problems. He has
to be adept in many fields: engineering, chemistry, accounting, mar-
keting, and so forth, as well as the new techniques in agronomy and
animal husbandry. Moreover, the cultural advantages of metropoli-
tan life are within his reach to the extent that he is aware of them.
Thus, the cosmopolitan influence of a Harvard background may be
more important to me as a farmer than it would have been in an ur-
ban environment.

Round Grove Farm has always been in the family. As a young-
ster, I thought of it as a haven of retirement after I'd made my for-
tune. Then my summer report for the Business School in 1938 in-
dicated that the farm itself had sound business potential. It might
be possible to combine a career with my preference for a way of
life. Q.E.D.

James Whitcomb Riley’s version of farm life is still charming, but
now it also has the attributes of big business. It has challenged all
the energy, ingenuity, judgment and technical application I could
muster. Although new developments sometimes change the picture
before all our plans have been put into effect, 1 guess we've accom-
plished quite a bit at that. The century-old ancestral home was
destroyed by fire ten days after our wedding trip, and advancing

[ 62 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

technology has completely altered the physical aspect of the farm.
With my sentimental attachment for the old homestead this has not
been entirely painless.

The latest improvement is one of Helen’s pet projects, a lake out-
side the family-room picture window. With swimming, fishing,
skating, badminton, horseshoes, croquet, basketball, and even our
own football field, our country club is right here. Friends like to
visit in the country, and we enjoy having them, The boys think they
would prefer a fifty-foot lot when the grass grows too fast, but their
city friends disagree.

Our Polled Shorthorn beef breeding herd was a stimulating enter-
prise — showing, promoting, traveling, entertaining other breeders
from all over the world — but frankly it was a relief when we dis-
persed the herd following the disc operation which forced me to
cut down. With my back recovering nicely, we are now concentrat-
ing on improving efficiency. The experimental work in which we
have been cooperating with Purdue is interesting, and our develop-
ments in automation, materials handling, confinement hog systems,
conservation practices, and minimum tillage have received con-
siderable attention. Although our land is not naturally the most
productive, we had the high yield this year in the five-acre corn
contest.

_ Helen, originally from Chicago’s North Shore, feels the same
as I do about rural life. Probably we’re both better satisfied knowing
the grass is no greener on the other side of the fence. She, too, finds
unlimited opportunity for expression of her talents. As organizer
and president of the Shorthorn breed’s women’s auxiliary, the Short-
horn Lassies, she proved her executive ability and skill in public rela-
tions. At present she is chairman of the Cancer Society and much in
demand for leadership in other community activities. I’m also grati-
fied that she has taken an interest in the historical background of the
area and has herself conducted considerable original research.

Our main concern about the boys is keeping them on their mettle
to live up to their possibilities. The schooling here provides more
challenge on the basketball floor than in the classroom. It’s good for
them, though, and it’s up to us to keep them on their toes intellec-
tually. The boys each have different kinds of ability. I suspect that
only one of them will be interested in farming, the one who thinks he
would like to go to Harvard.

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

WILLIAM STANTON BAXTER

HOME ADpRESS: 6 The Rise, Woodbury, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. H. Lane & Co., Inc. 295 Fifth Ave, New York, N.Y.

porn: Dec. 7, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE! A.By 1937.

marrieD: Margaret Smith, Nov. 1, 1936, Covington, Ky. (divorced 1959); Jean
Gundlach, Oct. 3, 1959, Washington, D.C. cxttoren: Linda Blair, April
27, 1942; William Stanton, Jr., June 8, 1944; Philip E., July 3, 1960.

occuPaTION: President, J. H. Lane & Company, Inc, Joseph W. Woods Com-
pany, Inc., textile sales agents and converters.

THINKING perhaps that it might be a good idea to give my
college major of money and banking a whirl, after graduation I
started out in the banking field in Brookline, Massachusetts, and
stayed there for four years. These were lean years and certainly
good experience.

- In 1941 I made the big jump from big institution to small textile
firm, selling the products of southern mills. It’s twenty years now
with the same firm. The vicissitudes of the textile industry are not
particularly good for ulcers, but so far I seem to have weathered the
storms and achieved, if that is the word for it, the presidency of the
firm I started out with, as well as an affiliated company.

The war interrupted my business life in the middle of 1943 for
two and a half years and I saw the world with the U.S. Navy, but
not under conditions that could be termed favorable. Received my
commission as ensign in April, 1943, and rose very, very rapidly to
the rank of lieutenant (j.g.) by the time I was released from duty in
January, 1946.

By this time, my family had grown so that I had a daughter, Linda,
and a new son, Bill, Jr. Children certainly lead us into community
life, and since the war, but to a lesser degree recently, I have been
very active in community affairs. These include a rather wide
gamut: Scouting, Little League, P.T.A., church school, even five
years on the local fire department and a couple of terms as District
Water Commissioner.

Margaret and I were divorced in the spring of 1959, and in the
fall of the same year I remarried. Jean and 1 were blessed with a
new son, Philip, a year or so ago. It looks as though I am about to
start the whole routine over again, and I'm happily looking forward
to it.

Politically, I] had alway's considered myself an independent liberal,

[ 64 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

leaning a little toward the middle of the road, but Mr. Kennedy, I
am afraid, has changed my views. It may have to be Goldwater in
64.

With the time fast approaching when young Bill is about to em-
bark on a college career, and I look over the various institutions
toward which he leans, I can remember the advantages that my four
years at Harvard gave me, and only hope that whatever college he
chooses, or better, whatever accepts him, will give him the ex-
perience, background and education that Harvard gave me.

JOHN BARRINGTON BAYLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 10-41 51st Ave., Long Island City 1, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: A. E. Poor, Architects, 400 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
BoRN: July 13, 1914, Berkeley, Calif,

PREPARED AT: South Kent School, South Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; B.ARCH., 1942.
UNMARRIED,

occuPATION: Architect.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Municipal Art Society, Borough of Queens.

pusiicaTions: Articles in Landscape, Liturgical Arts, Thought, Architectural
Review, Connaissance des Arts; New World Writing.

AFTER graduation in 1937, I went to Europe, the Balkans mainly,
and returned in the fall, mainly from force of habit, i.e., go to work
in the fall. I floundered around New York for a bit and then went
to the School of Design. That was rather fun. There were girls
and incessant cocktail parties and general whirling about, the whole
gilded by the feeling that we were rather dames @élite. Next came
the Army which I enjoyed very much. First there were the southern
camps and then Warwickshire, and then three years in Paris. I
got all the books, and explored Paris and the Ile de France very
thoroughly. I had been feeling rather displaced in the Modern
Movement, and now resolved to quit it and not be a modern archi-
tect. The other things were so much more interesting. I would
drive by some Corbusier piece that I had paid a pilgrimage to on
arrival, and it would seem just small and remote and period-quaint,
as we'll say. I hurried on to this or that bétel particulier in the
Marais.

I returned to the States. By luck I won a competition for the
redecoration of the Metropolitan Opera Club. The project laid an
egg, bute McMillen’s, the decorators, took me on. This was a per-

[ 65]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

fectly marvelous job. There was the “Sunnyside” restoration, Astor,
Vanderbilt, Ford and Rockefeller dwellings, and every day was a
delight.

I then resolved to go to Rome and through the kind offices of
the Museum of Modern Art secured a berth at the American
Academy. Over I went and a month after leaving 55th Street found
myself in the same blue serge and black shoes hitchhiking from
Caprarola to Villa Laute. Upwards of four ecstatic years followed.
Rome was thoroughly explored. Not a pebble of the Forums was
left unturned. From the Academy I went to the Embassy where
my title read, “Architect, Foreign Building Operations.” Our build-
ings in Italy to be repaired, furnished, etc., and our buildings in Israel,
Ethiopia and Warsaw to be furnished. It was a wonderful job but
rife with pressures, and I finally retired to the Bay of Naples for a
winter, then Austria for some months, and then bleak moment, home.

I was really rather fazed as to what to do next, so I went on a

lecture tour to see what would turn up. Nothing did. Then I
decided the only way to make money was in parking cars. Disaster.
Then. a friend with an invention followed. Disaster. Meanwhile
I'd taken a job in an architectural office. However, it was not all
disaster. I helped with Walking Tours of the city for the Museum
of the City of New York. I worked on several exhibitions showing
the architecture of our Golden Age. A Golden Age being, in my
lexicon, any period which brings the glory of imperial Rome to
second life. I even held two shows of my own drawings showing
“New York Improved.” No tangible result. I bought a house one
subway stop from Grand Central, in Long Island City, and for the
past two years, how time does fly, have been at it. A visitor said
“Farnese Palace,” which thrilled me, so you can imagine what it’s
like:

The grand purpose of my New York sojourn is nothing less than
the reversal of all cultural trends. We call it the “Grand Design.”
No more abstraction, or subjectivism, or aesthetic relativism, or
glassville, or science fiction like the Guggenheim, or big grin like
the Museum of Modern Art, or mystic nihilism, or... . but per-
haps I should go on about all this and the story of its reversal in the
Fiftieth Class Report.

[ 56}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOSTER CUSHMAN BEAL

HOME AppRESS: 14 Oakland St., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bethlehem Steel Co., 75 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: June 16, 1915, Waltham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Lois Eliot McKechnie, Wellesley ’37, June 23, 1939, Wellesley, Mass.
CHILDREN: David Lawrence, Oct. 18, 1940; Eliot Cushman, Feb. 15, 1944;

Alexander Winslow, June 10, 1948; Douglas Foster, May 15, 1950; Eliza-
beth Wardell, March 12, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Winslow Beal, 736.

OCCUPATION: Product supervisor, Bethlehem Steel Company.
MEMBER OF: Wellesley Lodge, AF. & A.M.

MY business activities continue with the Boston sales office of the
Bethlehem Steel Company, as product supervisor of steel sheet and
H-piling, as well as highway and airport specialty products. July
7, 1962, will be the end of twenty-five years of continuous service.
Selling construction steels, including fabricated structural steel and
reinforcing bars, to the major contractors throughout New England,
for all types of heavy construction work, is an exciting and fascinat-
ing occupation.

My life away from business is confined primarily to raising a
family of five healthy and active children. Our eldest, David, is a
senior at the University of Maine, majoring (with full tuition schol-
arship) in pulp and paper chemistry. Our second son, Eliot, is now
in the throes of applying for college. Our thirteen-year-old red-head,
Sandy, named after his Scotch grandfather, Alexander, is in junior
high, and Douglas, our mechanic and trainmaster of an HO train,
is in fifth grade. By the time our only daughter, Elizabeth, grad-
uates from college, I shall be ready for retirement to our twelve-
acre summer home on Parker’s Pond in South Chesterville, Maine,

where life is peaceful and quict and one can enjoy the beauties of
nature.

WILLIAM ARMITAGE BEARDSLEE

MAILING AppreEss: Marienstr. 43, Bonn, Germany.

BORN: March 25, 1916, Holland, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B, wergna crm Lartide, 190375
By. (New Brunswick Theological Sem.), togn, am. (Columbia Univ),
1948; pio. (Univ. of Chicago), 1951.

[ 67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19

aarriep: Kathryn Q. Walker, June 14, 1941, Wyncote, Pa. critpren; Joy
Walker Jan. 14, 1943; William Rigby, June 8, 1945.

occuPaTiOn: Professor of biblical literature, Emory University, Emory Uni-
versity, Ga.

OFFICES HELD: Minister, Reformed Church of Queens Village, N.Y. 1941-45;

assistant professor, associate professor and professor of biblical literature,
Emory University, since 1947.

I HAVE done various things as well as formal teaching, of course,
e.g., chairman of the department for a time, acting dean of the Col-
lege of Arts and Sciences for about half of 1958, director of the
Graduate Institute of the Liberal Arts, 1957-61 (this latter is an in-
terdisciplinary graduate program in humanities and social sciences
that we have at Emory). I have “published” some, as professors
do, and am associate editor of a professional journal, the Journal of
Bible and Religion. At present, | have a Fulbright Research Grant
to the University of Bonn, so I expect that I shall not be on hand for
the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

As you can see from the above, I am interested in interpreting the
Christian faith in the context of the modern understanding of the
world — that sounds pretentious but at least tries to express the con-
cern that moves me back and forth between my special study (New
Testament) and the wider context of the modern intellectual and
personal world (e.g., Emory’s Institute of the Liberal Arts).

CLARENCE ARTHUR BEEBOWER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2214 Briarglen, Apt. 2, Houston 27, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1510 Gentry, Houston 1, Texas,

BorN: Dec. 27, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED At: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.

Marriep: Pauline Allaby, Dec. 4, 1937, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1951); Jean
Louise Smith, Dec. 27, 1952. cuiLpren: Gale Rae, Oct. 9, 1938 (22, James
Brown, June 22, 1957—~divorced 1961), Gary Arlan, July 22, 1941 (on.
Toni Jeanne Elliott, Feb. 21, 1959). GraNocHitpren: Dawn Elaine Brown;
Troy Arlan Beebower; Teri Jeanne Beebower.

oocuPATION: Account executive, Bonus Merchandising Corporation — sales
department of trading stamps for J. Weingarten, Inc., Houston, Texas,

and the Gulf Coast Area, property manager, Patio Apartment Rentals,
Colonial Apartments, Briar Villa Apartments.

SALES and public relations have been my employment since 1937.
World War II forced me into engineering, but by 1949, I was once
again traveling the United States. It must be that many years ago

[ 68 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I decided not to be confined to any particular job nor conform to
company policies, etc. I have worked when necessary, vacationed
by choice, and sacrificed the desire of money for peace of mind.
Three years ago, I tired of traveling and settled in Houston. This is
the longest time I have spent in any one place — so I obviously enjoy
the Gulf Coast area. I have been blessed with good fortune in the
past and have every reason to believe the future will be better.

CHARLES NORTON BELCHER

HOME ADDRESS: 1293 Fernwood Drive, San Luis Obispo, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Charles Belcher & Co., San Luis Obispo, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1916, Newark, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Columbia High School, Maplewood, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A. (Stanford Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Nilene Anderson, Jan. 8, 1949, San Francisco, Calif. cumpRen: Nancy
Nilene, Feb. 19, 1950; Melissa Anne, Feb. 5, 1952 (died Feb. 26, 1957);
John William, Dec. 27, 1955; Carolyn Norton, Feb. 14, 1957; Liane Ander-
son, April 14, 1960,

OCCUPATION: Certified public accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, treasurer, senior warden, St. Stephen’s Episcopal
Church, San Luis Obispo, 1952-55, 1957-59, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants; California
Society of Certified Public Accountants; Society of California Accountants;
American Accounting Association; Kiwanis Club of San Luis Obispo; San
Luis Obispo Country Club; Commonwealth Club of California.

BY 1939, I had made a start in public accounting. This seemed a
comfortable enough occupation in those years which lay in the
shadow of the depression, but were becoming increasingly threatened
by Mein Kampf. My employer was an old C.P.A. without respect for
recent Harvard graduates, although he became a firm friend after
our business relationship had terminated. The office was near the
New York Stock Exchange and was reached daily from New Jersey ,
via the Lackawanna. To any Classmates who still read the morning
paper on a train, my salutations.

Service in the Coast Guard, starting in November, 1941, lasted
about three months longer than our enrollment at Harvard. My
first assignment afloat was as coxswain-of-the-watch, performing
guard duty on a Spanish freighter incarcerated in New York Har-
bor. In December, with no steam up, this was cool duty. After a
few weeks, I was permitted to apply my Naval Science I background
to an examination for commission and came out an ensign. The next

[ 69 ]

wscuoelll Il

two years were devoted to travel, during most of which I was
scared enough to sleep with my shoes on. Later on, with overstaffed
ships and no submarines, service in the Atlantic became anticlimac-
tic. During all this time I tried for every possible side-trip, and never
visited a place that wasn’t interesting. They let me have some real
good looks at Nova Scotia, Newfoundland, Greenland, England,
France, Italy, Algeria, and Morocco, not to mention Georgia, Flori-
da, and California.

In 1946 and 1947, I studied for fifteen months at the school of
business, Stanford University. Aside from satisfying the requirements
for the M.B.A. degree, this was a course in comparative sociology,
climate, and economics. Academic courses at Stanford were excel-
lent but did not seem quite so solid and well organized as those at
Harvard. However, their quarter system, to me, was far more ef- .
fective than our semester system; studying went more smoothly
without the reading-period agony.

While still enrolled at Stanford, I returned to public accounting,
this time in San Francisco. The city justified its reputation as clean,
beautiful, and cosmopolitan. It’s an invigorating place to work, ex-
cept for the New York-style commuting.

Since 1950, there has been no commuting, as I have been in prac-
tice in San Luis Obispo, a smaller, warmer city on the coast. I have been
raising a family with the help of a wife born and bred in Missouri,
although a San Franciscan when I met her. Among many charac-
teristics of our remarkable children, I think the most remarkable is
that they are so different from each other. This disproves the en-
vironment theory; heredity passed out the personalities in assort-
ment and that’s the way they’re staying. The loss of our second
daughter, to illness, in 1957, is less difficult to bear as time goes on.
Since then we have had another girl, who is blessed with the best

disposition of all. Occasional elements of family life include gar-
dening, golf, swimming, boating, bridge, city visits, and plain old
relaxing on the patio.

The church has been far more important than I anticipated. This
seems appropriate to the present age of struggle against Communism.
Basic answers to the problems of our civilization are unquestionably
there, in our religious heritage, for those who will look.

[70]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALLACE EDWARD BELCHER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 305 Bryn Mawr Ave., Bala-Cynwyd, Pa.

OFFICE AppREss: Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co., Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BORN: May 7, 1915, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Protestant Episcopal Academy, Merion, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marriED: Marian Ogden Schussler, Jan. 17, 1942, Philadelphia, Pa. cuipren:
Wallace Edward, 3d, April 2, 1944; Thomas Holden, July 28, 1951; David
Lord, April 2, 1957.

occuPATION: Scientific and industrial instrument manufacturing; product plan-
ning and coordination, market analysis, product line manager.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Instruments and Regulators Division, 1954, Philadel-
phia Section, 1957-58, speaker, Regional Delegates Conference, 1957, chair-
man, National Agenda Committee, 1959, National Nominating Committee,
1961, Board on Membership, 1961-62, American Society of Mechanical
Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Franklin Institute, American Society of Mechanical Engineers,
Main Line Players, Ardmore, Pennsylvania.

pusLicaTions: “High Speed Supervision of Process Variables,” Electrical Engi-
neering, November, 1950; “Industrial Temperature Measurement with
Thermocouple Pyrometers,” American Society for Metals, 1956, “How
User Needs Influence Design of Electronic Pressure Transmitters,” Azuto-

_ matic Control, November, 1958; “Simple Telemetering Goes Modern,”
Instrumentation, Vol. 14, No. 2; “Job Opportunities,” Delaware Valley
_ Announcer, February, 1957; “Instrumentation and Control,” Career Gui-
dance Series, 1957, Monograph No. 1; U.S. Patents: No. 2,446,153, “Re-
calibrating Motor Control System,” 1948, No. 2,564,294, “Supervisory
Measuring Instrument,” 1951, No. 2,675,510, “Measuring Apparatus,” 1954,

No. 2,755,020, “Measuring Apparatus,” 1956, No. 2,793,813, “Aleasuring
and Controlling Apparatus,” 1957.

I HAVE never been able to decide whether it is simply because
my Dad was an engineer and I only a frustrated scientist, or whether
I really belong in the manufacture of sophisticated hardware. Re-
gardless of causes, let me say that this field of endeavor does have
its rewards even for a pseudo-scientist who is a poor businessman
to boot. The Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company supports
me and my family, even though it may not be in a style to which
I would like to become accustomed.

After college it took me about four years to find the employer
with a fine enough sense of loyalty to keep paying my bills for the
next twenty years. Those first four years were spent in such ques-
tionable places as the University of Pennsylvania Graduate School
and a petrochemical research organization which will go unnamed.

It took just a lietle longer than this for me to find a wife. Or

[70]

HARVARD CLASS | |

rather, it took a little longer than four years for me to admit that
I couldn’t possibly find a finer woman and that I'd better not pro-
crastinate further. After two years of irresponsibility, Marian and
I produced our first major problem. It took the next eighteen years
for us to realize just how much of a problem we had produced,
but he’s now over six feet and still going up. He’s just as brainless
as I am sure my father thought I was, but so far he’s much better
looking than I. His name is Terry and right now he’s so busy
“girlin’” that little time remains for school work or other less
serious pursuits. In the meantime, two other “problems” have joined
us. Tommy, now eleven, is the hardheaded engineer type, and David,
who is five, is developing a strong personality which is thoroughly
mindful of people and their inclinations. Since Terry is the theo-
retician, dreamer type, we have a household of contrasts (along
with a dog, three birds, and a rabbir).

Marian and I have been active in some church groups and neigh-
borhood undertakings, but have received most fun from our little
theatre activities. We both seem to tend toward character parts.
She was the mother-in-law in “Front Page” and a very forbidding
nurse in “The Shrike.” Ive done some wild ones, too, like Detective
Brody in “Detective Story,” Chief Inspector Hubbard in “Dial
M,” an eighty-year-old Viennese psychoanalyst mit aggzent, the .
retired Mr. Chips type in “Separate Tables,” and a Communist Party
leader in “The Great Sebastians.”

In professional organizations, 1 have done duty in the Electrical
Engineers, the Engineers’ Club of Philadelphia, Electronic Industries
Association, and the Instrument Society of America. My main
interest has been in the Mechanical Engineers, however. The princi-
pal jobs I’ve had are listed above. This interest has taken me across
the country twice and on numerous shorter jaunts. The Society

even pays for some of this, so Honeywell doesn’t carry it all.

Today, when scientists and engineers are at the front of every-
one’s consciousness, there is much cry from the engineers for

“recognition.” The hardest thing to do is to pin an engineer down
to what this means. Not really being an engineer, I wonder whether
engineering today is not reaching prematurely for something it
neither needs nor can live up to if obtained. Maybe it’s like the
small boy on the bicycle who says he knows how to ride but can’t

keep his balance, Such things do represent progress, however, and
so I'm in the middle of them contributing what little I can.

Our family has a great time on vacations of one kind or another.

[72]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It won't be long before Terry outgrows us, but in the meantime we

manage a couple of short trips each year. So far we’ve managed

Niagara Falls, the New York Finger Lakes and Watkins Glen,

Virginia’s Skyline Drive, Williamsburg, Jamestown, Yorktown, and

' several runs to Canada. About every third year we manage several
days on the Presidential Range and in the AMC huts. We're prob-
ably crazy to desert our Ocean City home for these things, but they
do get to be fun and for the boys especially. Lately we've enjoyed
making travelog films of some of these trips which help to make
our home movies less boring when we inflict them on our guests.
A houseful of boys keeps us from growing too sedately middle-
aged, and we hope we can retain the same vigor of approach for
another twenty-five years at least.

LAWRENCE PUTNAM BELDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 130 Ridge Ave., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Plimpton Press, Norwood, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1913, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MarRIED: May Virginia Falk, July 11, 1953, New Marlborough, Mass, CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Dorothy, June 11, 1958, Charles Lawrence and Karen Anna
(twins), Dec. 15, 1959.

occuPATION: Executive salesman, Plimpton Press.

MEMBER OF: New England Grenfell Association; Old Cambridge Shakespeare
Society; Harvard Club of Martha’s Vineyard; The Bookbuilders of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles and stories in various magazines.

BEING the son of a librarian, I find it not too strange that books,
books and more books, in one form or another, have consumed a
major Proportion of my waking hours. But, of course, there has
been time out for other activities as various exigencies have forced
me from the bookish rut. For instance, I have served as one of the
late Sir Wilfred Grenfell’s numerous Labrador assistants, as magazine
managing editor and author, as gold miner and as airline pilot. There
followed, naturally, a longer stint as a pilot in the armed forces.
After such experiences, it was somewhat of a relief to return to
books within the precincts of the Harvard University Press. During
the last three years of the nine years of my stay there, I was fortunate
enough to be chosen to be the first to occupy the chair of assistant
to the director. Then, after yet another year as production manager
for a textbook publisher, I became an executive salesman for the

[73]

HARVARD CLASS O

Plimpton Press. I happily remain in that position today and am
responsible for the manufacture of not too small a proportion of
the more than eighteen million books we turned out this year.

In 1953, holding true to my destiny, 1 was able to persuade a New
York advertising agency’s account executive to marry me — yes,
her clients were all book publishers. As a result, we now have a
three-year-old daughter, plus two-year-old twins, all of whom have
already torn their way through many a book, and will, for some

time to come I am sure, keep me among the busiest of bookmakers
in town.

DONALD IVAN BELL

HOME AppRESS: 805 Clinton Pl., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 636 Church St., Evanston, Ill.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1915, Joplin, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Joplin High School, Joplin, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREES: s.B. (Northwestern Univ.), 1937; M.D.
(ibid.), 1941.

maraieD: Catharine Remy, June 14, 1947, Evanston, Ill. cHitpren: Donald
Remy, Sept. 18, 1948; Catharine Dean, Jan. 26, 1951; Susan Allyn, Feb. 6,
1952.

occupation: Physician in private practice of internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Member, attending staff, Evanston Hospital; associate in medi-

cine, Northwestern University Medical School; consultant in diabetes,
Municipal Tuberculosis Sanitarium of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Illinois State Medical Society;

North Suburban Branch, Chicago Medical Society; American Diabetes
Association; Chicago Diabetes Association (board member).

AFTER two years at Harvard, I transferred to Northwestern Uni-
versity and changed to a premedical program. In 1937 I began four
years at Northwestern University Medical School, followed by an
internship at Evanston Hospital,

The period from the fall of 1942 to the spring of 1946 was spent in
the Army. Almost three of these years were as a battalion surgeon
with the 37th Infantry Division, which entered combat in the Philip-
pines. The last six months of service were spent as personnel officer
for the Surgeon of the Sixth Army, This assignment ended in Japan
with the initial occupation troops.

Thereafter, 1 returned to Evanston, Illinois, and the Evanston
Hospital, where 1 completed residency training in internal medicine.

During this training, 1 met and married Cathy, an Evanstonian who
had attended Dana Hall and Pine Manor.

[74]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1948, I entered private practice. My field of medicine is in-
ternal medicine with a sub-specialty of diabetes mellitus. I find the
care of patients and the teaching of Northwestern University medi-
cal students, interns, and residents most satisfying. I regret that the

demands on my time are so great as to limit the time spent at home
with my wonderful family.

I am a Presbyterian who is not too regular in church attendance.
In political beliefs, I am conservative. I am disinclined to provide

this type of data but too human to fail to appreciate the delightful
efforts of Mr. Bentinck-Smith.

CHARLES SANGER BELLOWS

HOME ADDRESS: 179 S. Westwood Lane, Wayzata, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Best, Flanagan, Lewis, Simonet & Bellows, 1200 First National
Bank Bldg., Minneapolis 2, Minn.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1915, Minneapolis, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1937; LLB. (Yale Univ.),
1940.

MARRIED: Eunice Simmons Boggs, Feb. 5, 1944, Honolulu, T.H. cHILpren:
Mary, June 9, 1945; Eleanor, Aug. 28, 1946; Charles Sanger, Jr. Nov. 23,
1949; Henry Adams, July 17, 1956.

OccuPATION: Attorney, general practice, partner.

OFFICES HELD: Director and secretary, Manganese Chemicals Corporation, 1954-
61; secretary, Lithium Corporation of America, 1954-57; president and
director, Minnesota Orchestral Association, 1958-61; Minnesota Art Society,
appointed by governor of Minnesota, 1961; president, Harvard Club of
Minnesota, 1947-49; alumni director, 1952-54, member, Nominating Com-
mittee, 1959-61, Harvard University; regional vice-president, Associated
Harvard Clubs, since 1958; trustee, Northrop Collegiate School, since
1961; president and director, Citizens League of Minneapolis, 1952-54;
director, Community Chest & Council, 1953-59; president and director,
Pillsbury Settlement House, 1955-58; director, Family & Children’s Service,
since 1956; member, University of Minnesota Land Grant Founders, since
1960; chairman, Attorney General’s committee to draft legislation for
regulation of charitable solicitations, 1961.

MEMBER OF: Hennepin County, Minnesota and American Bar Associations,
Woodhill Country Club, Wayzata, Minn.; Skylight Club, Minneapolis,

YALE Law School followed Harvard, and that brought on the
almost inevitable start in New York at Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett.
An absurdly low draft number gave rise to a “one-year army vol-

unteer” at $21 per month in April, rogt. Exactly five vears liter
I was released from active service having spent ‘three and a half

[75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19

years continuously in the Pacific: Hawaii to Hollandia, landings at
Leyte and Okinawa, time on Luzon, and Korea for the surrender.
As a G-3 of the 2gth Army Corps the pay and rank were high but
the time was long.

A reunion with my wife and first meeting with a daughter in
Honolulu developed into a trip scheduled for New York but ter-
minated in Minneapolis, where the family took up residence by the
shores of Lake Minnetonka and I resumed general practice as a
partner in a firm with a strong Harvard flavor. And there we have
remained — two girls, two boys, four dogs and innumerable other
assorted animals —all living in and around a rambling house on
twelve acres of woods just twenty minutes from office.

Annual Easter vacation trips to Florida, summer weekends on the
north shore of Lake Superior, a trip to Europe, skiing jaunts — all
done as a family — have provided considerable variations. |

Harvard activities, both at home and in Cambridge, have been
fruitful and stimulating. Civic responsibilities seem to have pre-
empted much of our lives. As typical have been the past four years
as head of the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra. The departure
of Antal Dorati meant the discovery of Stanislaw Skrowaczewski
who wears our tab as “No. 1-to-be” in the world. We have just
completed the construction of the world’s first all-steel, entirely
mechanized acoustical enclosure. Spice this with a good deal in the
world of opera and you have an inordinate amount of time con-
sumed, but a lot of family pleasure derived.

Frankly, we have enjoyed life in Wayzata, the practice of law
in Minneapolis and our existence in general. We have done poorly
in renewing college acquaintances, but hope that the approaching
college years of our children (if they make it) will perhaps provide
a remedy in part. With our last production slated for the Class of

"74, Or twice ’37, it is apparent that despite the passing of twenty-
five years, we still have a long road ahead.

++ JOHN BENBOW, JR.

BORN: Dec. 22, 1914, Newton, Mass. parents: John Benbow, ‘07, Frances
Breck.

preparrp at: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1937.

Marariep: Doras Reed Jackson, March 8, 1940, Boston, Mass. catoren: Charles
Henry Breck, Oct. 3, 1941; Peter Glenn Sawdon, Oct. 18, 1944.

pit: Dec. 11, 1947, Wakeficld, Mass.

[75]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WHILE an undergraduate Benbow was a member of Pi Eta, and
concentrated in the field of economics. At the time of our Triennial
he was with the State Street Trust Company and later was en-
gaged in investment research with Loomis Sayles & Company, Inc.,
both in Boston. He was survived by his wife and children.

ROY JOHN BENECCHI

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Hamilton Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lear, Inc., 2701 Summer St., Stamford, Conn.

sorN: March 25, 1916, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MaRRIED: Dorothy H. Goodell, May 15, 1948, Montclair, N.J. cuito: Roy
John, Jr., Oct. 2, 1957.

occupation: Manufacturing, vice-president and assistant to the president,
Lear, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, member executive committee, director, Michi-
gan United Fund, 1958-61; director, 1955-61, and chairman, Capital Funds
Committee, 1960-61, United Community Services of Grand Rapids; director,
and member, executive committee, Grand Rapids Rehabilitation League,
1955-61; director, Grand Rapids Employers Association, 1957, director,
Grand Rapids Symphony Society, 1959-61, Downtown Council of Grand
Rapids, 1960-61; member, Advisory Council, Villa Maria Home, Grand
Rapids, 1957-61.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Wings Club, New York City;
University Club, Peninsula Club and Kent Club (all Grand Rapids, Mich.);

Serra International.

THERE has been much talk lately about the increasingly transient
character of our society. I had never paid much attention to this
modern trend, that is, since the “Grapes of Wrath” days. It was
over two decades ago that I joined my present company, Lear, Inc.,
in a stable and peaceful Ohio village (the perfect preserve for grass
roots!). After a happy spread of several years, I was transferred to
New York City. I had rebelled and maneuvered against this possi-
ble calamity ever since graduation. Pleasant surprise —it was a
sheer delight. After three years of Manhattan living, I left the com-
pany for a two-year period, during which time I married, and we
resided in and about Princeton, New Jersey. The year 1949 found
me rejoining Lear and moving to Grand Rapids, Michigan, which
had by now become company headquarters. There we spent twelve
enjoyable years climaxed by the birth of our son four years ago.

[77]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

My work involved running the local divisions of Lear, which during
this period had moved its headquarters to Santa Monica, California.

I am now on the corporate staff and was just recently transferred
to the east coast, operating out of our eastern office. Two functions:
to keep a weather eye on our operations in this part of the country,
and secondly to participate actively in that popular and fashionable
corporate exercise — diversification. All very fascinating. In spite of
my historically-persistent mach Osten policy, we hated to leave
Grand Rapids which we had loved as our home. Nonetheless, we
are having a ball in Darien and hope to stay. Transient? Know noth-
ing about the subject. OOps — there's that confident and exuberant
man again, “Benecchi, the demand for ice cubes is staggering. We
have just acquired a modern ice-making operation — right close to
the natural source of supply. . . .”

The year 1957 found my lovely wife (whom I had married in
1948) and me delightfully surprised to learn that we were to become
parents. And on October qth our questions were answered by the
arrival of Roy, Jr. Even our then seven-year-old cocker-setter soon
nodded approval and now gladly puts up with being a little boy’s
dog.

With the company general offices in California, I am not often at
a loss for traveling. As a matter of fact, I am very envious of the
Darien commuter. Since the arrival of our son, our vacations have
been pretty local—except for last year when we rented a small
house in a quiet and unpopulated Jamaican town for three weeks.
Before Roy, Jr., we had three vacation trips to Europe tucked under
our belt. Now whatever trace of affluence we may have felt existed
is no longer evident, and we satisfy ourselves monitoring our litcle
son’s French.

I don’t know whether my Bordeaux wines, which have been and
are giving me much pleasure, can be referred to as a hobby. I am
sure that a less tolerant wife would describe this pursuit a little dif-
ferently. I have tried unsuccessfully for years to sell a plan of es-
tablishing contacts between our “work” institutions in this country
(ie, business establishments, labor unions, professions, etc.) and
geographical entities abroad. The more one travels, the more one is
impressed with the fact that man everywhere has pretty much the
same fears, problems, aspirations. The better we get to know each
other, the more effective we will be in understanding each other
and helping each other. Helping man to help himself is the key

to many of our principal problems. No takers, My personal and

[78]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

immediate project, however, is to get this into the mail tonight. It

would be a pretty lonely document sitting in the file for our Fif-
tieth.

EDWARD HOWARD BENNETT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Lee St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sullivan & Worcester, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1915, Melrose, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Barbara W. Bragdon, April 6, 1946, Melrose, Mass. CHILDREN: Rebecca
Nourse, Dec. 14, 1948, Nancy Towne, Jan. 31, 1953; Samuel Jackson, Sept.
25, 1955.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: American, Boston and Essex Bar Associations; Eastern Yacht Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Iwo footnotes, Magill and Maguire, Cases on Taxation.

I MOVED from the lazy, luxurious, self-satisfied atmosphere of the
Harvard undergraduate in 1937, to the cussedness of law school
at Columbia, which forced me into harder work than I really
expected. One comfort was that some Yale classmates, more con-
fident that their education had been entirely and permanently com-
pleted, were even more surprised:

Summer vacations at law school began at President Butler’s
pleasure, and he favored early departure and late return to Manhat-
tan. These were summers of gloating, with a little time spent
dabbling in a large law firm, but not enough sense acquired to latch
on to the nirvana of academic life for good — which at one point
was a possibility.

I remember powering through the Cape Cod Canal in the summer
of 1941, on a Classmate’s cruising sloop, eating lunch in the cockpit,
and waving complacently at ROTC and ninety-day officers and
crew of a destroyer going by — but soon thereafter, riding in an
army truck right past my law office, en route to Fort Devens.

The Army life was enjoyable, all the way. The transfer from the
nervous combativeness of the Phi Beta law student at my left elbow
and the NYA-Daily Worker at my right to the good-humored
stoicism of the Army civilian-soldier was comfortable. Only twice
during Army service, first at O.C.S., and then upon transfer into
O.S.S., did the self-important individuals reappear, and again, the
necessity of watching one’s hat and coat. I should say, however.
that the experience was a little different during Mr. Truman's

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

adventure in 1951 and 1952, and that the peacetime Army life is a
miserable affair.

Most lawyers are pleased and satisfied with their practice, and
so am I. In trying to describe why a profession is satisfying, one
thing I can suggest is that there is no inherent requirement that one
become a fraud or a bore — hastening to add, that there is, of course,
adequate opportunity to be both.

My children are, like yours, amazing: far brighter and abler than
their old man, which must be attributable to their mother.

I look back on my Harvard years with pleasure. I don’t think I
acquired any learning whatsoever, but will agree with Henry Adams
that the four years did me no harm, and left my mind flexible and
open to the point of vacuity. I would praise the College for its
comparative lack of petty tyranny in my day, and censure it

somewhat today for the almost incessant hymns of self-praise that
accompany its solicitation of funds.

WILLIAM BENTINCK-SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: Peabody Street, Groton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Hall, Harvard University, Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; s.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1938.

MLARRIED: Phebe Keyes, June 26, 1937, Groton, Mass, cHitpreN: Michael, Jan.
31, 1941; Judy, Aug. 18, 1942; Nancy, Dec. 29, 1945; Peter, June 2, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Bentinck-Smith, "41.

occuPaTion: Assistant to the President, Harvard University.

orrices HELD: Reporter, Boston Globe, 1938-40; managing editor, Harvard
Alunmi Bulletin, 1940-46; promotion manager, Harvard University Press,
1945-45; editor, Harvard Alumni Bulletin, 1946-54, member of editorial
committee, 1954-3 editor, Harvard Today, 1958- ; honorary curator of
type specimens and letter design, Harvard College Library; former presi-
dent and chairman of executive committee and currently trustee, Com-
munity Memorial Hospital, Ayer, Mass.; former national director for mag-
azines, American Alumni Council; director, Harvard Alumni Association;
trustee, Milton Academy, Concord Academy; director, Cambridge Trust
Company; senior warden, St. Andrew’s Church, Ayer, Mass.; secretary,
Harvard Class of 1937. Served US. Navy, World War II principally in
Pacific Theatre (1942-44) on staff of Vice-Admiral Willis A. Lee, Com-
mander Battleships, Pacific Fleet, and as member of editorial staff, O.NJ.

Weekly, in Office of Naval Intelligence, Washington (1945). Awarded
Bronze Star Medal, Retired as lieutenant commander, USNR.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa (Harvard honorary), Tavern Club, Odd Volumes,
Grolier Club, Signet Associates (vice-president),

[ 80 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLicaTions: The Harvard Book (Harvard University Press, 1953) and

numerous articles, largely about Harvard University or graphic arts.
MRS. HOBBY once drily remarked, “Houston is going to be a
wonderful place if they ever get it finished.” This principle is all
too easily transferred to the autobiographical realm. There does
not seem to be much hope of getting the personal building completed
even in fifty years, much less twenty-five. For me the slow attempt
has been specially enhanced by a wonderfully happy and fortunate
home and an extraordinarily patient group of friends and teachers.
The achievements of life, so factually outlined upon request, seem
of small importance in comparison with the people one meets who
dignify mankind by their innate wisdom and humility and by the
complete confidence which they evoke from lesser men. Nathan
Pusey is one of these rare people, the most complete man I have
known. But there have been enough others in my life with a more
than the ordinary gift of wisdom to make me join cautiously in
Miranda’s rapture at mankind and the world.

I have derived personal satisfaction from my life as a writer, even
though I must confess that most of it has been hack work. Yet
there are two attendant pleasures which have made this life of
special interest to me. One is the opportunity to be a bystander
during the shaping of events — the unusual privilege sometimes
allotted the newspaperman and staff officer. The other is the in-
clination — perhaps obsession -— to indulge in an unending variety
of intellectual enthusiasms. I don’t mean simply the pleasures that
come from trips not taken and books bought but not read. There
have been plenty of those as my practical-minded wife will attest.
I mean, rather, enthusiasms such as wishing to be a part-time farmer
(I am still at it). Or interludes like my present “Russian period”
which began with a sudden realization that I knew practically
nothing about those amazing and infuriating people. In the past
two years I have dosed myself with Dostoevski and have currently
reached lesson number ten in the Assimil Russian course.

Our offsprings are now half in high school, half in college. They
have grown up amazingly well, more thanks to their mother than
their father. I have similarly unfulfilled obligations to church,
hospital, and rather too many educational institutions. I shall count
this an extraordinarily good year, however, if this volume finally
goes to press and if the selection committee of which I am chairman

succeeds in finding a paragon to become the new headmaster of
Milton Academy.

[81]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JOHN HILL BENTON

HOME ADpRESS: Revolutionary Road, Concord, Mass,

oFFice appress: Paper Goods Co, Inc, 270 Albany St. Cambridge, Mass,
porn: April 2, 1914, Belmont, Mass.

pREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: S$.B., 1937(38).

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTION: Shipping, Paper Goods Company, Inc.

oFFicEs HELD: Secretary, Belmont Young Republican Club; Town Meeting

Member, Belmont, Mass. six years; cubmaster, Cub Scout Pack No. 147,
Concord, Mass.

AFTER graduation joined the insurance firm of O’Brion, Russell &
Company, Boston, as a broker. During the war saw service with
26th (Yankee Division) and gth Motorized Division; second lieu-
tenant rank earned at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, summer, 1942. After the
war returned to insurance business. In 1955 joined the firm of Paper
Goods Company, Inc., where I have been ever since.

In 1955 we built our new home in Concord where we have been
very happy leading the country life. Have been very busy in the
Scouting movement, a truly rewarding work. Also affiliated with
the Holy Name Society of our Catholic Church, We vote Repub-
lican as far as possible. Hobbies are gardening, trout fishing and
photography. All in all, life has been most pleasant since graduation.
How can twenty-five years go by so quickly!

KENNETH CARL BERNSTEIN

HOME apprEss: 100 Audubon Drive, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFiceE appress: Office of Naval Research, Boston Branch, 495 Summer St.,
Boston 10, Mass.

Born: March 10, 1917, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1937, 1939-1940. DEGREES: A.B. cum? laude,
1937(40); M.B.A. (Boston Univ.), 1946; tis, (Northeastern Univ.), 1954.

Married: Lillian S. Miller, June 25, 1944, Brighton, Mass. critoren: Roy War-
ren, Aug. 3, 1946, Cynthia Gail, Dec. 18, 1957.

occupation: Government service; administrative officer of Boston Branch of the
Office of Naval Research.

SHORTLY after graduation, I entered the government carcer serv-
ice. After a few transfers, I became affiliated in 1946 with a brilliant
new agency called the Office of Naval Research, which is principally
devoted to the support of fundamental scientific research with

[82]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

potential for important naval advances. With significant challenges
to be met almost daily, I have been exceedingly happy in my position
as the administrative officer of its Boston Branch.

Concurrently, spurred by the demonic search for education and
truth, which was my Harvard inheritance, I drove on intellectually
and found myself with a Master of Business Administration degree
in 1946 and a Bachelor of Laws degree in 1954. I am also a member
of the Massachusetts Bar, |

In 1944, a charming young lady by the name of Lillian Miller
consented to become my wife, and we were married in June of that
year. In 1946, we were blessed with the birth of a son, Roy Warren,
and after a lapse of almost a dozen years, with the birth of a
daughter, Cynthia Gail, in 1957. In 1960, now having two peram-
bulatory children, we decided to give up apartment living in Brook-
line, and we moved just over the border into semi-suburbia in

Newton into a house of our own, with the aid of a highly solvent
bank.

Sic transit the twenty-five-year saga of Kenneth Bernstein, which

I hope, though relatively quiet and simple, has been one of service
and usefulness.

WILLIAM BERNHARD BERSSEN
(formerly William Bernhard Berssenbrugge)

HOME ADDRESS: 8304 Rindge Ave., Playa del Rey, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: Gould & Associates, Inc., 306 N. Doheny Drive, Los Angeles
48, Calif.

BORN: March 9g, 1913, Milwaukee, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Shorewood High School, Shorewood, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S$.B. 1937; A.M. (Univ, of Southern
California), 1954.

MarRIED: Marylyn Ellicott, May 17, 1943, Green Cove Springs, Fla. (divorced
1954); June Patricia Terry, June 7, 1961, Hollywood, Calif.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Berssenbrugge, Grad. Sch., 1949-50.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Gould & Associates, Inc., graphic and industrial
design consultants,

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Southern California (president, 1958-39); Hlar-
vard Club of New York; Society of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences,
Adventurers Club of Los Angeles (president, 1961); Long Beach Yacht
Club; Corinthians, New York; Trans-Pacific Y.C.; Vikings.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributed articles on travel to Chicago Tribune, Sunset
Magazine, U.S, Information Agency, ete.

SHOW business and art and a restless urge to travel — this was

[ 83 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF

the pattern at Harvard and is still flourishing. Graduation was fol-
lowed by two years of graduate work abroad assisted by a Carnegie
grant. When war broke out in Europe, I tried to enlist in the Royal
Navy without success. Reluctantly, I returned to this country and
worked on and off Broadway as a stage manager and director until
our entry in the war. During four years in the Coast Guard I taught
navigation in several officer schools and served on a large transport.
At present I’m a commander in the Reserve.

Upon discharge, I became a west coast carpet-bagger, moving to
Hollywood to resume with show business. For several years I was in
charge of a busy school for actors, coupled with occasional pro-
fessional efforts in direction. Then for six years I represented Hun-
tington Hartford (’34), producing plays and pictures in this country
and Europe. In addition, I supervised the design and reconstruction

of the Hartford Theatre in Hollywood, one of the most beautiful
in the country.

Following a separation and divorce in 1954, I sought a complete
change from civilized life. In the beauty and poverty of the southern
Mexican highlands, I enjoyed the age-old hospitality of the Indians.
There I found a new enrichment of living and dying. The lesson
learned from the Zapotecs will never be forgotten.

On my return I became an advertising and industrial design con-
sultant working on package designs, trademarks, exhibits, and film
storyboards. Two years ago I took a sabbatical to enjoy a sailing
jaunt through Europe. Twice before I had cruised the Mediter-
ranean on the Hartford yacht Joseph Conrad (on which I twice
crossed the Atlantic). This time I chose my own small sloop, chris-
tened Xapa (Greek for Happiness). Departing from the south of
England, I explored the English Channel, the river Seine, and the
picturesque ports of the French and Italian Rivieras. In addition to
cruising, I traveled behind the Iron Curtain, visiting Russia, Czecho-
slovakia, Poland, and East Germany, along with most of the countries

of western Europe, Greece, Turkey, and Israel.

After seven gay years as a bachelor I could hold out no longer.
In June, 1961, I married June Patricia Terry, advertising director
for a cosmetics firm. Two busy careers limit our time together, but

at every opportunity we enjoy year-round cruising on Xapa, which
I had shipped here from Naples.

From our apartment window overlooking the Pacific, on a clear
day we can see Catalina Island some twenty-five miles away. There
on many weckends, we forget the tensions of city life, exploring the

[ 84]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

many remote coves and beaches. One month after we were married,
and by a pre-nuptial agreement, I crewed in the Trans-Pacific Yacht
Race, so that I now have crossed both oceans by small boat.

Though we enjoy here in southern California a way of life more
relaxed than anywhere else in the country, we dream of more dis-
tant horizons — of the South Seas, the Inland Sea, the Great Bar-
rier Reef, and the West Indies. Perhaps in pursuit of this last fron-
tier, we'll eventually make our home afloat, since the sea is such a
dominant factor in our lives.

COSMO ANTHONY BERTOCCI

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Prospect St., Marshfield Hills, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Dunster Insurance Agency, Inc., 17 Dunster St., Cambridge
38, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 7, 1913, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1937(38).

marrieD: Helen Marie Crowe. cHiLpReN: Anita L., Sept. 27, 1938; Loren
Andre, June 9, 1952; Derek Aiden, Feb, 28, 1954; Susan Deidre, Sept.
30, 1955-

OCCUPATION: Insurance — agency Manager and owner.

THE paradox of little things effecting major changes is not uncom-

mon. And my personal history is, in part, a mold of that tenet.

While a global war brought about an economic upheaval in my
early life, an informal card game (bridge) fixed decisively the fu-
ture pattern of same by the discovery of my wife. And because of
her gifts and talents, 1 am re-oriented with heavenly children and
resurgence in my new vocation, the insurance agency brokerage
business.

I am a dabbler. I explore here and there with the interest of new-
found avocations, as each becomes the attraction of the moment.
Lawns, dogs, boats, can be subjects of intriguing research without
attainment of expertness therein. However, that which transcends
everything evolves about my children and my wife.

My elder daughter, Anita Louise, aged twenty-four, is endowed
with academic interest for the arts. My elder son, Loren, aged nine,
is a student of excellence and a model of humility and mental bal-
lance, My second son, Derek, aged seven and one-half, appears to
regale in the joys of life, with not more than tolerable interest in its
responsibilitics, Afy younger daughter, Susan, aged six, is the baby

[85]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

of the clan and she has been showered with such attention as to pre

udice her just place in the family circle. She is an attention seek
and, as such, scems to revel in her role.

My wife and [are thankful that our children are blessed with th
necessary traits of normalcy and the alertness of reflective bearing

We are overjoyed for the peace and tranquillity that regales th
circle of a close-knit family life. And we are pleased to discern .
development that seems to preclude the criteria for mundane ap:
praisal.

~*F ALFRED BIBERMAN

Born: Aug. 2, 1915, Adiantic City, N.J. parents: Jacob M. Biberman, Fannie
Nahin.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Wisconsin, Racine, Wis.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.
pigp: July 3, 1936, Philadelphia, Pa.

ALFRED BIBERMAN came to Harvard in our sophomore year and
spent two years with our Class. He was a resident of Leverett
House.

OWEN BIDDLE
HOME Appress: 1025 Old Gulph Rd., Bryn Mawr, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Townsend, Elliott & Munson, 1600 Western Saving Fund Bldg.,
Philadelphia 7, Pa.
Born: Sept. 9, 1914, Chestnut Hill, Pa,
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, magna cui laude, 1937; LLB» 1941-

Magrigp: Marion Lea, Oct. 6, 1945, Radnor, Pa. cuitpren: Owen, Jr., April 195
1950, Brenda Lea, Jan. 27, 1952, Michael Rowland Lea, Oct. 24, 1955

HARVARD BROTHER: Peyton Randolph Biddle, ’39.

occupation: Attorney-at-law; partner in legal firm.

oFFices HELD: Vice-president, 1955, solicitor, 1945-61, member executive com-
mittee, 1944-61, Pennsylvania Prison Society; member board of managers,
1954-59, The First Family Day Care Association; secretary of citizens
committee, 1945-47, member board of managers, 1947-59, House of Deten-
tion for Adult Witnesses and Untrried Prisoners; member board of mana-
gers, 1945-46, The Philadelphia City Insticute.

memure or: Philadelphia Bar Association, Pennsylvania Bar Association;

American Bar Association; Committee on War Work of the Philadelphia
Bar Association (1943-44); Criminal Law Section of the Pennsylvania Bar

{ 86 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Association; Shakespere Society of Philadelphia, Friends of the Bryn
Mawr College Library; Philadelphia Academy of the Fine Arts; Pennsyl-
vania Horticultural Society; Pennsylvania Prison Society.

ON leaving college, 1 went abroad and, during the academic year
1937-38, attended Trinity College, Cambridge University. During
the two succeeding summers I toured the coasts of England and
Scotland and made several trips to France. On returning to this
country in the fall of 1938, I entered the Harvard Law School and
spent three arduous and preoccupied years learning my profession.
I think that anyone who has been to both college and law school
in Cambridge will agree that they are as remote in atmosphere as
if they were located on separate planets. Law school had a much
greater attraction for me than college, but, as a compromise with
old habits, I lived during my last two years in Cambridge on Me.
Auburn Street. After graduating in June, 1941, I spent the next
ten months learning enough Pennsylvania law to pass the Bar ex-
aminations. I was admitted to the Bar in the spring of 1942, and
since that time have been engaged in the general practice of law
with Messrs. ‘Townsend, Elliott & Munson in Philadelphia. For the
most part this has been of considerable interest, and the work has
been sufficiently various to avoid the tedium of the routine.

During the war years I found time to solicit funds for the Red
Cross, War Chest, and Community Fund, and to represent, without
charge, a number of servicemen and their dependents, as well as
to pursue my interest in the Pennsylvania Prison Society. The last-
named organization, founded in the eighteenth century, is exclusive-
ly engaged in social case work in connection with prisoners. I have
been on the board for some years, and am also counsel for the
society.

In May of 1945 I became engaged to marry Marion Lea of Bryn
Mawr, and after a summer of anxious preparation, this eagerly an-
ticipated event took place on October 6, 1945 at Old Se. David's
Church, Radnor, Pennsylvania. The practice of law continucs to
be my principal activity and as satisfying as ever. Our children
are now of an age at which they can join my wife and me in many
enjoyable activities. We have moved further away from town in
a search for more countrified surroundings. I have become inter-
ested in gardening and enjoy it immensely, although I wish I had
more time to devote to it. In the realm of fiction I find the works
of Balzac and C, P. Snow an agreeable antidote.

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF

THOMAS HERBERT BILODEAU

HOME appRESS: 500 Randolph Ave. Milton, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Rich, May & Bilodeau, 1 State Sc, Boston, Mass,

BORN: Jan. 21, 1915, Boston, Afass,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937} LL.B, 1940.

marriep: Jane McLaughlin, June 12, 1941, Jamaica Plain, Mass. cHivpren:
Thomas Herbert, Jr., Sept. 18, 1942; Jane Margaret, Jan. 25, 1944; Timothy,
July 10, 1950; Nancy, Nov. 10, 1953. |

HARVARD SON: Thomas Herbert Bilodeau, Jr., ’65.

occupation: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Health, Milton, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Gridiron Club of Boston; Massachusetts

and Boston Bar Associations, Hull Yacht Club; Knights of Columbus;
Catholic Alumni Sodality.

LIKE Warren Spahn I might now be an old man of baseball, but
bowing to my mother’s wishes, I went to Harvard Law School
where it is pretty much “all work and no play.” I did manage to
keep my hand in baseball those years by being a player-manager for
St. Johnsbury in the Twin State League. I might say that after my
four years as an “amateur” at Harvard, it was a pleasure to get paid.
Proctoring for a gay group of young Harvardians lightened my
first two years at the Law School, and sharing an apartment with
Joe Kennedy, Jr., during my senior year was an education in and
of itself. Knowing him and his family convinced me of two things
—the type of relationship I should have with my boys, and that I
should go into the corporate field in the practice of law. And so I
joined the firm of Burns and Brandon on graduation, the same firm
I am now with although now known as Rich, May & Bilodeau. Again
I was forrunate in my association, for Judge Burns was by far the
most brilliant and dynamic lawyer with whom I have come in
contact in my twenty years of practice, Joe Kennedy and Judge
Burns are gone, but my way of life reflects the lessons they taught
me as I struggle along, working hard and enjoying life. I might
say that in my first year of practice the New England League,

rather than legal fees, paid most of my bills.

Baseball always remained in my blood, and I've had much pleasure
coaching Little League teams in Quincy, Milton and summers in
Hull. Fortunately, 1 have two boys who have permitted me to live
over again the excitement of a base hit. I retired from active duty
in Milton and was fired in Hull (over-emphasis), and am now

[ 88}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

relegated to the role of spectator. I am always hopeful that some
Big League club will have need of a combination lawyer-manager.

I married a teacher, Jane McLaughlin, in June of 1941, after play-
ing “everlasting” since high school. The claim is made that I was
forced into it by the draft. Be that as it may, when the Japs made
their pitch, I saw an opportunity to get in a little baseball again by
enlisting in Tom Hamilton’s program in the Navy. But they didn’t
have baseball on carriers where I spent two years after one season
at the Glenview Primary Training Station. When I joined the air
group on the USS Solomons, the odds shifted considerably toward
the Japs. I finally ended up at sea running all flight operations from
the bridge. In February of (1953, I requested a transfer to any air
station near Boston. In true Navy style, I was transferred to St.
Mary’s Pre-flight School in California. We went “en famille” on
a twelve-day trek, during which trek my wife lost her shoes in
Albuquerque, my son his teeth in an accident in Texarkana, and I
my temper twenty times a day. The covered wagon had nothing
on us— with our car full of cribs, playpens and two and a half
babies. St. Mary’s was like heaven when we arrived, and the days
until V-J Day held many a pleasant ball game, for that is what I did.

_ As a result of that trip my vacations have been mostly outside
of the United States — West Indies cruises or Canadian fishing trips
with my boys. Otherwise, we go to Hull, Massachusetts, summers,
where I can sail a bit and commute by boat to Boston.

My politics are not too complicated, mainly because neither party
offers me an economic philosophy of which I approve. I believe
that a free enterprise system is based upon the wealth of the nation
being in its natural resources, in the productive capacity of its
workers, and in the inventive genius of its people, the whole system
being premised on the investment of capital attracted by an expected
return on that investment. The economic policies of both parties
seem beamed at destroying the incentive to invest capital and at
devices which favor the unproductive rather than the productive
person. I simplify things too much, but as a result I do find myself
voting for men rather than the party. So let us say I am presently
a Kennedy man rather than a Republican or Democrat.

In conclusion, my twenty-five years out of college leave me
satisfied. I am happily marricd, have four exciting children, enjoy
my work, have enough to live on, and have done nothing which,

in my opinion, is contrary to the laws of God or Country. A person
can’t ask for much more.

[ 89 ]

© NAA

HARVARD CLASS \

JOHN LYMAN BISHOP

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Walnut St, Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 2 Divinity Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 25, 1913, Manila, Pl.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, Ctom laude, 1937; A.M. 1938; PH.D,
1953.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Lecturer on Far Eastern Studies and chairman, Board of Tutors,

Department of Far Eastern Languages, Harvard College; editor, Harvard
Journal of Asiatic Studies.

OFFICES HELD: Member of Committee on East Asian Studies, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: Association for Asian Studies; Museum of Fine Arts, Boston;
American Legion.

pusLicaTions: Contributing editor, Books Abroad, “A Colloquial Short Story
in the Novel Chin ping mei,” Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies, 1954;
“Prosodic Elements in Tang Poetry,” Indiana University Conference on
Oriental-Western Literary Relations, 1955; The Colloquial Short Story in
China, Cambridge, 1956; “Some Limitations of Chinese Fiction,” The Far
Eastern Quarterly XV, 1956; book reviews in Harvard Journal of Asiatic
Studies, Journal of Asian Studies, Revue bibliographique de sinologie,
Literature East and West, Comparative Literature, Books Abroad.

1 TOOK a Master’s degree in English the year following graduation,
since then my time has been mainly devoted to private school teach-
ing in New England. Beginning as an apprentice teacher of an
obstreperous fourth grade at Eaglebrook School, Deerfield, I worked
my way grade by grade to high-school teaching of English at
Phillips Academy in Andover, the Waynflete School, Portland, and
Beaver Country Day School, Chestnut Hill. If ten years of wrestling
with the “pliant” child mind have produced any philosophy of
education, it is the need to develop a habit of intelligent reading to
offset the stupefying barrage of passive entertainments: movies,
radio, television, and to require self-discipline in times when parents
seem to be resigning control of their offspring. All very reactionary:
but oddly enough, the more demanding a teacher is, the more
popular he seems to become, given a true sympathy with children.
These ten years of teaching were interrupted from 1943 to 1946
by wartime duty with the Naval Reserve in the Office of Naval
Intelligence in Washington and later as executive of a radio intercept
station and training school for Chinese near Chungking. Contact
with young Chinese students awakened an interest in learning their
language and a resolution to return to China to teach, Upon release
from active duty, I returned to Harvard to do graduate work in

[ go J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Chinese language and history. In 1948, when I had just mad
rangements to teach at West China Union College, the south

drive of the Communists halted the activities of Christian col
in China.

After two years of high-school teaching, the grant of a Harv
Yenching fellowship made it possible for me to return to Cambr
and take a doctoral degree in comparative literature, offering Chi
literature as a major field. After another stint of high-school Eng
I was invited in 1958 to the Harvard-Yenching Institute as edito
the Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies and have since also t
appointed head tutor in the Department of Far Eastern Langua

where I attempt to pass on what little I know of the inscrutable ]
to an ever increasing number of undergraduates.

Since 1940, I used to recover from a winter of split infinit
and dangling participles at a small summer farm near the mo
of the Columbia River, but a severe illness three years ago made
impossible for me to continue chopping firewood and bounce.
over logging roads on a scooter. Since then I have been restori
an old house on Nantucket Island and learning to lie on a bea
and do nothing for short periods. Here I can indulge what hobb
are possible for one who has never learned to play: gardening, hot
maintenance, beating my head against classical Chinese, and settli
juvenile fights (wouldn’t you know that the summer home wou
be located beside the grammar school playground). F amily? If

were a sentimentalist, I would say that all the children I have taug]
are my family, but they’re not. They're yours.

ROBERT LYLE BISHOP

HOME appress: 27 Amherst Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
BORN: June 4, 1916, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Manhasset High School, Manhasset, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, suena cian laude, 1937; AM.
1942; PH.D. 1950.

MarrieD: Joan Frances Fiss, Sept. 12, 1942, Wellesley, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Professor of economics; head, Department of Economics and
Social Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in economics, 1939-42, Visiting lecturer, 1955-56, Hlar-
vard University; visiting professor, Brandeis University, 1956-57; member,
Regional Committee, National Woodrow Wilson Foundation, 19¢6-é60;
chairman, ad hoe Visiting Committee on the Humanities and Socul

[or]

|
|
HARVARD CLASS OF 193

Sciences, Case Institute of Technology, 1961-62; Ford Foundation F aculty
Research Fellow, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Economic Association; M.LT.
Faculty Club; American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

pusications: Co-author, Income, Employment and Public Policy: Essays in
Honor of Alvin H. Hansen, co-author, Structure of the American Econ-
omy; co-editor, with P. A. Samuelson and J. R. Coleman, Readings in
Economics (three editions); various articles and reviews in professional

periodicals, such as Quarterly Journal of Economics, American Economic
Review, and Journal of Political Economy.

MY first year out of college, | was fortunate enough to have a
Sheldon Travelling Fellowship, which supported ten altogether en-
joyable months in Europe. Although the terms of the fellowship
prohibited formal study, the sojourn somehow helped to resolve my
previous indecision as to a career in economics or the law. I also
thought that graduate work was best pursued elsewhere than in
one’s undergraduate institution; but, mainly because of financial
need and fellowship availability, I ended up no farther away from
home than Princeton for one year.
The next year, | was back at Harvard after all, unable to resist
the august status of an instructor in economics and tutor in the
Division of History, Government and Economics (by far the most
elaborate title that I ever expect to wear, though now I would be
called a teaching fellow). In addition, through the good offices of
John Kenneth Galbraith, who was then leaving Harvard temporarily
for an assistant professorship at Princeton, I was able to do a dos-a-
dos with him into the tutorship that he was vacating in Winthrop
House. During the first of my three years there, one of my under-
graduate neighbors in the suite directly below mine in F entry was
a future president of the United States. Somehow this puts me in
the generation that must yield graciously to a younger one.

Even though there was no necessary causal connection, moving to
M.LT. and out of my free tutorial quarters coincided, to the month,
with my marriage. After about six years in a Harvard Square apart-
ment, we moved to Wellesley, where in the meantime my wife had
taken her present job as director of the Placement Office at Welles-
ley College.

The not very venturesome pattern thus emerges: except for two
years, I have been in these parts ever since coming to Harvard as a
freshman, without ever having been north of Connecticut before
that. Like the local stereotype, moreover, I do not even travel very
much, since I am already here. The main exceptions to that, so far,

[92]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

are social visits in the East and Middle West, annual professional
meetings (rarely as far west as the Mississippi), and a limited amount
of academic and business consulting. Planned for the spring of
1962, however, is a rather more extensive trip during coincident
leaves that my wife and I have from our respective institutions. My
leave, except for the prospective hooky, consists of a year of sub-
sidized literary effort, courtesy of the Ford Foundation, in order that
I may finish and publish a long continuing compendium of economic
theory for the graduate student.

My professional life has been very rewarding, at least for me.
Exempted from military service, I moved through all of the academic
ranks that M.LT. has, from 1942 to the present. This includes the
post of department head, which I assumed in 1958, and to which I
return next year for an indefinite period (no nonsense about rotat-
ing chairmen at M.I.T.: my department had only three from 1883
to 1958). By contrast with the situation in business, of course, the
role of alleged “boss” in an academic department is a duty rather than
a privilege; but it has its satisfactions, if one can help maintain a
favorable environment for a remarkably creative and distinguished
group of colleagues. The job is a sizeable one, however, not onl
because the department has a complement of twenty full professors
and a comparable number of associate and assistant professors, but
also because it comprises distinct “sections” in such disparate dis-
ciplines as economics, political science and psychology, each offering
both undergraduate study and graduate training for the Ph.D.

This surprisingly substantial development of the social sciences
at M.I.T. was spearheaded by economics. From somewhat abortive
beginnings just before the war, and a renewed start immediately
afterward, both a modest undergraduate major and an immodest
Ph.D. program were developed. The latter, if I may continue my
vicarious bragging, has now made it at least a matter of uncertainty
as to which Cambridge institution offers the aspiring young econ-
omist the best graduate training. Over the past two years, for ex-
ample, we have seesawed between first and second place with our
very friendly neighbor in attracting the recipients of National
Woodrow Wilson fellowships (w hich are awarded for first-year
graduate study in a school of the student’s choice). The third-place
Economics Department, I am happy to report, was a good distance
back on both occasions.

Although administrative chores inevitably cut down one's teach-
ing, I have been fortunate in being able at least to keep my hand in.

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Last year, for example, for one semester I had about sixty students
in our basic graduate course in economic theory (about equally
divided between our own graduate students and others, mostly from
the School of Industrial Management); and in the other semester, I
lectured twice a week to about 180 undergraduates in one section
of our introductory course. The combination of teaching and par-
ticipating in the continued progress of the social sciences in the

M.LT. environment is thus a very pleasant fate as far as I am con-
cerned.

Hobbies? None of a very constructive or inspiring kind, I am
afraid. What outside exercise I get is mostly on Wellesley College's
very handy golf course, from April to November. I still like bridge
very much and wish I had a chance to play more. Honesty also
compels me to confess that I look at the idiot box more than I should.

Politics? Somewhat anomalously, I have been a registered Repub-
lican since moving to Wellesley, partly because I thought it better
to vote in the primary of the locally dominant party but also be-
cause I usually end up voting for more Republicans than Democrats
for state and local offices. Otherwise, however, my alleged “inde-
pendence” is rather severely compromised by monotonously Demo-
cratic voting at the national level, especially every four years.

WILLIAM PIEHLER BITTENBENDER

HOME appress: Whistle Farm, Deering, R-F.D., Hillsboro, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Overseas Chemical Division, W. R. Grace & Co., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 10, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Virginia Irving Carney, Aug. 9, 1941, Newton Center, Mass. CHIL-
prEN: William Allan, Sept. 1, 1942; Michael Vickery, April 17, 1944; Janet
Irving, May 10, 1950.

OCCUPATION: International trade; market director, new products, Overseas
Chemical Division, W. R. Grace & Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Delta Imports, Inc., New Orleans, La., International
Selling Corporation, New York, vice-president, Avis Incorporated, Boston;
regional director, Europe, Chrysler Corporation, Detroit, Mich.

MeMueR or: American Institute of Mining and Chemical Fngineers,; Harvard
Clubs of New Canaan and Boston, Canadian Club of New York, Inter-
national Trade Association of New England; various sales executives clubs.

J HAVE been involved in international trade ever since leaving
school, with the exception of the few years I spent with Scars, Roe-
buck in Boston, as an executive traince. This has occasioned travel

[94]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

up to as much as seven or eight months a year. In the course of this,
I have visited over eighty of the current U.N. member nations, and
averaged close to 100,000 miles a year.

In order to give the children the benefits of having a pied-a-terre
in the States when stationed overseas with Chrysler, we bought a
200-year-old farm house in Deering, New Hampshire, where we
today make our residence. We have all of the sports facilities, both
winter and summer, either on or near our place, and are having lots
of fun restoring the house to its original architecture and condition.
Any classmates are most welcome to visit us whenever close by.

RALPH LEONARD BIXBY

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Warren St., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John H. Pray & Sons Co., 132 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 7, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Eleanor Rochford Butler, July 29, 1944, Wellesley, Mass. cHitpren:
Suzanne Elizabeth, June 1s, 19465, William James, March 1, 1948; David
Rochford, Oct. 30, 1949.

occuPaTIon: Advertising manager, John H. Pray & Sons Company, retail furni-
ture store.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Board of Public Welfare, Needham, Mass, 1955,
1958; vice-president, Needham YMCA, 1960.

A CAREER in retail advertising has been my lot. Following gradua-
tion, I spent four years with R. H. White’s and a year with Ken-
nedy’s in Boston, During the war I was at Chance Vought Aircraft
in Stratford, Connecticut, and a short time with the 1944 Red Cross
War Fund in Boston. I went with the Chambers & Wiswell Agency
in 1944 and for four years worked on the John H. Pray & Sons Com-
pany account. This is a retail furniture store whose advertising man-
ager I have been from 1948 to date.

We live in Needham, one of Boston’s fast-growing suburbs. 1
have been a Town Meeting member for a dozen or more years. For
six years I served as a member of the town’s Board of Public Welfare.
PTA, Boy Scouts and similar activities have occupied my attention.
Four years ago, I was one of the incorporators of the Needham
YMCA. I am still a member of the board and chairman of its public
rclations committee. As time gocs on, my spirit is still willing, but
the flesh becomes weaker.

With a wife who is a Wellesley graduate, we all enjoyed her 25th

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

last June. I formerly became involved with her League of Women
Voters activities. Now she teaches competently at Mt. Ida Junior
College. By June, our children will be sixteen, fourteen and twelve.
Suzanne has been in high school, with Classmate Harry Walen as
principal. The boys are both of junior high age. All show normal
flashes of scholastic brilliance combined with downright stupidity,
Fortunately, the A’s far outbalance the D’s.

We are an optimistic, civic-minded Protestant, independent Re-
publican group, and likely to stay that way.

GEORGE WILLIAM BLACKWOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Wedgemere Ave. Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Dewey & Almy Chemical Division, W. R. Grace & Co., 62
Whittemore Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED; Ruth Wilson, Nov. 12, 1939, South Dartmouth, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edward Wilson, Oct. 10, 1941; Leslie (daughter), Sept. 19, 1943.

OCCUPATION: President, Dewey & Almy Chemical Division, W. R. Grace &
Company.

oFFices HELD: Director, American Synthetic Rubber Corporation, since April,
1959, Cambridge Chamber of Commerce, October, 1959, Blue Shield,
March, 1960, Cosden Petroleum Corporation, since September, 1960; mem-
ber, Fund-Raising Committee, United Fund (Boston); member, executive
committee, Belmont Hill School.

MEMBER OF: Winchester Country Club; New Bedford Yacht Club, South
Dartmouth, Mass.; Boston Yacht Club, Marblehead, Mass.; Chemists’ Club,
New York City; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Varsity Club.

UPON graduating from Harvard I joined Dewey & Almy Chemical
Company as a sales engineer serving the can manufacturing industry.
In 1945 I became manager of the division, in 1949, manager of the
rubber specialties division, and general sales manager in 1950, vice-
president in 1955. In 1956 I was elected president of the Dewey &
Almy Division — Dewey & Almy having merged with W. R. Grace
& Company in 1954. In 1954 I returned to Harvard — this time to
the Business School for the Advancement Management Program
(26th).

Participation in community activities has been mainly in United
Fund, Blue Shield, Chamber of Commerce, various fund-raising
committees and trying to learn now to say “no” to all those who
fee] that trying to run a business can be done on the side.

[96 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have two college-age children —a son at Stanford University
and a daughter at Greenbrier. My principal extracurricular activities
are hunting, photography, fishing and boating.

BENJAMIN SEWALL BLAKE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Meadow Lane, Cohasset, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 29, 1915, Weston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: S.B. (Trinity Coll.), 1939.

marrigeD: Mary Alice Blake, Jan. 23, 1942, Dedham, Mass. cHiLpreN: Benja-
min Sewall, 3d, June 23, 1943; Barbara, Dec. 31, 1946, Rosamond, April
1, 1949; Leslie Appleton, Jan. 31, 1952; Elizabeth Field, March 9, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Blake, ’31, M.B.A., "35. .

occuPATION: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Director, South Shore Music Circus, 1961-64; president, South
Shore Art Association, Inc., 1960, 1961, 1962; vestryman, St. Stephen’s
Episcopal Church, Cohasset, Mass., 1961-64.

MEMBER OF: Boston Society of Architects; Copley Society; Society of Archi-
tectural Historians; Society for the Preservation of New England Antiqui-
ties; Bostonian Society; Cohasset Rotary Club; American Society for
Engineering Education; Museum of Fine Arts; Cohasset Tennis Club;
Cohasset Yacht Club.

FOLLOWING graduation from Trinity College in Hartford, Con-
necticut, where I spent my later college days, I worked in the heat-
ing and air-conditioning business, as well as in the Wendell Willkie
campaign for a while, before joining the Armed Forces in the early
part of the war. I spent a total of five and one-half years in the Field
Artillery, serving two years in the Pacific performing shore fire con-
trol duty in amphibious operations.

Out as a captain in 1946, I started in architecture with the office
of Mr. J. Hampden Robb, Harvard 1910, attending evening classes
at the Boston Architectural Center. In 1955, I became a registered
architect and then taught for five years at Wentworth Institute in
Boston, meanwhile moving out of Weston (the family ancestral seat)
at the urgent chivvying of Mr. Callahan, the famous road man. FEs-
tablishing an architectural practice in a new area is not too easy, and
I have given up teaching to concentrate on it, only to find myself
deeply involved in Cohasset community affairs.

This is the first Class Report which indicates our stabilized family
status, as we still have only five children; one now in the Navy,
making us feel very proud and old, and the four girls in various
school stages. We have found many friends in Cohasset since being

[97]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

pushed out of Weston and are now thoroughly at home on Boston’s
South Shore.

I am active with the South Shore Art Center, sing in the choir

and serve on the vestry of our church. I attend Rotary meetings
regularly and am a director of the South Shore Music Circus. I
play a lot of tennis at our new indoor courts, sail a great deal in our
eighteen-foot cat-boat yacht, travel very little, ski some (when we
can get the family together in the Opel with fourteen skis, fourteen
poles, fourteen ski boots, seven sleeping bags and miscellaneous gear),
and thoroughly enjoy life in general.

The two dark clouds on the horizon to me are the continuance
of world tension and the polluted state of Massachusetts’ political

atmosphere. Am looking forward to the clearing of these and to a
bright week with all of you this June.

WILLIAM EVERETT BLANCHARD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Eastern Point Blvd. Gloucester, Mass.

OFFIcE Appress: W. E. Blanchard, Jeweler, 125 Main St., Gloucester, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1916, Gloucester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1937.

MarrieD: Helen M. Woodall, Nov. 2, 1945, Champaign, Ill. cxmpren: William
Everett, 3d, Aug. 30, 1946; Julia Anne, March 18, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Proprietor, retail jewelry store.

OFFICES HELD: Director, treasurer, Merchant’s Division, Chamber of Commerce,
1948-53; director, treasurer, 1953-58, president, since 1960, Association of
Eastern Point Residents, Inc.; director, Chamber of Commerce, 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: Gloucester Rotary Club, YMCA Men’s Club; Gloucester Chamber
of Commerce, Acacia Lodge, AF. & A.M.; American Gem Society.

HAVING been goaded by numerous notices and postcards, I find
I can no longer in good conscience put off this task of recreating
my life over the past twenty-five years. What to include? More
important, what discreetly to omit? Well, for better or worse, here
it 1s:

Shortly before graduation, I decided my life’s work would be to
join my father in his retail jewelry store. Dad, however, out-decided
me at the start, with the result that I entered employment in Filene’s
department store in Boston the following September, enrolled in
their merchandising course, with the executive title of “stock boy.”
To give Dad full credit for this idea, during the next two and a half
years I did learn a lot in their jewelry department, and then erans-

[ 98 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ferred to Blanchard’s Jewelry Store. I was then all set for life —
until one year later.

“Volunteering” for one year’s Army training early in 1941 (when
my greeting from the President was imminent), I joined the 26th
Division Artillery Brigade Headquarters Battery at Camp Edwards,
and rose to the rank of staff sergeant in meteorology. After Pearl
Harbor and the indefinite extension of my year, I transferred to the
Air Corps as aviation cadet, and ascended to the rank of second
lieutenant in communications at Scott Field, Illinois, then to Boca
Raton Field, Florida, where I became a radar officer. Snatched
into the training command, I piloted a desk throughout the balance
of the war as supervisor of electronics courses at Boca Raton and
Chanute Field, Illinois, finally retiring from this field of endeavor
with the rank of captain after having stretched my one year’s training
to five.

I must pause at this point to give credit to Adolf Hitler for the
only one good thing I can think of he ever brought about. If he
had not shaken up the whole world with his war, I never would
have been bounced out to Illinois where I met and, just before
leaving the service, married a very charming girl, Helen Woodall,
from the land of corn-fields. I soon transplanted her to Gloucester,
where we have been very happy ever since.

Well, now it was back to the jewelry store, a little rusty after five
years’ absence, but thankful to be there again. And there I have
been ever since. I joined the American Gem Society, became a
registered jeweler with them, and dropped into the jeweler’s routine
of Easter, Mother’s Day, June weddings, graduation, Father’s Day,
a few assorted bargain days, and CHRISTMAS, year in and year
out. With Dad gone these several years, the store is mine now, and
still going along as ever, heading for a fiftieth anniversary in 1963.

My extracurricular activities have included raising a son, Bill,
now fifteen, and a daughter, Julie, now eleven, as well as having
built the house we now live in on the shore of Gloucester harbor.
As a family, we have become addicted to making auto excursions
around the country whenever possible, and have covered most of
the states, Canada, and Mexico at one time or another. We are
also enthusiastic yachtsmen (although my inland-bred wife is not
quite as salty as the rest of us), and have a lot of fun in my son's
fourtcen-foot outboard and my twenty-nine-foot sport fisherman.
As young Bill says, we are either in them or working on them in
our spare time just about ycar-around.

[99]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

As far as family memberships in organizations are concerned, we
are individually and collectively active in the Rotary Club, YMCA
Men’s Club, Addison Gilbert Hospital Auxiliary, Girl Scouts,
Masons, St. John’s Episcopal Church, Order of DeMolay, and any
Republican activities that come along — you can probably sort out
who’s in which.

Helen and I are looking forward to the completion of the raising
of our children and hope to give them good educations in spite
of the increasing road blocks being thrown in the paths of young
people who want to go to good colleges. I have always looked for-
ward to having a son in Harvard, but entrance requirements seem
to have become so picky now that I am afraid it will be only by a
miracle that he will get in. I think it too bad that sons of alumni
cannot be given some preference, as I feel that they should be
considered automatically in the Harvard family if they desire it
and have a reasonable amount of ability. So much for a favorite

ripe.

Well — there it is—the job’s done, and I’ve probably left out
nine-tenths of it, but I have been “as concise as you can.”

BRUCE BLIVEN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Washington St, New York 11, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1916, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB., 1937.

MARRIED: Naomi Horowitz, May 26, 1950, New York, N.Y. cuitp: Frederic
Bruce, April 6, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Society of Magazine Writers; Authors Guild; American Civil
Liberties Union.

Publications: Tbe Wonderful Writing Machine; Battle for Manhattan; The
Story of D-Day (juvenile); The American Revolution (juvenile); Frove
Pearl Harbor to Okinawa (juvenile); articles and book reviews.

MORE of the same (see Tenth, Fifteenth, Twentieth), and I find
the whole thing seems to taste better with each additional bite.

BEVERLEY AYER BOGERT

HOME appress: Ochre Point, Newport, R.I.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 35 E. 72d St., New York 21, N.Y.
BORN: Sept. 3, 1915, New Rochelle, N.Y.

{ 190 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Investments; self-employed.

oFFices HELD: Delegate from Rhode Island, Republican National Convention,
1948; member, board of managers, Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club; The Brook Club (both New York).

PUBLICATIONS; News stories, mainly political, written in Europe, North Africa
and the Middle East for The Cincinnati Enquirer and North American
News Alliance.

AFTER graduation, attended Trinity College, Cambridge, England,
where I took courses in law and English literature. Worked at Re-
publican State Headquarters, Providence, Rhode Island, before en-
tering the Navy. Served five years in Navy, mostly on destroyers in
Atlantic. Returned to civilian life after duty as assistant operations
officer with Amphibious Group 13 in Pacific, with rank of lieuten-
ant commander. Have done considerable writing for newspapers,
mostly in Europe. Business activity has been mostly in investments
in New York. Main interests: politics and writing.

CHARLES JOSEPH BONING

HOME AppRESS: 19 Devonwood Rd., Wayne, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1916, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1937(38); Certificate (Univ. of
Paris), 1937; S.M. IN ED. (Univ, of Pennsylvania), 1951.

MARRIED: Mary E. Spillane, May 20, 1945, Milton, Mass. cHILpREN: Kathy,
Sept. ro, 1947; Kerry Ann, April 20, 1955; Karol Mary, Aug. 30, 1956;
Jon Robert, Sept. 28, 1957.

OccUPATION: Teacher of mathematics, coaching in football and_ baseball,
Haverford School (boys’ school).

THOUGH it seems that I’ve had little time to think about it, the
phrase “relic of 1937” brought me up a bit short. I confess, however,
arriving winded, these days, at our football practice field after
a 15o-yard dash, the term “relic” can’t be too far off the mark.

To go back a bit—I spent some time in 1937 at the University
of Paris, and returning to the States, did some part-time study
toward a Master’s in Education. Before completing this, however,
I entered the teaching “racket” at the Haverford School. World
War II took me to the South Pacific where I bounced around in

[ 101 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF Nt

the O'Bannon (DD 450) for a couple of years and finally back to
Uncle Sugar.

Mary and I figured we'd postponed our marriage long enough and
were married ten days after my return. For the remainder of the
war, I fought the fierce battle of Causeway Street under “Com
One.” We have four wonderfully healthy, normal children who
seem to occupy much of our time and efforts.

Returning to Haverford in February, 1946, I resumed my teach-
ing-coaching duties. Here I have remained, scarcely a veritable
Mr. Chips, but nevertheless enjoying the stimulation of working
with young fellows in the classroom and on the athletic field.
Though hardly rewarding financially, it is a job I look forward to
every day and wouldn’t swap for any other.

I find my days so filled with instructing, coaching and tutoring
there seems little time for recreation! My pet hobby has been in
the field of carpentry. In the last seven years, Mary and I have
added to a quite modest home a playroom, a den and a garage. The
tremendous satisfaction we've enjoyed far outshadows the weary
muscles, the smashed thumbs and all that goes with it.

In the early ’50’s, I completed my work toward an S.M. in
Education at the University of Pennsylvania. Taking courses Satur-
day mornings for three or four years can be pretty trying, but
I’m sure it is worth the effort.

Except for the Navy years, since 1938 I have instructed in swim-
ming at the Beach Club at Hyannisport, during the summers. It
has proved an ideal spot for: our children. They have done credit
to the “old man” with quite an array of cups and medals won in
club competitions. As a matter of fact, with my now-webbed
feet, there’s no reason why I couldn't pick up a couple of cups on
my own.

As long as I enjoy working with boys, I feel certain that I shall
remain at Haverford and wonder where the dollar bills will come
from to get these four little ones of ours through college.

JOSEPH NORBERT BONNER

HOME AppREss: 106 River Drive, Appleton, Wis.

orrice avpress; Medical Arts Clinic, 401 N. Oneida St. Appleton, Wis.
Born: Nov. 4, 1915, Boston, Mass.

prepareD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREPS: A.B, 1937; M.n. (Georgetown Univ.),

1942.
[ 102 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Rosemary Suelzer, April 22, 1948, Fort Wayne, Ind. CHILDREN:
Kathleen, May 7, 1949 (died July 18, 1957); Susan, Jan. 6, 1951; Nancy,
Oct. 25, 1952; Mary Jo, Oct. 13, 1954; Bethann, May 6, 1956; Tricia, Feb.
4, 1959.

occupATION: General and Thoracic Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: President, Outagamie County Medical Society, since 1961; chair-
man of the board, Medical Arts Clinic, since 1959; medical director of
Civil Defense, Outagamie County, since 1958, regional medical director,
Red Cross, since 1958; chief of Surgical Department, Appleton Memorial

Hospital, since 1959; secretary-treasurer, 1959, Vice-president, 1960, Medical
Society.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); Outagamie County
Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society; Wisconsin Medical So-
ciety; American Medical Association, Chamber of Commerce.

CAREER —I suppose one could say my medical career started
with my graduation from Georgetown Medical School in 1942 but
then there followed ten more years of surgical training, to include
Boston City Hospital, Deaconess Hospital, Faulkner Hospital and
Lahey Clinic, interrupted by a hitch in the Army from 1944 to 1948
at Ashford General Hospital and Percy Jones General Hospital. I
passed my Boards, certifying me as a diplomate of the American
Board of Surgery, in 1952 and subsequently began private practice
in Appleton, Wisconsin. (How we chose Appleton is a story in
itself.) Iam presently chief surgeon for a twelve-man medical group.

Family — We are a happy one. Our five daughters, ranging in
age from ten to two, keep us on our toes. The death of our eldest
daughter, Kathy, brought to my wife and me our only real grief
since our marriage. She died at the age of eight, after a short
illness.

Hobbies — Mentally, I think so many would be fun, but actually
there are only so many hours in a day. My growing, active family
affords me my biggest outlet — swimming, boating, water skiing
and picnics in the summer; skating and tobogganing through Wis-
consin winters.

I plan to take the whole “tribe” East for the Reunion in June,
God willing.

DAVID DUDLEY BONNET

HOME ADDRESS: 1108 Koohoo Drive, Kailua, Oahu, Hawaii.

OFFICE AppRESS: UsoM/Djakarta, % American Embassy, Djakarta, Indonesia.
BORN: Oct, 28, 1914, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Ridley Park High School, Ridley Park, Pa.

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: $.B., cu7 laude, 1937; A.M. 1939; PH.D.,
1941.
marrieD: Florence Ford, June 25, 1938, Lynn, Mass. cuttpren: Caryl Ann,

June 30, 1942 (died April 24, 1954); David Scott, Feb, 26, 1946; Charles
Frederic, Jan. 28, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Dirlam Bonnet, MD, 36.
occupation: Medical entomologist; acting chief malaria adviser, Malaria Eradi-
cation Program, Republic of Indonesia (State Dept. Foreign Aid).

MEMBER OF: American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene; Royal
Society of Tropical Medicine.

AFTER getting my Ph.D. at Harvard in 1941, I traveled across the
U.S. to the then Territory of Hawaii to teach at the University of
Hawaii a variety of zoological courses. We were in Hawaii only
three months when the Japanese turned our plans upside down by
bombing Pearl Harbor. I eventually became a commissioned officer
in the U.S. Public Health Service and served out the war in Hawait
as a medical entomologist. By the end of the war, we had become
so attached to the place that we made it our home. From 1946 until
1953, I was attached to the Board of Health as chief of the Mosquito
Control Division, and later as the Territorial Medical Entomologist.
In 1953 I could not resist the offer of the University of California
at Los Angeles to hire me as a research associate in parasitology for
work in Tahiti on filariasis and elephantiasis. We lived and worked
and played in Tahiti for three and one-half years. It was a wonderful
experience, particularly since we saw Tahiti before all the tourists
started to arrive by plane. The experience was marred by the tragic
loss of our only daughter and eldest child, who was killed in an acci-
dent. Upon leaving Tahiti, we returned to Hawaii and shortly after-
ward I was invited to join a scientific expedition which traveled from
Tahiti westward across the Pacific to Bangkok. It was my job to
take blood specimens from natives on the various small islands visited
in order to find evidences of filariasis. In 1956 I worked briefly for
the Department of Health when the wanderlust got me again and I
joined the International Cooperation Administration of the State De-

partment to work with the Malaria Program in Indonesia, where I
have been working ever since.

MAX WILLIAM BORKUM

HOME AppRESS: 19 Ward St. Newton Center, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Radcliffe Shoes, Inc. Brockton 69, Mass,
BORN: July 20, 1915, Chelsea, Mass.

[ 104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Frances E. Berger, Dec. 21, 1935, Boston, Mass. cuttpreNn: Sandra
Lee, Dec. 31, 1936 (mm. Richard J. Bertman, July 5, 1959); Elinore Sue,
Jan. 24, 1941; Paula Mae, March 25, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Nathan Borkum, Lx. 734.

occupaTION: Manufacturer of women’s shoes, general sales manager.

OFFIces HELD: Chairman, Parents’ Association of Emerson College, 1961.

MEMBER OF: 210 Associates; Pine Brook Country Club; Style Committee,
Popular Price Shoe Show of America.

UNLESS another is discovered at our 25th, my claim to fame is
my oldest daughter, who, I believe, is the first baby of the Class
of ’37. She would make me the oldest “parent” of the Class. Sandra
Lee, Vassar ’58, married Richard Bertman, A.B. Harvard, 1956,
Bachelor of Architecture, M.I.T., 1960.

My number two daughter, Elinore Sue, graduates from Wheaton
College this June. My number three daughter, Paula Mae, is going
into her junior year at Emerson College.

My entire business life since graduation has been in the women’s
shoe business. I am affiliated in executive capacities with Dartmouth
Shoe Company in Brockton, Massachusetts, Radcliffe Shoes, Incor-
porated, Brockton, Massachusetts, and Maybury Shoe Company,
Rochester, New Hampshire. Ours is a family business, and respon-
sibilities are shared with three brothers and a brother-in-law.

My position requires a good deal of business traveling within the
continental United States. We have taken some vacation trips
through the Caribbean. We hope to be able to visit Europe soon.

I still remain, basically, a conservative and an independent voter.

GORDON TOWNLEY BOWDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 343 E. 30th St, New York 16, N.Y.

OFFICE ADprEss: American Telephone & Telegraph Co., Room 2118, 195 Broad-
way, New York 7, N.Y.

BorRN: May 15, 1915, Huron, S. Dak.

PREPARED AT: Grant County High School, Silver City, N. Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1934, 193571937. DEGREES: A.B. mlIgna cum laude, 19373
PH.D., 1943-

marriepD: Mary Ellen Burkholder, Sept. 7, 1940, State College, Pa. (divorced
1961); Mary Virginia Broun, Sept. 17, 1961, South Salem, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Gordon Burkholder, April 30, 1942; Katharine M., May 25. 1948.

occupation; Telephone communications; personnel research supervisor, long
range development of managers for the Bell System.

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

orrices HELD; Member, executive committee, since 1956, chairman, Scholarship
Committee, 1956-60, Vice-president, 1960-61, president, 1961-62, Harvard
Club of New Jersey; member, since 1956, vice-chairman, 1960-61, Council
on Management Education, Training and Development, National Indus-
trial Conference Board.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New Jersey and New York; Laymen’s Move-
ment.

puBLications: “The Adaptive Capacity of Workers,” spring, 1947, “The Problem
of Employee Turnover,” September-October, 1952, Harvard Business Re-

view; “Industrial Societies: Education for What?”, British Yearbook of
Education, 1956.

OUTWARDLY the years since our Twentieth Report have been
busy ones. My work has involved increasing effort devoted to the
long range problems of developing managerial talent for the Bell
System. As the American economy grows and international prob-
lems become more complex, communication needs become more
complex. The management of such complex operations likewise
calls for new training and personal abilities that constantly challenge
our educational conceptions and skills. This has led me into an
ever-closer study of adult problems of growth and development,
and what the universities can contribute to an effective understand-
ing of these. This set of interests and the opportunity to experiment
have been stimulating and rewarding. I expect it to be a major
concern in the years ahead.

My life outside the vocational orbit has been rather normal. The
children are rapidly growing up and out of familial dependence,
but they still are young enough to be big question marks as to
whether they will set the world on fire and, if so, in what way.

Inwardly, these years have made some things clearer and others
less so. The importance of satisfying personal goals, the wise use

of time (of which there is so little) in achieving them, the curious
combination of togetherness and solitude, of failures and successes,

which life really must be—these things have perhaps become
clearer. How much of this we can consciously plan and control,
how much of it we should try to plan and control in pursuit of
“the good life,” is less clear now than it used to be.

I wish I could state clearly how many of my good and satisfying
experiences I owe in some way to Harvard, but this is not possible.
While my feeling of gratitude is large, I know that I cannot specify
or assign causes between then and now. Such experiences as living
in the Yard, studying in the Library, walking along the Charles
with good friends, listening to learned professors and many others,

{ 106]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

taken separately, do not account for my gratitude. It is rather the
total spirit of Harvard pervading my years at Cambridge which
communicated values of enduring strength. This spirit of adventure
in personal growth and the inspiring goals of excellence and good
will in all endeavors have emerged more clearly as the most impor-
tant gifts I have received from the College. May she continue to
communicate these to future sons of Harvard.

JOHN BRADFORD BOWDITCH

MAILING ADDRESS: % E. Francis Bowditch, Rye Beach, N.H.

NATHANIEL BOWDITCH

HOME AppREssS: Farmers Row, Groton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Simonds Saw & Steel Co., Fitchburg, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 20, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Constantia Elizabeth Pleasants, Oct. 15, 1938, Philadelphia, Pa. CHiL-
DREN: Elizabeth Wilkins, Nov. 8, 1940 (7. John K. Laughlin, June 18,
1961); Phebe Rathbone, Jan. 12, 1943; Deborah Sargent, March 14, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Manufacturing; manager of research and development, Simonds
Saw & Steel Company.

OFFICES HELD: Ensign-lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve, 1942-45; product manager,
1945-55, assistant plant manager, 1955-60, Simonds Saw & Steel Company;
chairman, Red Cross, Groton, 1947-49; director, Civil Defense, Groton,
1949-51; chairman, executive committee, 1958-59, president, since 1960,
board of trustees, Community Memorial Hospital, Ayer, Mass.

I WOULD like to think that I could begin this report with a few
new words of wisdom now that a quarter of a century has passed.
However, I have read enough to know that whatever I ‘might Write,
most assuredly has already been written and probably centuries
ago. Therefore, so much for opening remarks.

As I look back I feel that many blessings have come my way. I
still have my health. I was lucky enough to marry aw onderful
girl and raise three delightful daughters. Somehow we have been
able to earn the money to send them to school and college; some-
thing which looked like an impossibility in 1939. We live in the
country where we have always wanted to be, and we have a fine
group of friends. My work, which is completely concerned with
the future, is a real challenge. Life is very full,

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Since the Fifteenth Class Report I have held the job of assistant

plant manager in the parent plant of the Simonds Saw & Stee!
Company in Fitchburg, Massachusetts. I attended the twenty-fifth
class of the Advanced Management Program at the Harvard Busi-
ness School. In 1960 1 was promoted to a new position in the
company, manager of research and development for all the divisions.
Our three girls have really grown up. The youngest, Debbie,
now fifteen, is going to Concord Academy. Phebe, our second
daughter, is a freshman at the University of Denver. The eldest,
who calls herself “Robin,” decided to get married last June after

two years at the University of Colorado. She is now living in
Boulder, Colorado.

Connie and I as parents can see all too clearly that the family
is flying from the nest. It won’t be long before we shall have lost

all tax deductions for our wonderful dependents as well as the
dependents themselves.

KFITH McGRAIL BOWEN

MAILING ADDRESS: 2955 Makalei Pl. Honolulu, Hawaii.

PAUL SACHS BOWERS

HOME appress: 1348 Buckingham Rd., Birmingham, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ferndale Surgical Inc, 780 W. Eight Mile, Ferndale, Mich.
BORN: May 21, 1914, Evanston, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

Marriep: Giovanna Cinelli, Sept. 6, 1941, Nahant, Mass, CHILDREN: Delfine

Marie, April 28, 1943; Jonathan Stickney, Nov. 17, 1944; Henry Huntington,
Aug. 5, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Benton Bowers, ’29, A.M. ’31.
occupation: Buyer, Ferndale Surgical Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Past member, P-T.A., currently secretary, board of trustees,
Bloomfield Country Day School.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Association; National Association of
Accountants; Orchard Lake Country Club; Otsego Ski Club.

AFTER graduating from the “B” School, I about-faced and worked

for the Food Stamp Plan of the Federal Department of Agriculture

until the war. Four years in the Navy plus parental responsibilities

changed my point of view and since then I have worked fora variety
of private enterprises.

[ 108 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Principal current interest is the education of my children, though
at present it appears unlikely that either son will get into Harvard,

WILLIAM WILMOT BOYNTON

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Fox Meadow Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: E. D. Boynton & Co., Inc. 111 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.

BORN: July 29,.1915, Arlington, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Virginia Loy Schoepf, March 13, 1939, Scarsdale, N.Y. c#itpren:
Virginia Joy, Feb. 1, 1941 (m. F, J. Fishburne, Jr. June 10, 1961); Lee
Mason, March 20, 1943; Kesley Schoepf, April 28, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Elwood Dadmun Boynton, ’35; Rodney Boynton, "42;
Thomas Whitney Boynton, 743.

occuPaTION: Associate, E. D. Boynton & Company, Inc.

MY business career, from graduation to the present, can be best
described as a complete circle. I started in Wall Street, escaped to
a large corporation, re-escaped to small town merchant, and reverted
this year to Wall Street. From all this, I have learned that there is
no escape! Having learned this, frustrations are fewer, and dis-
appointments easier to take. Successes, too, seem less rewarding.
Perhaps this is a sign of middle-aged cynicism, and if so, I plead
guilty. However, I would want neither to exchange nor relive one
day of the past twenty-five years. As my hair-line recedes, my
greatest fear is that there isn’t time left to do all the things and see
all the places and people yet unencountered.

My greatest pleasure and hobby have consistently been my family
and home. With one daughter married last June, another in college,
and my son at Taft School, our home life now is perhaps less noisy,
but it certainly is as exciting as the day I married. We've lived in
Scarsdale, Boston, Albany, New London, Litchfield, Connecticut, and
way stations. In each new home, the lawns have seemed larger, the
gardens more weed-filled, and the storm window-screen routine more
exhausting than the last. I have built bathrooms, barrooms, halls, cup-
boards, pine panels by the dozen, and am starting all over again!
Perhaps my greatest accomplishment along these lines has been to
teach my wife how to paint. This share-the-work approach to mari-
tal bliss allows me to spend a fair share of time in the all-important
job of supervision, which serves the dual role of providing rest as
well as satisfaction of my ego.

I still look forward to catching every trout in the world, and

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

shooting every partridge; not, however, with the old fervor which
made me try to do it all in one day! My son is old enough now to
wade the bad spots and beat the worst thickets, while I saunter along
the shallows and the open spaces. My golf game is only mediocre,
and I’m afraid it will never improve much. There are so many more
fruitful ways to spend those weekends.

So you see, at forty-six, a family man, not expecting to conquer
the world —at least, not in one day — happy in living from ex-
perience to experience, knowing that something will happen tomor-
row, and looking forward to it.

CAMERON BRADLEY

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: Wolfpen Farm, Southboro, Mass.

BorN: April 25, 1914, Southboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937.

marrieD: Anne Louise Schieffelin, Nov. 4, 1939, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Helen, Aug. 19, 1940 (m1. John A. Curtis, 3d, June 17, 1961); Edith Markoe
Jan. 6, 1942; Nathaniel Cameron, April 5, 1944; Sheila, Nov. 26, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Montgomery Sears Bradley, "40.

OCCUPATION: Farmer,

OFFICES HELD: Founder, secretary, Veteran Motor Car Club of America, 1940-
42; director, Massachusetts Guernsey Breeders Association, since 1958;
chairman, Town Planning Board, 1954-61.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Veteran Motor Car Club of America; Massachusetts
Horticultural Society, The Dandie Dinmont Terrier Club of America;
American Guernsey Cattle Club.

HAVE been engaged in breeding Guernsey cattle and have, after
years of being a “middle man,” recently started a milk processing
plant, a dairy products store and retail route which is proving that
people like and want good milk and not the “chalky” type sold in
most outlets. Have also been raising camellias and orchids and re-
tailing them. Have taken several prizes with the camellias. Hobbies
include such diverse objects as veteran cars, for which I built a mu-
seum, now incorporated as “Wolfpen Automotive Museum, Inc.”
and Dandie Dinmont Terriers, Summers are spent, when possible, in
West Gouldsboro, Maine.

THEODORE BRADLEY

HOME AppRESS: 2917 Kerry Lane, Oklahoma City 20, Okla,
oFFICe AbpRESS: Casady Middle School, P.O. Box 10507, Oklahoma Ciry, Okla.
BORN: July 3, 1915, Newton, Mass.

[ 110 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; ED.M. (Univ. of New Hamp-
shire), 1942.

MARRIED: Theresa Oakman, July 12, 1938, Danvers, Mass. cHiLpreN: Theodore
James, June 6, 1943; Daniel Gardiner, Jan. 18, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Willis Tucker Bradley, ’29, A.M, °33.

occuPATION: Headmaster, Casady Middle School.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of the English Department, Emerson School, Exeter,
N.H., 1947-49; head of Lower School, Eaglebrook School, Deerfield,
Mass., 1949-51; headmaster, Blue Ridge Country Day School, Millwood,

Va., 1951-55, Casady Elementary School, 1956-59, Casady Middle School,
since 19§9.

PUBLICATIONS: Educational articles in professional journals.

UPON graduation I decided to become anything but a school-
teacher (as my dad was) and attempted the Harvard Business
School. This attempt lasted until midyear, 1938. I went then into
the real estate business in Brookline, Massachusetts. That summer
I married Theresa Oakman whom I had known since we were five
years old. For three years we owned and ran “Broadlea Inn” in
Kingston, New Hampshire. After these attempts at business, teach-
ing looked good, so I got my Ed.M. degree from the University
of New Hampshire in 1942 and started teaching English at the
Emerson School for Boys, Exeter, New Hampshire. I stayed there
for ten years, except for two years in the Infantry, 83d Division,
where as a staff sergeant I forgot to duck one day in Normandy,
spending the rest of the war as an army correspondent in England.

I moved to the Eaglebrook School, Deerfield, Massachusetts, in
1949, staying there two years. By this time, Theresa had well caught
the teaching fever and we became the “team” we have been ever
since. (She is brighter than I, but I am prettier.) We pulled up
stakes and left New England for Clarke County, Virginia, in 1951,
where we ran the Blue Ridge Country Day School for four years.
Our boys were growing and so when Shaun Kelly, then headmaster
of Casady, called we came west to Oklahoma City, where I started
the elementary division of Casady from scratch. Three years ago
I was. partially kicked upstairs one step to head this Middle School,
grades five to eight, after a successful $400,000 building drive.

Here we are . . . and we love it. The scenery is flat and treeless
compared to the Blue Ridges of Virginia, but we love the people
here. Our great love is New Mexico, particularly the area around
Taos. This summer the whole family climbed Mr. Wheeler, which
mountain had lost us four years ago. For hobbies, I work with wood.

[arr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

making furniture. For religion, I turn to the Episcopal Church,
probably because we are an Episcopal school.

WILLIAM DEXTER BRAMHALL

HOME AppRESS: 1409 Hillcrest Ave., Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE apDpREss; Dominick & Dominick, 611 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 19,
Calif,

porN: May 17, 1914, Weston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937(47).

MARRIED: Leslie Alice Huntington, Nov. 16, 1940, Pasadena, Calif. (died Oct.
16, 19§4); Caroline Curtis Ivison, March 29, 1956, Tucson, Ariz. CHILDREN:
Mark Huntington, Aug. 22, 1942; Susan Alice, Oct. 19, 1946, William
Dexter, Jr., Dec. 3, 1950; Leslie Christine, Dec, 16, 1952; Linda Porter
Ivison, May 14, 1945; John Curtis Ivison, July 16, 1950.

HARVARD SON: Mark Huntington Bramhall, ’65.

occuPaATION: Investment banking; resident manager, Dominick & Dominick.

OFFICES HELD; Assistant vice-president, Bank of California, San Francisco, Sep-
tember, 1956-February, 1959; treasurer, Crystal Springs School for Girls,
September, 1958-September, 1961; partner, Bergues, Wentworth & Com-
pany, July, 1959-July, 1961.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Security Dealers; Valley Hunt Club,
Pasadena; California Club, Los Angeles; University Club, San Francisco;
Harvard Club of New York.

IN 1941 1 moved to California and have enjoyed living in this
community which has seen many changes in the last few years.
My work has been principally in banking and investments. In the
fall of 1961, I returned to Pasadena after having spent five years
living near San Francisco. This last move was prompted by the
machinations of Myron A. Wick who convinced me that I should
represent the firm of Dominick & Dominick in its investment bank-
ing activities in the West. In case he reads this, let me say that I
greatly enjoy the association.

I have had the good fortune to travel in Europe several times in
recent years and it seems that every time the opportunity presents
itself I head in that direction again.

My political convictions are so disloyal to Harvard that they
should not be published in a report of this kind,

[ 112 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RALPH BRANDWENE

HOME ADpRESS: 168 James St., Kingston, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Allan Shoe Stores, Inc., 75 S. Pennsylvania Ave., Wilkes-Barre,
Pa,

Born: April 1, 1915, Scranton, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: $.B., cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Bernice Gould, June 24, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Patricia Anne,
March 14, 1939; Stephen Lee, Feb. 12, 1943.

OCCUPATION: President and owner, Allan Shoe Stores, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wyoming Valley Jewish Committee, 1961-62, Ameri-
can Jewish Committee, 1956-57; vice-president, Drama Guild, 1960-62,
treasurer, Temple B’nai B'rith, 1952-53; chairman, United Jewish Appeal

Campaign, 1959; member, National Board, Joint Distribution Committee,
1960-61.

MEMBER OF: King David Masonic Lodge, Caldwell Consistory; Fox Hill
Country Club; Valley Tennis Club; Drama Guild; Harvard Club of North-

eastern Pennsylvania.

IT doesn’t have to be a novel .. . you won’t win a Pulitzer Prize
for your biography! Stop procrastinating and write your master-
piece now. Turn the television off so you can concentrate... !!

But where shall I begin the story of a quarter-century following
graduation? ‘What have I been doing these twenty-five years? Yes,
we married on graduation day . . . honeymooned in Bermuda . . .
then settled down to the life of average middle-class Americans . . .
working; playing; raising a family; contributing in some small way
to community life; wondering what tomorrow will bring - . .
another fruitless war; total destruction by a few Communist bombs;
or perhaps the miracle of peace that has eluded us so long. Have
my dreams of twenty-five years ago now become nightmares of
what lies in store for all of us tomorrow?

But back to yesterday ... back to Eliot House. The Sunday
dinners with Bernice . . . the envious glances from the boys as
I walked through the dining hall with my charming date; the de-
lightful canoe rides at Norumbega Park; the football week-ends
that upset the budget for another month . . . the reading period
that provided additional time for studying and a few extra dates.
Graduation; marriage and to work for $50 a week, a substantial
income back in 1937.

My father was in the shoe business and a Republican so I found
myself in the same occupation and political party. In those early
years of married life little did I ponder the problems of the world.

[113 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

In 1939 Patricia Anne was born, bringing more happiness into our
lives. In my spare time I bowled, played squash, worked conscien-
tiously on Y.M.C.A. campaigns, raised some money for the Red
Cross, formed a brotherhood in my temple, and took a handful of
cards in the annual community chest drive.

Pearl Harbor gave the Brandwene family a rude jolt along with
millions of others. I made preparations to enter the armed services,
but fate had destined otherwise. The Navy turned down my applica-
tion for a commission because of bad teeth, the Army deferred me
several times for other reasons, so I sat out World War II.

In 1943 Stephen Lee was born, and I began thinking about the
day my son would go to Harvard. Time marched on at an even
faster tempo. The children grew up; we began to see the world .. .
Europe, South America and America too. Patricia was graduated
from preparatory school and entered Jackson College, from which
she graduated in June of 1960. Stephen excelled in sports, at prepara-
tory school, where he captained the varsity basketball team and
starred in tennis. Unfortunately his academic record didn’t measure
up to his achievements in school sports so he had to settle for Penn
State, where he is now in his second year of premedicine.

Every year or two I play a role in one of the productions of our
local Drama Guild. I am vitally interested in the growth of Israel,
and both Bernice and I work in behalf of the United Jewish Appeal
in our community and also on the national level. At the moment

I am president of the Wyoming Valley Jewish Committee, which
is the governing body of the five thousand Jews who live in our
area of Pennsylvania. Harvard too is part of my busy schedule. I
am a member of the schools and scholarship committee of the
Harvard Club of Northeastern Pennsylvania. Besides this serious
business I play golf in the little spare time I have and still fancy
myself as a squash player. Brother ... have I slowed down in

twenty-five years! Either they increased the dimensions of the
squash court since 1937 or the ball is faster.

The children are away, and there are just Bernice and I at home,
now, so our community work grows in importance. Of course, we
have fun too . . . playing bridge, canasta, traveling now and then
and still keeping up the contacts that began in Cambridge during
those unforgettable years at Harvard.

Yes, it has been a good twenty-five years, I haven’t been elected
to high government office nor have I reached a position of great
prominence in the business world . . . but then the average good

[114]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American citizen is what makes our country strong, and perhaps
on that score I qualify. Maybe the bomb of total destruction will
never be released, and Stephen will graduate from medical school
and begin making his contribution to this world of ours.

“Ralph! Did you finish your biography?” ... And so the
clock ticks on...

JOHN EDWARD BRASSIL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1964 Asylum Ave., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Sears, Roebuck & Co., West Hartford, Conn,

BORN: June 21, 1915, Belmont, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Rita Ellen Finn, Nov. 20, 1943, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Catherine,
April 25, 1947; John, July 22, 1949; Robert, March 2, 1951; Ellen, July
28, 1952; Elizabeth, April 21, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Store manager, retail department store.

OFFICES HELD: Director, West Hartford Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: Wampanoag Country Club.

SOMEBODY told me back in the spring of 1937 that Sears, Roebuck
& Company had a good training program; so I tried it, liked it, and
twenty-five years later I’m still finding the retail business a real chal-
lenge. Having mixed several staff assignments with managing retail
stores, my present responsibility is managing one of Sears’ newest
and largest units in West Hartford, and since we opened in August
there hasn’t been an idle moment.

My only time spent on other than retail business was a four-year
hitch as a naval aviator, and that seems to have been about fifty years
ago. The highlight of my naval career was spending a year interned
in Russia as a result of an emergency landing in Siberia while operat-
ing against the Japanese Kurile Islands. On that I should write a
book.

With two boys, three girls, and a dog in the household there is
always something doing. It’s a full-time job plus, steering this
family through the usual school and recreational activities. How-
ever, I was fortunate to be chosen as a husband by a wife who seems
to thrive on raising children, and she even gives me time off to
play enough golf to keep my game half respectable.

Nobody needs to be told that the big concern at this point is how
the children are going to make out through college and beyond. We

[115]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

are on the threshold of this stage in the game, and it looks like life
should continue to be more than interesting.

PHILIP SHERMAN BRAYTON

HOME ADDRESS: 618 Rock St., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 216 Granite Block, Fall River, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 3, 1914, Fall River, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia),
1940.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roswell Brayton, "39.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, Union Savings Bank, since 1954,
Truesdale Hospital, since 1961; secretary and treasurer, Frank S. Stevens
Home for Boys, Inc., since 1955; secretary and treasurer of trustees, Fall
River High School Alumni Scholarships, since 1956; vice-president, Home
for Aged People in Fall River, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Fall River Bar Associations; Har-
vard Clubs of Fall River and Boston; Quequechan Club; Acoaxet Club.

AFTER four years in Washington with the National War Labor
Board and four years on the legal staff of RCA Victor Division
of Radio Corporation of America in Camden, New Jersey, I returned
to Fall River in 1949 and resumed a general law practice. My work
consists primarily of probate and real estate matters. During these
years my office has been located in the Granite Block. This building
is soon to be demolished to make way for a new highway.

There are a number of activities in and around Fall River in which
I have been very much interested. In 1953 and again in 1956, I was
appointed a member of the board of trustees of the Bradford Durfee
College of Technology. Originally known as the Bradford Durfee
Textile School, its purpose was to provide vocational training for
students planning to work in the textile mills. It is now a com-
munity college, providing a broad professional education.

In 1953 Fall River celebrated its Sesqui-Centennial and I served
as chairman of the executive committee. The summer of that year
was taken up largely with assisting in the planning of a parade
pageant and other events which continued for a week in September.

I have enjoyed working on the boards of the Truesdale Hospital,
the Stevens Home for Boys in Swansea, the trustees of the Fall River
High School Alumni Scholarships and other organizations. The

[116 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Fall River Historical Society, with a small but interesting museum,
has been of particular interest.

Eight years ago I acquired about four acres of land at Westport
Harbor and eventually built a house there. It is an easy commute to
Fall River, and I spend the summers there and weekends throughout
the year. It is not far from the Acoaxet Club where I play an
occasional round of golf.

RICHARD ANTHONY BRAYTON

HOME ApDpRESS: 72 Whitney Rd., Short Hills, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Marine Office of America, 123 William St. New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 19, 1913, Fall River, Mass.

PREPARED AT: [he Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED; Jean Cameron Rose, Oct. 16, 1943, Fort Bragg, N.C, cHitpren: Mary
Ashley, Oct. 16, 1946; Roy Sherman, Jan. 14, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lawton Slade Brayton, ’28,; Lincoln Davol Brayton, ’28;
Perry Ashley Brayton, ’33; Sherman Brayton, ’38 (deceased).

occuPATION: Marine insurance; senior underwriter for commercial and inland
marine contracts.

OFFICES HELD: Scoutmaster, Troop 15, Christ Church, member, Fathers Com-
mittee, Cub Scouts, Fathers Committee, Boy Scouts of America, Troop
15, Christ Church; Rectors Committee, Christ Church.

MEMBER OF: Short Hills Club; Essex Skating Club.

THE year 1937 brought this member of the working class into
contact with that branch of the insurance business dealing with the
insurable interests of commerce, business and industry, which inter-
ests require somewhat of a study in order to produce a contract
satisfactory to both parties. Apprenticeship in New York City
preceded stands in Boston, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. These man-
agerial assignments produced that indispensable ingredient, experi-
ence, for which there is no substitute. December, 1941, found me
in Pittsburgh; March, 1942, still there but drafted. The authorities
allowed the sentimental request that I be inducted in Massachusetts.
Basic at Fort Jackson was followed by Fort Sill and a commission.
The next stop was Fort Bragg where a year after my arrival marriage
seemed to be the logical and sensible move which it has proved to
be. The colonel of the unit really put his heart into that occasion!
May of 1944 the 35th Division, to which I had been assigned, moved
to the European Theatre. For the duration of the war I served with
the 161st Field Artillery Battalion with time out for physical repairs

[117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

in September of 1944. May 8, 1945, was a welcome date; one day
in December, 1945, even more welcome with my return to the U.S.
In November, 1948, the cycle was completed, and we organized a
home in Short Hills, New Jersey. I became a commuter to New
York City. One daughter was followed by the balance of the
family —a son. During the thirteen years we have lived here we
have watched the community population explode; seen new school
and municipal facilities formed to handle the situation; tried to bear
a share of community responsibilities; watched the children’s school
progress while trying to steer them in a proper course; and
have enjoyed tennis, swimming, skating in varying proportions.
Vacations have seen us in New England and more often in northern
Michigan. Friends in both these locations are experiences in them-

selves.
Such has been these twenty-five years. With going into orbit
becoming a reality, the next twenty-five should be startling.

ROBERT WARE BRIDGMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 73 Wolfpit Rd., Wilton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.

BoRN: Dec. 9, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cu771 laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Sylvia Carter, Aug. 31, 1940, Jefferson, N.H. cHitpren: Robert
Schuyler, Aug. 4, 1945; Edith Ware, July 16, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Mining consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Geologist, engineer, technical salesman, New Jersey Zinc Com-
pany, 1937-42; war work, Foreign Economic Administration, Washington,
1942-46; executive secretary and director, several mining companies asso-
ciated with Ventures Ltd. of Toronto, 1946-48, consultant and represen-
tative, A. G, Edwards & Sons, 1948-50, U.S. Geological Survey and State
Department, Washington, 1950-52; president, International Minerals Cor-
poration, New York, 1952-54; mining consultant, New York, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Mining Club, New York, Mining and Metallurgical Society of
America, Wilton Riding Club; Randolph Mountain Club.

PuBLications: “New Hampshire Mineral Potential — What Can The State
Do About It?” May, 1961, New Hampshire Scate Planning & Develop-
ment Commission.

TO bring things up to date since our Fifteenth Anniversary Report,
I shall begin with the move from Washington to Connecticut in
1952. The business reason for the move was to become the president
of International Minerals Corporation—a_ small firm importing

[118]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

various ores for consumption by the steel industry. Then in 1954,
the big step to consulting on mining matters (with clients both in
the mining industry and the investment business) was made. It has
proved to be a grand adventure and a truly fascinating occupation.
Since moving to Wilton in 1952, life has been an exciting com-
bination of watching the children grow (Sky is now away at prep
school in the Berkshires, and Edith at a local day school); involve-
ment in civic activities such as P.T.A., Public Health Nursin
Association, church study groups; keeping an active “stable” of
two dogs, various white rabbits, a guinea pig; and many trips for
winter skiing and summer climbing, riding, swimming, etc., to the
lovely place we now share with Sylvia’s brother (Adams Carter, ’36),
in Jefferson, New Hampshire. The consulting job has meant periodic
trips all over the United States on one type of an assignment or
another, but it has also permitted a delicious freedom for most
gratifying and deeply rewarding family life. This has included five
very exciting summer jaunts starting in 1957 — three camping trips
to various parts of the West—one to the Maritime Provinces of
Canada and Newfoundland — and this past summer (1961) we took
our car to Europe. We found that the Alps were almost more

beautiful than we had remembered — and considerably more breath-
taking to climb!

ROBERT MENDALL BRIGGS

HOME apprEss: 6 Cliff St., Plymouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 North St., Plymouth, Mass.

BORN: May 24, 1915, Plymouth, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; LL.B., 1940.

MarriED: Gertrude Roberts, Jan. 24, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. cHmpren: Peter
Miner, Jan. 27, 1943; Nancy Jean, Oct. 25, 1946; Wiliam R., May 10, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Peter Miner Briggs, ’65.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clement Alden Briggs, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; general practice.

AM engaged in the general practice of law in Plymouth, Massa-
chusetts, having continuously maintained offices here since release
from the Army in 1946. Prior to entering the armed services had
been with the Home Office Legal Department of Liberty Murual
Insurance in Boston. However, two and a half years with the Third
Army in France, Luxembourg and Germany convinced me that I
Was not cut out to be an organization man.

[119]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Robin (née Gertrude) Roberts (Oberlin 1938) and I were mar-
ried in the Memorial Church in Harvard Yard on January 24, 1941.
We have three children.

Pete, our elder son, overcame the usual pitfalls and entered the
freshman class at Harvard last fall. The stories of the difficulties in
obtaining admission to Harvard have enough factual basis to make me
consider my son fortunate to be admitted. Some of the class of °37
might have been relegated to Yale, had admission practices in 1933
been what they are in 1962. Nancy, our fifteen-year-old daughter,
is in the tenth grade and lives for sailing and sailboat racing. Having
outgrown the Turnabout Class, she has now set her heart on out-
sailing all competition in the Blue Jay Class. She hopes to attend
Wellesley and she appears to be qualified. Bill, our twelve-year-old
son, is a personable youngster, an enthusiastic Boy Scout, newsboy,
and the family athlete.

When weather permits, I spend my free time fishing and boating
in Plymouth Bay. My ventures in raising cranberries were com-
menced as a business, but now appear to have taken on the charac-
teristics of an expensive hobby. We manage to work in an annual

Florida trip as our vacation and are not yet convinced that skiing
is preferable to swimming.

FRANCIS GORHAM BRIGHAM, JR.

HOME appress: 61 Temple St., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Co. 100 Franklin St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1915, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

MarRiED: Hester Amy Bull, Sept. 6, 1941, Bel Air, Md. cuitpren: Lorena
Scotten, Nov. 17, 1942; Francis Gorham, 3d, Oct. 22, 1943; Dana Slade,
March 15, 1945; William McKissock, April 21, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

IN assessing the twenty-five years that have passed since we left
Cambridge, my career can be divided into five major areas: job,
family, Harvard activities, other activities and sports.

With respect to “job,” the five years in the service with General
Marshall was the experience of a lifetime and laid the base for a
career as a professional manager, Fifteen years followed at the Saco-
Lowell Shops during which steady advancement took place in the
financial field leading to the position of chief financial officer. Un-

{ 120]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fortunately, three changes took place recently in their top manage-
ment, followed by a take-over by an out-of-town firm. This made
.a change desirable. My joining Epsco in the above position followed.
This past year or so has been very rough, and the way out of the
woods is not yet clear; however, the experience gained before has
been invaluable, and many additional lessons learned in the last
year. At the moment my goal of heading a business has yet to be
achieved.

In the family area, I have been blessed with a wonderful wife,
Amy, and four fine youngsters: Scottie, now at Smith College;
Gorham, 3d, at Northeastern University; Dana at Milton Academy
and Bill at Rivers Country Day School. Amy and I are facing the
challenge of helping these four make the grade, with as much energy
as we can muster. We have spent a fortune on education, which
we feel is the best investment parents can make. In return they
have worked hard at school, and each earned part of his way, since
they became twelve years old, as paper boys, baby sitters, mail
clerks, office boy, clerk-typist, etc. The next eight years or so will
keep us hopping to complete their education.

My Harvard College and Harvard Business School activities as
Class Treasurer and Class Secretary, have been respectively, most
rewarding and wonderful experiences. Have done a lot of it and
plan to keep it up until they bury me. In addition to these regular
jobs, have worked periodically as graduate treasurer of the Speakers
Club and of the Harvard Dramatic Club, assistant treasurer-secretary,
Harvard Business School Association. Finally, I have helped over
a hundred Harvard men relocate from one job to another.

For outside activities, I have served as director of five businesses,
trustee or incorporator of four hospitals, incorporator of a savings
bank, officer of two trade associations. I have done some Salvation
Army and church work, have been trustee of one school and incor-
porator of another. Have participated in many, many fund-raising
activities.

All of the above makes some exercise highly desirable, so Amy and
I try to play golf or tennis at least twice a week throughout the
year. We ballroom dance when we can and wish square dancing
would start up again.

Just after I sent in my biographical sketch, I decided to resign my
position at Epsco to accept a very intriguing and challenging op-
portunity with the above institution, where I hope there will be
frequent opportunitics to sec our classmates.

{aan ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

THOMAS FREDERICK BRODERICK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Abbott Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 697 Cambridge St., Brighton 35, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1915, Cohasset, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1941.

marrige: Margaret Mary McHugh, April 3, 1948, Wellesley Hills, Mass.
CHILDREN: Thomas Frederick, 3d, Feb. 15, 1949; Ellen Green, April 28,
1950; Jean Marie, Aug. 7, 1951; John, May 2, 1954; Peter, Oct. 25, 1955;
Lisa Mary, Feb. 5, 1957; Sally Joan, April 7, 1958, Brian Charles, Jan. 7,
1960; James, Aug. 5, 1961.

occupation: Orthopedic surgeon — self employed.

oFFicEs HELD: Chief, Orthopedic Surgery, St. Elizabeth’s and Kennedy Memorial
Hospitals, Brighton, Mass.; member, active staff, Newton-Wellesley Hos-
pital, associate staff, Massachusetts General Hospital; instructor in ortho-
pedic surgery, Harvard University and Tufts University.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Academy of Ortho-
paedic Surgeons; Association of Bone and Joint Surgeons; Periosteum and
Pilsner Society; Harvard Club of Boston; Woodland Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Associate editor, Clinical Orthopedics, about one score of
medical articles.

AFTER four diffident years at Harvard, I matriculated at Tufts Col-
lege Medical Schoo]. Part of the intervening summer was divided
between dawn ornithology and afternoon cashiering at Suffolk
Downs; the latter half was occupied by spinal surgery. Bill Haley,
"37, and I biked through Europe in the summer of ’38. This was
my most acute educational experience.

I interned at Kings County Hospital, Brooklyn, New York, with
Jack Coffey, ’37. We worked diligently to put our vast theoretical
knowledge of life into practice. From 1941 until Korea, my Naval
Reserve status kept reappearing, but I had no active service because
of a back operation.

A year of assisting Dr. Howard Clute, Professor of Surgery at
Boston University Medical School, led to a two and one-half years’
orthopedic residency at Charity Hospital at New Orleans. Frank
Kenney, ’37, succeeded me as Dr. Clute’s associate and stayed with
it. After Charity, I returned to chief orthopedic residencies at the
Children’s, and then the Massachusetts General Hospital.

Within the economic octave of entering practice in 1948, I mar-
ried Margaret Mary McHugh, of Wellesley, Massachusetts. This
was my wisest and most productive move. Since then, I seem to be
either commuting between hospitals or moving into larger houses.

A primal interest in the outdoors and farming has shifted to belated

[122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

participation in squash and golf. Treating patients and research are
of great interest, but I am inclined to leave social, political, and reli-
gious matters to specialists in those fields. Nor do I have to count my
blessings — they are all over the house.

SIDNEY FRANKLIN BRODY

HOME ADDRESS: 360 S, Mapleton Drive, Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brody Investment Co., 9477 Brighton Way, Suite 208, Beverly
Hills, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 15, 1915, Des Moines, Iowa.

PREPARED AT: Shattuck Military School, Faribault, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935~1937. DEGREE: S.B.,- 1937.

MARRIED: Frances Lasker, Aug. 14, 1942, Glencoe, Ill. cHmpren: Christopher
Warner, Nov. 10, 1944; Susan Lasker, Dec. 23, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Julian Brody, ’24.

OCCUPATION: President, Brody Investment Company, developers of commercial
real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Director, F. Brody & Sons Company, since 1946, Aeronca Air-
craft, 1946-49, Summers Gyroscope, 1948-54, Marquardt Aircraft, 1949-
54, Midcontinent Airlines, 1949-53, Techniform, Inc., 1950-60, South Bay
Bowling Corporation, since 1953, Leo Baeck Temple, since 1955, Pacific
Harbor, Inc., since 1959, U.C.L.A. Art Council, since 1957, Democratic
Associates, since 1959, Los Angeles Art Museum, since 1959, American
Electric, Inc., since 1961; member, Southern California Committee for
Economic Development, since 1960.

1938-1941: Employed at F. Brody & Sons Company, Des Moines,
Iowa.

1941-1945: Military service — pilot, squadron commander, A-3
Operations, IX Fighter Command, European Theatre and XII
Fighter Command, Pacific Theatre.

1946-1949: Vice-president, Aeronca Aircraft Company, Middle-
town, Ohio.

1951 to present: Living in Los Angeles, California, primarily in
the aviation business until 1954, when concentrated in commercial
real estate development and venture capital projects.

In the past few years, I have been campaign chairman for the
building fund for Leo Baeck Temple; general canvass area chairman
for A Program for Harvard College; co-chairman for advance gifts
for the Los Angeles County Museum of Art Building Fund; member
of the Development Committee for Thacher School. .

I can only add, I enjoy working and living in Southern California,
and have been fortunate enough to have at least one trip each year

[ 123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

to Europe, as well as occasional visits to other parts of the world.
We are often accompanied by our son and daughter, both of whom

contribute to an enjoyable home life. I play tennis regularly, as
does the rest of my family.

+ BROOKS BROMLEY

BorN: July 24, 1914, Chestnut Hill, Pa. parents: Charles Lawyers Bromley,
Anne Brooks.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. |

marriep: Ann Winslow Reilly, June 28, 1941, Rosemont, Pa. cHiLpreN: Brooks,
Jr., Dec. 28, 1942; Waydell, March 26, 1947; Lloyd Winslow, March 27,
1948.

pie: Feb. 20, 1956, Isle of Skye, Scotland.

BROMLEY spent one year at Harvard as a member of our Class.
He entered the family manufacturing business, the Quaker Lace
Company, where he remained until 1941, when he was commissioned
a second lieutenant in the Cavalry. He saw service in the European
area and as an Intelligence Officer at ATC Headquarters in Wash-
ington, D.C. In 1945 he was released from active service with the
Air Corps with the rank of captain.

After the war he became a stockbroker with Montgomery, Scott
& Company in Philadelphia and, later, an entrepreneur. In 1955 he
rented Scalpay, an island just off the Isle of Skye, and took his wife
and children there with the intention of making it his permanent
home. He died as the result of a gun wound received while hunting.
He was survived by his wife and children.

He served on the board of St. Christopher’s Hospital for Children,
was a trustee of Temple University, and was a member of the First

Troop, Philadelphia City Cavalry, and the Harvard Club of Philadel-
phia.

ARNOLD BRONSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 56 Exeter St., West Newton 65, Mass.

orFice appress: Massachusetts Gas & Electric Light Supply Co., 191 Friend
St., Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: June 22, 1916, Boston, Mass.

perparen AT: Public Latin School, Bostun, Mass.

YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1937.

[ 124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRieD: Muriel M. Weinreb, Sept. 1, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Steven
Ronald, March 17, 1943; Maralyn Ann, March 27, 1948.

occuPATION: Officer and sales manager, Massachusetts Gas & Electric Light
Supply Company, distributor of electrical appliances, supplies and lighting
fixtures.

MEMBER OF: Pine Brook Country Club, Weston, Massachusetts; Newton
Squash and Tennis Club.

THE 25th Anniversary Report frequently seems to be occasion for
airing one’s philosophy, but I shall spare my readers that ennui,
and attempt to record here succinctly and factually the happenings
of the past twenty-five years.

The first four. years after graduation were spent in the retail
housewares business with my father. In May, 1941, I joined Massa-
chusetts Gas & Electric as buyer and sales manager of electric appli-
ances, which position I still hold. With everybody’s Uncle Sam
calling, I applied for and received my commission as ensign in the
Navy Supply Corps in the fall of 1942, and was called to active
duty in February, 1943. After initial duty as disbursing officer of
U.S. Naval Hospital, Norfolk, Virginia, I was ordered to Guam,
where I served as ship stores officer at Admiral Chester Nimitz’s
headquarters until November 30, 1945. Upon receiving my dis-
charge, I returned to Massachusetts Gas & Electric where I have
been on the firing line ever since.

As noted above, my wife Muriel decided to end my days of
bachelorhood on September 1, 1940, and we are blessed with two
wonderful children, Steven and Maralyn. Steve, now eighteen, is
a sophomore at the University of Rhode Island, where he is hopeful
of making the varsity tennis team in the spring, and is (we hope)
working to maintain his dean’s list standing of last year. Maralyn,
now thirteen, is in the eighth grade at Warren Junior High School,
West Newton, Massachusetts.

My principal interests remain tennis and golf, especially the
former, bridge in the evening, and the theatre occasionally. I am
a member of Pine Brook Country Club, Weston, Massachusetts
(where I am in charge of tennis) and of the Newton Squash and
Tennis Club in Newton, where I am currently serving as chairman
of membership. At least two evenings each month are taken up
attending meetings of two investment clubs to which I belong,
and one of which I serve as president.

During the recently concluded drive for The Program for Har-
vard College I served as solicitor, and am presently doing my bit

[125]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

for the 25th Reunion, serving as chairman in charge of communica-
tions. By way of assisting Steve and his school, I am also servin
as chairman of the newly-formed Parents Association, Rho Chapter,
Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity, University of Rhode Island.

As mentioned in the 2oth Anniversary Report, I underwent
surgery in September, 1955, but have enjoyed good health ever
since. Much as I have enjoyed our infrequent meetings with °37ers
at occasional luncheons and football games, I am looking forward

with great anticipation to greeting those many Classmates whom [I

have not seen since college days, in the company of their families.
Oh, to be able to relive those four wonderful years, day by day!

WALTER DU BOIS BROOKINGS, JR.

HOME appreEss: Unionville, Orange County, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brookings Real Estate, Unionville, Orange County, Va.

BorN: Nov. 12, 1914, San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., 1937; M.B.A. (American Univ.),
1956.

marriep: Lorene Riggs, March 3, 1948, Warrenton, Va. cHILpREN: Ronald
Edward, June 18, 1949; Susie Marian Kinney, Aug. 10, 1953; Martha
Elizabeth, Aug. 27, 1957; Cindy Gay, July 28, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Somers Brookings, 2d, 35.

OCCUPATION: Real estate broker.

OFFICES HELD: First secretary, Alexandria, Virginia, Chapter, Reserve Officers
of the Naval Service, 1947-48; chairman, Publicity Committee, Alexandria
Chapter, American Business Club (later Alexandria Business Club), 1948-

MEMBER OF: Alexandria Junior Chamber of Commerce, Lorton-Woodbridge
Opumists Club.

IN the fall of 1937, I cancelled a commitment for teaching at the
Augusta Military Academy in the Valley of Virginia, in favor of a
subsequent offer from my old prep school in Alexandria. After two
years, I resigned, and in July, 1939, embarked on a bicycling and
train-hopping tour of Ireland, Scotland, and England. In Septem-
ber, 1939, in London, during the few days prior to the invasion of
Poland, 1 went over to the American Embassy to see Joe and Jack
Kennedy. They were in the chancery, hailing the Harvard and other
tourists, “talking it up” like a baseball infield. I returned to New
York on the next sailing of the America.
From September, 1949, to September, 1941, I was in Springfield,
Massachusetts, hand-cuffed to a jigsaw puzzle cutting press on the

{ 126 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

night shift at the Milton Bradley Toy Factory, and in New York
with Erwin Wasey Advertising Agency. A highlight, which I did
not then properly publicize to my Harvard contemporary room-
mates at East 81st and 54th Streets, was that I batted in Yankee
Stadium in an All-Star game (second catcher for the Advertising
League All-Stars in their annual game with the Police All-Stars).
In September, 1941, I went to work in Washington, D.C., with the
telephone company plant department from which I went on military
leave.

My first Naval shake-down cruise after indoctrination at Cornell,
ended with Ensign Brookings restricted to the newly-commissioned
ship (LST) for not having liver on board to comply with the
captain’s signed menu, which I had prepared at a time when I thought
I could get it. Transferred to the San Diego Naval Training Station
for re-assignment, about March, 1943, in downtown Los Angeles, |
ran into Gaspar Bacon and his wife. We chatted for a while, and |
recall he told me he had been in flight training, and had been in some
movies out there.

During the Attu landings, in May, 1943, where I was part of the
Navy liaison group aboard the Perida, she struck a submerged pin-
nacle so heavily, that I was rolled out of my bunk. We beached in
twenty minutes. I was appointed salvage officer and soon learned
that many of the civilian hired winch tenders on the ships in Massacre
Bay would not turn a winch after quitting time at 4:30 P.M. Cement
and a portable pump enabled us to sift back to Seattle, where I was
ordered aboard the attack transport Zeilin. I was boat wave officer
for the sixth wave of Zeilin Landing Craft in the thunderous assault
in July on Kiska, devoid of Japanese. At Tarawa, in November,
assignment was to escort with a Zeilin Landing Craft the second
wave of amphibious tractors from twelve miles off the beach to a
point (line of departure) two thousand yards off the beach.

There was additional variety to subsequent participation in the
landing from the Zeilin on Kwajalein, where I was the sixth wave
boat officer, and at Guam and Leyte, where I was boat group com-
mander for the transport Starlight, with four boat officers, sixty men
and twenty boats, and in November, 1944, in under-water demoli-
tion training in Hawaii. Anyone, including myself, who served
aboard the Zeilin, which was hit at Guadalcanal and Luzon, prior to,
and after my tour aboard, received the Navy Unit Commendation.

After separation from the Navy as a lieutenant in April, 1945, 1
returned to the telephone company, but with little work going over

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

EDWARD MORGAN BROOKS

HOME ADDRESS: 321 Kenrick St, Newton 58, Mass,
orFice AppRESS: Allied Research Associates, 43 Leon St. Boston 15, Mass.
porN: March 19, 1916, New Haven, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1937; s.M. (Massachu-
setts Inst. of Technology), 1939; scv. (ibid.), 1945.
marriep: Sarah Karena Bergh, Dec. 24, 1941, Coral Gables, Fla, CHILDREN:
Karena Hovey, Dec. 31, 1942; Daniel Emerson, Aug. 12, 1944; Roxana
Morley, July 13, 1946; Valerie Cushing, Oct. 16, 1948; Marita Macy,
March 24, 1950; Bernard Robinson, May 13, 1953; Larimore Steven, Nov.
12, 1955; Galen Bergh, Oct. 23, 1959.
HARVARD BROTHER: Norman Herrick Brooks, ’49, s.M., ’50.
occuPATION: Senior meteorologist, Geophysics Section, Allied Research Asso-
ciates,
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1947-48, chairman, 1948-49, St. Louis Chapter, Ameri-
can Meteorological Society; member, Committee on Professional Ethics
and Standards, 1952-53; chairman, St. Louis Chapter, Atlantic Union, 1950;
regional representative, Mid-States Region, Astronomical League, 1951-54;
vice-chairman, 1949-53, chairman, 1953-54, St. Louis Amateur Astronomical
Society; secretary, 1952, member, Nominating Committee, 1956, St. Louis
University Chapter, Society of the Sigma Xi; chairman, Lay Advisory
Committee, Ritenour Public School District, 1954-55; member, Nominating
Committee, 1955-56, chairman, North Central Region, 1957-60, American
Geophysical Union; Civil Defense chairman, St. Louis P.T.A. Council,
1959-61.
MEMBER OF: American Meteorological Society; American Geophysical Union,
American Association for the Advancement of Science; Society of the
Sigma Xi, Astronomical League; American Astronomical Society; New
York Friends Meeting (Quaker).
pusLications: “Transport and Convergence of the North Aclantic Drift Cur-
rent Computed from the Average January Pressure Distribution,” Sears
Foundation, Journal of Marine Research, November, 1939; “The Tornado
Cyclone,” W eatberwise, April, 1949; “Tornadoes and Related Phenomena,”
Compendium of Meteorology, American Meteorological Society, Boston,
1951; “Characteristics of Thunderstorm Microbarograms,” Transactions,
American Geophysical Union, June, 1954; “Investigation of the Behaviour
of Storm Tracks over Extended Time Periods,” April, 1957, Final Report
under Contract No. AFi1g (604)-1294, Geophysics Research Directorate;
“Quantitative Models of Wind Velocity Components in a Tornado Vor-
tex,” “Study of Some Weather-Sunspot Correlations,” and “Surveys of

Local Windstorms in the St. Louis Area,” June, 1958, Reports Nos, 1, 25
5, respectively, under Contract Cwb-8706 and Cwb-9229, U.S. Weather

Bureau.

MY father encouraged me to follow in his footsteps into the field
of meteorology. Of my early experiences in weather forecasting,

[ 130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my mistakes come back to me more clearly than my successes. This
reminds me of the forecaster’s lament: “When I am right, nobody
remembers it; when I am wrong, no one forgets it.” The summer
after graduation, Classmate Dick Schultes and I served as camp
counselors at the same boys’ camp in New Hampshire. One day with
clearing weather, I took a group of boys on an overnight hike.
Shortly after dark a thunderstorm arrived, so we headed for the
only farmhouse in the area. Getting no response to knocking and
seeing no lights, we tried the door and it opened. Inside, we found
the building had been deserted. The boys, scared by the brilliant
flashes of lightning illuminating the dark interior of the haunted
house, pulled their sleeping bags up close to mine. The next morning
we trespassers hid as cars drove by on the road. Later it turned out
that the camp officials, afraid that we had got soaking wet, came
out to look for us without success.

The following summer, when working at the Woods Hole Ocean-
ographic Institution, I experienced my worst thunderstorm night
with 20,000 flashes of lightning. My landlady sat on the stairs de-
jectedly, unable to sleep. I tried to reassure her by telling her that
there would be no more storms so severe that summer. Only a
month later, the New England hurricane hit, generating a storm
surge of ocean water which swept boats across the middle of town
and isolated the peninsula.

I had a chance to make some good weather forecasts when I joined
Pan American Airways in 1939. I found Pacific island weather
stayed pretty close to climatological means most of the time. My
duties took me from Pearl Harbor to San Francisco and then to
Miami, where I met Sarah Bergh through our common interest in

music, and married her in 1941. Sarah said I should have gone to
Florida first so that she could have accompanied me to Hawaii and
California. We did manage to go on a short honeymoon to Havana
and Matanzas, Cuba. Now, as we are celebrating our twentieth
anniversary, I am sorry that the Cuban people’s freedom did not
last that long.

Ten years ago we had four girls and one boy. Since then we have
evened the score by adding three more boys. They share the load
of housework. The oldest children arrange and post a week’s sched-
ule of the names of the children responsible for preparing the
twenty-one meals and for washing the dishes.

We have been taking summer camping trips. The children also
had a shifting seating plan so that everybody had a chance to sit

[131]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

next to a car window. On our trip to California in 1954 we stopped
at Barringer Meteorite Crater, near Winslow. As we started driving
away, Wwe noticed an empty assigned seat and thus discovered that
our oldest boy was missing. On returning to the museum entrance
to the crater, we found it locked up for the night. Luckily the care-
taker had gone only to a nearby trailer. He returned and let us in.
After a short search, we found our boy still examining stones, un-
aware of what had happened.

During most of the past twenty years, I taught meteorology to
military personnel. Royal Air Force navigators in Miami, unaccus-
tomed to hot muggy weather, used to fight for the classroom seats
nearest the fan, A Wave at M.I-T. cried when she was confronted
with the task of drawing a prognostic weather chart because she
could not decide on a forecast. I trained Air Weather Service
meteorologists at St. Louis University during the past ten years.
In the fall of 1959, I went on an eclipse expedition to the Canary
Islands. At Harmon, Newfoundland, I found that the forecaster
for our transoceanic flight was a former student. So I was con-
cerned about the safety of our trip! As it turned out, one of the
four engines had to be shut down half way to the Azores. “This was
in keeping with some previous experiences, as I remember often
flying home on three engines.

My curiosity about the mechanism of tornadoes led me to make
field surveys after destructive windstorms struck the Saint Louis

area. The day after the Desloge, Missouri, tornado in May, 1957;

I drove with a graduate student to the disaster area. Before we got

there, we were stopped by the state highway patrol. An officer

startled me by saying, “You're the man we are looking for, Dr.

Brooks.” Then he went on to explain that I had been asked to

appear on Dave Garroway’s television show in New York to discuss

this particular tornado, I was especially happy to accept this invita-
tion because it gave me an unexpected opportunity to attend a party
honoring my father on his retirement from the directorship of

Harvard’s Blue Hill Observatory. |

It is strange that the most rain, thunderstorms, and tornadoes
occurred when there were the greatest number of spots on the sun.

The three worst tornadoes in Saint Louis were separated by two

intervals of thirty-one years and four months, roughly equivalent

to three sunspot cycles each. I have a scar on my left leg commem-

orating the most recent of these tornadoes, in February 1959, when
I stumbled over a railing in the dark. Midwest weather seems to

[132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

follow the sunspot cycle in a general sort of way, but Boston
weather is not so simple because it is affected by the ocean.

My most recent venture was an expedition to Labrador to deter-
mine the optimum amount of dry ice to be dropped from aircraft
in order to make a hole in a supercooled cloud deck. The method,
which changes the water clouds into precipitating ice crystals,
proved to work well, leaving a hole open for an hour or so. This
should be useful in clearing polar airports of supercooled fog for an
emergency aircraft landing.

Our family returned to the Boston area this summer after fifteen
years in Saint Louis. There we are faced with losing our house
for the new interstate highway 44, to run between Chicago and Los
Angeles. We came here because of professional advantages, the
excellent educational opportunities at all levels, and the stimulating
climate. Sarah, with a Master’s degree in music at the Eastman
School of Music, is taking extension courses at Harvard. Our oldest
child, a girl, is a junior at Boston University, majoring in biology.
All the others except the youngest, who is two years old, are at
different grades in the Newton public school system, which is living
up to its excellent reputation. My position is in the Geophysics
Section of Allied Research Associates in Boston.

FRANCIS FRENCH BROOKS

HOME Appress: 134 Adams St., Milton 87, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: D, & L. Slade Co., 189 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1915, Milton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1941.

MarriED: Frances Stoughton Foster, June 14, 1941, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edward Foster, Oct. 16, 1943; Timothy French, May 18, 1945; Abigail,
Oct. 14, 1951.

OccUPATION: Vice-president and director, general manager, D. & L. Slade Com-

any.

orrices ver: Director of training, Office of Civilian Defense, Great Neck,
N.Y., 1940-42; chairman, Milton Warrant Committee, 1954-56; secretary,
Milton Personnel Board, 1956-58; selecrman, Town of Milton, since 1958;
president, Massachusetts Association of Town Finance Committees, 1958;
member, executive committee, American Spice Trade Association, 1952-
55, 1958; trustee, Milton Savings Bank, since 1959; director, since 1960,
president, since November, 1961, Milton Hospital & Convalescent Home.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Milton-Hoosic Club,

SITTING down to write one’s history for the past twenty-five years

[ 133 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

is an awesome task. Most of us are so busy living in the present that
just to recall the events of the pre-atomic age is something of a

feat, especially when one’s memory prefers to remind us of more
recent facts.

But, nevertheless, I do remember how wonderful those four years
in college were, and they were followed by an equally wonderful
trip abroad right after graduation. My sister Susan, the wife of
Roland Gray, Jr., LL.B., °38, went with me. We traveled through-
out western Europe from Portugal to the tip of Scandinavia. We
returned at the end of the summer of 1937 all enthusiastic over the
culture of the Old World, and I could have kept up this sort of life
forever, except for the fact that the ugly question arose, how to earn
a living.

That is something I am still trying to solve, as the ever-increasing
tide of expenses rises higher and higher, and the cost of education
continues upward every year. Having always been interested in
history, 1 decided to study it further and teach it at the same time.
1 enrolled in Columbia University’s Graduate Schol of Liberal Arts
and also took a job teaching young teen-agers the fine points of
history. It was a grand experience — somehow the teacher learned
about how young humanity thinks and acts and perhaps they, too,

learned a little.

And then occurred the most momentous event of our generation,
the start of World War II. To this day I have never been able to .
get over the shock of turning on the radio and learning that the
Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor. With the end of the academic
year in June, 1942, my teaching career ended for good, and I applied
for a commission in the Naval Reserve and was turned down due
to high blood pressure. For the rest of the war I was a small cog
in the vast army of defense workers at Grumman Aircraft Engineer-

ing Corporation, where, without any mechanical sense whatever,
it was my fond hope that I did not hinder the war effort too much.
With the end of the war came not only the problems of resuming

a career but also of educating our two sons who were rapidly

growing up. Both were resolved by leaving New York and returning
to Milton where we have lived since. During this period I became
assistant to the president of Commercial Filters Corporation. This

company grew very rapidly, and we filtered everything from diesel
fuc) to Coca-Cola. It was a splendid experience to participate in
the growth of a new business, but it was also extremely exhausting,
as 1 worked frequently six or seven days a week. I resolved to cut

[ 134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

down my work week, but it didn’t turn out that way. Once you've
set the wrong precedent, it’s hard to correct, so in 1950, I joined
D. & L. Slade Company, as general manager, where I have been
ever since. This old company grinds and distributes in New England
a line of spices, seeds and herbs, and so we try to do our bit to
have Harvard wives provide their husbands with spicy, tangy meals.

The first quarter-century has treated me kindly. We have led
a pleasant family life, which is occasionally upset by too much
community activity. We have three fine children, a dog and a cat,
all of whom get along together very well.

FRANCIS HARRINGTON BROOKS

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Farm Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Bank & Trust Co., State and Congress Streets,
Boston 1, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1914, Ipswich, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Pamela Richards, June 26, 1948, Little Silver, N.J. cai~prew: Christina,
Jan. 23, 1950; Laura Robinson, Sept. 5, 1954; Holly Hartshorne, Dec.
25, 1955

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Hendricks Brooks, Jr., ’39, B.ARCH., °42; John Robin-
son Brooks, "40, M.D., '43.

OccUPATION: Banking; trust officer.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Meadowbrook School of Weston; corporation mem-
ber, Children’s Hospital Medical Center, Douglas A. Thom Clinic for
Children.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; City Club Corporation; Schussverein
Ski Club. |

THIS biography can obviously be put off no longer; picture post
cards have stopped arriving, and the Secretary has ceased to cajole
and entreat and is resorting to harsh insults.

After graduation and brief study on the other side of the Charles,
I joined the State Street Trust Company in 1938 and have been
there ever since, through several amalgamations and name changes
(it’s not mine), and am now spending my time assisting people with
their problems, financial and otherwise. There are exasperating mo-
ments to be sure, but, by and large, each situation is new and it is
rewarding to feel on occasion that one has offered helpful guidance.

The one hiatus from the counting rooms was the period 1942-44,
which, after various courses at Boston University and Columbia Uni-

[135]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

versity, was devoted to the US. Naval Reserve, aboard smal
submarine warfare vessels, primarily in the Atlantic,

Marriage in 1948, to Pamela Richards, ended my years of bac.
hood and we find our hands full with three fast-growing daug
and their assorted pets. Building and grounds maintenance kee

on the go far too much and cut into favored outdoor activities
skiing, sailing, tennis, etc. Attention to local affairs, such as
nearby private elementary school, seems to consume many f

that might otherwise be spent in catching up on reading, which
probably be attended to along about 1980.

GARDNER COREY BROOKS
HOME ADDRESS: 159 Dover Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE appRess: United Investment Counsel, 210 Newbury St, Boston, M
BorN: Feb, 23, 1916, Brookline, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 19
MARRIED: Margaret Cox, June 10, 1939, Norwood, Mass, cHiLpreN: Marga.

C., May 24, 1943, Gardner Corey, Jr., Oct. 8, 1944; Ellen L., Dec. 17, 19:
occupation: Investment counselor,

FOR some reason that escapes me at this late date, I spent the yez
after graduation in an advertising agency in Pasadena, Californi:
That didn’t seem to be it, so back to Boston and three years acquir

ing a law degree at Boston University. At the end of the first year
Peggy finally said “Yes,” and, up to this point, that has been
high spot.

the
In 1941 I got the fever and joined the Infantry as a private. A year

later — after OCS and the Air Corps Intelligence Schoo! — I went

to the European Theatre as intelligence officer in a fighter squadron
for two years.

The first real civilian job was about six years with Old Colony
Trust in Boston. Then came three years with Schirmer, Atherton,
a New York Stock Exchange member firm, principally as analyst.
For seven years now I have been managing the investment accounts
of a rather large number of individuals and institutions, Although
we have not yet attained formal professional status, I believe that

it is coming, and I find a very large degree of satisfaction in the field.

In my declining years Pve become quite an exercise enthusiast —

mostly tennis in summer and taking care of fireplace requirements
in winter, which is really more strenuous than Dunscer House

{ 136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

football used to be. Still allocate as much time as possible to 1
and reading — result of English field of concentration?

I'm afraid my philosophy is quite unoriginal. In common
almost everyone, I’ve found that the family and absorption it
job are the great things—in that order. It took me fifteen -

to get around to attending my first reunion, at which poi
occurred to me that we really do have a swell group in ’37.

OLIVER KENYON BROOKS

HOME apprEss: Umpawaug Road, West Redding, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Perkin-Elmer Corp., Norwalk, Conn.
BORN: Jan. 26, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: AB., 1937(39)-
UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Van Wyck Brooks, ’32.
occupation: Machinist-toolmaker.

ALBERT ABRAHAM BROWN

HOME apprEss: 46 Marcellus Drive, Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: B. C. Morton & Co. 141 Milk St. Boston, Mass.
BorN: Nov. 17, 1911, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936, 1937-1938. DEGREE: A.B. C17 laude, 1937(38).

marrigp: Charlotte Diamond, Jan. 13, 1935, Providence, R.I. crttpren: Pau:
Louis, June 25, 1939; Beverly Ruth, April 13, 1943.

occuPATION: Vice-president in charge of sales — investments and investment
planning, B. C. Morton & Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Chapter, Armed Forces Chemical Asso-
ciation, 1952-56; colonel, Chemical Corps, U.S. Army Reserves.

MEMBER OF: AF, & A.M. 32°; Massachusetts Consisrory, Reserve Onfficers
Association of United States.

MY son has an A.B. degree from Brandeis and is now doing graduate
work in Yale University School of Art. My daughter is in her second
year at Elmira College. My wife is as pleasant as ever. All in all,
life has been good to me and mine. Our health is excellent — our
outlook is bright— our economics in good shape. What more
could T ask for?

[ 37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

CHESTER HOLBROOK BROWN, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: Waterville Valley Road, Campton, N.H.

oFFICE ADDRESS: Tilton School, Tilton, N.H.

BorN: Aug. 29, 1914, Pomfret, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Barbara Jean Nath, June 30, 1939, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Stephanie Nichols, Oct. 7, 1940; Susan Abbort, May 28, 1944; Katharine
Kennedy, July 15, 1946.

occuPATION: Teacher of Latin, Tilton School.

I CONTINUE to teach but have embarked upon a housekeeping
cabin project at my home on Mad River in the Waterville Valley.

EUGENE BROWN
MAILING ADDRESS: 3 Fourth Rd., Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y.

GEORGE WILLIAM BROWN
MAILING ADDRESS: 700 Amalfi Dr., Pacific Palisades, Calif.

PAUL BRYDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 1005 Stockton Ave., Cape May, N.J.

OFFICE ADpRESS; Jiffy Manufacturing Co., 360 Florence Ave., Hillside, N.J.
BorN: July 31, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1936.

MarrieD: Mary Thackeray, May 19, 1945, Paris, France. cuitp: Peter Thack-
eray, April 8, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Sales supervisor — packaging materials, Jiffy Manufacturing Com-
pany.

I HAVE been with Jiffy since 1937, interrupted for four to five

years by World War II, during which I served in the Signal Corps,

mostly in the ETO.

Mary and I were married in Paris in 1945, shortly before return-
ing to the States. Since then we have traveled over a great part of
the country, making our home in Philadelphia. Summers we spend
in Cape May, New Jersey. Peter is our only child, now nine, and
attends Penn Charter School. He anticipates going to Harvard.

[ 138]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hobbies are mostly swimming, golf, and skating. However, much
of our time is spent redoing our house in Cape May.

DANIEL JOSEPH BUCKLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 124 Hopkins Pl., Longmeadow, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dolan Steel Co., 810 Union Ave., Bridgeport, Conn.

BorN: April 26, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1937; M.B.A, 1939.
marRiED: Catherine Ann Fortune, April 22, 1946, Waltham, Mass. cHiLpren:

Mary Ellen, Oct. 10, 19473 John Patrick, Sept. 12, 1948; Margaret Elizabeth,
June 22, 1951.

occUPATION: Salesman, Dolan Steel Company, steel warehouse.

MEMBER OF: Tuesday Club, Springfield, Mass. .

I FIND this a formidable — and frightening — task to account for
the years, days and hours. My sincere good wishes are offered to
those who have well served time and themselves. Likewise, good
wishes to those who still have time to serve — well.

Let’s talk about my family. My good wife Catherine and I mar-
ried in 1946 in Waltham. With her family and mine still in Greater
Boston we get to see Cambridge more often than most. Being Cam-
bridge-born as well, I am most strongly attracted to it —in June and
the fall — yes; but in all seasons, too. Of late I have been interview-
ing young men who aspire to Harvard. Among others an excellent
three-sport scholar is concentrating on scholarship in Cambridge.

My elder young lady, Mary Ellen, fourteen, a first-year student
at Ursuline Academy, is tall and fair and cheery. John has prob-
lems — which game to play of the five to ten-odd that he delights
in. Physically strong and quick. This year he has discovered that
his studies can also be interesting and challenging. Some potential
there. Our youngest, Peg, ten, quicksilver, bright, curious over a
wide range. They are delightful — not always — but most of the
time. You will meet them June next. The Lord has been good.

After some air transportation and military experience (two terms:
1942-46, 1951-53), I resettled in western Massachusetts with Mon-
santo in 1953. Eight happy years later, with four associates, I started
up a conversion plant: garbage to fertilizer. The business is still
operating but I had run out of time and am now selling low carbon
strip and sheet steel in western and eastern Massachusetts.

My health is good, wind is short and have four years before mv
first-born is ready for college.

[139]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HENRY HOLLAND BUCKMAN, II

HOME ADDRESS: 2637 Red Fox Rd., Orange Park, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ohio Chemical and Surgical Equipment Co., Madison, Wis,

BORN: Sept. 4, 1915, Indianapolis, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Robert E. Lee High School, Jacksonville, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937 (38).

MARRIED: Margaret Warren Day, Oct. 28, 1943, Chevy Chase, Md. cHILprEN:
Barbara Greaves, July 19, 1944; Priscilla Maxwell, July 1, 1947. _

HARVARD BROTHER: Yardley Drake Buckman, 49, LL.B. ’55.

occupation: Salesman, Ohio Chemical and Surgical Equipment Co.

MEMBER OF: Florida Yacht Club, Jacksonville, Fla.

AFTER twenty-five years, I still haven’t the foggiest notion of what
I'd like to “do” or where I’m headed. In fact, I haven’t had a chance
to think about it since the last report.

An unusual and wonderful wife and two delightful teen-age
daughters make life a complex, joyous and exasperating mystery
from day to day. I’m most fortunate, but I seem to have had
precious little to do about arriving at this happy milestone. The
whole bit seems to be a question of sitting steady in the boat.

Looking back, World War II is still the big division. Events
before the division are a million years ago. They were a series of
jobs with a survey crew in Texas and Montana and California on
earth dams and railroad relocation. The war for me was the Army
from private to captain at home and abroad. Adventure and good
fortune; some fear and fatigue; and the overwhelming feeling at the
end of wanting to wrap it up and put it out of the way. However,
I learned one lesson well: The only important thing about a war is
being on the winning side.

From 1945 to 1950 I spent discovering that the world will always
find a spot for a peddler even when harder-working souls are quietly
starving to death. Armed with this knowledge, I joined the Pirates
Come Ashore and have been helping them get rid of their plunder

ever since.

As to outlook, I’m an arch conservative. However, my favorite
drink is a dry vodka gimlet which I invite any member of ’37
to step down and sample.

[ 140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN CHARLES BUDRICK

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Somerset Drive, N.E., Grand Rapids 3, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lear, Inc., 4247 Eastern, S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1916, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarrigD: Jeanne Lorraine DeLyle, Oct. 16, 1943, Orlando, Fla, cum: John
Charles, Jr., May 11, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Industrial engineer, Lear, Inc., aircraft instrument manufacturers.

MEMBER OF; Industrial Management Society; Harvard Club of Western
Michigan; Chesterfield Club.

AFTER a number of years as a teacher, I found my interests turning
more and more toward business and industry as a career. It seemed
to me that a job in this broad and complex field would be more chal-
lenging and rewarding. An opening in the purchasing department
of a nation-wide soap manufacturer started me in this direction.
Soon, however, this new pursuit was interrupted by the urgent de-
mands of war. For nearly four years I toured the Continent, Alaska
and the Aleutians, alternating as a weather and counter-intelligence
officer. When it was all over, I returned to manufacturing, this time
as an industrial engineer. The multiple problems and their solutions
keep this job forever stimulating.

My family consists of my dear wife Jeanne, whom I had the good
fortune of meeting while in service, my dear son Jack, who is so big
and husky for his thirteen years that he was made football coach of
one of the “Rockets” football teams instead of plaver; and finally,
dear cat “Mittens,” whose services as an animated mousetrap rate
A-OK.

Ours is a conventional family with the usual conventional hobbies
which we pursue with conventional zeal: Jeanne, her fashion and
photographic modeling; Jack, his guitar, coin and stamp collections;
and I, my futile attempts at picking a winner in the stock market.

In spite of the present day tensions and pressures, I am still ideal-
istic and optimistic enough to feel that men of good will in the long
run will prevail over petty power politicians such as those who
would explode fifty megaton nuclear bombs in wanton disregard of
humanity and its values.

[140]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

THOMAS ARNOLD BUFFUM

HOME ADDRESS: 70 Haven St., Dedham, Mass.

oFFice appress: Arthur D. Litrle, Inc. Acorn Park, Cambridge, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 29, 1916, Providence, RI.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB, 1937.

MarRIED: Trelsie P. Coffin, June 17, 1938 (divorced 1951); Jane Churchill Ba
Jan, 24, 1953, Rowayton, Conn. cumpren: Peter Cope, Jan. 5, 194
Thomas Arnold, Jr. April 28, 1943; Lockwood Churchill Barr, Oct.
1942 (stepchild); Betsy Barr, July 20, 1948 (stepchild).

HARVARD BROTHER: William Potter Buffum, Jr., B.arcH., "48.

occupation: Member of professional staff, Arthur D. Little, Inc. consultir
research firm,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sakonnet (R.I.) Golf Club; Sakor
net Yacht Club.

IT is 5 p.M., and the Merchants Limited is just pulling out of Granc
Central. This is a good moment to reminisce a quarter of a century
Like the trains of this faltering railroad, I have shuttled back anc
forth along the shore-line route, living and working in Boston anc
New York, Connecticut and Rhode Island. Family, friends, homes.
places of business, and the recollections of the years are scattered

along this right of way. The names of the stations could well serve
as titles of the chapters of my life.

Reverie brought on by this thought carries me happily through
four hours, and I climb stiffly off at the Route 128 station. This
private showing of my autobiography convinces me that its release
to the general public is not justified either for entertainment or for
uplift. But on balance I’m pleased with the story thus far.

My work has been almost entirely in the function of personnel
management. In the race for money and power my score is a modest
one, but if life is indeed a play I have a satisfying feeling that I have
been well cast. In recent years, I have been active in executive and
professional placement. Looking closely at other people’s lives, and
a whole spectrum ranging from brilliant success to unhappy failure,
provides a nice balance of inspiration and thankfulness.

On the home front we've counted many blessings. With three
boys now away at college (Wesleyan, Dartmouth, Yale), and only
Betsy to keep us company at home, we have time to look back on
the uniquely satisfactory experience of building one family out of
two. We've lived in pleasant places, mostly rural-exurban. Our
latest move brought us here to Boston’s famed gateway to the West.
We live in a funny little Victorian house. The comfortable acres

{ 142]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

around us are all owned by neighbors, so that I’m no longer a des-
perate weekend grounds-keeper.

We're looking forward to getting away more frequently, par-
ticularly to the quietness of up-country or seashore. This week
will see the winter’s shortest day behind us, and as the days start to
lengthen we should get busy planning another Maine coast summer
cruise. In the sorry world my newspaper described this morning,
this kind of anticipation is more sharply pleasurable than ever.

CHARLES BULFINCH

HOME ADDRESS: 9224 N.E. Fifth, Bellevue, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 525 Third Ave., Anchorage, Alaska.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(38).

MarriED: Marjorie Kimpton, March 30, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Dale,
May 9, 1942; Charles, May 8, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Bulfinch, ’40, M.B.A., 47.

occuPATION: Transportation — Arctic barging.

THE Navy has occupied most of my life. Outstanding duty was
when I commanded Navy icebreaker Atka, 1956-58, and journeyed
twice through northern Arctic waters above Alaska-Canada and
twice to Antarctic, Deepfreeze 2 and 3, all accomplished in eighteen
months, some 75,000 miles. Finally retired from active duty with
just a few white hairs, but many added since retirement. Also ac-
quired Master Mariner’s unlimited license. Presently with Alaska
Barge & Transport, doing chiefly military site resupply transporta-
tion in Bering Sea, Aleutian chain and Arctic area of northern
Alaska coast. :

As a family man, my life has been pretty much one of lengthy
periods away from home. My daughter will be a senior at Stanford
in the fall and my son a senior in high school. My good wife, the
dog and I are just plain slower, and when we ski, ex-dog, we know
that only too well.

My travels have encompassed all oceans and seas except the Red
and Black and very few foreign countries, considering extensive
miles and coasts. Favorite country is New Zealand. Hobbies: mainly
boating and skiing. We cruise regularly in spectacular British Colum-
bia waters, and attractive islands off Vancouver. Ski season in the
Northwest has comparatively superb snow conditions and good ter-

[ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

rain — also many other areas are easily reached. We like the North
west but miss New England with all its more refined corruptions
and particularly lobsters.

RICHARD GORDON BULL

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Mendl Terr., Montclair, N.J.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Sherwin-Williams Co., Newark, N.J.

Born: March 14, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. 1937.

MarRiED: K. Virginia Gates, Dec. 30, 1939, Pittsburgh, Pa. cuitpren: Richard
Gordon, 2d, April 14, 1946; Katherine V., April 27, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clarence Borland Bull, M.B.A., ’32.

occupation: Regional director, Sherwin-Williams Company. .

OFFICES HELD: President, New York Paint, Varnish and Lacquer Association,

1957-58.
MEMBER OF: Glen Ridge Country Club; New York Paint, Varnish and Lacquer
Association; Sales Executives Club of New York.

INSTEAD of staying for graduation, I left twenty-five cents to
have my diploma mailed to me, and took off on a six-month trip
around the world. This turned out to be the greatest decision of my
life, for it was on this trip that 1 met my wife.

Upon returning, I started out to look for a job and went with the

Sherwin-Williams Company, where I’ve been ever since. I learned
the business from the bottom up — starting in making paint. For
the next two years, I commuted to Pittsburgh every weekend, until
earning enough to marry the girl. This caused a great loss of revenue
to the Erie Railroad. For the following five years, I sold raw mate-
rials in the Pigment, Chemical and Color Division of the company.
Then I was transferred to Newark, to the Export Division, as di-
rector of foreign sales. We bought a house in Montclair, where we
have lived happily ever since. Richard, 2d, was born shortly after
our arrival, and Kathie came along five years later. In two years, I
became regional director of the North Atlantic region of the com-
pany. On my frequent jaunts north, I see a great deal of the old
familiar territory around Boston.

Golf is still my favorite sport, but I don’t find as much time in
which to enjoy it as I would like. Most of my spare time is spent
with the family, and every opportunity we have we spend in travel-
ing together.

So, twenty-five years later finds me a little heavier, a little grayer,

[ 144 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a little more inclined to skip late hours, a little wiser, the golf score a
little higher, the drives a little shorter, but with an even greater en-
thusiasm for life.

THOMAS WALKER BULLITT

HOME apprEss: Longview Lane, Upper River Road, Louisville 7, Ky.

OFFICE ApprEss: Bullitt, Dawson & Tarrant, 1700 Kentucky Home Life Bldg.,
Louisville 2, Ky.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1914, Stockbridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 19373 LL.B. 1940.

_ marrieb: Priscilla Keator Pillsbury, Sept 24, 1955, Burlingame, Calif. cxrpren:
Priscilla Rand Pillsbury, March 8, 1941; Edmund Pennington Pillsbury,
April 28, 1943; Joan Keator Pillsbury, Sept. 19, 1945 (all stepchildren).

occupaTION: Lawyer; partner in Bullitt, Dawson & Tarrant.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Citizens’ Fidelity Bank and Trust Company, Louisville
Investment Company, Louisville Paper and Manufacturing Company,
Louisville Fund, English Speaking Union. (all Louisville, Ky.), Friendly
Finance, Inc., Paducah, Ky.; chairman, Crusade for Freedom, Louisville,
1950; director, Harvard Alumni Association, 1954-57.

MEMBER OF: American, Kentucky and Louisville Bar Associations, Association
of Life Insurance Counsel; American Bar Foundation (fellow); American
Law Institute; Kentucky Historical Society; The Filson Club; Union
Club; Lunch Club; Harvard Club of New York; River Valley, Pendennis,
Louisville Country Club (Louisville); Iroquois Hunt Club; Keeneland
Club (Lexington, Ky.).

PUBLICATIONS: “Life Insurance Law of Kentucky.”

FROM the mire of the New Deal, through the morass of the Fair
Deal, to the absurdity of the New Frontier is our story. And to think
that Harvard is responsible for two of the three.

Three years of Langdell Hall, followed by a year and a half of try-
ing to put to practical use the superb legal education which the
Harvard Law School provides, interrupted by a trip to Montreal with
John James, when he enlisted in the 17th Duke of York’s Royal
Canadian Hussars, and I came home, for not being able to read the
chart. The war years were full of interest—as a private in the
Regular Army; OCS at Fort Knox; second lieutenant, 83d Armored
Ren, Brn. in the California Desert; in England from August, 194},
to June, 1944, except for a short time in December, 1943, as a soldier
afloat with the soth (Motor Gunboat) Flotilla, Royal Naval Volun-
teer Reserve, in the North Sea; and the next year and a half attached
to the British Army, a part of the time as one of General Mont-

[ 145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

gomery’s liaison officers in France, Belgium, and Holland. One good
job was two days guiding Churchill around the assault divisions of
21 Army Group, over the weekend before D-Day, and going with
him, General Ismay, Field Marshal Smuts, Duncan Sandys, Geoffry
Lloyd, and Ernie Bevin by motor launch from Southampton to
Portsmouth.

In November and December, 1944, in Brussels, I was lucky enough
to get some rides in steeplechases, hurdle races, and on the flat at the
Stockel Race course. A 2d on “Colin Tampon” in the Prix Jules
Lorthois Handicap Steeplechase for Gentlemen Riders, the leading
Belgian steeplechase for amateurs. “Colin Tampon” was a wonder-
ful old horse belonging to Mr. Visart de Bocarme, The race brought
out a big field with seven falls and was run in a snowstorm. In the
Prix Baron Edouard hurdle race (3200 meters) in a field of twelve,
I had a 3d on “Hiawatha” owned by Mr. Visart de Bocarme’s
brother; followed later by a fall on “Colin Tampon” in another
steeplechase at the water jump in front of the stands, and a dead
last when riding a hot favorite, Baron Brugmann’s “Gayrus,” the
top hurdler in Belgium, in the Prix Baron Lunden hurdle race.
Luckily, my ruffled feathers were smoothed by “Gayrus” doing the
same thing the next time out when ridden by his regular professional
jockey. A few rides on the flat, including one in the Cambridge-
shire des Gentlemen.

Ended the war as a parachute team leader in a British-trained in-
terallied Special Force and enjoyed the hock of Germany and fun
of Denmark, with Andrew Kennedy and Paddy Leigh-Fermor, who
had kidnapped General Kreipe off Crete. Later, went into Hungary
alone to bring out a girl and had a go-around with the nxvp in Kor-
mend —I heard later that several frontier guards had been shot or
exiled, went in a second time, escorting 105 war criminals to be
hanged; and then a job on the United States Military Mission in Buda-
pest for six months.

My only claim to fame is my appearance in Winston Churchill’s
Triumph and Tragedy, on page 413, where he said:

“My private secretary, Jock Colville, had work to do for me, and
could not come with me in the car. He had, however, made a plan
of his own, and actually crossed the Rhine in one of the boats during
the morning. There was no opposition to the passage, but the lodg-
ments on the other side were under artillery fire. A shell burst near
him and an officer, with whom he was talking. A soldier of our Air-
borne Division standing beside them was severely wounded and

[146]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jock was drenched in his blood. He naturally wou
nothing about this incident but for the fact that he arr
headquarters at precisely the same time as Montgomery

blood-stained tunic caught the Field-Marshal’s eye, an
what had happened. He then complained that a civil ser
have crossed the Rhine without his personal permission h
obtained. 1 protected Jock from his wrath, and promised
him myself, which | did in suitable terms learning what f
and pointing out how much inconvenience he would have
the work of my private office if he had been killed.”

1am “the officer with whom he was talking,” and hav
from Jock Colville reminding me of the incident.

The last fifteen years have included a very happy mar
Priscilla Pillsbury and acquiring three attractive stepchildr
of work, the benefit of which seems to go to a grasping, uncc
able government which prefers to curry favor with Castro,
bals in the Congo, Nehru, Suarkano, and play politics at
rather than put our house in order; a three-year term as a d.
of the Harvard Alumni Association, where I learned a goo
about the problems of Harvard and thoroughly enjoyed my tr

Cambridge; fox-hunting with the Iroquois Hunt in Lexin
occasional trips to the west coast; gout; and more work.

DANIEL ERSKINE BURBANK, JR.

HOME AvpREss: 226 Converse St., Longmeadow, Mass.
OFFICE aDpREss: 83 State St. Springfield, Mass.

Born: April 9, 1915, Springfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; LLB, 1940.
Marriep: Elizabeth Irene Gahan, Dec. 30, 1939, Springfield, Mass. cHinorex

Elizabeth Helen, July 31, 1941; William Lawrence, Dec. 19, 1944; Leona
April 7, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lyman Besse Burbank, °38; Arthur David Burbank, 4.34,
54:
occupation: Lawyer.

oFrices HELD; U.S. Naval Reserve, 1943-51; member, Longmeadow Zoning
Board of Appeals, 1951-61; organizer and secretary, s9sa-sq coach, t9sa-
s7, Longmeadow Baseball Association (Little League and Babe Ruth):
president, Springfield Visiting Nurse Association, 1957~s9; director, Long-

meadow Cemetery Association; taxation instructor, Western New England
College, since 1938; member, Massachusetts Bar Association

{ 147]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Delegates, 1960-61; hockey coach, American Legion Junior Teams, Lor
meadow; member, Harvard Schools Committee.

MEMBER OF: Longmeadow Men’s Club; Longmeadow Country Club; Reali
Club; American Legion; Colony Club; American, Massachusetts, Bost:
and Hampden County Bar Associations; Madison, Connecticut, Beac
Club; Springfield Ski Club.

pustications: Article in Technical Valuation based upon a lecture to tt
American Society of Appraisers, on the subject of estate appraisals.

FOLLOWING college I attended and graduated from Harvard Lav
School. Three tough years. The only excitement being whether w
should join or be called into Service. Helpful to concentration! Tc
get my share of la joie de vivre, | married Renie Gahan on December
30, 1939, during the middle of my last year in law school. We hac
a forty-eight-hour honeymoon, during which time we skied in the
daytime and among other things I finished a thesis in the evenings
and during the balance of our week’s vacation. Law school was a
last minute thought for me as a college senior. My father suggested
it —a challenge —I applied one fine day in April of our senior year
and was accepted.

After graduation I passed the Massachusetts bar (December 4,
1940) and had a rough time finding a job in the Springfield, Massa-
chusetts, area with or without pay. Finally a nice guy died, and I
was hired (not to fill his shoes) at $25.00 per week. We had a house

rental before a job and we were, of course, pregnant before we had
the rental. Kennedy financing, of course!

Until July, 1942, I stayed in the law office in Holyoke, Massachu-
setts, learning to learn how little 1 knew about law and the practice
thereof. Then I joined the FBI until the end of the year when I

went into industry untl I could get a Navy commission. This took
time, and my file was thick, since I had been turned down three times
because of a recent knee injury. Finally, the medical officer at
procurement was changed, and the orthopedic doctor — a friend of
mine from home — let me enter following my brother’s being shot
down in a B-29 over Germany in 1944.
1 had a stand in the Navy confined to communications — although
1 was better trained for intelligence, CMP, etc., which needed per-
sonnel. However, I had the pleasure of putting a destroyer escort in
and out of commission — first when new and later at the end of the
war. She’s now at San Francisco if you want to de-mothball her.
After the war I returned to the Holyoke law office until 1949
when I became a partner and finally had thar first extra sou in my

[ 148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ocket. That lasted six years until I joined a group in Spring
a partner and then in 1956 we formed a new law partnersh
comprised men from about three firms. We are now the large

in Springfield —six equal partners and three associates. We

beautiful quarters and girls. We're real modern— even 1
thinking.

Family —no change, Betsey, born in 1941, graduated from (
Junior College in 1961. (She says she wouldn’t try it again —3
the sticks but a good education, and we know how boring I
mouth men can be.) Bets is now an executive secretary for a br.
manager of IBM in New York City. Bill, born in 1944, is a junie
Salisbury School, Salisbury, Connecticut, a wonderful school
boys (he’s been an expensive student with summer school, etc.). 1
born in 1947, is a freshman at MacDuffie School for Girls in Spri
field. She is a ranked New England tennis player and has won ab
thirty trophies. A dog, “Bo,” born in 1947, is a black and wi
springer in good shape and greatly beloved by this family.

My mother and father are deceased, but brothers, Lyman, ”
David of Wesleyan and Harvard Business School, and sister, Barba:
of Sarah Lawrence, are all living and happily married, giving Rer.
and me several very young nieces and nephews.

Enjoy going to our attractive office like eating cake (which I hav
long since given up). Try and exercise all I can — golf, tennis, skiing
swimming, relaxing squash games, home puttering, fishing, and any
thing else that comes along. I must keep busy as I’ve always been or

the go. Must also admit that tennis doubles with my three children

has been very rewarding, especially while vacationing at our summer
home in Madison, Connecticut.

For the future, I hope to keep up the work I love and exercise
until I drop, and I hope the drop is sudden and my investments are
satisfactory. Travel money has been spent on education, except for
a two-weeker in the South the last few winters. We'll go once the
children all graduate. I like to say “I vote for the man” — usually
Republican. Socially, I’m slow — have many friends but not a clique
member — can’t stand same old chatter. Attend church regularly
with members of the family who might be home. After being head
usher, I must have been passed over for deacon, as others have ad-
vanced beyond me. I was probably by-passed because I failed to file
an annual report (which was never mentioned to me) when I ceased
as head usher. Protocol! I told the secretary to copy the previous
year’s report. Have no particular religious convictions —a few

[149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

thoughts and hope, but anything in addition to life will be a plea
extra.

In 1951 I took my solo in town politics and lost but had the sz
faction of getting out the largest vote (still stands) other than
national election for President Eisenhower. Since then I’ve been

the fringes — Board of Zoning Appeals, School Survey Commit:
and president of the Visiting Nurse Association, director of Le
Aid, etc. Lastly, I represented the President and Fellows of Harve
College in October, 1961, at the State College in Westfield wher
new president was installed. Being from the oldest university I I

the parade in cap and gown. Some friends looking on thought I h.
got into the wrong league. .

+ KENNETT FARRAR BURNES
BorN: May 14, 1914, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Kennett Farrar Burnes, Adel
Mellier.
preparep at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Mellier Burnes, ’39.
piED: June 19, 1934, Hyannis, Mass.

KENNETT FARRAR BURNES had just completed the freshman.

year with our Class when he was fatally injured in an automobile
accident. He was survived by his mother and two brothers.

‘++ JOHN HORNE BURNS )

BoRN: Oct. 7, 1916, Andover, Mass. parents: Joseph Lawrence Burns, '06,
Catherine Horne.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS (N COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937.

UNMARRIED.

piep: Aug. 11, 1953, Leghorn, Italy.

BURNS was Phi Beta Kappa at Harvard. He served as a master at
Loomis Institute in Connecticut until 1942 when he entered the
Army. He rose to first lieutenant in the Africa and Italy campaigns,
and finally served as an Intelligence Officer at Allied Forces Head-
quarters. Returning to the United States in 1946, he wrote The
Gallery, which won him acclaim as a novelist. The Saturday Review

[150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Literature chose the book as the best war book of 1947. In addi-
tion to The Gallery, he was the author of Lucifer With a Book and
A Cry of Children, and was a frequent contributor to Holiday maga-
zine. For the five years prior to his death he had lived in Florence,
Italy, where he was completing work on his fourth novel, The
Strangers Guise.

WILLIAM CLARENCE BURRAGE

HOME ADDRESS: Box 669, Warrenton, Va.

OFFICE AppRESS: Fairfax County Planning Office, Fairfax, Va.

BorN: April ro, 1914, Walpole, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Hope Wallach, June 23, 1945, Warrenton, Va. cHi~prEN: Ann
Douglass, Feb. 7, 1947; Feroline Perkins, Sept. 15, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Director of planning, Fairfax County, Va.

I HAVE continued in the planning field in the Washington, D.C.
metropolitan area, moving from my previous position of director of
planning for the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Com-
mission in Maryland to Fairfax County, Virginia, a rapidly growing
urban county in the national capital metropolitan area. Since 1958, I
also have been engaged in some planning consultant activities.

As in the past, I spend my spare time with my family on the farm
in Warrenton.

ROBERT SEYMOUR BUSCH

HOME ADDRESS: 18193 Karen Drive, Tarzana, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: 20th Century-Fox Film Corp., 10z01 W. Pico Blvd. Los
Angeles, Calif. :

BORN: Oct. 1, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

Marriep: Lillian Adele Kraus, May 11, 1944, New York, N.Y. cHipren:
Judith Ann, July 22, 1946, Robert Seymour, Jr., March 23, 1948; Christo-
pher Harris, April 21, 1952; Deborah Lee, Dec. 21, 1953.

occupaTION: Director of New Talent, zoth Century-Fox Film Corporation,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of South Carolina; Academy of Motion Picture
Arts and Sciences; Screen Actors’ Guild; California Racquet Club, TC
Motoring Guild; ACLU.

SINCE that day in June, 1937, when we left the “hallowed Georgian
[151]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Halls,” the planet has spun some 9,000 times on its axis. What ha
happened in 150,000 waking hours since graduation? What doe
the ledger look like? Plus—a few pounds, a few inches of girth

a few gray hairs. Minus —a few hairs, but not the gray ones. Anc
—JI have collected:

Item — one wife, Lillian. Attracting, interesting, interested. Bakes

like an angel, drives like a truck-driver —the prime jewel in my
crown. wey ke

es
R & R, the telephone, “tough cars.” A very talented songwriter.
Item — one son, Robbie (14) —we refer to him as “My son,

Robbie, the Supreme Court Justice.” He could talk the wings off
the Archangel Gabriel.

Item — one daughter, Judith (15) — prototype teen-ager. Lik

Item — one son, Chris (10) — Little Leaguer (the smallest “strike

zone” in organized baseball). A talented actor —is starting his
career.

Item — one daughter, Deborah (8) — major talent is “snestling.”
(This is a combination of snuggling and nestling.)

Also — in the collection: a career —in and around the entertain-
ment industry. Actor, television director, advertising agency radio-
TV producer, agent, drama coach, teacher, etc., etc.

In addition — I have collected: Some good habits, some bad ones.
Lots of friends, multitudes of acquaintances, no one I think of as an
enemy. Some taste in food (I make fabulous onion soup and exqui-
site crepes suzettes). A liking for music (Puccini and Dixieland).
A love of classic cars (I drive a’48 TC and like old Rolls, SS-roos and
Bugattis),

Add to the collections: One copy, Bowditch Practical Navigator;

one uniform (lieutenant commander, USNR—too small) —

memoirs of four years in destroyers, Atlantic Fleet.
And — in this remote corner:

Items — 4

A bit of perspective.

A mote of wisdom. (I know what I don’t know, and it doesn’t
bother me.)

An iota of insight. (The real satisfaction is in doing for others.)
A talent for fun and making others laugh.

A measure of tolerance and temperate liberalism. (I am demo-
cratic and Democratic.)

And —
Lots and lots of hope — The best years are ahead.

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED COE BUTTERFIELD

HOME aAbpRESS: Cobb’s Mill Road, Weston, Conn.

oFFIcE Appress: U.S. Productions, Inc., 5 E. 57th St., New York 22, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1915, Rochester, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Benjamin Franklin High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

marriED: Ann Barkly Cornell, Oct. 9, 1937, Framingham, Mass. cHrtpren:
Henry Lyman, July 18, 1939; Alfred Coe, Jr, March 23, 1944; David
Cornell, April 6, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lyman Henry Butterfield, ’30, A.M., 734.

occuPATION: Film-television producer, chairman, U.S. Productions, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Weston Field Club; Screen Writers
Guild.

MY working life since graduation has been concerned almost en-
tirely with visual communications. Though I got into this work by
accident, and still know very little about it, and annually give serious
consideration to starting all over as a zoologist or archeologist, a
Caribbean beachcomber, or Secretary-General of the United Na-
tions, I remain satisfied, sometimes fascinated with it. The films,
television shows and educational programs with which I’ve been as-
sociated have presented endless opportunities for my own education;
have allowed me no more time for self-questioning than is ( I hope)
beneficial; have enabled me to keep up a little with the world; have
given me something to talk about with family and friends; have
helped make possible an independent production organization of
which I own a part, and a decent home, of which I also own a part.

Following employment as a Time-Life copywriter, an associatg
editor of Life, writer-producer for March of Time Radio, editor in
chief of Pathé News, and executive producer, News and Public Af-
fairs, CBS Television, I have been largely on my own for the past
several years. Except for Life picture stories and book reviews for
the New York Times, my “publications” consist entirely of film pro-
ductions shown in theatres, on television, in schools and elsewhere.
These include a thousand or more releases of Pathé News in domes-
tic and foreign editions; special films for the wartime OWT and OSS,
three feature-length theatrical films (“Fifty Years,” “Helen Keller,”
and ‘Secrets of the Reef”); television documentaries such as “Air-
power,” “Twentieth Century,” and “Wonders of the Sea”; and
educational programs such as “The News Magazine of the Screen,”
“Horizons of Science,” the upcoming “Exploring the Universe” and
last year’s one hundredth anniversary film for M.IL.T.

C153]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

For the last thirteen years, I have lived in Weston, Connecticu
just barely within commuting range of New York City, and hav
schemed incessantly to find ways of avoiding the daily trip. Ir
terested and sympathetic, I am not especially active in communit
or other group activities. My wife, a beautiful, smart, and excep
tionally warm-hearted woman who is now in her fifth year as a mem

ber of the local (and hotly controversial) board of education, con,
tributes enough for both of us.

Our eldest son, Lyman, is now happily at home with us after some
son, wyman, PPpry us ainer

years of special schooling away. Alfred, Jr., seventeen, is in his las

year at Lawrenceville and is going to either Harvard or Princetor

next fall. David, thirteen, in the eighth grade in Weston, will be
heading for prep school in a year.

Politically, I am in favor of greater civil liberty here and every-
where, opposed to both bomb tests and bomb-shelter hysteria, con-
vinced that the rest of our lives will be lived uneasily and dangerously
if lived at all, and that only the greatest patience and self-restraint
can save us from the nationalistic excesses of the Khrushchevs, Maos,

Nassers, Castros, Nkrumahs, Tshombes, Welches, and Goldwaters
of the world. |

Personally, I like woodchopping, digging in gardens, animals,
swimming, watching professional sports on television and amateur

sports in the Yale Bowl, history and biography, small dinners, mar-
tinis, and people of good will.

® PETER CABLE

HOME appress: RFD 1, Box 202, Santa Fe, N. Mex.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Nambe Mills, Inc., R.F.D. 1, Santa Fe, N. Mex.
BorN: November 13, 1913, Hubbard Woods, Ill.
PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B., 1937.
marrieD: Pauline Barney Platt, Nov. 26, 1938, Dayton, Ohio. cHitpreN: Peter,
Jr., Nov. 22, 1939; Anthony Mott, March 25, 1942; Anne Stillman, May
27, 1947; Elizabeth Tennis, March 7, 1955.
HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Goodrich Cable, Jr., 39.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Nambe Mills, Inc., non-ferrous foundry.
OFFICES HELD; Deputy Commissioner, New Mexico Bureau of Revenue, 1951—
54; member, Republican State Central Committee, 1952-56; commissioner,

Pojoaque Valley Volunteer Fire Department; director, Southwest Savings
& Loan Association.

NEWSPAPER reporter 1937-38, Journal-Herald, Dayton, Ohio.
[154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1938-41, Public Relations Division, General Motors Corpor

tached to Dayton staff. 1941-42, teller, First National Bar
Fe, New Mexico. 1943-45, U.S. Navy, Armed Guard offic
ventional duty but I had a Cook’s tour which covered 48,0
from the Caribbean to the Persian Gulf, Scotland, Normanc
nawa, Point Barrow and intermediate points. 1946-50, dep
head in Fiscal Division of Zia Company, town maintenanc
tractor to A.E.C. at Los Alamos, New Mexico. 1951-54, ap]
director of School Tax Division, Bureau of Revenue, in first I

lican administration in twenty years. Served as Deputy Comm
er during last three years of this period. In 1954 I organized

poration and entered the foundry business in which I am en

today. From 1956 through 1959 I was treasurer of United W
Minerals Company which was actively engaged in the uranium

ness and oil and gas leaseholds. Am presently engaged on the si

a small sales corporation, dealing principally with franchise iter
the Republic of Mexico. Progressive administrations have made

country come to life economically and the opportunities of tw
years ago in our West are now flourishing in Mexico.

New Mexico is well named the “Land of Enchantment,” and
present philosophy, often repeated, is “It took an act of Congres:
get me out of here last time, but the next time it will take an act
God.”

RICHARD FORD CADWALLADER

HOME apppEss: 1150 Washington St., Haddonfield, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: MacAndrews & Forbes Co., Third Street and Jefferson Avenu
Camden, N.J.

BORN: Nov. 9, 1916, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M-B.A., 1939.

Marriep: Ruth Knox, July 31, 1948, Brooklyn, N.Y. cump: Victoria Knox,
Sept. 16, 1950.

occupation: Treasurer and director, MacAndrews & Forbes Company, manu-
facturers of licorice, box board and insulating board.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Industry Conference Committee, Controllers Institute,
1957, 1958; member, Controllers Committee and Statistical Committee,
American Paper and Pulp Association, 1959; member, Finance Committee,
Greenridge Civic Association, 1959; member, Legislative Commirree, South
Jersey Manufacturers Association, 1961; member, House Committee, Tavi-
stock Country Club, since 1961.

MEMBER oF; Controllers Institute; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Tavistock
Country Club.

[155]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

IN 1939 I graduated from Harvard Business School and started an
unexciting term of one and one-half years as a salesman for Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company.

The period 1941 through 1945 saw me gaining administrative and
business experience as a naval supply officer. My service was distin-

ished by the fact that I never served aboard ship or heard a hostile
gun. At the conclusion of the unpleasantness, I joined a printing
shop in Boston as an industrial engineer. After one year I moved to
the New York City area to take a position with the Alco-Gravure
Division of Publication Corporation doing methods work. It was
here I met my wife Ruth who was a co-worker.

For the eight years following 1951, I labored for Oxford Paper
Company in New York City, first as the assistant treasurer and later
as controller. It was at this time we were blessed, to use the popular
idiom, with our only child, Vicki. At first we were living in Ho-Ho-
Kus, New Jersey, but the commuting was too long, so we moved to
Hartsdale, New York. Late in 1959, I resigned at Oxford, spent the
winter in Florida and then became attached to MacAndrews & Forbes
Company in Camden, New Jersey. I am still there serving as chief
financial officer and a director.

I brush my teeth only once a day, and the deity is still somewhat
obscure to me. My reading is about what you would expect, that is,
The New Yorker, New York Times, Fortune, Wall Street Journal,
Time, Forbes, current best sellers and a couple of investment services.
Iam sorry to report that I have not been a civic leader but spend my
spare time at golf and studying market situations.

Good luck to you!

HOWARD STARR CALDWELL

MAILING ADDRESS: 821 Market St., San Francisco, Calif,

BoRN: Aug. 3, 1915, St. Charles, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Proviso High School, Maywood, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1945-1946. DEGREE: s.B, (Univ, of San Francisco).

MARRIED: Esedra Maria Giovanna Gambassi, 1946, Rome, Italy. CHILDREN:
Christina Starr, July 29, 1944 (by former marriage); Sandra
1947; Oliver Charles, March 8, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Real estate broker.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; Madera Golf and Cou

pustications: History of Subdividing in The United States.

TWENTY-FIVE years later and what must I now say?
The world is too much with us; late and soon,

[156]

, Aug. 23,

ntry Club,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers;

Little we see in nature that is ours...
and yet there is always truth or fair Harvard with its Veritas, and
for that brief glimpse I am grateful.

At forty-seven years of age I am in better physical shape than in
my nonathletic college days. I play golf all day whenever I start,
poker all night, and can hold more from the vine than the average
fraternity house. In short, I am just beginning to live. The war has
left no complexes, only a sense of frustration when I realize that men
cannot agree on simple basic golden rules of behavior.

Living in the city everyone loves, I am now selling California land
to the wise investor. At present I am selling Cameron Park, the
world’s most beautiful subdivision, just east of Sacramento on U.S.
Highway so on the way to Lake Tahoe — quite comparable in
beauty to the coast of Maine, but much more livable. Two grown
daughters, Christina and Sandra, who are about ready for college,
and young son Oliver, real Harvard material, comprise my genetic
offspring. Outside of living and enjoying it, my accomplishments
are little short of nothing. =

May I say hello to everyone who knew me at Harvard and even
those tight-lipped Yankees who never even learned to know one
another, and— when in the City by the Golden Gate will you
soften your “r’s, broaden your “a”s, sit on your arse, and let me pour

you one for “auld lang syne” or Young Harvard, which is older and
wiser.

WILLIAM JEROME CALLAGHAN

HOME ADDRESS: 835 Collingwood Drive, East Lansing, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Philosophy, Michigan State University, East Lansing,
Mich.

Born: March 28, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., ct laude, 1937; A.M., 1947; PHD.
(Columbia Univ.), 1958.

MarRIED: Mary Elizabeth Sacco, May 31, 1942, Dorchester, Mass. cHILpREeN:
Virginia Mary, Sept. 12, 1943; James Edward, May 27, 1952.

OccuPATION: Professor and head, Department of Philosophy, Michigan Scare
University.

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Association; American Association of
University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Two short manuals, Plato's Dialogues, The Philasophy of
Aristotle, a few articles and reviews.

[157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PAUL LITCHFIELD CALLAN

LAST KNOWN appress: Cedar Hills Turnpike, Newbury, Mass. (Lost.)

JOHN MacINTOSH CALLAWAY

HOME ADDRESS: Box 275, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 200 Madison Ave. New York 16, N.Y,

BORN: May 29, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

marrieD: Margaret Burnett (divorced 1946). cHiLD: John MacIntosh, Jr,
April 14, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Trowbridge Callaway, ’36; Samuel Rodger Callaway, ’36.

occuPaTIon: Publishing.

HAVING left the book publishing business in 1955, after eighteen
years, I turned to market research with Benson & Benson, Inc.,
where I put in four good years, especially interesting myself with
consumer manufacturing and merchandising. In October, I re-
turned to publishing, convinced that book publishing was “going
to become” a businessman’s business and not an ivory tower dream
world. The facts of the past four months bear me out, and I look
forward to many challenging years of business problems, especially
in the evolution of a profitable and workable sales distribution sys-
tem.

I am active in sports and look forward to getting married in the
near future, but probably not in time for Reunion. My main in-
terest, at the present time, is praying that my son Mac gets into Dart-
mouth and becomes a wiser person than his father.

ERNEST S. CAMELIO, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 639 Common St., Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Plimpton School, Walpole, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1914, Walpole, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Walpole High School, Walpole, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; A.M. (Middlebury Coll. and
Boston Univ.).

Marriep: Esther E, Scisig, June 20, 1948, Methuen, Mass, cipreN: Elise Anne,
July 19, 1952; Ellen Keighley, Aug. 23, 1954,

occupation: Education; principal, chairman, Language Department, Plimpton
School.

[ 160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WRITING a summation of twenty-five years is, I suspect, much like
reviewing the tally sheet in Chapter C of the Judgment Day Book
twenty-five years hence. It is a task that has kept me in constant
retrospective flight. What would it have been had I taken one of the
other turns in the road? At any rate, my decision was deliberately
made the quarter-century ago and many times since — my habitat,
the small pond. From it, at whim, slowly meandering streams of life
have led to pleasant by-ways, from which there has always been the
eager return to home, family and simple contentment. Voltaire
summed it up for me long ago: “I/ faut cultiver son jardin.” How
green is my valley! -

The whole of my professional life has been spent in education.
After sixteen successful years devoted to the instruction of French
and Spanish, the lure of the bigger frog’s role drew me irresistibly to
administrative shores. A school principalship plus the chairmanship
of a burgeoning Modern Language Department, carrying an enroll-
ment of over 1300 language students, have kept me up to my neck in
professional stew. With government and ex-President Conant effect-
ing the expansion of language programs everywhere, it would seem
that days ahead will surely make a fantasy of spare time. The Ph.D.
(minus eighteen) remains as elusive today as it did seven years ago.

Schoolteaching notwithstanding, my major career has been the
family. In 1948, I married the girl I had besieged for years. Two
female facsimiles followed in due course and, needless to say, they
have held the center of the lily-pad ever since. A simple summation:
great joys — small exasperations. Ours continue to be the simple but
full family pleasures — togetherness, bright holiday seasons, grandi-
ose plans for eventful days ahead.

Hobbies? Many, many, over the years, but my serious endeavors
have been devoted to landscaping and gardening, of which there has
been over-abundance lately at our new home in the pines. Fishing,
travel, histories, writing, music, the theatre — all these and more find
moderate fulfillment. The “one day” stands patiently waiting our
children’s maturity.

In all my thinking life, my religion has tended toward a quiet
Unitarianism practised within the framework of Congregationalism.
In politics, I have been a rather rampant Republican except for a
single lapse in sanity in the 1936 elections. I must be cracking up
again, though, since I am presently disposed to vote Democratic.
For a Massachusetts Republican to cast his lot with the Democratic
element points up a serious psychic disorder. All hail, pollutician!

[ 161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Disappointments in life? Two perhaps: first, that I did not learn
to enjoy undergraduate Harvard as much as I could now that a

degree of maturity has settled upon me; secondly, that man’s prog-
ress through the ages seems so deadly slow.

Notwithstanding human upheaval, life is good. For me and mine,
the mirror of time to come holds the continued promise of the good
family life, of more extensive travel and, finally, seventeen years
hence, retirement to one of the idyllic spots of Europe (if one is left)

—the lake regions of northern Italy, Mallorca, Costa Brava. T’ll be
writing you from one of these on our Fiftieth.

WILLIAM HOPSON CANN

HOME ADDRESS: 835 Toulon Drive, Pacific Palisades, Calif.

OFFICE appress: North American Aviation, Inc., International Airport, Los
Angeles 9, Calif.

BORN: June 17, 1916, Newark, Essex County, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Barringer High School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937; LL.B. 1940.

marriep: Mildred Allen, March 7, 1942, Ridgewood, N.J. campren: William

Hopson, Jr., July 17, 1943; Sharon Lee, May 10, 1945; John Allen, March
10, 1950; Lawrence Edward, Sept, 21, 1951.

occupation: Vice-president and secretary, aerospace company.

OFFICES HELD: WVestryman, 1954, 1956-60, junior warden, 1960, St. Alban’s
Episcopal Church, Westwood, Calif.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; American Society of
Corporate Secretaries.

SOMEONE once said (someone must have) that you should con-
tinue to learn after you leave college. So I thought it would be a
good idea at this occasion of the Twenty-fifth to review what, if
anything, 1 had learned since June of 1937. It was pretty easy to
assume I had learned something at the Harvard Law School, practis-
ing in New York, putting in three and a half years with Uncle Sam’s
Army Air Corps (on the ground), and working here in California,
first as a lawyer and then in the administrative side of things at North
American Aviation, Inc. I also assumed marriage and parenthood
taught me something (I don't intend to go into detail). But it seemed
there must be a number of other things I'd picked up along the way,
so I started putting together a list. Here are some of the items,
Most of the foods I disliked when younger are now my favorites.
Four youngsters have the incredible effect of simultaneously aging

{ 162 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

you and keeping your outlook young — and you mixed up in Cub
Scouts forever. You don’t have to be much of a baseball player to
coach kids — and it’s fun. There’s some tremendous scenery in the
western part of this continent. Smoking is a filthy habit I can’t
break. Swimming is still a great way to get exercise, but the pools
are longer these days. A daughter poses enigmatic problems not
common to sons. All this nonsense about struggling with your
weight and a lengthening of your forehead is God’s honest truth.
They’ve recorded some terrific music, classical, musical comedy and
popular — and why wasn’t George Shearing invented earlier? An
eleven-year-old boy seldom starts a conversation with anything but
“Let’s talk baseball, Daddy.” :

Reasonable sanitation can be preserved in a house in spite of dogs,
cats, goldfish, parakeets, rats and those fool baby mice born last week.
Being a Republican isn’t too bad — somebody has to lose and besides
there’s always the “loyal opposition” concept. The Twentieth Re-
union of the Harvard Class of 1937, approached by me with consid-
erable trepidation, was a ball. If you usher at your local Episcopalian
Church the second Sunday of every month you will, year in and year
out, be in church while one of the World Series games is being
televised.

Even a couple of brief business trips to Europe convinces one that
the West Germans have accomplished economic wonders. Profes-
sional football is the greatest spectator sport. It is completely impos-
sible to keep my wife from agreeing to work for the Red Cross, the
Community Chest, the church, the local Republican Party, her so-
rority alumnae group and any other organization that asks her. In
spite of some lessons and reasonably frequent attempts, my waltz,
rumba, tango, cha cha, etc., invariably turn out to be the fox trot.
You get a pretty good-sized wrench when your eldest youngster
goes off to college. You probably get more out of six years’ service
as a church vestryman than you contribute. It doesn’t take too long
to adjust to bifocals.

Demand for engineers, scientists, etc., notwithstanding, a liberal
arts education is still the best college training. I wouldn’t trade my
family for anything in the world. If you don’t play bridge regular-
ly, you don’t play very well. When you work at a top aerospace
company, it’s impossible to think of anything as impossible, or of
change as anything but permanent. It’s very easy to make an awful
mess of a barbecue dinner if you don’t keep an eye on your watch
while the meat’s on the fire. Twenty-five years our of college you

[ 153 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

don't feel things are ending — they’re just starting. I was certainly
lucky when I married my wife.

While I was developing the list of things I had learned over the
last twenty-five years I came across a number I hadn’t learned, such

as how to keep your expenses below your income, or how to disci-
pline an attractive teen-age daughter (or three sons, for that matter).
But this isn’t the place for elaboration of such a list.

RUSSELL DAMON CAPEN

HOME ApprEsS: 268 Ridge Rd., Middletown, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Central Connecticut State College, New Britain, Conn.

porN: May 4, 1916, Rockland, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rockland High School, Rockland, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; A.M., 1938; Sixth-
Year Professional Diploma (Univ. of Connecticut), 1957.

marrieD: Elinor Baker, Sept. 21, 1940, Rockland, Mass. cHILDREN: Marian
Alice, May 6, 1942; Jean Percilla, Nov. 21, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hobart Ashley Capen, "44.

OCCUPATION: Education; assistant professor and director of Audio Visual Center
and Closed Circuit Television Facilities.

OFFICES HELD: President and chairman, various committees, Middletown Educa-
tion Association; member, Long Range Planning Committee, Connecticut
Education Association; chairman, Dorothy Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Fund; editor of Yearbook and member, board of directors, Connecticut
Audio Visual Education Association; director, Middlesex Teachers Federal
Credit Union.

MEMBER OF: Connecticut State Employees Association; Connecticut Education
Association, National Education Association; Department Audio Visual
Instruction of N-E.A.; Connecticut Audio Visual Education Association;
Harvard Club of Connecticut; St. John’s Lodge No. 2, AF. & A.M.,
Middletown, Connecticut, Middlesex Historical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, C.A.V.E.A. Yearbook, Connecticut.

FOR twenty-five years I have been teaching, in public and private
schools, junior and senior colleges and graduate schools. During that
time I have run the gamut of teaching experiences. You name it and
I have taught it. Having served as History Department chairman,
guidance counselor, city audio visual director, secondary school cur-
riculum coordinator, and college professor, you may not be surprised
to hear I am now in charge of a closed circuit television operation

where we are teaching 2500 students per week on television and have
bigger plans for the immediate future.

When Uncle Sam decided he didn’t need me in World War II,
[ 164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I spent one year and three summers helping to make airplane eng
parachute gear and gun sights for the healthier ones. But indt

was not for me, and I went back to the comparative povert
teaching where all we made was men and women.

My primary interests have been my family and my church. V
respect to my family, God has blessed me, as I am sure few
blessed, with a wonderful wife and two wonderful daughters.

gether we have spent many happy years including several summr
when we camped over the length and breadth of this country <
Canada. My elder daughter Marian, a sophomore at Grinnell C
lege, Lowa, is receiving an education which meets the high standa:
set by her Harvard and Radcliffe parents. My younger, Jean, a hi

school sophomore, is preparing to enter the rat race of college a
mission, just around the corner. My wife Elinor works her finge
to the bone as head of the Mathematics Department in the loc

junior high school, so that our combined figures won’t be too f
below those of most single Harvard graduates.

I have served the First Church of Christ, Congregational, as chai:
man of its Church Committee, two terms as deacon, ten terms :
clerk, chairman of the Pastoral Supply Committee, and Sunda
School teacher for nineteen years. I have represented this church a
national conventions at Omaha, Cleveland, Boston and Philadelphia

Politically, I am a little left of center, usually a “safe” Republican
uneasy with Kennedy and very unhappy with Goldwater. Basically.
you are most likely to find me working in my garden, or at the
bridge table when I want recreation. As a camper I still have to visit

Alaska, take a trip on the Pan American Highway and try camping
in Europe.

JOHN JOSEPH CAREY, JR.
HOME apprEss: § Hilltop Rd., Hopkinton, Mass.

OFFice appress: Hopkinton Junior-Senior High School, Hopkinton, Mass.
BORN: July 26, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Hopkinton High School, Hopkinron, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREES: A.B. (Boston Univ.), 1938; am. (ibid.),
1950.

MarrieD: Dorothy M. Hammarstrom, July 26, 1947, Hopkinton, Mass. c#utp
John Joseph, 3d, Feb. 5, rosr.

occupation: Principal, Hopkinton Junior-Senior High School, since rgso.
MY life has been as uneventful as that of a small-town pedagogue is
apt to be. I have been associated with the school system of the

{ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

town of Hopkinton, since September of 1922, as a student, teacher
and administrator, except for the war years (1942-46). During this
period, I was given a world tour through the courtesy of Uncle
Sam, visiting eighteen major cities of this country, east of the
Rockies, as well as Africa, Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, Italy, the Philip-
pines, and Japan. Service was with the Ordnance Department of the
Army.

I am looking forward to next September (1962), when my son
will enter the seventh grade of my school. Perhaps he will be able

to follow his grandfather (1911) and his father to Harvard, say for
the Class of ’70!!

JOSEPH PATRICK CAREY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Shaw Drive, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dennison Manufacturing Co., Framingham, Mass.

BORN; Sept. 19, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Mission High School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Myra Kelley, Nov. 10, 1941, San Antonio, Texas.

OccuPATION: Department head, Chemical Research Division, Dennison Manu-
facturing Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Technical Association of Pulp and
Paper Industry.

GEORGE CARNAHAN

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Wyman Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 175 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass,

BORN: May 22, 1914, El Paso, Texas,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1937; LL.B., 1942.

marriep: Alison Treat Bruére, June 25, 1940, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Alison Abney, Nov. 28, 1943; Lucinda Munroe, Jan. 15, 1947; Jane Bruére,
Jan. 23, 1949.

occupation: Attorney at law.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Bar Association.

AFTER a period of work in advertising and public relations after
graduation, I returned to Harvard for a law degree. Having taken
the Foreign Service Examinations in 1941, 1 was commissioned a
foreign service officer immediately upon leaving the Law School,
and sent to Barranquilla, where my wife and I spent three years. In

[ 166 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

"45, we were transferred to Antwerp for another three years, thence,
to Lima. In 1950, deciding that I needed more money than the
Service was likely to offer, I went on leave, obtained a job in the
insurance business, and resigned to return to this area. I have now
worked for the same insurance company for eleven years without
interruption except for a four-month interval in ’52 when I returned
to the Department (“Je seul département quwon appelle le Départe-
ment; la seule carriére qwon appelle la Carriére’’) as special assistant
to the Assistant Secretary for Inter-American Affairs. I was ad-
mitted to the Massachusetts bar in 1952. My present work consists
mainly of drawing up, and trying to explain, contracts of insurance.
My Back Bay office is an hour and a quarter’s fast walk, which I
perform most evenings, from the house in Cambridge where I live
with my wife and two of my daughters: the eldest being away at
Oakland as a freshman at Mills College.

My life has formed a pattern in agreeable retrogression: from the
serious pursuit of what I took to be American interests abroad to the
frivolous uses of the law: from the teeming tomb of Pachacamac to
the womb of Cambridge. My only notable experience in the war
was that of being attacked in the opposition press as a disgrace to
Harvard, specifically for wearing slacks and an odd jacket (“the
disjecta membra of a wardrobe”) in the windy season. My political
convictions have kept pace backwards from a position to the right

of any of my fellow Texans you can name (monarchist: Gloucester

for King in ’33) to Stevensonista. I have not much admired the Re-
publican party — of which I was formerly a faithful though tepid
member — or any of its candidates for federal office since the Puncta-
tion of Peoria in ’52. I got around to unregistering myself in ’55,
and have continued since a mugwump.

I have no hobby, except a residual attachment to the politics of
Nuestra America. I see there is also a question about religious con-
victions. Perhaps we can postpone this one to ’87, trusting that the

competitors for my votive offerings will defer a definitive solution
until then to discover the answer.

DUNBAR CARPENTER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Route 3, Box 124, Medford, Oregon.
BORN: Jan. 17, 1915, Medford, Oregon.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1037.

[ 167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MARRIED: Jane Hoyman, Feb, 21, 1942, Winchester, Mass. cHILpREN: Karen,
Jan. 26, 1943; Dunbar Scott, Nov. 9, 1945; Emily, Nov. 23, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Rogue Valley Shakesperian Festival, since 1960;
treasurer, Rogue Valley Art Association, since 1959; director, 1955-57,
chairman of Admittance, Budget & Quota Committee, 1960-61, United
Medford Crusade, director, 1953-55, president, 1955, Rogue Valley Knife
& Fork Club; director, since 1958, treasurer, since 1961, The Carpenter
Foundation; director, since 1950, president, 1953, Jackson County Fruit-
growers League; president, Medford Pear Shippers, 1960, director, since
1955, president, since 1958, Jackson County Cooperative; director, 1952-61,
president, 1959-61, Oregon Egg Producers Cooperative; director, Southern
Oregon Sales Fruit Packing Cooperative, 1950-54.

MEMBER OF: Rogue Valley Shakesperian Festival; Rogue Valley Art Associa-
tion; Rogue Valley Knife & Fork Club; Jackson County Fruitgrowers
League; Medford Pear Shippers; American Civil Liberties Union, Oregon
Farm Bureau; Rogue Valley Country Club. |

MONEY and banking was my field at Harvard; business, my in-
tended vocation; today I am a farmer. | started in business all right
and progressed from twenty-five dollars per week to forty cents
per hour. The war interrupted this business career, and after spend-
ing the first half as a flight instructor in gliders and light planes, I
became a transport pilot for NATS, flying with Pan American,
which was under contract to the Navy.

The end of the war presented us another opportunity to re-ana-
lyze the situation and after intensive investigation we decided busi-
ness was too self-motivated, too mercenary, and too apt to be
profitable. And besides, we just liked the idea of farming. So we
moved to Medford, Oregon, in the Rogue River Valley to raise
pears, which vocation we have since pursued.

Our initial operation in the Medford valley was as growers of
pears only. Facing the fact that the farmer gets what is left after
other processors, handlers, transporters, sellers, etc. get their costs
plus, we built our own packing plant in 1955 and began to pack and

sell under the Dunbar brand. In 1957 we built a cold storage plant
and are now completely integrated from the growing of pears
through the packing, storing, shipping and selling.
As a sideline we started a commercial egg-laying operation which

proved profitable and encouraging, so we expanded and by 1955

were handling 9,000 layers. Our expansion, however, was apparently
not an original idea and the resulting increase in supply resulted in a
twenty-five per cent decrease in our gross return and approximately
one hundred per cent decrease in our net. We hung on, in true

{ 168}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

farmer fashion, for another two years, and only further proved our
suspicions about the tremendous potential for production as well as
the tenacity of the farmer during severe economic hardships. Ac-
cordingly we extracted ourselves from the egg business.

Farming is a fascinating, all-inclusive business with many facets.
In our experience we have had to cope with and acquire reasonable
skill in labor problems, horticultural research, ever-changing disease
and insect developments, adverse weather conditions, new material
handling procedures (Pause. Draw breath here!!), changes in proc-
essing operations, equipment design and construction, federal regu-
lations, cooperative management, selling and transportation problems,
community public relations, and financing, including, of course,
deficit financing. Such are the multifarious activities with which the
farmer copes. Not much chance of being a specialist here! Keenest
of all is the ever-present struggle to increase production, a stopgap
for the individual farmer but catastrophe for agricultural producers
as a whole. We are, however, still farming!

Medford is a southern Oregon city of 27,000 located in a mountain-
circled valley. Roughly halfway between Portland and San Fran-
cisco, it has needed to develop a wide variety of independent en-
deavors including art, music, the Oregon Shakespearean Festival,
excellent hospital and medical facilities, good schools and responsible
local government. Such variety of activity offers frequent challenge
for the individual to participate. In contrast to a metropolitan area
an individual can be more readily effective.

My good wife, Jane, and my three children have been active in
community affairs, and we have all enjoyed camping, skiing, and
river running in the nearby magnificent terrain. Our eldest off-
spring, Karen, is a sophomore at Radcliffe. Scott is a junior at the
Thacher School, Ojai, California, and has the problem of to what
colleges to apply staring him in the face for next year. Emily is in
the eighth grade in Medford schools and is the only one still at home
with us.

In 1954 we built a contemporary indigenous Oregon home on a
rugged hill on the farm. Working with a very fine architect, George
Rockrise from San Francisco, I did the contracting and supervision
of construction. The total effort developed into one of those happy
and fortunate combinations and the result has been a most satisf ving
one for family living.

Politically, I would class myself as an independent. Recognizing
both the facet and advantage of our tw o-party system, Tam reginte red

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

as a Democrat, having changed from Republican in the early 1950’s.
I am not in favor of the so-called “Welfare State,” which I think is
really more of a myth than a threat. I do, however, believe in the
obligation of our society to provide a reasonable opportunity to all.
Certainly our greatest problem politically has to do with our foreign
affairs with particular emphasis on the developing nations, the
strengthening of the UN, our trade situation, and our struggle with
the Communist system.

Being duly prejudiced I feel our major domestic concerns should
be “the farm problem” with its many obscure complexities, and the
forces that build moral character and fiber in our citizens of today.

JAMES MORTON CARPENTER

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Edgewood St. Waterville, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Art Dept., Colby College, Waterville, Maine.

BORN: Dec. 7, 1914, Glens Falls, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Hudson Falls High School, Hudson Falls, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; A.M. 1942; PH.Dy
1943.

marriep: Dorothy Sauer, Nov. 4, 1939, Melrose, Mass. cHitpren: William
M., Oct. 31, 1940; Stephen S., April 18, 1945; Elizabeth A., Oct. 29, 1951;
Jane M., Sept. 19, 1955.

occuPaTiON: Professor of Art, chairman, Art Department, Colby College.

MEMBER OF: American Federation of Arts; College Art Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in The Art Bulletin, College Art Journal, The Colby
Scholar.

SINCE graduation I have been involved in education in the field of
art, for the first twelve years at Harvard and for the next twelve at
Colby College. My career began tentatively with an assistantship in
the Fine Arts Department at Harvard and in the following year I
was recipient of the Bacon Fellowship for travel in Europe. At the
end of this year I had decided to continue in college teaching and
came back to Harvard as a graduate student and teaching fellow.
After receiving my Ph.D. I was instructor and assistant professor at
Harvard until I came to Colby in 1950.

During my twelve years at Colby I have had the satisfaction of
seeing an infant department housed in an attic grow into an effective
art center in a new building. At first | was the only teacher and
there are now three. An art muscum has come into being with the
new building. Half of my time now goes into developing the art

[170]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

collection and planning the loan exhibitions which are part of our
program. The other half is still devoted to teaching.

As a variation from the norm I have given a course on television
as part of the extension service offered in northern New England by
Colby College. I have also kept up my own painting, at intervals,
and concentrate on watercolor landscapes.

Life with the family has been enjoyable in Maine though we have
frequently felt the financial pinch of my profession. We acquired
an old house which has lent itself to piece by piece modernization, in
the process of which I have become an accomplished do-it-your-
selfer.

Our four children range from twenty-one to six years old, making
for a rich family life. Summers in the heart of the lake country and
not far from the coast are particularly pleasant.

My elder son chose Dartmouth, despite my suggestion four years
ago that the combination of his graduation and our Twenty-fifth
(my wife is Radcliffe, ’37) in Cambridge, would make a real occa-
sion. So we will travel there next June by way of Hanover. We have
hopes that from the other three there will be at least one Harvard or
Radcliffe student for the future.

LOUIS BRACKETT CARR

HOME ADDRESS: 291 Bacon St., Waltham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: M. W. Carr & Co., Inc., West Somerville 44, Mass.

BORN: May 22, 1916, Arlington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

mMarrieD: Mary Ann Housel, April 1, 1939, Milton, Pa. cem_pren: Louis Brack-
ett, Jr, August, 1940; Stephen Wentworth, March, 1943; Deborah Ann,
March, 1944; Patricia Ann, December, 1945.

OccuPATION: President, M. W. Carr & Company, Inc., manufacturers of portrait
frames.

“FIVE minutes before the hour” did it, though it is with real sorrow
I realize that upon mailing this epistle tonight, there will be no more
cards, Now, here we go with “conciseness.”

Met Mary Ann on the boat going to Europe in the summer follow-
ing graduation. Managed to encounter her in two or three countries,
and return on the same boat. Result: we became engaged in 1938;
married in April, 1939-— and I don’t remember very much about

Europe.
[170]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

The investment banking business via Halsey, Stuart was my first
employer. With them in New York from 1937 to 1939, then to
Providence until war broke out. From December, 1942, until De-
cember, 1945, 1 was employed first by the Federal Reserve and then
by the United States Treasury as executive manager of the War
Finance Committee in Rhode Island. During these years in Rhode
Island, our family tripled with first two boys, and then two girls.

In 1946, my brother-in-law and I decided to try to combine our
M.I.T. and Harvard backgrounds and purchased the controlling in-
terest in a small family business, and for this purpose we moved back
to the greater Boston area, where we have since resided.

Our efforts were so successful that by 1947 we were able to enjoy
several months with “no pay.” (My wife says twelve months.) For-
tunately, by 1948, we began to concentrate on the picture frame
business, and began to make a little sense. Since then the business has
continued to grow and I would hope that today, no matter where

you may live, your wife will have no difficulty in finding a Carr Craft
frame to compliment that handsome portrait made for her from your
recent sitting. Since we do sell in fifty states, and since we recently
purchased a subsidiary with a sales outlet in Charlotte, North Caro-
lina, the air travel card gets a pretty good workout.

On the domestic front, Louis, Jr., is now a senior at Wesleyan, and
Steve is in his first year at Amherst. Deborah enters college this
coming fall, and Patricia the following year. All contributions will
be gratefully received!

As for Mary Ann and me, we have been involved in much the usual
community activities: the Unitarian Church, the Waltham Hospital,
Belmont Hill School, Weston Golf Club, etc., with summers on Cape

Cod and an occasional trip. With a squash racket or a tennis racket,

I am open to challenge at any time. On the golf course at the mo-

ment, you could not give me enough strokes.

For the future, as of this morning, I have two hopes: First, that in
view of both the political and economic implications, some way will

be found to place America squarely in the ranks of those promoting

international trade — and may I add, this expression comes from a

Republican and one whose own business could be seriously affected

by the lowering or removing of tariffs.

Secondly, as I sit here and watch my wife endeavoring to learn the
twist from one of her daughters, may I hope that I will find some

way to move the hips, while at the same time seeing to it that the
shoulders behave!

[172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GARDNER WILLIAM CARTER

HOME ADDRESS; 9620 Northland Rd., Oklahoma City 20, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Concho Co., Inc., Box 7208, Oklahoma City 12, Okla.
BorN: Aug. 27, 1915, Holyoke, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934,

MarRIED: Patricia Clair Ward, Dec. 31, 1942, Meridian, Miss. cHitpre

Gardner William, Jr, Nov. 24, 1943; Alan Thomas, Jan. 12, 1945; Lav

rence Therrien, Aug. 10, 1946; Patrick Ward, Nov. 19, 1947; Beverly, Fe
22, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Superintendent, Concho Company, Inc., excavating and gradin
OFFICES HELD: President, St. Eugene’s Church Men’s Club.
MEMBER OF: Schola — St. Eugene’s Church, Oklahoma City.

LEFT Harvard College at end of freshman year to work. Workec
through Roosevelt depression in New York —various. 1935-41
civil service, New York City. April, 1941, through October, 1945:
OD’s in 28th Infantry Division and 4th Air Force — private to tech-
nical sergeant, discharged October 15, 1945. November 15, 1945, tc
November, 1954: employed with Hoover Equipment Company,
Oklahoma City, caterpillar earth-moving machinery dealers — parts
man, assistant to sales manager and territory salesman. November,
1954 — Concho Construction Company, earth-moving and excava-
tion, equipment superintendent and dispatcher. Concho Construc-
tion Company liquidated October, 1961. Concho Company, Inc.,
formed, continuing same occupation.

Republican by inclination; Catholic by belief. Hobbies: fishing
and hunting. ‘Recreation: water skiing and swimming.

I have no compulsion to make a million. My only hope is to raise

decent, God-fearing children, and to leave the world a little better
place than when I entered.

JOHN ALDEN CARTER
HOME aAppress: 7112 Eighth Ave. Brooklyn 28, N.Y.
OFFICE appress: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, 92d Street and
Seventh Avenue, Brooklyn 28, N.Y.
BORN: Aug. 13, 1915, Simla, India.
PREPARED aT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; A.M. (George Peabody Coll.
for Teachers), 1951.

MARRIED; Pauline Darden Kitchin, Feb. 4, 1941, Franklin, Ky. cr~pren: Alice
(Jill) Darrell, Sept. 29, 1943; John Alden, Jr, Dec. 7, 1946.

[173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Draper Carter, 31; Edward Clark Carter, Jr, 31
(deceased).

occupaTIoN: Assistant headmaster and chief guidance officer, Polytechnic Pre-
paratory Country Day School.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, board of trustees, Polytechnic Preparatory Country
Day School.

I SUPPOSE I am changed physically from 1937, but my general out-
look on life seems to have remained much as it was. I still fail to
understand what fascination Republicans see in their party and other
Republicans; I still fail when I try to understand the reality pictured
by people who talk “realistically,” but don’t; I am still wondering
why I perhaps would prefer to be a Unitarian when I am most moved
by the Episcopal service. I am still convinced there must be many
good Russians, just as I suspect there are probably cadres of un-
friendly Germans and Japanese. In the Thirties, I felt that rich
business men were responsible for the troubles I read about in the
newspapers (but never endured). Now I feel that rich business men
deserve their wealth because they must have very boring jobs. I
like my work, except that I wish more of my time were spent teach-
ing than, as it is, advising prep school seniors where they can fit into
college.
There have been three chapters in my life, with perhaps a fourth
just now beginning: |
First, my years as a department store merchant —a salesman in
Pittsburgh (I also worked for a while in a warehouse next to the
Armstrong Cork factory); selling and stockkeeping in Seattle (for a
year) — with an office overlooking Puget Sound and the Olympic
Range — a really glorious view and happy year; return to New York
and the head office and living in the Village with Noel Jordan (then
in show biz) and the late much-beloved and dignified John Kingsley.
Thence as buyer of handbags, jewelry, luggage, and silverware in
Nashville, Tennessee ($27.00 a week; I was independent). There I
married; there I was drafted and so ended Chapter r.

As a soldier I can claim duty as a private in the Army Air Corps
at Atlantic City; in the shade of the Rotunda in Dearborn, Michigan,
at Mobile, Alabama. As an artilleryman, I served at Fort Sill, where
I was commissioned (OCC 77) and became fascinated with teaching,
and later at Camp Shelby, Mississippi. Then to England, France,
Holland, and Germany with a Long-Tom gun outfit, serving mostly

as battery executive (Cowland Able Five). It was a small war for
me. I learned how to combat chiggers, do logarithms, and shave

[ 174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sitting down. I know how good hot, lumpy oatmeal tastes eaten
standing up in a cold forest, after no sleep, with the spoon held in
gloved fingers.

On being mustered out in February, 1946, I brought my wife and

oung daughter to New York in search of work —to teach in a
boys’ school. Through the Harvard Appointment Office, I was put
in touch with Dr. Allen, the fine veteran headmaster of Poly Prep in
Brooklyn who needed a substitute to teach English. He hired me
(the fact that I was a Harvard man impressed him). I’ve worked
there since April, 1946, sometime teacher of eighth, ninth, and tenth
grade English; for fifteen years soccer coach (nobody ever took
movies of our games); since 1954 assistant headmaster concerned
with many elements of guidance and particularly now with college
placement. I have traveled throughout much of America, visiting
fine colleges, firmly convinced that education is available for the
4,000 able scholars Harvard rejects every year.

Through all these chapters I have been supported by my wonder-
ful wife, who forsook her home in Nashville to face the unknown
perils of Brooklyn. We have two fine children — Jill, who started
her career at Connecticut College last October by living in the in-
firmary with mononucleosis (very stylish). She is a great joy to her
old man and sweet mother. She tolerates the great variety of young
men who show interest in her. Jack is in the tenth grade, is tall, has
discovered he has wavy hair, has humor and all his teeth almost
completely straightened. He is beyond my memory in Algebra, but
I can spell better than he. He is happy, and we like him.

My appetite is good; I sleep well most nights, read for pleasure
rather than education. I am neither a mover nor a shaker. I hope I
help run a school which has given my life a substance and a challenge.
And I look forward to a second twenty-five years (Chapter 4) with
confidence and general contentment.

ROBERT SPENCER CARTER

HOME aAppRESS: Box 221, Medina, Wash.

BorN: Aug. 18, 1915, Oakmont, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Cynthia Root, Dec. 31, 1937, Brooklyn, N.Y. cumpren: Lief Hastings,
Oct. 9, 1940; Delight, May 1, 1943. "

HARVARD SON: Lief Hastings Carter, *62.

[175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occupation: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Medina Improvement Club, 1955-60; trustee, since
1959, president, 1960-61, Harvard Club of Seattle and Western Wash-
ington,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Seattle and Western Washington; Seattle Yacht

Club; Corinthian Yacht Club of Seattle; Harvard Mountaineering Club
(life member).

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various yachting magazines,

THE request for autobiographical information brings home to me
how little 1 have to show for twenty-five years of post-college life.
Indeed, as I recount my present condition, I find a remarkable simi-
larity to that of 1937. I still have the same wife. I still have no job.
I have no children in the home. I still listen to talk about world
problems and worry about the bills when I should be making money
and worrying about the bills. Has nothing whatsoever happened,
then, in twenty-five years?

For those who read beyond such an inauspicious beginning, I shall
enlarge on this apparently changeless life. The reason I have no
children in the home is because one is in the Class of 1962 at Harvard
and the other in the Class of 1965 at Wellesley. So there is, you see,
something after all to show for the twenty-five years.

Now about this lack of job, that is really somewhat parallel. For
during those years that my children were approaching the college
age themselves I was a proper member of the Working Class, being
a marine underwriter and later manager with two large insurance
firms. Until 1949 this kept me in and around New York, being fol-
lowed by two years in Chicago. Since 1951 Seattle and its suburb of

Medina has been home. During the war years, I found myself wear-
ing a uniform remarkably like the Navy’s and stationed at the U.S.
Merchant Marine Academy at King’s Point, where I had expected
to teach maritime subjects and instead was assigned the teaching of
naval gunnery, court martial procedure, and the like. Despite the
uniform and the fact that I, already twice a father, became the adopt-
ed service man of some chick on the West Side, I was really a free
man. V-J Day arrived as I was about to go to sea and instead I went
back to work. But this had held me close to home for the duration,
and I am glad (or am I sorry?) that I can report no deeds of wartime
adventure.
By 1959 it was apparent that if I were to continue in the ficld of
marine insurance, it would be necessary to adjust the balance of my
life to that of a New York commuter, and being fortunately then

[176]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in a position where I could meet the future without the modest,
monthly paycheck this industry afforded, and our children being
then ready for college, I determined to experiment with a life of
greater freedom, to see if my time could be invested in a more re-
warding fashion than in working for a big corporation. (I must
be careful how I say this; it is too easy for it to sound condescending.
I do not want to condemn the life of the New York commuter or
the servant of the big corporation. These may have their frustra-
tions, but they have their compensations as well, and I thoroughly
enjoyed most of the years so spent. This was not an objection to
what I had but a recognition of what I was missing.)

Being thrown into contact with college life again, I began in-
vestigating the merits of investing in apartment housing for married
staff and married students and expect to start building the first such
project this winter, having selected Tempe, Arizona, the home of
Arizona State, as the first such location. If successful, we hope
others will follow. This venture and the supervision of our means
of income and of a few trusts has not left us in a position to with-
draw from reality altogether.

A word about our children. Lief has been working in economics
and government at a time when Harvard makes its own living ex-
ample of a case history, and I enjoy vicariously watching these
driving forces at work. I am sure he is benefiting more from col-
lege than his father did. Law school may he in his future, although
where is not yet settled. Delight, just starting at Wellesley, is in
love (not for the first time), and this renders her future more dif-
ficult of analysis. To me, the most interesting years of parenthood
were the later, when the children during their high school years
began to realize their intellectual potentials and the joy of learning,
so perhaps still more rewarding years lie ahead.

I see none of this has given much impression of how we really
live. Well, we live in a little old house on the water, with our boat
moored in front and a few sheep in the orchard in back. We tried
our hand at chickens and rabbits and cows and horses as the children
grew, but as they forsook animals for humans of the opposite sex
we dropped back to the simplicity of sheep. On days when I am
not away or in Seattle on business errands which are fewer than
one might think, I find I generally spend my mornings at desk
work and my afternoons in yard and farm work.

I am reluctant to talk politics here as what we say will be local

[177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and dated and meaningless in a few years. Let me simply say that
as the years go by I become ever more impressed with the unique-
ness and worth of the Anglo-American ideal of individual di nity
and freedom and that I feel no facet of our public life, political,
corporate, or union, uses our own Bill of Rights as the weapon it
could be in the battle for men’s minds.

With life behind us, as it were, is it possible to Stay young?
(Young by whose standards, our children might ask.) Some couples
find their solution by changing husbands or wives, but as already
mentioned we have not sought this means, managing instead to inject
a note of pretend adventure from time to time. In addition to the
pictures I carry in my mind of my wife as a bride, on her way to
a delivery room, signing for the purchase of our first home, I can
also now carry pictures of her on horseback at the end of a trail
in a Mexican jungle, landing through the surf of a tropical beach
in a dugout canoe, or being told by the chief of an Indian village on
the British Columbia coast that we were the first sailboat ever to
visit his village. But if I keep on I will make a life of retirement

sound more idyllic than the truth. And besides, some of you must
keep those corporations going.

JOHN McMULLEN CASE

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Lehigh Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Gore Bldg., Waltham 54, Mass.
BORN: June 8, 1914, Toronto, Ont., Canada.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., 19373 M.B.A., 1939.

MaRRieD: Margaret Wakefield Warts, Feb. 8, 1941, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN
Nancy Tyler, Dec. 8, 1944; Joanne Wakefield, Oct. 25, 1947.

OccuPATION: Finance; director of finance and receivables, Raytheon Company

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Church Board of Finance; treasurer and director,
Boston Club of Harvard Business School.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Country Club; Harvard Club of New York; New-

comen, Downtown Club; Harvard Varsity Club, New York Security
Analysts,

pusLications: “Financing the Wool Industry,” Bulletin of Robert Morris
Associates, March, 1952.

AFTER topping off four years in Cambridge with two years at the
Business School, | went to work for a Boston bank. I was exposed to
a concentrated but well-rounded banking background for the next
fifteen or so years, except for three years in the Navy Supply Corps.

[178]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Navy assignments carried me to submarines in the Caribbean, to
Marine aviation in North Carolina, and to contract termination in
Boston. Around 1955, an interesting opportunity to work at the
New York Stock Exchange presented itself and I spent the next few
years learning a bit about Wall Street and the investment banking
business. I subsequently, and with mixed emotions, moved back to
the Boston scene, where I have ever since been attempting to make a
living for myself and family.

WILLIAM BROOKS CAVIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1905 East River Rd., Minneapolis 14, Minn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cavin & Page, Architects, 325 Cedar St., St. Paul 1, Minn.; 910
_ National Bldg., Minneapolis 2, Minn,

BoRN: Nov. 3, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; B-ARCH., 1940; M-.ARCH., 1941.

MarriED: Dorothy Pickett, Dec. 26, 1939, Minneapolis, Minn, campren: William

_ Brooks, 3d, June 29, 1942; Edward Pickett, May 18, 1946; Ann and Barbara
(twins), Dec. 23, 1949; Thomas Jeffrey, Feb. 25, 1954.

HARVARD SON: William Brooks Cavin, 3d, ’64.

occupation: Architect; partner in firm, Cavin & Page; member of faculty,
School of Architecture, University of Minnesota (part-time).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Center Arts Council, 1953; president, Gorham-
Garbett Company, since 1954, Prospect Park Improvement Association,
1955; president, St. Paul Chapter, 1956-57, Minnesota Society of Archi-
tects, 1957-58, American Institute of Architects, president, St. Paul
Chapter, 1956, national president, 1958, American Interprofessional Insti-
tute.

MEMBER OF: St. Paul Gallery and School of Art; Walker Art Center; Harvard
Club of Minnesota; Minneapolis Institute of Arts; Minneapolis Athletic
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to The Quarterly of the American
Interprofessional Institute.

JUNE, 1937, was just the halfway point in Cambridge for me, as
there still remained four more years at the Harvard Graduate School
of Design. The last year and a half I commuted to Cambridge from
a honeymoon studio on Belmont Hill, and Dottie commuted to
Wellesley College where she taught a course in economics (ugh!).

By 1946 we were fairly well rooted in Washington, D.C. — we
thought! That summer I entered an architectural competition for a
State Veterans’ Memorial Building in faraway Minnesota; and, when
my scheme was selected, we moved to faraw: ay Minnesota, and I
opened my own office for the practice of architecture.

[179]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

The next year I joined the faculty of the School of Architecture
at the University of Minnesota on a half-time basis and have con-
tinued teaching since. It is a wonderfully stimulating complement
to professional practice. About two per cent of the students are girls
— they automatically get B’s.

The diversity of a small practice is richly rewarding (in all but the
monetary sense). Houses are the most fun, but there is a real thrill
in watching an office building, hospital or civic building grow to
match your imaginings. Two years ago another architect joined me
in partnership. One wonderful by-product of this development was
the opportunity for a trip to Europe last spring. With a good man
to “tend the store,” Dottie and I finally got to see first hand the
buildings and art treasures we had studied in the Fogg Museum,
Robinson Hall or the Farnsworth Gallery. It seems incredible that
Professors Conant and Opdyke were able to imprint mental images
that could persist for a quarter century in a rather sluggish brain.
The vast quantity of great art in every European city leaves you
breathless (and somewhat foot-weary). I gained some deep impres-
sions of Europe — worthy of continuing reflection back home:

There is a tradition of appreciation of art by people of all walks
of life.

There is time to live some of each day — business does not always
come first.

The countryside can be enjoyed by all travelers — it isn’t com-
pletely blocked out by billboards for booze or bras.

Cities have an end and country begins — fortunately, they have
not yet learned our way of sprawling out in FHA tracts, 1,000 at a
whack!

Our family attacks each season's special activities with new vigor:
skiing and school functions or sailing, swimming and rock-hounding.
We live within walking distance of a great university; so concerts,
lectures and sports get equal billing with PTA, civic and professional
meetings.

Harvard instilled in me an understanding of the importance of
excellence; and some ability, I think, to detect it in various forms.
For this I am most grateful.

[ 180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR BOND CECIL, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Easton, Md.

porn: Aug. 1, 1914, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Santa Barbara, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937-

marrigep: May Elliott Shannahan, Sept. 15, 1939, Easton, Md. cnitpren:
Arthur Bond, 3d, Sept. 15, 1942; Kitty Caulk, July 20, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in surgery, Duke Hospital, 1948-50, Johns Hopkins
Hospital, 1950-56; currently, chief of surgery, Memorial Hospital, Easton,
Md.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Board of Surgery
(diplomate); American Board of Thoracic Surgery (diplomate).
PUBLICATIONS: Medical articles in medical journals.

WILLIAM BOWERS CHACE

HOME ADDRESS: 301 Fox Hill St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 43 Leon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1914, Walpole, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Anne B. Burrage, Nov. 9, 1940, Ipswich, Mass.; Dorothy Newton
Inglis, April 29, 1955, Boston, Mass. cumtpreN: Diana, July 15, 1948;
Cynthia, Jan. 14, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, W. B. Chace Co., Inc., distributors and manufacturers
of surface coatings and allied chemical specialties.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club; Tennis and Racquet Club,
Boston; Wianno Club.

MY business continues to be an absorbing interest, primarily be-
cause of necessity but also because of the many recent develop-
ments in the chemical industry.

The trend of world events over recent years has moved me to
greater activity in the Naval Reserve. I am reassured to feel that
most people are becoming aware of the critical situation we face.
Let’s hope we can reverse the trend.

The activities involved in summer on the Cape and the grouse
season in New Hampshire are great antidotes. ,

[ 181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ELIAS JOHN CHALHUB

HOME ADpRESS: 700 Flamingo Drive, West Palm Beach, Fla.
BorN: Oct. 21, 1915, Mount Lebanon, Syria.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1937.

UNMARRIED.

TEN, fifteen, twenty-five years! And you want to know what of
yesterday when tomorrow becomes today? Well, I shall tell you.

I am still Elias John Chalhub, Class of ’37 .... alias E. Jno.
Chalhub, alias, Elijah, but lam no prophet. I have gathered no moss,
no profession, no wife, no children, no false teeth, no ulcer. Yet I
have all the markings: graying hair, erratic heart beat, operation,
problems. |

Why “no nothing”? Don’t know.

For I have just returned from zigzagging 35,000 miles of this
glorious (?) ball. (I came back to find that you are frantically wait-
ing for this piece. So I report to you.) I found,

THE WORLD IS ROUND! .... This was a working trip, a study
mission by editors and publishers, members of the National Editorial
Association. We were briefed by the State and Defense Depart-
ments at our jumping off point, Seattle. Thence to Anchorage,
Alaska, Japan (tour of the island which included atom-bombed
Nagasaki), Taiwan, the dream world of Chiang Kai-shek (and a
surprise trip to the offshore fortresss of Kinmen), Hong Kong and
a football field’s length from the Red China mainland, Thailand,
Cambodia, South Viet Nam (where the war is Hor, not cold), Malaya
Peninsula and Singapore, India and the hell hole called Calcutta,
Pakistan, Kashmir and the Khyber Pass, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan,
Israel, Lebanon (one more day and we would have been caught in
the Syrian revolt vs. URA), Greece, Austria, Switzerland, West
and East Berlin and Germany (there is a difference), France —
and seven hours later when the captain of our PAA Jet piped “You
would like to know, we are flying at 27,000 feet and are over
Nantucket Sound,” I responded with “God Bless America.”

AND THE PEOPLE ARE GOING "ROUND AND ’ROUND.... . “masses of
men who lead lives of quiet desperation”... . tired of being fol-
lowers of followers . . . . they see no action on our part. All re-
action. And they are puzzled. Their leaders (and we questioned
them all, from Nehru to the lowliest), flamboyant, artless, whose
sole aim is to polish their wily skill in the art of solving nothing

. and sadly, not without our help. We made these leaders

{ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

what they are. We gave them honor seats, with built-in swivel, to
drive us giddy with their neutralism and non-alignment. The mina-
tory Khrushchev at his very best —or worst —has not done the
brainwashing on us that these fillip-vending jugglers have accom-
plished .... Their hunger is insatiable. But the hunger of the
people — quite different — is easily satisfied with a little genuine
concern. The question: Is our help for them or for a stand-off,
Russia vs, United States?

. It is not Communism that is taking over the world — the
people will see to that. What is taking over the world is Prag-
matism, the law of expediency. The encouragement and exercise
of this day-to-day philosophy, the substitution of money for human
interest, is a weakness we can ill afford much longer... .

Watching these forces at work, one gets the feeling that this
world is not being developed for people — to work, to play, to live.
I am reminded that Shakespeare said “the world’s a stage”; and
Omar Khayyam said “the leaves of life keep falling one by one.”
And I wonder: isn’t material gain — which I have plenty of — “no
nothing,” too?

. Reading over the ten-year bit I find my ambition to keep
my youth i is fairly well preserved — and just as puzzled as a youth;
my desire to get out of business is about complete after these stints:
editor, publisher, theatreman, bowling proprietor, realtor, broker;
hobbies, applied sparsely, bagging an antelope at 3 50 yards with
30-06 is the highlight of my big-game hunting; writing poetry is
my escape. And I write editorially as an avocation, luckily!

Clubs, civic, fraternal and playboy aside, possibly rewarding are
these efforts: (1) the recognition of the Eastern Orthodox Church
under the spiritual tutelage of Archbishop Anthony Bashir, a ten-
year project. (It is ironic and paradoxical that the original church
of Christ, The One Holy Apostolic Church, required acceptance in
the land with the motto “In God We Trust.”)

And (2) the dedication of St. Jude Research Hospital under the
leadership of Danny Thomas. This is the nominal pledge that afrer
five years became a $5,000,000 reality, the first and only children’s
research hospital in the world for the care and cure of leukemia and
other catastrophic diseases. And as Southern States regional director
and member of the board of governors I can assure you it is true that
children from all walks of life will be treated absolutely Free, We
have no account receivables. Open to all creeds, races and colors.

Tomorrow becomes yesterday at a glance!

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ALBERT HENRY CHAMBERLAIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Owenoke Way, Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE ApprEss: Stamford Rolling Mills Co. Springdale, Conn.

porn: Nov. 24, 1915, Methuen, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.B.A., 1939(40); c.P.a, (New
York), 1951.

MARRIED: Dorothy Jane Pitman, Aug. 30, 1952. CHILDREN: Lydia, Aug. 5, 1953;
Henry Hooper, Nov. 28, 1956; Rodney Gove, Feb. 1, 1958; Erika Jane,
April 15, 1949 (stepdaughter).

occupation: Controller of Brass Mill.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Business School Club of New York, 1954-55;
director, New York Chapter, National Association of Cost Accountants,

1954-55; appear destined to be treasurer, First Congregational Church of
Greenwich, effective January, 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants; New York
State Society of Certified Public Accountants; National Association of
(Cost) Accountants, Harvard Club of New York City; Harvard Business
School Club of New York; 3oth Infantry Division Association,

THE lure of Harvard kept me across the Charles for two more
years in the highly stimulating atmosphere of the Business School,
but all good things must end. The first move was to the Industrial
Engineering Department of National Tube Company at Lorain,
Ohio, for two years of rearranging things there. This period was
interrupted by Uncle Sam in 1942 and three years of field radio
communications with the 3oth Infantry Division in the E.T.O. This
turned out to be a pleasant bunch, and we still get together to talk
over old times.

After this matter was concluded, the accounting field began to
beckon, and in 1947 | joined the staff of one of the national firms
in New York City, becoming a C-P.A. in 1951. Still a bachelor, liv-
ing in Queens and working out of the city, I found this game quite
interesting for the first fiveyears. However, in the summer of 1952
I found the girl, and we were married that August, As time went
on from there 1 found spending so much time on trains less inter-
esting, with a growing family which I hardly saw for at least seven
months out of the year. For the last three years of this association,
I was a New Haven commuter from Riverside, Connecticut. In

the summer of 1955 1 found an opening for a controller at a brass
mill in Stamford, and am still there in thar capacity.

During my time in public accounting, my other activity Was
mainly professional, centering on what was then the National Asso-

[ 184 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ciation of Cost Accountants and the Harvard Business School Club
of New York. Since leaving public practice, my extracurricular
activity has been mainly with our church (the First Congregational
of Old Greenwich) where I have been teaching Sunday School as
well as helping in the financial department. I find that I am now
the official candidate for the office of treasurer for a three-year term
starting in January, 1962.

In the summer of 1952 I met Dorothy Jane Pitman, who was
_ then brushing up for the State of Maine bar examination which
she passed three weeks before we were married the end of August.
Of course, I immediately loused this up by bringing her down to
the New York City area. However, we now have four youngsters
who are well worth the effort, and she has survived the sudden
change. |

As for politics (where I am not personally active), this recent
fine parade of Harvard Presidents does not seem to have made any
dent on my Republican convictions.

TERTIUS CHANDLER
MAILING ADDRESS: Poste Restante, Gothenburg, Sweden.
BORN: Feb. 6, 1915, Dedham, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1937.
MarrigD; Margot Tegelstrém, September 18, 1961.

SINCE leaving Harvard I’ve lived in California, New York, Utah,
England, New Zealand, Germany and, since 1956, Sweden.

Both during and since my decade as a common laborer (dish-
washer, etc.), I’ve continued to study history. My books get larger
and more encylopedic — but are still privately printed and don’t
sell. However, articles of mine have lately begun appearing in
Northwest Challenge (Corvallis), Afotive (Auckland), Amrerican
Anthropologist and two Swedish papers.

I regard these as my main findings: Tracing the ethics and
heaven-motif in Buddhism and Hinduism and the ethics of Con-
fucianism all to Ikhnaton. Finding supporting data for Freud's
much-maligned theory that Ikhnaton inspired Moses, and for his
date for Exodus. Compiling tables of city-populations since B.C.
times. Theorizing that Kukulcan who conquered Mexico was really
the Viking Bjérn Asbrandsson from Iceland.

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Am rather proud to have been the most prolific and tenacious
opponent of an unsuccessful bill to drain the democracy out of
Utah’s State Constitution. And also to have taken a hand in turn-
ing Touré away from De Gaulle and toward independence.

My habitat is large libraries. My hobby is running.

+ WILLIAM HARTUPEE CHANDLER

BorN: July 21, 1915, Ford City, Pa. parents: Andrew Hartupee Chandler,
Lucile Brown.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1937:
piep: Aug. 8, 1937, Kittanning, Pa.

CHANDLER spent three years with our Class, during which he

concentrated in economics and lived in Cambridge. He was killed
by accident.

HAYDEN CHANNING

HOME ADDRESS: 2611 Foxhall Rd., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: June 29, 1914, Sherborn, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Canford School, Dorset, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Sherwood Towar, Nov. 29, 1944, Pasadena, Calif. (died
Nov. 12, 1957); Armenal Gorman Moorhead, Sept. 30, 1958, Washington,

D.C. curren: Julia Patterson Moorhead, Dec. 11, 1943; Stephanie Stod-
dard Moorhead, Jan. 25, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Ellery Channing, °43.
occupation: Foreign Service Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club, Chevy Chase, Md.

AFTER joining the National City Bank of New York in October,
1937, | served a brief apprenticeship rotating through its operating
departments and then became an assistant to William S. Lambie,
Senior Vice-president. The Office of Naval Intelligence severed
this relationship at approximately 8 P.M. on 7 December 1941.

1 fought — and I mean this quite literally — the first long months
of the war at 67 Broad Street, New York City, in the Office of
Radio and Cable Censorship, USN. Winning the battle early in
1943, | shook the soot out of my blue uniform, donned the aiguil-
lettes of an aide and reported to Commodore Oscar Smith, USN,

[ 186 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as his Flag Lieutenant in, of all unlikely places for a Naval Air
tion, Clinton, Okla.

Duty with the Commander Special Air Task Force took me f
Clinton to Traverse City, Michigan to Monterey, Californi

there’s a real hardship post —to the Solomon Islands. All too
to see any Japs except from a safe distance.

1 am now with the State Department. I spent from 1953 to 1.
in Germany and although I look forward to returning overs
Washington life is very pleasant. Last summer was supposed to
the one in which I improved my golf. This might have been if
one balmy evening early in June I had not decided to show c
eleven-year-old how to skip rope. She knows how to and obvious

I do not. This very brief lesson cost me one ruptured Achil
tendon and three months away from golf. Rugger was never tb
rough. :

CHESTER STEVENS CHARD
HOME ADDRESS: 1009 Columbia Rd., Madison 5, Wis.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept, of Anthropology, University of Wisconsin, Madison «
Wis.

BORN; Sept. 15, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; PHD. (Univ. of California)
1953.

MarRieD: Georget Bissell, June 6, 1936, Brookline, N.H. (divorced 1939);
Elizabeth Walter, July 18, 1940, Brookline, Mass, (divorced 1952); Bernar-
dine Smith, Jan. 20, 1953, Santa Barbara, Calif. cHmpren: Carleton Stevens,
April 21, 1943; Kenneth Walter, July 9, 1945; Frederick Harrison, April

24, 1947; Robert Lawrence, Sept. 3, 1954; Alan Douglas, Dec. 28, 1956;
Susan Lorraine, Aug. 20, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Brooks Chard, ’31.

OccUPATION: Associate professor of anthropology, University of California.

MEMBER oF: Sigma Xi; American Anthropological Association (fellow);
American Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow); Royal
Anthropological Institute (fellow); Society for American Archacology;
American Association of Physical Anthropologists; The Prehistoric Su-
ciety; Association for Asian Studies; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Slavic Studies; Arctic Institute of North America; Far
Eastern Prehistory Association (council member); Archaeological Society
of Japan, Japanese Erhnological Society; American Indian Ethno-Historical
Conference; New York State Archaeological Association;

WWiiscomin
Archaeological Society; Sierra Club; Wilderness Sociery; Nature Con-
servancy.

{ 187]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PUBLICATIONS: Some seventy-five to date; principal titles: “Outline of the Pre-
history of Siberia,” Southwestern Journal of Anthropology, Vol. 14, 1958;
“New World Origins: a Reappraisal,” Antiquity, Vol. 33, Newbury, Eng-
land, 1959; Japanese Source Materials on the Archaeology of the Kurile
Islands, University of Wisconsin Press, 1960; co-author, “Preceramic
Cultures in Japan,” American Anthropologist, Vol. 62, 1960; “Routes to
Bering Strait,” American Antiquity, Vol. 26, 1960; “The Neolithic in
Northern Asia: a Culture Area Approach,” Anthropologica, Vol. 2,
Ottawa, 1960; Kamchadal Culture, University of Wisconsin Press, 1961;
co-author, Preceramic Japan: Source Materials, University of Wisconsin
Press, 1961; articles, “Kamchadal,” “Yakut,” “Yukaghir,” Encyclopaedia
Britannica, 1961 ed.

AFTER graduating in international relations, two years of travel
(Philippine mountain districts, Celebes, Moluccas, Bali, Nias, Su-
matra, Malaya, Sarawak, North Borneo — followed by Mexico and
Guatemala) confirmed my desire to take up anthropology as a
career. In the fall of 1939 I returned to Cambridge and entered the
Graduate School, spending the next two and a half years in and
around the Peabody Museum with the exception of an archaeological
field trip to the central Mississippi valley in the spring of 1941.
During this period, along with Gene Worman, ’37, I was active in
the formation of an archaeological organization, The Excavators’
Club, at the Museum and served as its first editor. My interests
eventually began to focus on eastern Asia, and in the fall of 1941
I began the study of Japanese, with the result that very shortly
after Pearl Harbor, with a number of my fellow students, I was
drawn into the U.S. Navy Japanese Language School from which
I graduated with an ensign’s commission in January, 1943. The
next three years were spent in intelligence work in the Pacific
Theatre, an episode recently immortalized by my Navy classmate,
John Ashmead, in his novel The Mountain and the Feather. This
terminated in the first three months of the Occupation in southern

Japan.
One fruit of my naval career was an introduction to the charms of

Berkeley, California, along with a number of colleagues, I came to
the conclusion that this was the only fit place to live. When I re-
sumed my interrupted graduate studies, therefore, it was in the
Department of Anthropology at the University of California, from
which I received a doctorate in January, 1953, with a dissertation on
the aborigines of Kamchatka, By this time I had begun to regard
myself as a native-born Californian and viewed with alarm the
influx of immigrants from less-favored parts of the country. Berke-

[ 188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ley remained home base until an invitation as vis
brought me to the dynamic, fast-growing Anthrop
ment at the University of Wisconsin in the fall of
have hecome more firmly embedded with each passing
vociferously maintaining my unregenerate western alle
1953-58 interim had been mostly occupied with resea
stints as a visiting professor at the University of W
Seattle and a visit to the USSR at the behest of varic
organizations, in order to open up the channels of cor

in my field, I should mention that my interest in north

as the ultimate source for American Indian origins led

up the study of Russian, and a large share of my time is
ferreting out the results of Soviet research in my disc

making it available to my colleagues.

At Wisconsin I am active in the university’s Russian Are
and Far Eastern Studies Programs in addition to my prim
mitment to the Department of Anthropology. My teaci

research centers around the prehistory and culture histor

Old World, especially northern and eastern Asia, and their r

for problems of New World origins. I have also undertak

met field tips recently to the Canadian Arctic (South
Island), and the Alaskan Peninsula. This, plus a steadily inc
accumulation of editorial duties (currently involving seven «
zations or journals), occupies all available time. I can recall h
of past years — hiking, camping, travel, conservation, nature

tory —and persuade myself that some day, when things slac
and the children are older, I shall reactivate them.

IRA CHART

HOME appRrEss: 801 Las Lomas Ave., Pacific Palisades, Calif.
OFFICE AppRrEss: System Development Corp. Santa Monica, Calif.
Born: Nov. 2, 1915, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937; A.M. 192
PHOD., 1O4r.
UNMARRIED.
occupation: Senior editor-writer in publications-documentation managemene
System Development Corporation, a non-profir compter-based company:
engaged in command control systems, simulation techniques, etc.
OFFICES HELD: Military historian, Alaskan Air Command, t951-57; consuleant
writer, Polaroid Corporation, Cambridge, Mass. 1957; senior publications

[ 189]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

engineer, Lockheed Missiles & Space Company, Sunnyvale, Calif., 1957-59.

MEMBER OF: Professional Group of Engineering Writers and Speech (I.R.E.);
Lockheed Management Club; Phi Beta Kappa.

puBLICATIONS: Various military (U.S. Air Force) historical documents; various
newsletters for International Public Opinion Research, New York, 1946-
47; radio and film scripts (as employee for U.S.A.F., Lockheed, System
Development Corporation); brochures, house organs, etc. Received two
Outstanding Performance Awards in five continuous years of federal
service (1951-56) while serving as command historian for the Alaskan
Air Command.

A GLANCE at job résumé — which every agile and fleet-footed
worker keeps handy and updated in the shifting sands of Southern
California — reveals all. “Air defense ... staff writer... con-
tractual reports . . . proposals . . . customarily employed at mili-
tary staff or civilian management level, etc.”

How come this avenue of endeavor after a three-degree go at
Romance languages and literature? The old résumé has the answer.
The earliest positions (wartime government and post-World War II
industry) contain such titles as translator, European affairs analyst,
foreign market analyst. This association with languages and geog-
raphy is understandable, a grad student’s attempt to bridge the gap.
But time proved it narrow and confining, notwithstanding the
fact that the two-year stint with the Office of Strategic Services
was well worth the having.

A broader vista, seeing new places and trying different things
were needed. They inevitably led to a career of just “writing for
government and industry.” Perhaps the most compelling and vital
experience was the assignment as military historian for the Air Force
in Alaska. Five years in the North, chronicling as well as partici-
pating in the operations and activities of American defense forces,
returned rich rewards (spiritual) to the writer. A trip to the North
Pole during the International Geophysical Year, landing on the ice
pack, tramway climbs to snowbound radar sites, even the ever-
present tundra winds — all are memory-etched.

Southern California is a later chapter. Still in the milieu of things
that are space, computers, missile components, the writer turns a
mite sedentary. He tends to organize, manage, work with groups
of people. He sees another side. And if someone accuses him of
swimming in his own pool and voting Nixon-Republican after years
of Democratic leanings, then that someone is astute.

One happy survival of the Romance languages days is a re-
acquaintanceship, indeed a philosophic marriage with Montaigne.

[ 190 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

He is preferred reading and rereading. Almost with a passion. It is
like finding one’s self in a man with whom, and only with whom, a
silent kinship is possible.

FRED LEROY CHASE, JR.

HOME ApDpDRESS: 30 Lake Shore Drive, Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dewey & Almy Chemical Division, W. R. Grace & Co., 62
Whittemore Ave. Cambridge 40, Mass,

BporN: Nov. 30, 1914, Dedham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB. Magna cum laude, 1937; SCD.
(Massachusetts Inst. of Technology), 1942.

MARRIED: Elizabeth C. Brock, Sept. 22, 1945, Nantucket, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Brock, Nov. 8, 1948; Peter Gilman, Jan. 28, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Chemist; assistant director of research, Container & Chemical
Specialties Division.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, 1954-58, deacon, since 1961, Pleasant
St. Congregational Church; company’s delegate on Industrial Liaison
Panel, Food Protection Committee, National Research Council — National
Academy of Sciences.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Academy for the Advance-
ment of Science.

DURING our senior year, I met Bradley Dewey, ’08, one evening.
This chance meeting had an unexpectedly large effect upon my
subsequent career. Mr. Dewey encouraged me to go on to do
graduate work in chemical engineering at M.I.T. This I did with
the help of a teaching assistantship, which I suspect he may have had
some influence in obtaining for me. I was getting close to finishing
the work for the Doctor’s degree as the war approached.

I went to work for the Dewey & Almy Chemical Company in
1941 at Bradley Dewey’s urging and plunged into the work of re-
search on can-sealing compounds. In those days the company was
deep in the struggle of making its first synthetic rubber and the
further struggle of making useful products from the rubber, par-
ticularly for the sealing of tin cans and other food containers.

This is a rather narrow or, at least, specialized field. However, I
have found it both interesting and satisfying. Its connection with
food preservation is one aspect which has interested me. It has also
been most interesting to work with the great variety of synthetic
rubbers and plastics which have come along in these twenty years,

In this time, it has been a pleasure to see the growth of Dewey

[191]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

& Almy in the container sealing and in wider fields and a gratifica-
tion to feel that I have contributed in some ways to this growth.

Only a small part of my time is spent in travel for the company,
but when I have traveled, I have traveled quite far, both in this
country and in South America and Europe.

As a family, we stick quite close to home. We have lived in the
Mystic Lakes section of Arlington ever since our marriage. Re-
modeling and maintaining our home has been with me a hobby, in
which Betty has actively participated, and which the boys are
getting to be useful at, too. Right here at home we have swimming
and boating and skating. So there always seems to be plenty to do
without going off. We do go to Nantucket for a week or two in
the summer, as Betty’s father and relatives live there. But it is cer-
tainly no hardship to visit that lovely island every year.

In the last three years I have taken an active part in a group
venture now incorporated in the state of New Hampshire as “Tree
Growers, Inc.” The purpose of the corporation is to acquire forest
land and bring it under scientific forest management. We all pitch
in to do some of the timber stand improvement work, the stock-

holders having planted the better part of 17,000 seedling trees since
the start. Of course, “Tree Growers” gives us a good excuse for
doing some camping and tramping in the woods, which we as a
family all enjoy.
At home in Arlington, we join in the affairs of the Pleasant Street
Congregational Church.

HAIM HERSCHEL CHISWIK

HOME ADDRESS: 1525 Thornwood Drive, Downers Grove, IIl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass Ave., Argonne, Ill.

BORN: Nov, 29, 1915, Russia.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea Senior High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; $.M., 1939; S.D., 1944.

MaRRIED: Beatrice May Levinson, Sept. 24, 1942. cuiLpREN: Nancy, May 8,
1945; Paul, Oct. 9, 1947; Linda, March 10, 1954.

occupation: Associate director, Metallurgy Division, Argonne National
Laboratory, operated by University of Chicago for the U.S, Atomic
Energy Commission.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Publications Committee, Transactions of American
Society for Metals, member, editorial Advisory Board, International
Journal of Nuclear Materials.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers;
Amcrican Society for Metals, Sigma XI; Research Society of America.

[ 192 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS; Several dozen research papers in scientific and technical journals
on metals structure and application of atomic energy to electric power
generation.

CAREER: Following graduation from the Harvard Graduate School
of Engineering in 1944 with an S.D. degree in physical metallurgy
and metallurgical engineering, and a short stay in New York City
working for the Engineering Research Council, Uncle Sam beckoned
to come down to the Charleston (South Carolina) Navy Yard to
help lick some metallurgical engineering production problems. Then
on to Columbus, Ohio, for some more trouble shooting in evaluation
of enemy material. The past fifteen years have been spent in en-
gineering research in the application of nuclear energy to peaceful
uses, primarily the generation of electronic power.

Travel: In 1958 I was a United States delegate to the Second Interna-
tional Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy held in
Geneva. This provided an opportunity to tour in Switzerland,
France, the Low Countries, and England in a Dauphine which we
brought back with us and still have and we love it (Congressmen,
please don’t jump to conclusions — it wasn’t a junket at government
expense). Other professional assignments included travel to places
all the way from Thurso on the northernmost tip of Scotland in 1959
to a two-month stay in Buenos Aires and the Physics Institute at
Bariloche in Argentina on the slopes of the Andes last March-April.
It has been much fun. |

Politics: In domestic politics, I guess I can best be classified as an
independent voter in state and municipal matters, a non-registered
Democrat on national scene, and an admirer of Adlai. I voted for
J.F.K. but I am still hopefully waiting for that bold New Frontier
approach. In international relations, my observations in my travels
have been disheartening: the image of America as the land of success-
ful democracy has not only been tarnished but replaced by an image
which at best can be described as fuzzy, uncertain, and darn suspi-
cious as to what our national and international goals really are.
Religion: Well, I enjoy and, in fact, collect stories and jokes (clean
ones) of a religious line, and I shall be glad to exchange information
with Classmates similarly disposed.

Remedies for World Ills: First and foremost, let’s do something about
birth control. I might suggest that it would behoove Harvard to take
the lead in establishing a scientific research institute to explore imagi-
natively possible solutions to the problem. Second, let’s declare a
moratorium on technological development (but only after I acquire

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937 |

my electric backscratcher) to permit the social scientists to catch up.
This may take a century or longer, but what of it?

Family: As above, and I love them all. Nancy aspires to go to Welles-

ley. Her motivation in selecting Wellesley is as yet obscure to me,
but after all she is only a “modern teenager.”

THOMAS HYDE CHOATE

HOME ADDRESS: Wheatley Road, Brookville, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 20 Broad St, New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 19373; LLB., 1940.

MARRIED: Jane Harte, Dec. 16, 1939, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cHmpreN: Jane
Webster, May 24, 1941; Caroline, July 25, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Osgood Choate, Jr., ’34.

OccuPATION: Partner, investment banking firm. .

orFicks HELD: Mayor, Brookville, N.Y., 1950-60; director, George Junior
Republic; vestryman, Church of the Advent.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York, Meadow Brook
Club; Links Club; Links Golf Club.

I GRADUATED from the Law School in June, 1940, and found a
job with Messrs. Shearman & Sterling, a reputable New York law
firm, in September, 1940.

In the spring of 1942, I enlisted in the Army of the U.S., as a
“volunteer officer candidate” — one step ahead of the draft. Foreign
service as a battery officer included the southern states, England,
France, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Germany. In the fall of 1945, I
rejoined my family and Messrs. Shearman & Sterling. In October of
1955, White, Weld & Company, an investment banking firm, invited
me to join them, and I have been here ever since, specializing in the
new business and buying departments.

My side activities include golf, riding, and bad bridge. I am well
satisfied with my family, but the mutuality of this feeling may some-
times be open to question. At any rate, I find them most instructive
and of beneficial influence.

A word about my social and political convictions. It seems to me
that too much taxation and too much governmental control smother
what the country is trying to accomplish. I recognize the necessity

of these curbs but find that I am continually opposing any expansion
of them. There are those who say that this makes me a conservative.
If they are right, Pll accept the label, and yet I believe that change

[194]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is our natural environment and without it we would all have n
our course.

CHRISTIAN VIRGIL CIMMINO

HOME ADDRESS: 1726 Greenway Drive, Fredericksburg, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mary Washington Hospital, Fredericksburg, Va,

BORN: June 6, 1916, Paterson, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Eastside High School, Paterson, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cut laude, 1937; MD. (Joh
Hopkins Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Elise Pinckney, December, 1943, Waukegan, Ill. cumpren: An

Pinckney, Jan. 12, 1947; Elizabeth Bellinger, Oct. 5, 1948, Christian Pete
Nov. 22, 1951. .

OCCUPATION: Radiologist, private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant in radiology, Richmond Memorial Hospital, Rict
mond, Va., since 1954; member, editorial board, Virginia Medical Monthly
since 1956; president-elect, Virginia Radiological Society, since 1961
clinical professor of radiology, Medical College of Virginia, since 1961

MEMBER OF: Faculty of Radiologists of London (fellow); American Colleg
of Radiology (fellow); American College of Physicians (fellow); Ameri

can Roentgen Ray Society; American Board of Radiology (diplomate)
PUBLICATIONS: Some forty professional papers.

KENNETH McRUER CLARK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4403 Leddy Drive, Midland, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Texaco, Inc., P.O. Box 1270, Midland, Texas.

BoRN: April 28, 1916, Old Town, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarRRIED: E. Marie Payne, Nov. 26, 1953, Bethany, Okla. cHipren: Mary
Helen, Oct. 26, 1954; Kenda Marie, Oct. 29, 1956.

occupation: Oil; seismic interpreter, exploration for oil.

MEMBER OF: Society of Exploration Geophysicists; American Association of
Petroleum Geologists.

RICHARD CHARNLEY CLARK

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Glendale Rd., Sharon, Mass,

OFFICE appress: Reach, McClinton & Humphrey, Inc. 1235 Sratler Bldg.
Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1915, Derby, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Derby High School, Derby, Conn.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

[ 195]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

marrieD: Lydia LeBaron Johnson, Oct. 8, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. ciitpren.

Lydia LeBaron, Jan. 15, 1944; Richard Charnley, Jr., Jan. 8, 1946; Nathaniel
Goodwin, Feb. 28, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Merritt Clark, °32.

occupation: Vice-president, account executive, Reach, McClinton & Humphrey,
Inc., advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Sharon Public Library; president, Sharon Players;
member, Town Warrant Committee; president, Sharon Tennis Club.

I HAVE spent more time studying the lives of Jacques Ach, Thayer
Cummings and Wells Fay than I ever did Plutarch’s. It was the
biographies of these esteemed gentlemen, you may recall, that
Bentinck-Smith sent us as inspirations for our contributions to this
tome. My reaction was complete dismay. Success, fulfillment and
orderliness burst forth from every page. Would that my saga could

measure up to these paragons, but somehow a few discrepancies
crept into the script.

In one sense I suppose I am closest to Jacques Ach. He reported
one wife and three children. That’s my story. The kids show great
promise — and break it regularly. The eldest (female), a senior in
high school, is in the midst of the college sweepstakes. (Do you
want me? Well, I don’t know whether I want you.) The next,
high school sophomore (male), is more concerned with his Wildroot
Cream Hair Oil Hair Dressing than he is with his Latin. The
youngest (eight and male) is great at roller skating and kickball but
is sadly remiss in discharging his daily responsibilities toward his two
Luxembourg Hares. The wife still shows promise, which I consider
high praise in light of her travails over the past twenty-three years.

Mr. Ach and I have something else in common: politics — only
in reverse. He started out a Democrat and ended up a Republican.
I can only reconcile my forensic support of Alf Landon through the
halls of Winthrop House in the fall of 36 by the thought that the
Papilio turnus spends a long time in his chrysalis before he emerges
to fly about and observe the world with reasonable perspective. My
political activities unal recently have been confined to organizing
local uprisings in support of Messrs. Stevenson and Kennedy. At
the moment I am purposefully involved in an exciting reform move-
ment, known as COD, designed to revitalize the Massachusetts

Democratic party organization. We hope the blood will be flowing

freely by 1964. Meanwhile, back at the Town Hall, I am serving on

the Town Warrant (Finance) Committee. This is alarming to those
who know how I handle my own dough.

[ 196 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As to the world of commerce, Thayer Cummings and I
one — well, perhaps, as one-half. We're both in the adve
agency business—but he’s on Madison Avenue, and I’m in
Square, Boston. But the difference doesn’t end there. He felt
pelled to deliver an impassioned defense of advertising as a p
sion. Frankly, I don’t think it’s any more respectable than be
banker, lawyer or merchant chief. And another thing —I’r.

pressed by the current trend of captains of industry beco
lyrical about their method of earning a living. The next thing
know someone will propose that hard work is ennobling. Let’:
confuse the song of the wood thrush at sundown or the sight
fringed gentian on an early fall afternoon with making a buck.
back to the material. At least, I’m a vice-president (you know al
vice-presidents: many were called and all were chosen).

With Wells Fay, I’m sorry to say, the bond is thin — other t
the fact that we both went to Exeter. He does have a paragr
entitled “Spare Time” that reminds me of my lack. When not
volved with what has already been noted, I have won a war (
details check the U.S. Navy archives), coached several losing Li
League teams, played artful tennis, been active on the Off-Main
dramatic front as actor and president of the Local Order of Thes]

Now for the big philosophical windup which Ach, Cummit
and Fay handled so felicitously. First: Harvard. Great! It’s be
improving each year for 325 and is just beginning to hit its stric

I even intend to send myself there someday. Second: Religion.

Thoreau and Emerson said it all. Next: Love, marriage, childre

etc.——let the record speak for itself. Politics— Just because }

hasn’t picked any of ws is no reason to feel glum. I happen to beliex

the New Frontier will end up towering over the old types. Fallov

shelters—If you want to shoot your neighbor, why wait fo
strontium go?

What else? Oh, yes, the New York Mets. So Bill Terry and Me

Ott aren’t around — don’t let that disturb you. After all, they’ve
got Casey Stengel and . . .

GEORGE HENRY ALEXANDER CLOWES, JR.

HOME appress: 2885 Lee Rd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.

OFFICE appress: Cleveland Metropolitan General Hospital, Cleveland 9, Ohio.
BORN: May 3, 1915, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED at: Park School, Indianapolis, Ind.

{ 197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B4 1937; M.D. 1941; M.a, (Univ. of
Toronto), 1950.

marriep: Margaret G. Jackson, June 27, 1942, Dover, Mass, CHILDREN: Margaret,
May 30, 1943; Alexander, Oct. 9, 1946; Thomas, Dec. 24, 1947; Jonathan,
Feb. 27, 1950; Edith, Dec. 23, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allen Whitehill Clowes, ’39, M.B.a., °42.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

oFFICES HELD: Associate professor, Western Reserve University; chief, Thoracic
Surgical Service, Cleveland Metropolitan General Hospital; associate
visiting surgeon, University Hospitals, president, American Society for
Artificial Internal Organs, 1958; president-elect, Cleveland Area Heart
Society, 1961.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Tavern Club of Cleveland; Cleveland
Skating Club; Cruising Club of America; Society of University Surgeons;
American Association for Thoracic Surgery; American College of
Surgeons; other professional societies.

pusLications: “The Bermuda Race,” Harvard Medical Alumni Bulletin,
February, 1959; “Extracorporeal Maintenance of Circulation and Respira-
tion,” Physiological Reviews, 40, 826, 1960; thirty-six papers on artificial
oxygenator, cardiac surgery, respiration, etc. .

WHY be a surgeon? Perhaps the glamour of another four years
at our favorite university in its Medical School tempted me into
medicine. More likely, it was the inspiration of my father’s scien-
tific research or the tradition of a long line of doctors in the family.
In any case, the first Saturday morning as a freshman, a complete
neophyte in medicine, | sat watching in the balcony of the operating
room at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital as Dr. Elliott Cutler
operated on a patient he had previously shown us. From that
moment on, I wanted to be a surgeon. There was something com-
plete about this litrle drama. As the years have passed and the tech-
nique and thoughts connected with surgery have become as sec-
ond nature, the fascination remains. There is still so much unknown

awaiting development in this wonderful scientific art.

After a year as an intern on the Harvard Surgical Service at the
Boston City Hospital, when it was easier to catch a wink of sleep
in the linen cupboard on the ward than to stagger over to one’s
own bed in the house officers quarters, 1 worked with Dr. Cecil
Drinker in his laboratory and Dr. Charles Lund in the clinic on a
study of burned patients. As luck would have it, 1 happened to be
the resident in charge of the burn service on the night of the Cocoa-
nut Grove fire. This was my first great experience in mass casual-
ties and of the innate kindness and good will of men. People rallied

from all sides to help us with our overwhelming problem. There
were more than 150 survivors admitted that hectic night,

[ 198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

About the same time, Peggy Jackson threw in her lot with me.
We were married in 1942, and six months later we left for Texas
where I joined the 32d General Hospital (Indiana University Unit).
There Mardi, our first-born, arrived. Now our little Texan has
grown up and happily gone off in her mother’s footsteps to Bryn
Mawr College. Nearly three years passed overseas as a member of
the 3d Auxiliary Surgical Group and various field and evacuation
hospitals with the Army as it pushed across Europe.

Landing one bright October morning in 1945 on our own good
shores and reunion with Peggy that same evening in Boston were
joyous. But I soon found that all of my contemporaries also wanted
to complete their training in one of the important teaching centers.
Therefore, I deemed myself fortunate to be appointed to the Sur-
gical Service of the Massachusetts General. Under Dr. Edward
Churchill, its great chief, I happily spent the next two and one-half
years, finally completing my training with Dr. Henry Faxon at the
Cushing Veterans Hospital in Framingham.

While attending a scientific meeting with my father, he intro-
duced me to his old friend, Dr. Charles Best of Toronto, who kindly
suggested that I should spend a year or two in his laboratory to
learn more of physiology. This decided the question of an academic
career. Off Peggy and I went to Toronto with our three children
for another set of interesting experiences, both scientifically and
socially. There, Jonathan, our fourth, was born. In 1951, we came
to Cleveland where we have been ever since. My work on the
faculty at Western Reserve University has involved teaching, prac-
tice, and research largely in the exciting development of heart sur-
gery. Peggy, as well as taking part in the many interesting projects
which ladies do, has taught at Hawken School, which our three boys
attend. Shortly after our arrival in Cleveland, our youngest, Edie,
came. All five are now flourishing and keep their parents busy, not
only with their education but in all sorts of projects ranging from
Boy Scouts to skiing. The weekends are largely taken up with our
woodland in the rolling hills east of Cleveland. Every now and
then we seem to be invited to one or another university or meeting
in Europe, which has given several excuses for family expeditions
abroad. On one of these in 1957, we picked up our yawl, Aquilz,
which was built in Sweden, and cruised some 1,500 miles through
Scandinavian waters before shipping her home from Gothenberg.
This I can recommend heartily to anyone who loves the sea. Her

[ 199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

home port is now Woods Hole, and we have managed to sail in
one Bermuda Race and in two Halifax Races since that time.

WILLIAM AMES COATES

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Neponset Rd., Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Ceylon, Peradeniya, Ceylon.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1916, Milton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Sania cuit laude, 1937; AM.,
1939; PH.D. 1950.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: University teaching; Fulbright lecturer in linguistics, University
of Ceylon.

MEMBER OF: Linguistic Society of America; Modern Language Association;
Linguistic Circle of New York; University of Ceylon Faculty Club; Society

of Friends; Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship; Association for Research and
Enlightenment.

PUBLICATIONS: “Dostoyevski and Gerhart Hauptmann,” American Slavic and
East European Review, Vol. 1V, Nos. 10-11, December, 1945; “The
Segmental Phonemes of Sinhalese,” University of Ceylon Review, XVIII,
July-October, 1960; “The Languages of Ceylon in 1946 and 1953,” and

“Thomasin and the Reddleman,” University of Ceylon Review, XIX,
January-April, 1961.

THE past twenty-five years have been as momentous as any in
human history; how have we reacted to them? My own reactions
have been quite varied.

After graduation I traveled in Europe for a year on a Sheldon
Fellowship. There I found I could really use the languages I had
been learning. I returned to Harvard in 1938 and spent four years
preparing to teach them, but had not completed work for my degree
when the war caught up with me. I was a conscientious objector,
and spent over two years in various C.O, camps, cutting down trees
and doing other similar work. Then my outlook changed, and I
found I was no longer a pacifist, so I joined the Army (this took
eight months of effort, because of bad eyes), By then the war was
nearly over, the day I started basic training, the Germans sur-
rendered — that’s the way I like to put it. I went to Germany in

1945 with O.SS., and finding intelligence work to my liking, I
stayed three years.

I returned to Harvard in 1948, and two years later got my doc-
torate. I no longer intended to teach, however; I went to Washing-

[ 200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ton and joined the Central Intelligence Agency as a linguis
ning to make that my life work. I spent ten years in Wash
with occasional trips abroad. I enjoyed my work, but in tt
run I got tired of the 8:30 to 5 routine. And so, in my mid-
I decided to change careers and return to the academic world.
This Fulbright opening in Ceylon came along opportun
provide a springboard for my new career. I am teaching ling
and English and learning Sinhalese. Instruction in the Universit
formerly all in English, and much of it still is, but that situat
changing rapidly. Ceylon is a delightful country and the fF
are charming. Peradeniya is situated in the hills in the center c
island, its location is beautiful and its climate very pleasant. .

gether life here is most enjoyable. I shall return home in the sj
and plan to attend our Reunion.

In a turbulent world I have found various abiding values
interests, some old, some new. One is the joy of intellectual
deavor; linguistic research fascinates me utterly, while a re
interest is psychical research. Foreign travel is a lifelong pass
I have seen Europe from Moscow to Reykjavik, from Helsink
Athens, as well as parts of Africa, Asia and Latin America. C
nected with this is an interest in archeology, particularly Egypt
and Mayan. Music has always played a large part in my life; af
five years in the Glee Club, I sang second bass for nine years in 1
Washington and Cathedral Choral Society. I have always beer
devotee of Bach; Berlioz, Bruckner and Mahler are other favori
of mine. Of the other arts, architecture means the most to me;
have a special passion for German baroque churches, Vierzeh.
heiligen, for example. Folk dancing is a recreation I have great:
enjoyed in recent years. As for sports, I never used to be much c
an athlete, but I am now an enthusiastic skier; lack of opportunity
alas, has so far kept me from attaining more than intermediate pro
ficiency.

In politics I am an independent Democrat, and have regularly
voted Democratic in national elections. In state elections I have usu-
ally voted Republican; in Massachusetts I was a registered Repub-
ican, while in Virginia I was a registered Democrat, so that I could
vote against the Byrd machine twice at every election.

As for the world situation, those of us who were in Berlin righe
after the war never had any doubts about Communist intentions to

take over the whole world; and ever since then I have felre thar
sooner or later war was inevitable. Now chart possibility loons

{ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937 .

larger than ever; it might even be asked whether most of us will
still be alive by Reunion time.

I] am more concerned by another problem, the famous population
explosion. The world’s increasing population confronts us, I think,
with certain disaster even if the immediate threat of war is averted.
Various measures are proposed which theoretically could cope with
jt, but I do not believe they will be carried out effectively and in
time.

Both of these facts threaten to destroy our civilization. Yet I
remain an optimist. I do not believe that all of humanity will
perish; the survivors will have the opportunity to build a better
civilization. My dissatisfaction with my life in Washington en-
compassed much more than just the government service; I had come
to feel that our entire mechanistic civilization is evil, especially in
its urban aspects. I believe that the purpose of life is spiritual

development, the world we have lived in is inimical to this develop-
ment. Humanity survived the fall of the Roman Empire, and the
flowering of Christianity followed.

And what of life and death themselves? I believe that death is
not nearly so important to the person directly concerned as most
people seem to think, and I am certain that there is nothing terrible
or fearful about death — quite the contrary. Our existence as in-
dividuals did not begin with our present lifetimes; we all have had a
long previous development, and have probably been on this earth
before, perhaps many times; and our development will continue
uninterruptedly after the close of our present lifetimes.

Finally, and most important of all to me, there is religion.
Brought up as a Unitarian, I have found my religious home in the

Society of Friends. I now live in a country which is largely Bud-
dhist; I respect all the world’s great religions, and have learned much

from several of them (as will be apparent from the preceding
paragraphs), but I remain a Christian.

FREDERIC CODMAN COBB

HOME appreEss: 2612 N. 12th St., Arlington, Va.

OFFICE appress: 11th and M Streets, N.E., Washington, D.C.

BORN: July 7, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Bradenton High School, Bradenton, Fla,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(38).

Marrigp: Ella A. Trefethen, October, 1940, Wareham, Mass, CHILDREN: Ellen

[ 202 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Brooks, Oct. 11, 1941 (married, 1958); Julia Kane, Sept. 18, 1943. craxp-
CHILDREN: Randolph; Julia Lorraine.

occuPATION: Mechanical engineer; design and design standards work for US.
Navy Final Inspection Gauges.

MEMBER OF: Corinthian Yacht Club.

WORKED one year at Fore River Shipyard in Quincy, Massachu-
setts, then one year for the government in San Francisco. Since
then I have been in Washington, D.C., where I am now with the
U.S. Naval Weapons Quality Assurance Office. No war experience.
Episcopalian.

THEODORE COCHEU, Il

HOME ADDRESS: 898 Hamilton Ave., Colonial Heights, Va.

BORN: Dec. 30, 1915, Orange Mountain, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Manlius School, Manlius, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

mMarrieD: Zena Marjorie Clarke, April 16, 1938, East Orange, N.J. CHILDREN:
Margot Allyn, March 6, 1944; Theodore Clarke, June 9, 1950.

occupaTion: Retired Army officer.

OFFICES HELD: U.S. Army, January, 1937, to November, 1961.

I WAS commissioned in the Army Reserve in January, 1937. I
served as an accountant during 1937-38. In 1938, I entered on active
duty as an officer with the now defunct CCC, where I served until
1940. In 1940 I went to Trinidad, British West Indies, as an ac-
countant on the construction of the Army Air Force Base. Upon
the entry of the United States in the war, I returned to the United
States and signed up. I was transferred from Infantry to Quarter-
master, and served in various capacities in the depot system through-
out the war. In 1945 I went to the Office of the Quartermaster
General, where I transferred to civilian capacity and served as a
supply specialist and mobilization planner until 1950. At the out-
break of the Korean War, I converted to military capacity and
served in Korea until 1952, when I was transferred to the
Philadelphia Quartermaster Depot, where I served until 1955, at
which time I was transferred to Giessen, Germany, to assist in the
establishment of the finance and accounting office. I was subse-
quently transferred to Lenggries, Germany, to develop a course in
financial management. In 1958 I returned to the United States and
was assigned to Fort Lee, Virginia, where I served in various cap.c-

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

itics until my retirement as a lieutenant colonel on November 15,
1961.

Briefly, that’s it. Naturally, I've travelled all over Japan, Korea,
Europe, and Trinidad.

JOHN HOOPER COFFEY

HOME aAppRESS: 502 Union Ave., Belleville, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 301 S. Illinois, Belleville, Ill.

BorN: Nov. 26, 1915, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937; MD. (Tufts Coll.), 1941.

MARRIED: Bettye Jean Goyne, July 16, 1949, Amarillo, Texas. CHILDREN: Robert
Shanley, Aug. 15, 1951; Stephen McClure, Nov. 20, 1952.

occupation: Physician; internal medicine.

MEMBER OF: County and State Medical Societies; American Medical Associa-
tion; American College of Physicians (fellow).

GRADUATED from medical school in 1941. Intern, King’s County
Hospital, Brooklyn, 1941-42. U.S. Army Medical Corps, 1941-45,
first lieutenant to major; served in southwest Pacific. Resident in
internal medicine, King’s County Hospital after the war. Chief of
medical service, Big Spring, Texas, V.A. Hospital after residency.
Now in private practice of internal medicine, Belleville, Illinois.

HOWARD LEON COHEN

MAILING ADDRESS: 78 Clifton Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

I. BERNARD COHEN

HOME AppRESS: 22 Gray Gardens E., Cambridge, Mass.

orFice appress: Little Hall 33, Harvard University, Cambridge 38, Mass.

Born: March 1, 1914, Far Rockaway, Long Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Valley Forge Military Academy, Wayne, Pa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.8., cw laude, 1937; PH.D., 1947-

Marriep: Frances Parsons Davis, June 23, 1944, Boston, Mass. cyto: Frances
Bernard, Aug. 22, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Professor of history of science and chairman, Committee on
History of Science, Harvard University.

orrices HELD: Instructor in physics, 1942-44, instructor, assistant professor,
associate professor and professor of history of science, since 1946, Harvard
University; managing editor, [sis: Quarterly Journal of the History of
Science, 1947-59; vice-president (and chairman of Section L: history and
philosophy of science), American Association for the Advancement of

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Science, 1946; U.S. delegate to VIIIth and IXth International Congress of
History of Science, Florence-Milan, 1957, Barcelona-Madrid, 1960, Gug-
genheim fellowship, 1959-60; special university lecturer, University College,
University of London, 1958; member, Council, Institute of Early American
History and Culture, 1959-61; chairman, U.S. National Committee for the
History and Philosophy of Science, 1961; Lowell Lecturer, 1961; president,
History of Science Society, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences, American Antiquarian
Society; American Association of the History of Medicine; American
Association for the Advancement of Science; American Historical Associa-
tion; Colonial Society of Massachusetts; History of Science Society, Inter-
national Academy of the History of Science; International Academy of
the History of Pharmacy (honorary); Massachusetts Historical Society;
Club of Odd Volumes, Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Roemer and the First Determination of the Velocity of Light,
Benjamin Franklin’s Experiments, Science, Servant of Man, Benjamin
Franklin— His Contribution to the American Tradition, Some Early
Tools of American Science, Franklin and Newton; Isaac Newton's Papers
and Letters on Natural Philosophy, Birth of a New Physics, Science in
General Education, with Fletcher G. Watson; Before Darwin, with
Howard M. Jones and Everett I. Mendelsohn; monographic articles in
scientific and historical journals.

DURING the five years since our last Report, the field of history
of science has been growing in size and importance at a fantastic
rate, with a resulting intensity of concentration of my professional
life. Harvard was one of the first universities to give history of
science full status as a graduate subject for higher degrees, and is
the only university in our country to have offered such degrees
both before and after the 1939 war. Today many other universities
in the country have followed where Harvard has led. The difficulty
is to produce enough first-rate teachers and researchers to fill the
constantly growing demand in a field which is by nature small since
it requires work in both the historical and the scientific disciplines.
Each year, however, sees an increase in the number of our graduate
students and a similar growth in our undergraduate field of concen-
tration, history and science. Today at Harvard we have about
twenty graduate students in residence and continue to limit our
undergraduate concentrators to fifty (of whom three were grad-
uated summa cum laude at the last Commencement). Some of these
students go on to do graduate work; but even for undergraduates
who do not plan to go on in this field, concentration in history and
science fills a very significant need since it makes possible the
coupling of scientific training with the broad humanistic point of
view offered by history,

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

My own research centered in the earlier years on the history of
electricity and afforded me the great delight of re-establishing the
full stature and scientific reputation of Benjamin Franklin, called
by all Europe in his day “the American Newton.” Now the focus
has shifted to Sir Isaac himself and the century he dominated. For
the last half-dozen years, I have spent the three months of each
summer immured in the libraries of Paris, London, and the other
Cambridge — studying the manuscripts by or relating to that giant
in the history of science. I have also maintained a continuing in-
terest in the evolving place of science in American society and have
collaborated with Dean Don Price of the School of Public Admin-
istration in a seminar on Science and Public Policy.

My family calls my summers of research “the Cambridge-here to
Cambridge-there run.” So far I have managed to placate my daugh-
ter’s preference for Cape Cod by squeezing in side trips in search
of the prehistoric, ancient, and medieval worlds. We have now de-
veloped a regular family routine. After a short exploration, my
daughter goes to work with pastel, crayons, and sketch pad, and
I have a go with my cameras, while my wife stands by surrounded
by an assembly of various kinds of source material. Last summer we
did English medieval influences in Normandy and the Celtic re-

mains in Brittany, Wales, and Ireland; finally coming back to our
own civilization by way of a “narrow boat” which we took through
innumerable locks of the Trent and Mersey Canal, which meanders
among the modern ruins of the Industrial Revolution.

I remain a photography addict who always hopes for time to use
his dark room, or even to file his pictures, an amateur on the ac-
cordion, and a novice at figure-skating and skiing. The last is a
probably futile effort (thus probably soon to be forsaken) to keep
up to my daughter. With all else behind me, I can at last at the day’s
end stretch out in complete contentment to work away at increas-
ing my capacity for foreign languages.

MARTIN COHEN

HOME ADDRESS: 3923 Devonshire Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich.

OFFICE Appress: Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, Mich.
BorN: Dec. 11, 1915, East Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; 4.M. (Boston Teachers Coll.),
1938; 8.8. (Simmons Coll.), 1945.

[ 206 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Pearl S, Young, June 28, 1947, Montclair, N.J. cHitoren: Martha
Rachel, Nov. 16, 1949; Donald Ben, Feb. 21, 1951.

occuPATION: Education; area coordinator for the Midwest Program on Air-
borne Television Instruction; manager, Western Michigan University’s
educational FM radio station, WMUK.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Kalamazoo Health Council, 1953-56,
Kalamazoo Human Relations Council, 1956-59, Nickelodeon Society of
Kalamazoo, since 1956, Community Chest of Kalamazoo, 1956, Kalamazoo

Civic Players, 1957-59; various committee offices in state and national
library organizations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Western Michigan; National Association of
Educational Broadcasters.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional professional articles.

IT’S hard to believe that it’s time for my 25th, especially since I still
have my shape and all of my hair! At this late date (1960), I took
off on a new vocational bent with a dual assignment of teaching at
Western Michigan University and working for the Midwest Program
on Airborne Television Instruction. A new duty this year is manag-
ing the university FM radio station. ‘Ten years of radio and televi-
sion work as a performer in my previous job plus some television
moonlighting for a commercial station gave me background and
experience. Even at that my first semester of teaching on closed
circuit television was plain hard work. Covering this end of Michi-
gan for airborne television is true educational pioneering, and Ameri-
can education is bound to feel the impact of this six-state regional
experiment. Getting back to a university atmosphere is very satisfy-
ing, although becoming used to this new generation takes some
doing.

The Harvard Club of Western Michigan is stirring these days
with outings, meetings, talk of scholarships and prizes. Teamed
with a ’42 alumnus, I am interviewing local candidates for Harvard.
Last year one Kalamazooan was admitted and this year we are seri-
ously considering a National Merit semi-finalist who is also an all-
city team fullback.

Twelve years of residence here qualified me as a genuine mid-
westerner whose transplanting from Boston has taken. We take
advantage of the comparatively wide open spaces and garden, fish,
camp and ski with the whole family. Like the Old Howard, some-
thing is always doing here in the arts, so we do not feel culturally
deprived. Raising two children and trying to pass gracefully inte
middle age are testing all of my ethical, social and moral principles,
but I still have enough fight left over to tackle the ‘6o’s and ‘so’s

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

along with the new generation. After all, we did get through the
30's and 40's.

MYER SAMUEL COHEN

HOME ADDRESS: 62 Clark Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston University, 755 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.
porn: March 21, 1916, Malden, Mass.
pREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; ED.M. (Boston State Teachers
Coll.), 1938; a.m. (Emerson Coll.), 1955.

MARRIED: Doris Small, Dec. 30, 1944, Malden, Mass. cHitprEN: Bonnie, Feb. 6,
1948; Roberta, Dec. 10, 1950.

occupation: Teacher, assistant professor of speech, Boston University, College
of Liberal Arts.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Malden Chapter, American Jewish Congress, 1949.
MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors, American Speech

and Hearing Association, Speech Association of the New England States;
American Jewish Congress.

RECENTLY a student in my speech class, during a group discussion
on “What needs to be done about education in the U.S.?”, said in
response to another student’s brilliant suggestion about higher salaries
for teachers, “Since teachers spend all their time with their noses
buried in books, what could they do with $50,000 a year?” I was
spared the problem of ever knowing what to do with such a sum
when the chairman of the English Department at the College of
Business Administration at Boston University lured me away from
my job as sales representative for ladies’ sportswear.

It took very little arm-twisting to get me back to teaching which
was my goal in the first place. I am now in the CLA Speech Depart-
ment teaching speech and English and for the most part it has been
a gratifying and satisfying experience. Being associated with Dr.
Samuel D. Robbins as a speech therapist for five years on off-hours
was particularly rewarding and I still like to help out with severe
speech and voice disorders.

In many ways life has been good to me. I married a girl I met
while 1 was on furlough from the Army. In six weeks we were
married and it turned out to be about the fastest and best decision
I’ve ever made. I also have more than my share of good luck with
two lovely daughters. In the Army my first sergeant in January,

1941, recognized my talents immediately and assigned me to be
permanent fireguard at Camp Edwards. Almost five years later,

[ 208 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

including three years overseas and one year teaching at the Instru.
Training Division of the OCS at Camp Lee, I emerged unscathe
a captain of the QM Corps in the U.S. Army. Even my hobby
proved to be good to me, for this year I brought home my _
trophy. It all started about fifteen years ago when my wife deci
1 needed some form of an antidote to freshman themes and so
brought home a set of left-handed golf clubs. Since then the the
grades have been better, and my wife sees much less of me.

Looking ahead I can’t think of anything I’d rather do than c
tinue to try to teach my students how to say something worthwt
effectively. That in essence is the purpose of the two courses I tez
(Fundamentals of Speech and Freshman English) and I have a feels
that that is close to being the ultimate purpose of education.

OCTAVUS ROY COHEN, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 82 S. Harrison St., East Orange, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Public Relations & Advertising Dept. Prudential Insuran
Co., Newark, N.J.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1916, Bessemer, Ala.

PREPARED AT: Ramsay High School, Birmingham, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MarRigD: Katherine Van Allen McHarg, April 24, 1944, New York, N.Y.

occupation: Advertising and sales promotion consultant, Prudential Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Planning Board, Fair Haven, N.J., 1950-52. Sclectiv

Service Board, Monmouth County, N.J. 1950-53, Monmouth Count:
Grand Jury Association, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Red Bank, N.J. (former member).

THE most interesting, to put it mildly, factor in my life since
Harvard days was the virtual collapse of my profession and the
necessity to switch, well along the course, to a brand-new one. I
refer to the ancient and honorable dodge of hack-writing for maga-
zines. For a dozen or so years, I did better than tolerably well
knocking out millions of words for the pulps and minor slicks, with
occasional sales to top markets bolstering the morale. Then the
baleful eye of TV came along, most pulp publishing houses folded
or dropped all of their pulp titles, many top markets followed them

into oblivion, reprints and picture books reared their ugly heads —
and I was out of business.

It was a rather awkward situation. If I had mutfed rhe auchor bie
while still a stripling, there would have been no problem swinging

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

into private industry as some sort of trainee. But trainees are not
selected from guys in their thirties who have free-lanced, albeit
successfully, from the outset. Well, not quite from the outset. I had
run a small public relations and advertising shop in Havana, Cuba,
after leaving Harvard. But this was a modest operation, and such a
weird one that it hardly qualified me as an expert by American
standards. My one other escape from the typewriter was a stint
during the war as script editor and radio producer of programs in
Spanish and Portuguese for the office of the Coordinator of Inter-
American A ffairs, the agency headed up by Nelson Rockefeller.

The solution to all this proved to be a most happy one. After a
stretch in the Public Information Office at Fort Monmouth, during
which I was able to catch my breath, I joined, in 1953, the public
relations and advertising department of Prudential Insurance, in
Newark. Far from being a consolation prize, this has turned into a
thoroughly satisfactory and challenging deal. The variety is what
appeals. In my present slot I handle a regional advertising budget
over a five-state area, dabble in sales promotion and get involved in
various aspects of public relations. I edit two company magazines.
And I take part in the running of company conferences, with such
attendant oddball jobs as (last spring) serving as a comic-relief swami
at a series of business meetings in Florida.

Life is likewise complete from the domestic angle. My wife was
as disappointed as I was when the free-lancing folded; she had been
John P. Marquand’s secretary and enjoyed, as much as I did, the
heady experience of turning out copy and watching it come back
in the form of long green. But we've switched our enthusiasm to
travel and have made Europe several times, with Italy replacing my
once-beloved and now off-limits Cuba in our affections.

No complaints. No complaints at all.

ROBERT LOUIS COHEN

HOME appress: 90 Hanson Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sidney Sales Co., 660 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; M.B.A. 1939.

Marriep: Helen Wenetsky, June 17, 1951, Boston, Mass. cittto: Mark Fdward
July 14, 1954. .

OCCUPATION: Retail proprietor.

[210]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD was followed by two years across the Rivet
Harvard Business School. It did seem at the time, June, 19
market research was to be the coming thing for alert mana:
and that with this skill and the M.B.A., I would have no tre
the organization world. Market research has now finally <
but in 1939 jobs in this field were almost nonexistent. I did
ever, manage to work in the related fields of statistics and eco:

for the Associated Hospital Service of New York and for th
Treasury Department. |

I spent the war years in England, as staff sergeant in chai
statistical control for the Operations Section of the 448th Bc
Group, Eighth Air Force. In 1946, I returned to Boston to take
the family business. Here I have the usual disadvantages and ae
tages of the self-employed. Fringe benefits and security are
pletely absent, but this is outweighed by independence of deci
making.

In 1951, I married THE Radcliffe girl, Helen Wenetsky, 1937
1954 we moved, with our newborn son Mark, to a small hous
Newton. We live what has been described as a typical subu
life —PTA, community association, lawn-mowing and snow-sho
ing, with an occasional trip to Boston for the theatre or symphc
Mark must have developed from a deeply recessive gene for he
a passion for athletics. This has meant that his mother and fat
have had to participate in baseball, football, and hockey — for
nately only at the second-grade level.

As part of the Reunion activities, I strongly recommend a t-
across the Square to the Radcliffe ’37 Reunion Show. Helen is o

of the authors, and what I’ve heard of it so far meets Off-Bratt
Street standards.

SAUL G. COHEN

HOME ApprEss: 39 Moon Hill Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of Chemistry, Brandeis University, Waltham, Mass.

BORN: May 10, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937» DEGREES: A.B., Struma cee laude. 1937; aM. 1919:
PH.D 1940.

Marriep: Doris Brewer (Radcliffe °39), Nov, 27, 1941, Boston, Mass. critnary:
Jonathan Brewer, Dec. 17, 1944; Elisabeth Jane, Nov. 8 1930.

OccupaTION: Professor, chairman, Department of Chemistry, Brandeis Univer-
sity; consultant, Polaroid Corporation.

[aur]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

oFFICces HELD: Chairman, School of Science, 1950-55, dean of faculty, 1955-59,
chairman, faculty senate, 1960-61, Brandeis University; Guggenheim fel-
low, 1958-59; Fulbright senior research scholar, United Kingdom, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi, American Chemical Society; Chemical
Society (London); American Association for the Advancement of Science
(fellow); Federation of American Scientists; American Academy of Arts
and Sciences (fellow).

puBLicaTions: About forty-five articles in Journal of the American Chemical
Society, Journal of Organic Chenastry, Industrial and Engineering Chemis-
try, Nature, Journal of Polymer Science, Proceedings of the Chemical
Society.

AS the time passed in which I did not write this report, I realized
that this was due not only to a proper reticence but in large measure
to my being very busy. This is as it has been for some years, and it
is unexpected. I remember clearly that I was confident in 1937 I
would not be led into a busy and tense life-— perhaps this was
making virtue of apparent necessity; circumstances at that time
seemed to assure ample leisure without my exercising self-restraint.
Exposure in the freshman year to a seemingly relaxed and con-
tented professor and inspiring instructors of chemistry drew me
into this field, although at the time I knew nothing about the
natural sciences. It was a good choice and I have found the satis-
faction of independent work, investigation in a developing area of
science. After completing my doctoral work, I stayed on at Harvard
until 1943 as a research assistant, as an instructor, and on war-related
problems for the National Defense Research Committee. I went to
U.C.L.A. as lecturer and fellow of the National Research Council,
and then into industry, first with the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Com-
pany and then, returning to Cambridge, with the Polaroid Corpora-
tion for five years. At Polaroid I resumed my research, and then
became increasingly involved in the company’s problems and finally
was supervising all chemistry in the company.

In 1950 1 decided to join Brandeis University, then in its third
year and not to graduate its first class for two years. Whatever the
complex of reasons for making this change, perhaps there was in-
fluence from the dimly remembered admonition of a professor of
philosophy, urging us to devote ourselves, in part at any rate, to
some causes or institutions outside immediate self-interest. I would
emphasize that such devotion need not be of itself worthy, and will
not be, unless the cause or institution is itself devoted to the dignity

of individuals. I started teaching and resumed my research, but soon

found myself increasingly involved in this institution’s problems.

[ 212]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Thus my situation had not changed in this sense, and I conclude that
one’s condition is determined more by character than by circum-
stance. This may be a bleak view, leaving responsibility where one
would rather not have it, but it also allows the possibility of some
control.

The major problem, as I saw it, was whether Brandeis would
become a university, with scientific research and other scholarship
at least as important as undergraduate teaching, or would be solely
a college. Being committed to the former view, I became involved
in policy formation, and was appointed chairman of the School of
Science and, when the post was established, the dean of faculty.
After eight years, the course appeared well set toward development
of a university. A faculty which was generally like-minded had
been attracted, an excellent undergraduate college was in being,
scientific research grew quite satisfactorily, books were being writ-
ten, and doctoral programs had been established in many areas.

In 1958 I went to Europe on a sabbatical year with my family for
study, contemplation and relaxation. From that vantage point, it
was easy to decide to withdraw from the center of administrative
activity and to return as chairman of the department of chemistry.
I am now engaged in research and teaching, and in the concerns of
the department. My research is supported by the National Science
Foundation, the National Institutes of Health and the Atomic
Energy Commission. We are studying the mechanisms of chemical
reactions, enzyme reactions, free radicals and radiation-induced re-
actions. I have maintained a gratifying consulting relationship with
the Polaroid Corporation and have an interest in problems related to
photography. Finally, and most important, I consider myself very
fortunate in having warm friends and a delightful family.

HAROLD LESTER COLBETH, JR.

HOME AppreEss: 162 Willow St., Garden City, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State of New York Public Service Commission, 19g Church
St., New York 7, N.Y.

BoRN: Dec. 4, 1915, Melrose, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1934, 1935-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(38).

MARRIED: Dorothy M. Sherman, November, 1938, Rockland, Maine. cripass:
Jean S., August, 1949; Harold Lester, 3d, January, 1953; Douglas P, June,
1955.

[213]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occuPATION: Principal electric engineer, State of New York Public Service
Commission, regulation of utility companies in New York State.

COMPLETING degree requirements in 1938, I had a brief and
undistinguished go at various means of livelihood, including the
insurance business. Thereupon I was urged by the government to
join the armed forces. In October of 1942, the Army Air Corps
became my employer for a period that was to last for nearly four
years. During this time I became an aerial navigator and toured the
western half of the globe by way of adding my share to the national
debt. By now I am a major in the Air Force Reserve, doggedly
attending meetings of a Research & Development Flight in hope of
reaching the tempting carrot of retirement pay at age sixty.

In the autumn of 1946, I was taken on as a trainee, low-speed, by
the Central Maine Power Company, a middle-sized electric utility.
During the next fourteen years I was able to lower the corporate
efficiency in several departments, both engineering and administra-
tive. -

Early in this era I had the luck to find an attractive girl who, after
a time, stopped refusing to marry me. Children appeared with good
regularity until we had assembled a girl and two boys. Since 1955,
however, this department has shown no further gains. Our present
three are alternately promising and frustrating, in general just about
as they should be.

In 1960 I decided that there must be some good reason why so
many people live in New York even if not apparent, so the modest
pile that was our worldly goods was fetched to a new house on the
eastern plains of Garden City. My work here with the State Public
Service Commission has proved stimulating and rewarding. My
duties include supervision of the electric engineering group on the
staff of the Commission. I am a registered professional engineer in
the States of New York and Maine, and an associate member of the

American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
1 offer no comment on social, religious or political convictions al-

though requested. In my forty-five summers I have seen almost every
social taboo removed; religion is in a state of running off in all
directions at once; and Republicans have become more Democratic
than Democrats. Our convictions in these matters seem to be largely
a function of our ages, and I shall not write words at forty-five that
will have to be swallowed at seventy.

[214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LAWRENCE STEPHEN COLLINS

HOME ADDRESS: §9 Lambert Lane, New Rochelle, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 228 W. Tenth St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 24, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 19373 LL.B. 1940.

MarRIED: Jane M. Hughes, Sept. 11, 1948, New York, N.Y. cnitpren: Eliza-
beth Anne, Dec. 7, 1950; Barbara Jane and Kathryn Mary (twins), Nov.
6, 1953; Thomas Francis, March 3, 1955.

OccUPATION: President of contracting company.

MEMBER OF: Navy Club, New York.

ON graduating from law school in 1940, I worked in New York
for about a year, in a law firm. The war came, and I went — into
the Coast Guard, as an ensign. I returned to civilian life in July,
1946, and went into the contracting business. The Korean War —
or rather, Peace Action — brought me back into the Coast Guard
in 1951, and I again returned to civilian life and the contracting
business in 1954. As president of the company, my job is to oversee
all types of work, to obtain orders, make up contracts, etc.

With four children to raise, it has been difficult to culuvate hob-
bies. I have done some boating, and have attempted to interest the
children in various sports. At my age, this sometimes proves em-
barrassing, since they have more energy than I have, or ever did
have.

The instructions for this form call for social and political con-
victions. In 1937, I considered myself to be a liberal. Since then
I have become more and more conservative, and am now what has
been termed a “right-winger.” This change may be due to old
age coming on, but I prefer to think that it comes about because of

the general failure of the liberals to perform as they promised over
the years.

JOHN JOSLIN COLONY, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 4 Prospect St., Harrisville, N.H.

OFFICE AppREsS: Cheshire Mills, Harrisville, N.H.

BORN: June rr, 1915, Keene, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

Marriep: Marjorie P. Page, Sept. 2, 1939, Guilford, Ve. crtpren; Charlocte
Whitcomb, Oct. 6, 1941; Izola Page, April 14, 1943; John Joslin, 3d, March

[215]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

3, 1945; Pamela Beatrice, March 17, 1946; Barbara Page, Sept. 18, 19¢
George Forrester, June 24, 1953; Hillary Keyes, Jan. 24, 1956.

occupaTION: President, Cheshire Mills, woolen textile manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, New Hampshire Manufacturers Association, 194
61; trustee, Monadnock Community Hospital, Peterborough, N.E
1949-58; vice-president, Cheshire National Bank, Keene, N.H., since 195
director, Cheshire County YMCA, since 1956.

MEMBER OF; Ticker Tape Trust (Boston); Varsity Club; Keene (N.H
Rotary Club.

AFTER searching through the previous four Class Reports, as :
kind of cramming session for this effort, I hesitate but feel forcec

again to dwell upon my happy lot of living in the hill country ot
New Hampshire, next to my business (commutation time; three

and one-half minutes, on foot) and surrounded by miles of open
lake and mountain country.

Fortunately, my family’s textile enterprise was situated in this
spot; and doubly fortunate the handsome product of New York and

California whom I married in 1939 was even more enthusiastic for
the country life than I, with the result that we’ve lived here very hap-
pily ever since, and a better place to bring up seven children could
not be imagined.

And on the subject of children: other than the actual con-
templation of a Twenty-fifth Reunion, nothing could underscore to
me more the appalling passage of time than the fact that my three
eldest are now away — Vassar, Vienna, and Exeter — with the re-
sult that the memories of my years at school and college are right
now far more vivid than they have been at any time during the past
twenty-five years.

The textile business continues as perilous and tumultuous as ever,
with certainly no immediate relief in sight, considering the Ad-
ministration’s seemingly avowed intention of turning us over to the
Japanese. However, our country life has trained me admirably for
a great many other trades, viz; master plumber, electrician, painter,

glazier, roofer, septic-tank digger, general handyman.

Our scope of travel has been much limited by the multiplicity
of young children in our menage, but our hopes are to make up for
it in a few years, if the children can afford to send us. Meanwhile,

our relaxations are many, varied, and enthusiastic, with tennis,

squash, rowing, skiing, sailing, ice-boating, and white-water ca-
noeing in season.

Politically and religiously, 1 have dealt differently with my two
inheritances. Born and brought up a Democrat, I decided that after

[216]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fifteen years of fruitlessly searching for any that 1 could possibly
vote for, I had better be honest with myself and become a Republi-
can; born and brought up a Unitarian, I increasingly found that that
religion most perfectly fitted my own philosophy, and have ad-
hered to it ever since, though I shall admit that on far too many
Sundays I seem to be less a pillar than a flying buttress of the
church, supporting it from the outside.

Living in New England, I have been able to keep contact with a
great many of my 737 Classmates and with the College itself, but
from all I hear none of this takes the place of the Reunion. I am
sure it will be well worth the (Good Lord!) quarter-of-a-century
wait.

FREDERIC MARSHALL COMINS

HOME ADDRESS: 69 Coniston Rd., Short Hills, N.J.

OFFICE apprEss: Krich-New Jersey, Inc. 428 Elizabeth Ave. Newark, N.J.

BORN: Oct. 8, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. wiagna cum laude, 1937.

MarRiED: Edith Jean Krich, May 9, 1947, Eatontown, N.J. cHiLpren: Frederic
Marshall, Jr., April 7, 1948; Bruce Max, Feb. 24, 1951; Andrew Marc,
July 27, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Television and appliance distributor; president, Krich-New Jersey,
Inc. .

MEMBER OF: Hollywood Golf Club, Deal, N.J.; Harvard Clubs of New Jerscy
and New York.

JUNE, 1937, not only meant to me the end of four wonderful years
at Harvard College, but inasmuch as the depression was still with us,
it also meant being thrown precipitately into the hard, cold and
cruel world. It was probably for this reason that I decided to become
a lawyer and prepared to enter Harvard Law School and thereby
pick up three additional years of immunity from the world struggle.
When I announced this decision to my father, he took it relatively
in stride, saying that he would see me through if I thought that the
law was really my final solution. He leavened this liberal attitude
during the course of my senior year by sending me clippings from
the New York Times listing the number of lawyers on the dole and
pointing up the average income of the legal profession, at that time
somewhere just slightly above the tenant farmer.

Perceiving that this gambit might fail, he enlisted the aid of his
partner in the Philippine Islands who wooed me by mail, urging me

[217]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

to come to the Orient, see the world and perhaps make my fortune
in the infant gold boom that had started there due to the devaluation
of gold in the United States. This was, of course, a temptation too
great for a twenty-year-old to resist, so I found myself on a freighter
within a week after graduation. Sadly, but naturally enough, the
promised fortune did not materialize, but the two years I spent in
the Orient, plus the incidental trip around the world, certainly did
me no long-term harm. Between my return to the States and the
war, I became involved in the manufacture of zippers. I was doing
nobly until the government saw fit to need the materials worse than
I did, at which point I enlisted.

The war was a long one for me, and over the four years I was
exposed to many facets of Army life, having the advantage of the
viewpoints of every rank from private to lieutenant colonel. I saw
considerable action in Western Europe with the Third Army and
was able to pick up my share of the decorations that were handed
to the relatively few fortunate survivors of the American version of
the “blitzkrieg.” The war over, I returned from blood and glory to
the mundane matter of making a living and went back into the zipper
business. Competition having become intense, I found it expedient
to sell my interest three years later and turned to other fields.

The happiest result of my initial postwar business experience was
that due to the location of my plant in New Jersey, I met and mar-
ried Edith Jean Krich in 1947. As a result, we now have on our
hands the problem of educating three young men who are, respec-
tively, Frederic Jr., fourteen, Bruce, eleven and Andrew, ten.

Since 1950, I have been involved in the merchandising of appli-
ances and television and I am, at present, president of a concern
which distributes RCA Victor and Whirlpool products throughout

northern New Jersey.

We have lived some twelve years in Short Hills, which is a lovely
community, although it doubtless could be improved drastically
climate-wise by moving it directly south about 1,200 miles. Sum-

mers we spend at the Jersey shore, where I pass my weekends
pursuing a golf ball and convincing myself, given adequate time for
practice, I could be as good as I would like to be.
1 would like to think of my interests as being at least semi-intel-
lectual and my sentiments as fairly liberal. My business, however,
keeps me so engaged that in my honest moments, I must admit that

my contributions to the world for the predictable furure will be
probably limited to what I can do to make representative citizens of

[ 218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my three boys. Naturally, I would like to give them the opportunity
that I had of attending Harvard but, as we all know, this is now con-
siderably more difficult than it was twenty-five or thirty years ago.
Nevertheless, we shall certainly try and will do so with the hope
and the optimistic belief that the world situation will permit such
an opportunity to develop.

LOUIS HERBERT CONGER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5006 Jamestown Rd., Washington 16, D.C.

oFFicE apprEss: U.S. Office of Education, Washington 25, D.C.

_ BORN: March 22, 1915, Muskegon, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Muskegon High School, Muskegon, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; A-M., 1941; ED.D. (Columbia

~ Univ.).

marriep: Margaret Fleming, July 8, 1944, Washington, D.C. cuitpres: William
Fleming, Oct. 26, 1946; Martha Louise, Sept. 6, 1949, Anne, Feb. 16, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan Douglas Conger, ’40, A.M. and PH.D., ’47.

OCCUPATION: Education statistics; chief of Reference, Estimates & Projections,
U.S. Office of Education.

OFFICES HELD: President, Capitol Hill Choral Society, Albany, N.Y. 1955-57.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association; American Educational Research
Association; Population Association of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Official statistical publications; projected college enrollments for
Heald Commission on planning higher education in New York State. |

AFTER my Bachelor’s degree, I worked part-time and attended
Harvard part-time to get my Master’s degree. Then teaching mathe-
matics and physics in a junior college in my home town until war
service as a meteorologist took me to the Caribbean area, where I
was exposed to no danger greater than excess consumption of rum,
or possibly incompetent pilots of reconnaisance aircraft. Back to
junior college teaching for a couple of years after the war, and next
to Columbia Teachers College for the Doctor's degree, with the
assistance of the GI Bill. Life at the veterans’ housing for the col-
lege, Shanks Village, was an interesting experience. The Gl hill
was a great social experiment, from which America will reap tre-
mendous advantages. After all, we must rely on trained manpower
rather than sheer numbers in today’s world.

I got into the ficld of education statistics working for the State
University of New York and the State Education Department
(1950-57), and larer transferred to the U.S. Office of Fducation
(since 1957) in Washington. My work of making estimates and

[219]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

projections is engrossing and offers some opportunity for creativity,
but administrative responsibilities are gradually taking over. I would
like to tell my Classmates that federal employees in the upper civil
service grades are a hard-working and dedicated group of people.
Aside from family affairs, my major personal interest continues
to be music, derived from the impetus given by the Harvard Glee
Club. I sing in the choir of the Cedar Lane Unitarian Church, play
the piano for my own amazement, and listen to much music at con-
certs and over the radio. My wife is a skilled musician; in fact, we
met in a church choir in Washington during the war. Another in-
terest is hiking and studying wild plants. And, finally, I enjoy read-
ing in music, art, natural history, and poetry. All of these interests
go way back to college or before, indicating evolution rather than
revolution. Perhaps that is the usual story.

In retrospect, Harvard taught me to make up my own mind, and
to act in accordance with my own thinking. Many other colleges
do not seem to foster this trait, judging from their graduates, and
I hope Harvard is keeping the tradition going.

GEORGE MARTIN COOK

MAILING AppRESS: 116 Myrtle St., Boston, Mass.

HOWARD ALEXANDER COOK

HOME appress: 124 Circle Drive, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 500 Riverside Drive, New York 27, N.Y.
BorN: April 4, 1915, New Rochelle, N.Y.
preparep aT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., cum latide, 1937; A.M. (Stanford
Univ.), 1947-
markiep: Diana Loring Pattison, Jan. 14, 1942, Claremont, Calif. CHILDREN:
Anthony Pattison, Nov. 23, 1942; Lee Winship, Feb, 7, 1948, Timothy
Gibbs, May 2, 1949; Jennifer Loring, Nov. 13, 1951; Jonathan Alexander,
Nov. 1, 1953.
OCCUPATION: President, International House,
orFices HELD: President, Belmont (Calif.) Recreation Association, 1950-523
member, executive committee, U.S. Committee for the United Nations,
1956-59; member, board of directors, since i955, vice-president, 1959-60,
Manhattanville Community Centers; member, board of directors, since

1458, treasurer, 1959-61, vice-president and president elect, 1961-62,
National Association of Foreign Advisers; member, board of directors,

{ 220]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Morningside Heights, Inc., since 1955, Greater New York Council for
Foreign Students, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations, Harvard Club of New York,
Foreign Policy Association; Asia Society; Japan Society; Columbia Uni-
versity Men’s Faculty Club; Hastings-on-Hudson P.T.A.

IMMEDIATELY following graduation, I was employed by a lead-

ing accounting firm, where I started at the bottom and acquired

technical competence at night school at New York University (ac-
counting and business administration). After three years of hard
work, my salary was increased by $2.50, and I was put on a per-
manent basis: at $27.50 per week. Upon observing the partners’
lives and narrow interests, I decided against accounting and re-
signed, much to the dismay of the head of the firm, who assured me
of the bright future which awaited me with them. (The only
bright moments in this dreary routine were weekly rides with

Troop F of Squadron A, and summer maneuvers and time spent with

my bride-to-be.)

Next came my induction into the Federal Service as a first lieu-
tenant in the Cavalry on January 27, 1941, and my subsequent as-
signment to the 249th Field Artillery Battalion of the 27th Division,
with which I served until separation as a Major on January 26, 1946.
In the meantime, Diana Loring Pattison of Claremont, California,
and I were married in January, 1942, and in March, I was sent over-
seas for three and a half years for service on Hawaii and Oahu (very
pleasant) and Espiritu Santo (not so pleasant) and participation in
the invasions of Saipan (D plus 1) and Okinawa (D plus 6) (de-
cidedly unpleasant). These latter experiences gave me the con-
victions which led to my postwar work and activities. War solves
no problems, and all troops, including those of the United States, can
be brutal and inhuman in war. Our vencer of civilization is still
very thin. .

My first year out of uniform was spent getting a Master's degree
in political science at Stanford University (supported by the best
piece of social legislation ever enacted, the G.I. Bill of Rights). How
my wife and son and I ever managed on $90 a month for a year is
still a mystery. California became my adopted state, with the San
Francisco Bay my favorite region.

In the fall of 1946, off to Cleveland, where I became associated
with the Council on World Affairs, a non-profit organization de-
voted to adult education in international affairs. I lefe in Mav, 1048,
as assistant director to take a similar job with the W ord Aduiry

[221]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Council of Northern California in San Francisco, where I became
director in 1949, a position which I held until May of 1952.

High points during this period were challenging work with an
outstanding board of trustees, home ownership, and buying a washing
machine for our diaper-prone family, and building with neighbors
a do-it-yourself community recreation building.

In early 1952, I was invited to join the Department of State in
Washington, as chief of the Division of Public Liaison, where I
served under Secretaries Acheson and Dulles, until October of
1955, when I took on my present assignment. My years in Wash-
ington (my second favorite city after San Francisco) were stimulat-
ing and rewarding, since my job involved interpreting the Depart-
ment of State to the American people through publications (Depart-
ment of State Bulletin, etc., which my Division edited, and pamphlets
which we wrote); answering 100,000 letters a year, writing speeches,
arranging conferences, traveling with Secretary Dulles on his United

States speaking trips. Every young American, if possible, should be
exposed to government service. I came away with high respect for
the career personnel of the State Department.

We turned down the foreign service because we wanted to settle
down with our large family and stay in one place for awhile, so I
accepted an offer in 1955 from International House. This residence
and program center for 500 foreign and American graduate students
studying in forty different schools in New York was founded by
John D. Rockefeller, Jr., in 1924, and has claimed my undivided in-
terest for six years now (longest tour in any job so far), and I
love it. I have a wonderful board of trustees, headed by John J.
McCloy, and the impact which our program can have each year on
almost 800 foreign students from seventy-five countries is incalcula-
ble. The whole field of student exchange is expanding rapidly, and

“development exchange” with countries undergoing rapid social

change is now the key to social progress in scores of countries.

A brief look above at the organizations I’m now associated with
will show the reader how involved I am with foreign students.

A new part-time venture involves consulting in the broad field of
international educational exchange (that is, evaluating projects for
corporations and foundations, or developing programs),

More recently, my job has involved travel, and in 1960 I traveled
to Vancouver, British Columbia; Denver, Colorado; seven European
countries (planning a world conference of International Houses) ;

Nigeria and Ghana (where I was the guest of the Nigerian Govern-

[ 222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment to attend the inauguration of Nnamdi Azikiwe as Governor-
General). In 1961, back to Europe for one month, during which I
co-chaired the First World Conference of International Houses and
Centers at the Cité Universitaire in Paris, and was the guest of the
German Federal Republic for one week, visiting International
Houses and Centers. Following this, a two-week vacation with my
wife (without children) was our first real honeymoon.

Our great joys are our children (three boys and two girls), our
annual summer camping expeditions, and our winter skiing trips,
helping to offset the ghastly pace of our New York lives.

I am a Democrat who has voted Republican upon occasion. I
believe in private initiative, in a large share for the private sector,
but expansion of the public sector in certain areas (especially edu-
cation and health insurance). I am concerned about the inroads of
totalitarian societies, both of the extreme right and extreme left
(the worst being the Chinese Communists); about the value struc-
ture of our society, which gives better wages to cement finishers
than to university professors, about a shelter program that en-
courages a national posture which is suicidal, and about the con-
formity which monotonizes and weakens our society.

We must step up our commitments to integration (second-class
citizenship for anyone in the United States is a national disgrace),
and to the developing countries of the world. Despite the somber
international outlook, I have confidence in the free world and remain
an incurable optimist.

HENRY PARSONS COOLIDGE

HOME appREss: Lincoln Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Tufts University, Packard Hall, Medford, Mass.

BorRN: Aug. 29, 1914, Portsmouth, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; A.M. 1939.

MarRigD: Alice M. T. Crawford, Dec. 20, 1950, Boston, Mlass. cHitpren: Alice
M. T., Nov. 3, 1951; Sallie Ward, July 13, 1953; Mary Abigail Parsons,
July 28, 1955; Judith Crawford, May 7, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Templeman Coolidge, Jr. gt; Usher Parsons Coolidge,
"40.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Teaching fellow and instructor in English Department and
General Education, Harvard University, 1946, 1950-54; teacher, Faglinh
Department, Tufts University, since 1955. .

[ 223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MEMBER OF: Club of Odd Volumes; Harvard Musical Association; Tavern
Club.

BY the time of my graduation, Harvard had become enough of a
habit so that I seem to have kept right on going there — to gather
an A.M. in English and also to spend some extra time in Fine Arts,
catching up a little with my father and brothers who have specialized
in that field. The combination of these studies has led to my own
eventual profession as a teacher. Since I persuade myself that my
pleasure in books and the theatre comes under the stern heading of
professorial duty, I shall confine my list of hobbies to more irrational
matters.

Hobbies, I feel, to be worthy of the name, should be private fanati-
cisms, far beyond the bounds of explanation or justification. I have
always had, for example, a fondness for animals and birds which I
used to flatter myself represented a cool, scientific bent. Now I
know it for what it is, a mere maudlin weakness for pets, in other
words a hobby which has accounted for many hours in poultry
yards, kennels, zoos and exhibitions. While it may seem a far cry
from the barnyard to my other mania, the ballet, I like to think there
is some logic to a gamut that runs from swans to swan princesses.

Certainly when I used to chase the Ballet Russe from Boston to
Hartford in college days, it would have surprised me to realize that
I was to spend the war years there amid the roar of Pratt & Whitney
engines. A less mechanical grease monkey than myself can hardly
be imagined, and | still remember with pleasure the day an important
person summoned me to an inner sanctum, explained some publish-
ing I was to manage and suggested that I take a bath.

When the war ended at last, I joined a group of congenial cousins
for a winter of grey moss, sand dunes and palmettoes on a small
island off the Georgia coast. Still in reaction to war-time machinery,

I was tempted next spring to apply for a job with the New York

Zoo, imagining a future in the Bronx with a houseful, say, of leopard

cubs. I ended with three Harvard freshman classes, Since then, my

life has fitted into the pleasantly uneven routine of the college
world, with its scrambled winter and leisurely summer time.

In 1950 I was back once more in Georgia, this time on a honey-
moon, scaled in academic style to the Christmas holidays. Later we
made up for this hurried trip by going to Paris at the end of the
term. My brother-in-law’s apartment there served as headquarters
for our tours through southern France, Italy, Portugal and Spain.
Although I had already visited most of the usual European countries,

{ 224]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the latter two were quite new to me and particularly delig
under the circumstances. While we have both remained p:
ardent travelers at heart, we have been tied down the last few \

by the arrival of four daughters, who have proved — to their f:
at least — thoroughly engrossing.

Six years ago I moved to the nearby university of Tufts, whe
have been able to give a variety of courses from humanities to
favorite, the history of the novel. At the moment I am particul
interested in a program Tufts is offering for a degree to student
the Fine Arts Museum. Continuity can add an important dimen
to life, and it pleases me to be teaching at this institution for wI
my father cared so much. It amuses me, too, to pass almost ev
night the basement doorway where I sometimes waited for |
when committee meetings were late. The building in those d

was patrolled after dark by fiercely trained Alsatians, and depart
trustees had to choose their moments for sneaking out. Secure
the childish delusion that no dog would ever bare a fang at me

remember an agreeable sense of superiority as the dignified gentlerr
made their hurried exits.

Now I myself, I suppose, am entering the “dignified years. .
least I realize that I can be bitten by all sorts of things. Howeve
Vm cheered by a small, blond two-year-old who feels that eve.
snarling mongrel on the street is a safe and trustworthy friend. T1
children play with a good many barnyard pets these days (“Dadc
seemed to want them, and we didn’t mind”), for we eventual]
bought a comfortable old place in Lincoln, Massachusetts, where w
can indulge ourselves in plants and animals while confined by ou
own growing young. The house itself, mentioned with scorn i
Thoreau’s Journals, is appropriately literary in appearance, a bleak
stone parsonage from Wuthering Heights with a cheerful, Jane

Austen interior. Here we live the year round in a more or less
country atmosphere, but not too far from the things we like in the

city: the family, the friends, the theatre, the clubs — and the Harvard
Reunion.

ALFRED HOYT CORBETT

HOME apprEss: 4220 S.W. Greenleaf Drive, Portland 1, Oregon
OFFICE appRESs: 1028 Corbett Bldg., Portland 4, Oregon.

BORN: July 22, 1915, Portland, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

[ 225]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937. DEGREES: S.B., 19373 LL.B. 1940.

MARRIED: Nancy de Canizares, June 24, 1939, Weston, Mass, cHitpreN; Joan
F., Mav 3, 1940; Frederic deC., Dec. 7, 1941; Hamilton F., 2d, July 9, 1944;
Anna Jane, Aug. 23, 1946, Alfred Hoyt, Jr, May 22, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Elliott Ruggles Corbett, 2d, 44 (deceased).

occupation: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: State Senator, since 1957; State Representative, 1953-57; assistant
general counsel, Defense Electric Power, 1951-52; Portland Housing
Commissioner, 1950; member, since 1959, present chairman, Legislative
Fiscal Committee, member, State Emergency Board, 1955-61; member,
Oregon Interstate Cooperation Commission, 1957-61; vice-chairman,
Columbia Interstate Compact Commission, 1959-61; secretary, Portland
Committee on Foreign Relations, since 1952; chairman, Ministerial Affairs
Committee, Unitarian Church; past secretary and board member, City
Club of Portland; former board member, Boys and Girls Aid Society,

World Affairs Council of Oregon, Visiting Nurse Association, Portland
Art Association.

MEMBER OF: Urban League; NAACP; Eagles, AVC: VFW; American Legion,

Phi Delta Phi; Mulmomah County, Oregon and American Bar Associa-
tions.

ONE of my political friends often quotes a phrase, “A foolish con-
sistency is the hobgoblin of little minds. . . .” Well, there’s nothing
small about my mind: I left college determined not to wed until
after law school and promptly married Nancy de Canizares after my
second year; 1 was determined to become a partner in a large law
firm and upon approaching the wire took other employment; I
started out as a Young Republican campaigning for my Republican
father in the Alf Landon era and, ever for the underdog, ended up a
Democratic Senator in the Oregon Legislature. Every change
brought me happiness — Oh, inconsistency, where is your sting?
No one works a dog as hard as they work a dumb, young law
clerk, but I liked the experience, working stubbornly and ultimately
with some success and covering a broad field of office and trial work.
I also enjoyed my time in the Mountain Troops. There my gift of
grab — not gab — earned me a job as climbing instructor in a special
mountain warfare school in Italy.

Back at the firm, my outside activities moved increasingly into the
public arena: City Club reports on schools and school financing laws,
political meetings and organization work; commissioner of the Port-
land Housing Authority. Often these activities brought me into
conflict with interests of the larger clients of the firm. At the end of

1950 I welcomed the invitation of a law school classmate to join his
staff as assistant general counsel of Defense Electric Power Adminis-

{ 226}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tration. This was a fascinating experience. Washington is an excit-
ing place, and no longer seems the remote separate kingdom of its
own. Our agency law staff was small and we worked hard to keep
it small, writing our war-time orders in a manner that required most
of the detailed decisions to be made at the local level where they
belonged.

Late 1951 and early 1952 was a time when a great debate was
raging, as to whether this country should retire into the “fortress
America” or should continue to recognize its international obliga-
tions. I felt strongly enough to give up my job for the uncertain
future of a race for Congress against a seven-term Republican with
an isolationist record. Eisenhower won, and I lost, but the race
brought me an appointment to a vacancy in the Oregon House of
Representatives, Since then I have been returned once to the House
and twice elected to the Senate, where I have served variously as
chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, chairman of Labor
and Industries Committee, and am currently chairman of the Legis-
lative Fiscal Committee, the inquiring and research arm of the
Legislature.

My law practice has suffered, but not my satisfaction. I have been
able to see progress in our state’s educational program, have helped
bring about improved civil rights, have sponsored laws to bar dis-
crimination in employment based on age, and have taken satisfaction
in the myriad of small human improvements that are the result of the
democratic process.

I have observed that one individual, a determined man or woman,
can accomplish a prodigious amount. This is one lesson which life
since college has taught me: You cannot underestimate the im-
portance of the individual. The heart of this lesson, “respect for
the individual,” is the essence of democracy as it is one of the roots
of Christianity, and my greatest satisfactions have come whenever
I have followed the paths where this doctrine led.

In 1952 I met and admired Adlai Stevenson and was happy four
years later to head his Oregon primary campaign against Fstes
Kefauver. This job gave me the opportunity to cover our state and
to help plan and carry out the kind of personal campaign that suc-
cessfully demonstrated the best human qualities of the man who
revitalized the Democratic Party and broadened interest and respect
for public life.

My concern with foreign affairs has grown since the days in law
school when, as part of a small minority, I argued the necessity of

[227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

this country’s involving itself in the confrontation of the growing
international threat of Nazi power. Here at home I have been
board member of the World Affairs Council, and am secretary of
the Portland Committee on Foreign Relations.

During the years I have been fortunate in having a family cheer-
fully willing to help: to move with me to a challenging job in
Washington, D.C.; to return to Oregon and campaign door-to-door
with me; to bear the dislocations of biennial legislative sessions; to
show an alert interest in the problems of the day. My wife, Nancy,
has not only shared the work and borne long hours, but has somehow
been willing and able to branch into other important areas, presently
serving as trustee of Radcliffe College and as vice-chairman of a
growing private school in our area.

Perhaps because life has been so full; I have found special enjoy-
ment in this quiet, green country, in riding the delicate deer paths
under Ponderosa pines, in losing myself in the thousand facets of a
sparkling trout stream, and in skiing the Cascade slopes in winter.
Photography is an important interest today, chaining me to the
widening eye of the enlarger as I pit my visions against the reality
of technical limitations. And I am looking at the skies in a new way
since I soloed a light plane this fall.

Two children are in college, another goes next year. Joan is
completing her senior year at Radcliffe where she is majoring in
political science and soprano leads in Gilbert and Sullivan opera.
Fred started at the University of New Hampshire this fall after
two years at The Cambridge School where he quarterbacked the
football team and was catcher on the baseball team, and sang with
“The Travellers.” He is singing around New England this year with
the “Trade Winds,” another four. Tony is hoping to go to Harvard
next fall, meanwhile fills his extracurricular hours with drama,
music and skiing. Anne, a sophomore, is in constant motion, and
particularly likes riding and skiing. Hoyt, the youngest, plays each
sport in season and builds models and asks questions which prove
his intelligence and his parents’ ignorance. There are empty beds

at home, so this last summer we held our own reunion, a private

one, celebrated in the very public grounds of the camping places
of Europe. We cut loose from home, from obligations, and from
fixed plans, and improvised our way, seven of us in a Microbus.

We liked the freedom camping offered us, the chance to meet people,

and the unique chance to enjoy ourselves as a family.

[ 228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+s GEORGE CLARENCE CORBIN

BoRN: Dec. 9, 1915, Trinidad, B.W.I. parents: Oscar Corbin, Edwardine
Jordan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937; M.D. (Howard Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Lucile Gilliam, Aug. 10, 1943, Carlisle, Pa. cHtLpren: George Clarence,
Jr., Aug. 17, 1944; Valerie, 1949.

piep: Dec. 4, 1950, Brighton, Mass.

CORBIN entered Howard Medical School in 1938 and was grad-
uated in 1942. He interned at Cleveland City Hospital and its In-
stitute of Pathology during 1942-43. In July, 1944, having started
active military duty exactly a year before, he began overseas serv-
ice in the Medical Corps. He returned to the States in January,
1946, after serving in France and Germany, and with the Fifth Army
in Italy. In July of the same year he was appointed to the medical
staff of the Beth Israel Hospital, Boston.

He was a member of the Kappa Pi Medical Honorary Society, the
Daniel Smith Anthropological Society, and the Society for Scientific
Research. He was survived by his wife and children.

LAWRENCE PAUL CORBIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 313 S. Mesa, Carlsbad, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Potash Co. of America, Box 31, Carlsbad, N. Mex.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1915, Petoskey, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MarRiEeD; Agda Marie Rogne, July, 1942, Sandusky, Ohio. cHiLpreN: Carolyn
Marie, May 9, 1948; Linka Lelia, Jan. 11, 1946.

OccUPATION: Potash mining, geologist, exploration engineer.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum
Engineers, Society of Exploration Geophysicists.

I LEFT Harvard to attend the Colorado School of Mines in Gol-
den, Colorado, where I received a geological engineering degree in
1940. Since then I have worked in most of the western states and
Canada. I have learned to like the land “far from the madding

crowd's ignoble strife,” where “full many a rose is born to blush
unseen and waste its sweetness on the desert air.”

[229]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MILTON OSBORNE COREY

HOME AppreEss: 44 High St., Sharon, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1916, Mansfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Mansfield High School, Mansfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937, DEGREES: A.B., 1937; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1941,

marrigeD; Martha Evelyn Clapp, Oct. 28, 1944, Sharon, Mass. CHILDREN: Joanna
Gail and Joyce Evelyn (twins), Jan. 5, 1948.

occuPaTION: Life insurance; associate personnel director.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, 1954-58, treasurer, 1955-58, Sharon Public Library;
chairman, Salary Committee, Life Office Management Association, 1956-
57; member, since 1958, treasurer, 1961, Warrant Committee, Sharon;
chairman, Boston Survey Group, 1959-60; member, executive committee,
Personne] Managers’ Club, Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce, since

1960; member, Junior and Boys’ Selection Committee, New England Lawn
Tennis Association, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Sharon Tennis Club; Cohasset Tennis and Squash Club.

IMMEDIATELY upon graduation I went to work for the John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company in Boston. The year
1962 will witness three big events for me — the 25th Reunion, my
25th anniversary with the company and the company’s rooth anni-
versary. My working years have been interesting and challenging.
After fourteen years in various staff and managerial positions in
industrial life insurance, 1 became assistant personnel director in
1953 and associate in 1955. Specific responsibilities include college
relations, salary administration, payroll, research and management
development. My high school and college plans to teach school
weren't completely thwarted as I have done considerable teaching
in my business. I travel sufficiently in my work to occasionally
see Classmates 1 otherwise wouldn’t meet until our 25th. Each year
1 look forward to visiting Harvard to talk to seniors on opportunities
in my company. Personnel work is fascinating. Of all the functions
in the business world, I believe it to be the most interesting and
challenging for me.

World War II brought tours of duty in the ports of New York,
New Orleans and San Francisco. Inducted as a private in December,
1942, I attended Transportation Corps Officer Candidate School,
graduating as a second lieutenant in August, 1944. Two months later
I obtained a few days’ leave to marry Martha Clapp, whom I met at
the John Hancock two years previously, A sweet girl, with the

[ 230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

kind of disposition I need, she remains youthful-looking today (in
contrast to my thinning gray hair).

The momentous event of my life was the birth of identical twin
daughters, Joanna and Joyce. As I sit in front of my fireplace on
a rainy day, writing this narrative, I reflect how fast the thirteen
years have gone since their birth. Going from one activity to an-
other — piano lessons, tennis tournaments, playing with Titania
(our beautiful Shakespearian Airedale), they have little idle time.
Vacations take us to New England junior tournaments, as well as
on camping trips to Maine and Vermont. Quite a coincidence was
meeting Bob Holcombe at the Duxbury Tennis Club last summer,
and seeing his daughter Carolyn win the junior doubles against
Joanna. A real thrill was playing with Joyce in the first N.E.L.T.A-
Father and Daughter tournament in Worcester, Massachusetts.

Civic activities have always kept me busy, but I find time to do
considerable reading. U.S. history is still my favorite subject, as it
was in college. I always look forward to moments of listening to
symphony and piano records on the hi-fi. Tennis keeps me in
reasonably good physical condition, summer and winter.

My political affiliation is the same as in college — the Republican
Party. My religious convictions are those of the Congregational

Church. I have always been active in the church, in religious educa-
tion activities and teaching Sunday School.

MARK HOLLINGSWORTH CORNELL

HOME ApDRESS: 1806 24th St., N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

OFFICE AppRESS: Hemphill, Noyes & Co., 225 Shoreham Bldg., Washington 5,
D.C.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1915, Sharon, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937+

MarRieD: Lora E. Baird, Dec. 27, 1941, Washington, D.C. cHmpren: Mark
Hollingsworth, 3d, Aug. 25, 1942; Baird, Aug. 6, 1943.

OccUPATION: Investment banking; assistant manager, Hemphill, Noyes & Com-
pany, members, New York Stock Exchange.

MEMBER oF: National Press Club; Capitol Hill Club; City Tavern Association.

IN the last Report, I think I called myself a stockbroker. Now,
having invested money with a friend in a struggling, young, space-
age firm, I call myself an investment banker. This title sounds
better, even though the investment was almost a bad one. In fact.

[231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

our firm was about to cease struggling when another investor came
along and took over the entire firm, thus bailing us out of a bad
situation. In a matter of months, the stock rose from ten cents a
share to eighteen dollars a share and we were all comparatively
rich on paper. However, as with other recent glamor stocks, this
stock eventually succumbed to the fact of finance and is now selling
for less than a half its previous peak. To tell the truth, our wealth
was mostly academic since the shares were restricted, investment-
type stock, not for resale.

But there was one good result. I put up the stock as collateral
and bought my first house. This to me has proved to be the best
investment of all, although friends pointed out how foolish it was to
acquire a four-story, five-bedroom town house when our two boys,
nineteen and eighteen, are away most of the time (Baird is at
Northwood School, Lake Placid, and Mark is at Longfellow,
Bethesda, Maryland) and are about to fly out of their nest anyway.
It did seem a little strange after nineteen years of married life in
apartments and rented houses to move into our own home. But
we never had much of an opportunity before. We were in foreign
service in Sweden and Burma and before that four years in the
service in World War II and never settled down until recently.

Although I’m happy, [’'m not sure about my wife Lora. She
hasn’t said much, and I don’t think she’s been on the fourth floor
yet. But she did make one comment when she returned recently
from six weeks of hard work as a Red Cross volunteer worker on
the Hurricane Carla disaster in the flat state of Texas. She said:

“When are you going to put in an elevator?” |

I'm sorry if these words sound more like a piece on how to own

your own home than a Class biography or a summing up, but I

really have no message for the Class except as it may be implicit in

the foregoing sketch. In the next twenty-five years, I hope to learn
more of the real meaning of life. I also hope to pay off the mortgage.

BAYARD RENNYSON CORSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1746 Ocean Ave., Santa Monica, Calif,

OFFICE AppREss: Hughes Aircraft Co., Culver City, Calif,

BORN: Nov. 16, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y,

marriep: Elizabeth Lemkau, Sept. 7, 1940, Montclair, N.J. cHitpren: Bayard

[ 232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

William, Nov. 19, 1941; Amy Elizabeth, Dec. 16, 1942; James Livingston,
April 21, 1951.
HARVARD SON: Bayard William Corson, ’62.

occuPATION: Engineer — physical electronics, Hughes Aircraft Company.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Ridgefield Town Planning Association.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; American Physical Society, Ridge-
field Town Planning Association.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation, I started my industrial appren-
ticeship in the electron tube business. The awakening, on being set
down in non-academic surroundings, was comparatively brutal, but
I managed to run the course with no permanent scars. During this
period, I developed an overwhelming fascination for the various
phenomena which take place in electron tubes of all types, which
fascination has become my working career.

Early in 1940, I met my Betty, and we were married September
4. This was probably the luckiest day of my life and I shall say
no more about it!

The next twenty years are a history of good and bad: of two won-
derful children, Bill, a senior at Harvard, and Amy, a sophomore at
Cornell, and of unfortunate James, a mongoloid, now at the Otsego
School, where there are no seniors and sophomores and from which
he will never graduate. They are a history of work, most often in-
tensely interesting, but occasionally either boring or completely
frustrating. There were occasions when I was taken up on the
mountain and shown the view.

My work has taken me to Salem, Marblehead, and Newbury port
in Massachusetts, to Fishkill and Bath in New York, to Montclair
and Allendale in New Jersey, to Dallas, Texas, and now to the Los
Angeles area. It has inspired four technical papers (and many more
in writing) and culminated in eight U.S. patents (with many more
not applied for).

_ My hobbies have been gardening and animal husbandry, choral
singing (the bigger the chorus the better), and duplicate bridge.

About a year ago, an honest self-appraisal revealed that I had
accumulated excessive fat, both physical and mental. Forty pounds
were burned off quite easily, but shedding the other kind of suet
takes more work and the results are more difficult to evaluate. The
external evidences of changes are a move from the northeast to Cali-
fornia, and from a small company to an industrial giant. The be-
ginning of 1962 finds Betty and me quartered in Santa Monica, me
working at Hughes Aircraft Company in Culver City.

[ 233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JAMES PETER COSTELLO

HOME ADpRESS: 24 Hi Mount Drive, Willowdale, Toronto, Ont., Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crush International, Ltd., Toronto, Ont., Canada.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M-B.A., 1941.

marrieD: Nedra Jane Myers, Feb. 25, 1944, Montgomery, Ala. CHILDREN:
Priscilla Ann, Aug. 28, 1945; William Douglas, Jan. 14, 1950.

occuPaTION: Vice-president — marketing, responsible for advertising and sales,
soft drink industry.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Toronto; American Club,
Toronto.

IF anything, after twenty-five years away from college, I confess to
being a bit less articulate and more confirmed in my pet peeves, and
peevishness comes easy when one has made no impact on history —
and vice versa. *

My first contact with life in the raw after graduation was the
grocery business — the same business I was in while going through
school. It took me two years to find out the “culture” didn’t sell
apples, and I went to Harvard Business School to see if it would
help. Taking the culture “strait jacket” off my mind was not
easy, but I survived long enough to get an M.B.A. With this in
my pocket —along with my A.B.—I set out to lick the world
through Kendall Mills in Walpole, Massachusetts. I felt like Dick
Whittington heading for London. I boarded, I was lonely, I was
perpetually broke — and then came Pearl Harbor.

I offered myself to the Navy, but by using Japanese eye tests they
torpedoed my offer. I still have it against the Japs for pulling this
one on me. The Air Force wasn’t so choosy, however. Being
“busted” a couple of times didn’t seem to bother anybody because
eventually they made me an officer. All I got out of the war was
a hope that we would never have another; not because I hated war
but because I hated the idiotic way it was run, The other thing I got
out of the war was my wife, Nedra Jane. As a result, she hasn’t
forgiven the Japs either.

After the war, I was back in Boston still in the grocery business
with more emphasis on the supermarket and how to make people

buy things they don’t want. In 1951 we decided New York might
be a better place in which to live, and it was—in the suburb of
Larchmont. We had all the things you expect to find in small-town
East Bohunk: Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, PTA, Church socials, bridge,

[ 234]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

etc. I even became a successful trouper in a few local PTA and
church shows.

My job with Lever Brothers was fascinating and disappointing.
Lever Brothers is a great company. Some numbskulls made some
bad decisions a number of years ago and new management was —
and is — having its hands full trying to bring it back to the surface
again. I contended, and still do, that bringing a company back to
the top takes more than an “organization man.” I was no such
‘round peg” and I couldn’t be moulded —so said the personnel
psychologists — and now I’m in Canada selling Orange crus.

Our two kids, Priscilla Ann and William Douglas, have taken to
Canada quite differently. Priscilla loves it and does everything the
book says a growing child should do—piano lessons, Sunday School
teacher, fine school record, cheerleader, etc. Doug, on the other
hand, is waiting for the day we get back to New York. When his
class is singing “O Canada,” he’s singing “America the Beautiful.”
He’s taken to hockey, though, but that’s about all the influence
Canada has had on him.

I’ve joined the American Club in Toronto and have tried to get
closer with the Harvard Business School Club, but weekend garden-
ing and football with the neighborhood kids have more interest for
me. As for politics, when I get close to politicians I get so mad that
I threaten to go into politics myself, and I would, too, if I had
enough money so I wouldn’t be tempted. Since the day we grad-
uated, our politicians are getting worse. I think that they were
“touched” by this “togetherness” hokum that psychologists started
shoving down our throats, and now it has boomeranged against us.
A couple of recent Presidents who should have been in a board
room and tea room respectively aren’t helping.

In spite of being the “Last Angry Man,” I still love you, “Fair
Harvard,” and I hope Doug will be lucky enough to live in your
hallowed Yard one fine day.

JOSEPH THOMAS VINCENT COTTER

HOME ADDRESS: 10800 Shaker Blvd., Cleveland 4, Ohio.
OFFICE AppREss: John Carroll University, Cleveland 18, Ohio.
BORN: Nov. 15, 1912, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; A.M, 1041.
UNMARRIED,

OccuPATION: Associate professor of English Literature, John Carroll University.

[235]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MeMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Northeast Ohio College English
Association, Democratic Party.

PUBLICATIONS: Reviews in Thought and Best Sellers.

| HAVE delayed the composition of this biography as long as the
Class Secretary would allow. I do not doubt that my procrastina-
tion reflects a reluctance to review a life singularly uneventful and
to face up to the irredeemable fact of advanced middle age.

Without really meaning to, I have avoided the hazards of fortune
involved in marriage or in a professional pursuit more obviously
competitive than teaching Shakespeare and Milton in a relatively
small Catholic college. My only harassment is the burden of stu-
dent term papers and blue books and an income considerably less
than that of most of my Harvard contemporaries.

I enjoy teaching; in fact, I love it as a satisfying way of life. I
think I do it well. I work hard at it and I think I have not yet settled
into the rut of rigid method or critical dogmatism.

Apart from my relations with my family and my absorption in
my job, my adult life in review seems peculiarly centered on private
self-cultivation. I teach because it allows me to continue to read, to
analyze literature, to expound abstract ideas, and to set my own

continuous course of study — with one hundred students a semester
tagging along.

From an objective view, this personal cultivation probably ap-
pears narrow; I hope it is not provincial. I have never been expert
at any physical activity. I collect records and books, go to New

York for the theatre and good food, summer with members of my
family at the Cape, where I read and swim.
My political views remain essentially unchanged, the product of

Boston Irish-Catholic background and Harvard courses in history.

I vote for Democrats, including a remarkably large number of my

former students. I have made only a few exceptions to this pattern:

Curley and Lausche. As a Catholic liberal, I think American life

was greatly improved by the sudden decline and comic fall of Mc-

Carthyism. 1 am naturally conditioned to appreciate the political

success of the Kennedys. I am aware of a sociological phenomenon

not yet publicly noted: the speedy change in the activating image

of young Catholic Americans from zealous minority-mindedness to

political sophistication and social assurance.

1 remain remarkably unchanged, except in appearance, from my
undergraduate days. 1 remain a bookish, semi-anonymous person,
who 1s grateful for the opportunity not to have had to change.

[ 235]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS KNOWLTON COWDIN

HOME aApprEss: Tower Hill Road, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cowdin Publications Co., Inc., 241 Church St. New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 27, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Publishing; owner and publisher, The National Textile Forecast,
a bi-monthly newsletter for textile and apparel executives.

OFFICES HELD: Production manager and account executive, Jackson & Company,

1935-55; vestryman and secretary, St. Mary’s Church, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.
MEMBER OF; Tuxedo Club; Lorillard Lodge, F. & A.M.

THERE’S nothing too exciting to report in my career since last
I wrote. As previously mentioned, I own and operate my own busi-
ness at 241 Church Street, New York City, where I have been lo-
cated for six years.

My hobbies include golf (I’m a lousy player), hunting and fish-
ing. I have done a great deal of work in the past few years as
chairman of our local Boy Scout Troop Committee, and also in our
Masonic Lodge. I am a vestryman and secretary of our Episcopal
church at Tuxedo Park. Recently I have been working on a re-
organization of my business, trying to enlarge it, so have given
up some of the work in my home town civic organizations. That's
about all there is to report except to wish all members of the Class
of 1937 well, and I hope to see you all at the greatest show on any
earth, come June, 1962.

J. EMERSON COYLE

HOME AppREss: 49 Russell Rd., Garden City, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brooklyn College, Brooklyn 10, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: $.B. migna ctom laude, 17, AM.
(Columbia Univ.), 1948; pH.p. (ibid.), 1956.

MarriED: Marie Daratani, Jan. 13, 1946, Brooklyn, N.Y. ciutparn: Marie Diane,
Nov. 16, 1946; Emerson Harvard, Aug. 14, 1949.

OccuPATION: Psychologist, Brooklyn College.

OFFICES HELD: American Personnel and Guidance Association: Branch Co-
ordinator of 100 branches with membership of ts,000 counselors (tysaen),
member of three-man committee which drafted corporate charter of
American Board on Professional Standards in Vocational Counsetog
(1957). American College Personnel Association: National membenh p

[ 237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

chairman (1960-61); New York State membership chairman (1959).
American Psychological Association: Audio-Visual chairman for 1954
annual meeting. New York State Psychological Association: local arrange-
ments chairman for 1960 annual meeting; editor of 1960 convention pro-
gram, Brooklyn Psychological Association: president (1962); director
(1959-63); chairman of Constitution Revisions (1961); membership (t960),
program (1961), and publications (1959-60) committees. New York
Personnel and Guidance Association: president (1957); treasurer (1954);
trustee (1959-62); chairman of auditing (1953), directory (1954), elections
(1953, 1962), emergency action (1957), fund (1958), program (1956), and
publications (1959-60) committees. New York Society of Clinical Psy-
chologists: Treasurer (1953); chairman of auditing (1952) and directory
(1952) committees,

MEMBER OF: American Personnel and Guidance Association; American College
Personnel Association; National Vocational Guidance Association; Ameri-
can Psychological Association: Division of Clinical Psychologists, Division
of Counseling Psychologists; American Association of University Pro-
fessors; Inter-American Society of Psychologists; Society for the Scientific
Study of Sex; New York State Psychological Association, New York
Personnel and Guidance Association; New York Society of Clinical Psy-
chologists; Brooklyn Psychological Association; Kappa Delta Pi; Phi Delta
Kappa; permanent member of W.O.R. Long John Nebel Radio and
Television Panels, Friday Night Poker Club; Honorary Airdale in the
Brotherhood of Naval Airmen!

———pusuications: Radio and TV: Panelist on approximately 75 Long John Nebel
(WOR) radio programs (midnight until 5 or 5:30 A.M.) and seven one-
hour telecasts. Books reviewed ranged widely, for example: The Healing
Power of Faith (with Classmate, author Will Oursler); Sex Without
Guilt; The Meaning of Death; An Unhburried View of Erotica; Rocket
Ship X-15; The American Funeral; Hollywood Rajah; The Hidden Rus-
sia; The Frog Pond; From Ape to Angel; Encyclopedia of Witchcraft.
Other topics included ESP (Error Some Place); Yoga; concept therapy;
flying saucers, radioesthesia; humanetics; psychocybernetics; poltergeist;
astral projection, bio-rhythm, levitation; objectivism; world federalism
. . NOt to mention, sex, religion, psychology, education and delinquency.
Education: A number of studies, for example: Counselor Prediction of
Academic Success, A Longitudinal Mortality Study of One Thousand
College Students. Also, member of Speakers Bureau, Brooklyn College.
Newsletters: Editor and founder of The Brooklyn Psychologist (thriving) ;
editor and founder of Branch Counselor (defunct), editor of Vocationally
Speaking.
Professional Papers: A couple, for example: “Clinical Versus Statistical
Prediction”; “My Swedish Grandmother Was A Simple Soul.”

Comments: Psychology Versus Slychology,; The Ya Gotta School of
Psychology; The Joe Smith Election Poll ,,, all received U.P. Radio
and TV coverage.

Yesteryear: Collaborated on three-volume Ultravioler Aeroirradiation
Study (Coast Guard); also numerous research studies in advertising,
personnel and consumer areas,

[ 238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AM I right in assuming that the 25th Reunion heralds the official
end of my adolescence? Perhaps it’s just as well. Confidentially,
I was beginning to get somewhat skeptical about Santa Claus...
and a few other guys! Could it be that the time has come to forsake
the world of words and enter the world of action? And yet, it is
hard to give up a quest of almost a half century. The Holy Grail
I sought was answers to a few simple questions: Who is God?
What is Man? What is “the good”? What is Time? What is Space?
What is Ultimate Reality? Nonetheless, I shall be everlastingly
grateful to Harvard for the outstanding Philosopher guides she pro-
vided for this safari: Whitehead, Hocking, Demos, Lewis, Perry,
Bixler and Wild. Somewhere along the line we were ambushed
(first at Harvard, then at Columbia) and I was captured by a
marauding tribe of psychology head hunters: Carmichael, Allport,
Woodward, Bryson, Thorndike, Lorge, Super, Thompson and Shaf-
fer. The captive bonds do begin to chafe.

“What of the questions and answers? Unfortunately I am too
intelligent to be put off with inferior answers, yet not intelligent
enough to pursue reason to her faraway lair . . . on the assumption,
of course, that reason itself is not a Platonic myth. In this paradox
may well lie the secret of my failing-success or successful-failure.
Good but not good enough: Mene, Mene, Tekel Upbharsin. With
a slight, if sardonic, bow to Positive Thinking shall we say that my
future is still ahead of me? Oh, be big about it, let’s. Sure do hope
to catch up with it before the Fiftieth Reunion!

En route to Mecca I encountered a Fair Maid — not of Avalon,
but — of Damascus. You see, I took the southern route. In due
time . . . Marie is very conventional . . . she presented me with a
young huntress, chaste and fair, yclept Marie Diane . . . and about
three years later with a man child whom we named Emerson Har-
vard . . . no sense making things too easy for him! Needless to say,
they have developed into magnificent young animals . . . but when
do they become human? They'll scalp me for this for sure or ¢lse
turn their familiars, Flicka, the Siamese cat, and Mr. Chips, the
cocker spaniel, on me. We're really quite a family .. . each one
going his own sweet way. Occasionally, we meet... at Harvard
or Columbia football games.

Hobbies include Harvardiana (hopelessly sentimental! ); profes
sional organizations; radio and TV panelist; football, poker, racing
(flats and harness); deep-sea fishing; stamps (mint U.S. U.N.
Isracl); writing, speaking. (Marie, I did moe list erotica’)

[ 239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

EDWARD LAWRENCE CRAIG, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 185 Beaver St., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass,

BORN: Aug. 25, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1939;
a.m. (Boston Coll.), 1947.

marrieD: Flore L. Piston, Feb. 5, 1945, Cambridge, Mass. cHILprEN: Mary
Ellen, Dec. 7, 1945; Edward Lawrence, 3d, June 23, 1947; Catherine Marie,
Jan. 17, 1950; Patricia Barbara, April 17, 1953; Michele Louise, Sept. 1, 1955.

occupation: Teacher of Romance Languages, senior high school

MY World War II experience was confined mainly to Texas, as an
instructor at a Heavy Bombardment School. Upon discharge, I
taught for seven years at Newton College of the Sacred Heart, then
resigned and went to seek my fortune in California, Unable to find
a suitable job, I returned to Massachusetts and have taught at Water-
town High School for eight years. I have always enjoyed teaching
and would desert the field only if the Government should call upon
me because of my knowledge of Russian.

My children are all in school now, so my wife has turned her
very intellectual head to teaching. Our family is slightly top-heavy
with girls. Harvard didn’t teach me how to have boys.

Politically, I am independent, as much a rebel as when I digested
Thoreau while growing up in Concord. I enjoy the company of
friends, but owe no allegiance to party or organizations. My main
hobby is reading and my main field of study is Russian.

LYNDON CRAWFORD

HOME apprEss: Grassy Hill Road, Lyme, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Electric Boat Div., General Dynamics Corp., Groton, Conn.

BORN: July 9, 1916, Melrose, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: S.B. (Mass. Inst, of Technology), 1938.

MarriED: Victoria Dorothy Baylis, Sept. 12, 1942, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Douglas Gordon, 2d, May 24, 19433 Deborah Huntington, Sept. 6, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bruce Crawford, °42.

occupation: Assistant operations research manager, Electric Boat Division,
General Dynamics Corporation, submarine builder,

OFFICES HELD: Member, Lyme School Board, since 1957; Democratic Town
Chairman, Lyme, Conn., since 1960; member, board of governors, 20th
Senatorial District, Democratic Committee (Conn.),

[ 242 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers (since 1941),
Old Lyme Country Club; Mile Creek Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Theory of Long Ships’ Superstructures”; “The Arranging of
Machinery Spaces in Modern Submarines”; “Pipe Stress Analysis for Static

and Dynamic Loading”; “Sequential Observations in Sonar Detection”,
and several others.

1 LEFT Harvard at the end of my junior year, moving down to
M.LT. to take a degree in Naval architecture and Marine engineer-
ing. From down the river I could imagine that I was presiding over
the Harvard Class of 1937, but at this date I have not a few regrets
for not having finished at Harvard.

Before jumping into a job, I spent the summer of 1938 in Europe.
An eerie summer it was too. I remember long steamer discussions
of the individualist virtues of the French Army vs. the precision of
the German. Also a hot, sticky train run from Brussels out to the
German frontier, and apathetic Belgian officers getting off at the
Albert Canal while I rode over the border in lonely splendor with
a wholly new German military gang climbing aboard on the other
side. Curious half-news on the Italian ship on the way back with
ominous bits about Lord Runciman’s mission to Prague.

At home I joined the Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock
Company, where I lived out the war in its Hull Technical Division.
We were the lead agents for the Essex Class Carriers, and for a
while there was a 27,000-ton ship going out the doors every three
months, At first a car was a luxury, but a boat was a necessity, and
so for week after week I bicycled out to Gloucester County to camp
on a five-ton cutter that a couple of us had built by a strange and
sort of wonderful breed of men known as Guineymen. We indced
became a part of the family. And later we scoured every gunk hole
in the lower Chesapeake interspersing here and there with an out-
side passage. I am glad to have had some Chesapeake in my life but
more than happy to be back on the Sound now,

In September of 1942, Vicki Baylis and I were married in New
York and back in Newport News came one package after another
from Gloucester County — “Elis and Hers” towels, still-warm chick-
ens and what not. In 1943, our boy Douglas arrived in one of those
rare fresh southeast winds that I love.

At the end of the war, we started tracking north, stopping over in
Baltimore for two years with the Glenn L. Martin Company, where
I became fascinated with the design of aircraft, the scramble for
airliner orders, and the firse of those odd- looking multi-jet bomb-

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ers, but with the war production atmosphere running down hill
and an industry not knowing even now what its economic verities
were. Here, also, I became quite active in the World Government
movement for which I still nurture a strong enthusiasm. It is some-
thing we should constantly be talking about even as we have to do
the much smaller things. In Baltimore, our daughter Deborah was
born on a black September morning of 1946. Somehow we think of
this as a time of walks, of heavy loads of little people on our backs,
always over-ambitious, getting lost, finding a new lake here or
there and feeling disgustingly healthy. —

In 1947, | moved on to York, Pennsylvania, as a consultant for
the S. Morgan Smith Company. While I spent only a year here
over gas turbine and wind tunnel equipment for the naca, I feel
most warmly for the quiet and good people of that part of Penn-
sylvania, and, indeed, we started a new chapter of the United World
Federalists there that year. But it was a year of weekend commut-
ing back to Baltimore and nowhere near enough family.

In 1948, I joined a fascinating little research laboratory, Reed

Research in Washington, where I was chief analytical engineer.
From here, not being of the government, we had a rather good
overview, and I still call Washington “My City,” when I climb off
the Federal and walk out of the Union Station. We investigated al-
most everything at the lab from ocean liners to wire-cloth bobbins
and half-designed a bureau of standards for the country of Greece,
a weird undertaking if there ever was one. Vicki, with the chil-
dren going on to school, and I, when I could, became absorbed in
the process of government. Vicki began to think that she really
owned the Senate Office Building and the Caucus Room, and I quite
believe that old Senator Tom Connally was-beginning to under-
stand this. We wound up renting a fifty-acre farm out near Vienna,
Virginia, with everything but salt water. ,

And so, in 1954, we came back to New England and the beauti-
ful Connecticut River valley. I became technical assistant to the
chief engineer at the Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics,
just as the Nautilus was getting ready to go to sea, The other day I
noticed that there were seven nuclear submarines at our piers, sug- ~
gestive of a good deal of compressed history since I saw that first »
one just beginning to inch out into the stream for the first time.
I later rode her for several days and an evening in the shiny reactor

compartment all by myself, remembering the scorching noisy stoke
hold of the old coal burner, Minnekahda, of my childhood. I have

[ 244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

moved inside this firm and am now supervising an operations re-
search group which is trying to estimate the real implications of
going under water in a big way.

We live in the big-little town of Lyme, about ten miles square,
one thousand population. There are two ruins of farms on our
meadows down in the valley below our house, and we speculate on
the ghosts of those old neighbors who worked so hard on that land
and moved on from a town which has oddly grown smaller in the
last hundred years.

We are feeling a little reduced this year with our boy away at
college for the first year, but the family is loaded with projects.
Our Debbie, at fifteen, is energetically eating up books, mathema-
tics, languages, and science, with college a couple of years away.

Lyme is about the most Republican town in the whole world, so
it is fun to find oneself Democratic Town Chairman, the last job
I thought I would ever find. I have become convinced that this
politics-in-the-small is quite important, and I bore everyone to
death trying to get more interest in this on both sides of the political
fence — more imagination, more feeling of identification, and much
less conformance to stereotyped procedure. Once in a while, we,
as a committee, can drop the local snow removal problem, to see
if there is any link between what we can do and the fortunes of a
J. William Fulbright in the Senate, and to see what we can do
about exciting our neighboring political committees as to what
help we might offer to the baffling problem of a nation trying to
grow up and be mature in posture through a long cold war.

We sail, swim, play hockey and tennis, and still do a lot of hiking.
We should be delighted to see any of you who would wander into
these hills.

MORRIS DeCAMP CRAWFORD, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 10 North St., Old Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Bowery Savings Bank, 110 E. 4:d St, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1915, Nyack, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Nyack High School, Nyack, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B. magna ctr latide, 1937; LL.B. 1040

MaRRIED: Dorothy Duncan Babcock, May 2, 1942, Tryon, N.C. crutpres:
Duncan, Aug. 5, 1943; Gordon, Jan. 21, 1947; Linda, Nov. 22, 1950

occuPATION: Executive vice-president, The Bowery Savings Bank, mutual
savings banking.

OFFICES HELD: Associate, Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft,

[ 245 ]

1O4O-$ 3, ViCe-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

president and office counsel, The Bowery Savings Bank, 1953-59. Cur-
rently: member, board of trustees, The Bowery Savings Bank; member,
board of trustees, Savings Banks Life Insurance Fund; chairman, Committee
on Federal Legislation, National Association of Mutual Savings Banks;
chairman, Committee on Public Information and of its executive com-
mittee, Savings Banks Association of the State of New York; member,
board of directors and of the executive committee, National Association
of Mutual Savings Banks; member, Council of Administration, Savings
Banks Association of the State of New York; member, Task Force on
Federal Home Loan Bank Board; member, State Advisory Committee,
US. Savings Bond Division, Treasury Department, member, New York
City Fair Housing Practices Panel, member, Housing Advisory Council,
New York State Commission Against Discrimination; member, Com-
mittee on Money, Credit and Monetary Policy, American Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Harvard Club of New York; Innis
Arden Golf Club, Old Greenwich, Conn.

THE last few months of my undergraduate life were plagued with
that malady so common after graduation — “Decision Making.”
Should I become an anthropologist — sitting on my derriere, digging
potsherds or reveling in the observance of (if not participation in)
exotic, primitive rites? Or should I study law? The latter impulse
prevailed. I remained in Eliot House for another pleasant three
years while completing law school. Then, on to New York, where
I joined the law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, antic-
ipating a long and continuous legal career.
One and one-half years later, I was rudely removed from the
law books and thrust into the Infantry as a private, in February,
1942. After basic training, a twenty-four-hour honeymoon and
Officers’ Training School, I became an instructor at Fort Benning
and later an officer in a replacement training camp at Fannin, Texas.
Went overseas as a “fighting company commander” but, on arrival,
was promptly inducted into the G-3 Section of General MacArthur’s
Headquarters, working first on the plans for the invasion of Japan;
and Jater, when the A-bomb obsoleted those plans, on troop re-
deployment. Finally, I redeployed myself back to the United States,
was mustered out of service at Fort Devens, Massachusetts, in Feb-
ruary, 1946, met my wife at the Copley Plaza and was re-inducted
into the joys of civilian life. Then back to law practice with the
old firm for seven years, coming to rest — final, I hope —in the
banking business as vice-president and later executive vice-president
of The Bowery Savings Bank of New York.
While all this was going on, my wife Diddy and I succeeded in
raising a very satisfactory family, two boys, Duncan and Gordon,

[ 246]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who are now at South Kent School, and a girl, Linda, who is the
sole remaining “at home” child. After many years of valiant re-
sistance, we succumbed, in the early ’50’s, to the usual ills — moved
to suburbia, bought television, took up golf and voted Republican
on occasion. Principal remaining ambition — conquer crabgrass.

GEORGE MANLEY CREAMER

MAILING ADDRESS: 389 W. Tahquitz Drive, Palm Springs, Calif.

FRANCIS HOSMER CULKIN

HOME ADDRESS: 58 W. Cayuga St., Oswego, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Culkin & Read, 186 W. First St., Oswego, N.Y.

BORN: June 30, 1915, Oswego, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; LL.B. (Syracuse
Univ.), 1941.

MarRiED: Florence Kiley, April 27, 1942, Oswego, N.Y. CHILprEN: Francis kK,
Jan. 7, 1943; Mary Louise, Oct. 21, 1944; Elizabeth Ann, Jan. 22, 1947;
Florence Grant, Oct. 31, 1948; Josephine Hosmer, March 11, 1952; Wilham
Edward, June 6, 1954; Jean, June, 1956 (died at birth).

OCCUPATION: Attorney; general practice of law.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1948-50, member, board of directors, 1950-6o, Oswego
County Health Association; president, Oswego Community Chest, 1952,
Operation Oswego, Inc., December, 1952, to May, 1955, Oswego County
Bar Association, 1956-57; member, July, 1955, to December, 1959, June,
1960, to January, 1961, chairman, March, 1957, to July, 1959, Oswego Port
Authority; member, board of trustees, Oswego Hospital, since 1946;
trustee, Oswego City Library, since 1950; counsel of New York State Joint
Legislative Committee on the Barge Canal, since December, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Oswego Country Club; Oswego Chamber of Commerce; Operation
Oswego, Inc.; Knights of Columbus.

FOR most of the past twenty-five years, my life has been that of a
small-town lawyer with the usual extracurricular involvements of
that profession, such as civic affairs and politics. There have also
been ineffectual attempts to keep my intellectual acuity somewhere
near the level at which it stood when I graduated. Taking prece-
dence over all of this has been the pleasant, if exhausting, task of
raising six children in collaboration with my dear wife. With four
teen-agers in the family, this project is now at its strenuous peak.

I graduated from Syracuse Law School in 1941 and recurned to
my native city to practise with my father’s law firm followi ing my

[ 247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

admission to the bar in September, 1941. On October 27, 1942, I
was married to Florence Kiley of Oswego. Florence was a teacher
who had graduated from Oswego Normal School and Syracuse
University. She was teaching at Manhasset, New York, when we
were married. We have had a delightful companionship for twenty
years. On August 4, 1942, I succumbed to the draft. I served in
the Army until August, 1946. There was absolutely nothing of note
about my military service except that I kept returning to Fort Sill,

Oklahoma, where I spent a total of two years. When the Japanese

war ended, I was on a boat headed for Leyte where I spent six

months and returned home. I left the Army with the rank of first

lieutenant, Field Artillery.

I resumed the practice of law when I returned to Oswego. In
August of 1948, David J. Read and I formed the law firm of Cul-
kin & Read, which has remained in existence ever since. Like most
small-town lawyers, we engage in a general practice with a great
variety of legal problems and interests. Our association has been
a very pleasant one. Lawyers also get into politics on occasion,
which is probably a mistake from the financial point of view. There
have been two unsuccessful attempts at public affairs in my career
and a fair amount of laboring in the political vineyard on behalf of
various national and local causes. But then, all Harvard men can’t

succeed politically, particularly if they happen to be Republicans.

At present, I am counsel to the New York State Joint Legislative
Committee on the Barge Canal. This group is studying the question
of whether that historic waterway should be transferred to the
federal government. I have also had some experience in local civic
affairs. It has been rewarding but time-consuming. I have been
particularly interested in the field of economic development of my
city. Oswego has long been an area of economic blight, and we
have made numerous efforts in the past ten years to revive it, par-
ticularly through the formation of a community-wide industrial
development corporation and a Port Authority. These projects
have had some degree of success, and the future promises to be far
better than the past.
As previously stated, my principal project is my family. Our six
children range from ages seven to eighteen, with boys at each end.
I find it harder to keep up with a seven-year-old boy at forty-six
than 1 did at thirty-five. Frank, aged eighteen, is a freshman at
Cornell, Mary, sixteen, is a senior in high school, and for the second
ycar in a row we are looking at colleges; Betsey, fourteen, is a high-

[ 248 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

school sophomore. The rest are in the grades. None are geniuses,
but we are proud of them even at their most exasperating moments.
I am certain that their exasperation with us is as great.

PERRY JAMES CULVER

HOME ApprESS: Baker Bridge Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts General Hospital, 275 Charles St. Boston 14.
Mass.

BorN: April 29, 1915, Stillwater, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., ctimt laude, 1937; MD. 1941.

MARRIED: Kate Schaaf, May 22, 1943, Newark, N.J. cuitpren: Robin Sommer,
May 13, 1945; Sheldon Williamson, July 11, 1948; Perry James, Jr. April
29, 1950; Devore Schaaf, Dec. 18, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Physician and medical educator; associate physician, Massachusetts
General Hospital; clinical associate in medicine and assistant dean, for
Admissions, Harvard Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Admissions Committee, Harvard Medical School, since
1960; consultant in gastroenterology, uspHs Hospital, Brighton, Mass.,
since 1952; consultant to Plasma Fractionation Commission, since 1952;
‘consulting physician, Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary, since 1954;
deacon, First Parish Church, Lincoln, Mass.; chairman, School Committee,
Town of Lincoln, since 1958; trustee, Concord Academy, Concord, Mass.,
since 1961; chairman, Third, Tenth and Fifteenth College Reunions, co-
chairman, Twentieth Reunion, general chairman, Twenty-fifth Reunion,
Class of 1937; member, Harvard 1937 Permanent Class Committee, Per-
manent 1941 Class Treasurer and member, Class Fund Committee, Har-
vard Medical School; member, editorial board, Harvard Medical Alum
Bulletin, 1954-58.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate),; American
Board of Gastroenterology (diplomate): American Association for the
Advancement of Science; American College of Physicians; Aesculapian
Club; New York Academy of Sciences; Harvard Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: A number of medical publications on gastrointestinal problems,
co-editor of A Syllabus of Laboratory Examinations in Clinical Diagnosis,

Harvard University Press, 1960.

BUSY, busy, busy and not enough time to read, think or visit with
one’s friends is the best way to describe my life at present. Fach
year has brought more responsibilities, commitments, and satisfac-
tions. Since my Tenth, Fifteenth and Twentieth Reunion reports, I
have resolved the problem of choosing between investigation, prac-
tice, and teaching of medicine. Soul-searching has convinced me
that I do not have the apritude to be more than a dilettante in in-
vestigation. Love of people has made it impossible for me to do

[ 249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

other than continue the practice of medicine and become increas-
ingly devoted to education. Thus, the well-balanced physician,
“teaching, research and patient care” has shifted to an “unbalanced”
individual (particularly with respect to adipose tissue), but a happy
one.

Our four children take a dim view of the great involvement of
both parents in civic, church, and college activities, as well as the
time-consuming requirements of a medical practice, but we have
time for short vacations together. To enhance parent-child rela-
tionship, I am trying, though with little success, to get them to join
me in the mundane, relaxing activities of maintaining a large and
weed-ridden homestead.

Increasing activities in the elementary school committee, a sec-
ondary school board of trustees, and medical school assistant dean-
ship seem to have me involved in education from the cradle to So-
cial Security retirement. It is fascinating and sometimes frightening
to observe the pressures building up in people at all levels in the
intense competition for admission to secondary schools, colleges,
and graduate schools. I would guess that most of us in the Class of

1937 would either not have been admitted to Harvard or would be
entirely different today, if we had had to come up to 1962 stand-
ards. The question is, which type of education is going to be better
for us in the long run, the 1962 vintage or 1937? (I like wines of

ancient vintage! )

A \ook at the national situation puts me in a gloomy mood. Peo-
ple more and more seem to be willing to settle for security, con-
formity, and mediocrity. Influences from many directions seem
to be stifling initiative and eliminating the rewards which come from
effort beyond the ordinary. I still believe that the old-fashioned vir-
tues of free enterprise and less big government make for a stronger,
more creative, and self-reliant people.

Recently I have been cheered, however, by one of the most re-
warding experiences in my life, and that has been my association
with the large number of wonderful classmates and their wives who
are working for the Twenty-fifth Reunion. I continue to be amazed
and inspired by the enthusiasm, originality, sincerity, and amount
of time given by all. Excuse me if I’m being corny, but 1937 is the

greatest Class on any earth. We are looking forward to seeing
everyone at the Twenty-fifth.

[ 250 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STEARNS PREBLE CUMMINGS

HOME ApDpRESS: 980 Bennington Drive, Rochester 16, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Watch Repair Dept., Sibley, Lindsay & Curr Co., Rochester,
N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 22. 1915, Franklin, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Florence Olson, Oct. 29, 1942, West Palm Beach, Fla. CHILDREN:
Grace Annette, March 21, 1944; Deborah Frances, July 11 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bruce Dodge Cummings, ’39 (deceased).
occupation; Watchmaker.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, secretary, Rochester Watchmakers Guild; past
vice-president, editor, New York State Watchmakers Association, Inc.
PUBLICATIONS: The Empire Horologist; Thé Empire Newsletter.

SERVICE manager, fall, 1937, assistant buyer of draperies, 1939,
Wm. Hengerer Company, Buffalo. Enlisted as private, Regular
Army, August, 1941; assigned Air Force; September, 1942, grad-
uated OCS, AAF, TTC, Miami Beach, Florida; graduated Army
Exchange School, Princeton, New Jersey, October, 1942; assigned
to Air Transport Command in Miami as exchange officer, became
Air Base consolidated squadron supply officer, MAAF, Car. Div.,
ATC, 1943; first lieutenant, 1943; captain, May, 1944; separated
May 17, 1946. Joined Peoples Watch Repair of Toledo, Buffalo
branch, 1946. Moved to Rochester, New York, branch, same com-
pany, spring, 1948. Still there.

++ WILBUR LOVE CUMMINGS, JR.
BORN: May 27, 1914, Seattle, Wash. parents: Wilbur Love Cummings, Marian
Engle.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937:
pigD: May 6, 1943, Columbus, Ohio.

WHILE an undergraduate Cummings was president of the Harvard
Flying Club and won the New England Intercollegiate Flying
Championship Trophy, the New England Intercollegiate Bomb
Dropping Cup, and the Intercollegiate Spot Landing Cup, all in his
junior year. He was also president of the Photographic Society, a
member of the Musical Club, the Turmwaechter Verein, and the
Mountaineering Club, and he played freshman and junior varsity

polo. A cattle rancher at Cameron, Montana, before the war, he

[251]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

entered the Navy in July, 1942, with the rank of lieutenant (j.g.).
In December, 1942, he was assigned to the Naval Aircraft Delivery
Unit at Columbus. He was killed in the crash of a Naval Delivery
Unit plane. He was survived by his parents.

WILLIAM STUART CURRIE

HOME ADDRESS: Johnson Road, Hyde Park, Vt.
Born: Dec. 24, 1916, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Collegiate School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: a.B. (Haverford Coll.), 1938.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Major, Air Force.

ON duty with the Air Force in Hawaii for over a year and shall

probably be there another year or two. Expect to remain in active
service until retirement.

FREDERICK BENEDICT CURTIN

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Plymouth Drive, Hudson, Ohio.
OFFICE apprEss: B. F. Goodrich Co., Akron, Ohio.
BORN: Jan. 30, 1915, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lynn English High School, Lynn, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Alice V. Monical, Sept. 3, 1946, Dodge City, Kans. cxitp: William
George, Aug. 23, 1948.

occupation: Credit manager — rubber products, eastern regional credit manager,

B. F. Goodrich Company.
OFFICES HELD: Offices in industry groups, 1951-57,

CREDIT assignments with B. F. Goodrich Company, retail, whole-
sale and manufacturing, 1937-61. Three years, New England area
division; fifteen years, Pacific Coast area division. Now located at
home office, Akron, Ohio, where I am responsible for credits and
collections in 250 company-owned stores handling rubber products
and auto supplies.

Served in U.S. Army, 1941-46, grades private to lieutenant
colonel. Separated, lieutenant colonel, Ordnance Department.

Politically conservative. Vote Republican regularly. Participated
in party vote drives while residing in Southern California,

[ 252 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID MYNDERT CURTIS

HOME ApprEss: Wianno Avenue, Osterville, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cape Cod Hospital, Hyannis, Mass.
BorN: April 23, 1915, Marlboro, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Rumsey Hall, Cornwall, Conn.; Phillips Excter Academy, Excter,
N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1937(38); M.p. (Tufts Coll.), rg42.
MARRIED: June Burdette Nickerson, Oct. 16, 1943, Chicago, Ill. cHipren: David
Myndert, Jr., Dec. 24, 1945; Frederick N., June 18, 1948; Peter E., Jan. 2:2,
1951; Joan B., Dec. 16 1951; James A. March 21, 1954.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Arnold Curtis, ’34 (deceased).
occupation: Surgeon; chief of surgery, Cape Cod Hospital, Hyannis, Mass.
OFFICES HELD: Captain, Medical Corps, AUS, 1943-45, member, Pack Committee,
~ Cub Scouts, Osterville, Mass.; member board of trustees, Finance Com-
mittee and Pastoral Relations Committee, Osterville Community Church
(Methodist); member, Medico-Legal Liaison Committee, Barnstable District
Medical Society; chairman, Civil Defense Committee.
MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); Association of American
Physicians and Surgeons; American Medical Association, Barnstable Dis-
trict Medical Society.

WITHIN a very few months after graduation, it became readily ap-
parent that the holding of the Harvard diploma did not make the
world my oyster. Four years of medical training at Tufts with the
threat of Army participation before the M.D. degree was obtained,
and a job at night either in a State institution or various hospitals,
were probably the most rapid four years of my life. A rotating
internship following at the Rhode Island Hospital in Providence was
an unusually wise decision for me, since 1 was exposed for eighteen
months of the allotted two years to better-than-average medical and
surgical training, and I met an attractive young brunette on the first
day of my internship. Army Medical Corps training for three
months in Carlisle and subsequently at the University of Chicago in
tropical medicine convinced me that I was soon for overseas duty,
so within a few months the young nurse, now of two years’ ac-
quaintance, joined me in Chicago where we were married far from
home and families. But a fortunate illness in the Army, even in-
volving a couple of operative procedures, only served to keep me

in the country another year before joining the 7th Division on

Okinawa, just in time to see the termination of the war with Japan

by the use of the atomic bomb. My only memento of oceupanen

in Korea for almost a year is several rolls of colored slides of

[253]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

thatched roofs, rice fields, and the coldest winters I’ve ever suf-
fered through. ,

Returned to this country in 1945 to begin five months of pathol-
ogy at Tufts Medical School as a preparation for surgical training.
Returned to a son now six months old whom I had never seen and
to a wife whom I had hardly lived with in three years because of
illness and overseas duty. Three rewarding years of surgical resi-
dency followed, again at Rhode Island Hospital, with a fine staff de-
manding intensive work-up of patients, accurate diagnosis, and clean
effective surgery. And these three years again passed as rapidly as
those just spent in the Service. Frederick, the second of four sons,
arrived during this period.

The year 1950 found June and myself with a family of two, a
surgical background completed, and no place to go, until we for-
tunately located on Cape Cod with a practice initially of medicine
and surgery centering around the Cap Cod Hospital in Hyannis. By
good fortune, the bank found me too poor a risk to finance a home
in Hyannis, and so we moved to Osterville six miles to the westward
into one of the ideal communities, I feel, on Cape Cod. A confusing
period of general practice, of which I knew so little, rather than

surgery, of which I felt I knew so much, lasted approximately a

year. Since 1951 my surgical practice has grown as has the Cape

Cod community, so that several surgical associates have been neces-

sary to allow some evening home life and occasional weekends with
the family.

These twelve years on Cape Cod have seen the birth of our three
other children, Peter, who is eleven, Joan, who is ten, and Jimmy,
now seven years of age. Little of the time that was hoped to have
been spent in hunting and fishing has been so utilized, but the re-
cent appointment as chief of surgery at the Cape Cod Hospital has
made all of this concentration on surgical practice seem well worth
while. 1 also have surgical privileges at the Rhode Island Hospital in

Providence, Rhode Island. oe
With our family completed, we are now looking forward to more
hours to be spent with them as they grow up. With David, the

eldest, just sixteen, the problems of education, social activities, and a

well-rounded family life are paramount. Our week of family skiing

at Whitney’s over the 22d of February has been one of the high-
lights of the year; but now the eldest, attending Moses Brown School
in Providence, can no longer join us, so that there are few times in
which the entire family can still be together. We are looking for-

[254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ward to the Reunion this June with all seven of the Curtises present,
and pray that the next twenty-five years may be as rewarding as
these first twenty-five since graduation from Harvard.

MALCOLM TUCKE CURTISS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 632 Main St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFIcE ApprEss: S. H. Couch Co., Inc., and Couch Ordnance, Inc, 3 Arlington
St., North Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 30, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

mMarRiED: Katherine Elizabeth Baker, April 6, 1940, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Karen Elizabeth, Jan. 22, 1943; Sara Tucke, Nov. 11, 1946; Frederica, Sept.
23, 1948.

OccuUPATION: Vice-president in charge of production, electrical and electronic
manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Connecticut Valley Enterprises, Essex, Conn., since
1953, Baker Corporation, Brookline, Mass. since 1958; trustee, Derby
Academy, Hingham, Mass. since 1954; president, Harvard Club of
Hingham, 1959~60; delegate, Republican National Convention, July, 1960,
commodore, Hingham Yachr Club, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Hingham Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Hingham; Hingham
Republican Town Committee.

A COUPLE of months prior to the invasion of Normandy in 1944,
I was summoned from the south coast of England to the Office of
Commander Naval Force, Europe, where the admiral reassigned
me to a relatively unimportant position with the British Admiralty.
Then a lieutenant, USNR, my British “opposite numbers” turned
out to be a Scottish Earl, captain in the Royal Navy, and a British
rear admiral. A subsequent plaintive request to the United States
admiral, “Why pick on little me?” elicited the following reply:
“Son, I have looked all over the European Theatre for a Naval
Academy man and have not been able to find one. You are a Efar-
vard man and that’s the next best thing.” The moral of this little tale
evades me still, but living conditions in London were the best I have
had before or since and I am grateful. Suppose I had gone to Yale?

Several years later, Harvard again left its mark on my psyche.
Following a disastrous Yale game, several fellow alumni gathered to
commiserate with one another at the home of an illustrious room-
mate. While discussing the distribution of Maine potatoes with
my fellow Exonian and Harvardian, Arthur Schlesinger, I an-

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

nounced loudly that Arthur sounded like a damned Communist.
Now this accusation was unwarranted and doubtless untrue. I was
not, however, aware of the local sensitivity regarding McCarthyism.
It was some years before I was invited to return to the academic
confines. Last spring I had dinner with Arthur. I think he is getting
more conservative.

These autobiographical incidents are intended to clarify my asso-
ciation with the University. One can readily see from the above:

1. Harvard has had its impact upon my life.

2. A permanent career in the Navy was out of the question.

3. I talk too much. .

4. Kennedy will hire relative conservatives.

Now to the driving force in my life —sex—the opposite one.
Katherine (see Third, Fifth, Tenth, Fifteenth, and Twentieth Class
Reports) remains loyal and true, primarily because even a cursory
study of divorce settlements indicates the financial impracticability
of any other course. She refers to our not very stately Colonial
home in Hingham as “a bottomless pit,” which is a rank under-
statement, and between cooking, mowing the lawn, and shoveling
snow she graces it most decoratively.

As for my three daughters, Karen is at Vassar (if not at Trinity,
Yale, or Princeton), Sara Tucke at Beaver Country Day, and Ricky
(Frederica) at Derby Academy. If they ever get out of college and
become self-supporting, I intend to buy a thirty-eight-foot yawl and
go cruising. The three youngsters would gladly quit school now and
get the boat.

Something of business — and my job which I enjoy inordinately.
For fifteen years I have been the manufacturing boss of two small
electrical-electronics firms, the Couch Companies in Quincy, Massa-
chusetts. We now have about ten times as many employees as we
did when I joined the organization and continue to make a fair
profit, My work is with men and machines— with a number of
girls thrown in. It is many things, but always fun.

Other than sailing and cruising the New England Coast, much of
my spare time has been devoted to Republican politics — nearly
all at the “grass roots” level, although I did spend my 1960 vaca-
tion as a delegate to the Republican National Convention. I should
have contributed more to the welfare of the nation and the Party

had I mailed a small check, but it was quite a show. Henceforth,
I shall stay in the grass.

[256]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS WILLIAM CUSACK

HOME ADDRESS: 351 Nahant Rd., Nahant, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Travelers Insurance Co,., 125 High St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 14, 1916, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lynn English High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1941.

MarRiED: Catherine Anne Foley, June 12, 1943, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert John, March 25, 1945; William, Feb. 8, 1948 (died Aug. 23, 1948);
George Thomas, Dec. 25, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Program committee chairman, Nahant P.T.A., 1950-54; chairman,
Cub Scout Committee, 1951-54; member, Boy Scout Committee, 1954-55;
director, Nahant Little League, 1951-56; vice-commodore, 1959-60, com-
modore, 1960-62, Nahant Dory Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Lynn; Reserve Officers Association, Nahant

Dory Club.

FOLLOWING my passing of the Massachusetts bar exams and ad-
mittance to the legal profession, and it was an immediate following, I
answered the call to arms and became a defender of the military law,
an MP. For two years I counted the utility poles between Boston
and Bangor, Maine, for I helped to maintain order on the Boston &
Maine and Maine Central railroads. That passenger trafic would
be welcome to Mr. Smith today. Miles later I landed in New
Orleans at the Transportation OCS from where I was commissioned
a shavetail. I was destined to a traveling life as a military servant

because the remainder of my service, until March, 1946, was as a

transport commander on troop ships. The speed was slow but I did

see most of the European and Near East coastline, including Gestapo

dodging in Yugoslavia.

Returning to my family of two, we settled in Lynn temporarily
and I began my legal employment with my present firm. But, al-
though Lynn is on the coast, my military seafaring had its after-
effect because in 1951 we moved two and one-half miles into the
ocean and that is Nahant, the smallest community in area in the
U.S.A. Because it is a small town I took an interest in the activities
of my sons. This has resulted in Scout leadership assignments and
active participation in Little League and Babe Ruth League, And
because it is on the waterfront, my two boys have become ardent
sailors of the racing type. It is a real thrill to see your son a winner
at Marblehead Race Week. Consequently, I am serving my second
year as commodore of a small but thriving yacht club.

[ 257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Thirdly, because it is a small town I have been active during the
past several years on committees dealing with problems facing the
community. My wife has also found herself involved in town
meeting proceedings and school building problems. Because of an
optic nerve condition, the elder boy is commuting to a private
school after three years at a preparatory school in Connecticut.
The younger son is attending the local junior high school and show-

ing a persistent interest in paleontology. He may visit the places I
missed during the war.

My legal practice in Boston is primarily the preparation and
trying of cases before the Board of Appeals on Motor Vehicle Lia-
bility Policies and Bonds, a three-man administrative committee
which hears cases involving the cancellation of the Bay State’s own
compulsory insurance. In addition thereto I have my private prac-
tice. | |
I hold the rank of major, Judge Advocate General Corps, and

am in a Ready Reserve unit, Because of the current situation my
continued status as a civilian soldier is questionable. .

We find life pleasantly active for us in Nahant throughout the
year. Church choir singing has continued to maintain my interest
in the vocal art. Once each year, with three other graduates of the
Glee Club, I indulge in barbershop harmony which, I modestly say,

seems to be the high point of an excellent local springtime benefit
show.

GEORGE THOMAS CUSHMAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
BorN: March 18, 1915, Arlington, Mass,
PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES; A.B., magna cum laude, 1937; A.M., 1939-
marriep: Mary Frances Bell, Aug. 25, 1951, Great Neck, N.Y. CHILDREN:

Priscilla Brooks, April 2, 1954, Wendy Lee, Nov. 12, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Chandler Arved Cushman, ’52, M.3.a., "54.

OCCUPATION: Teacher and coach, Choate School,

OFFICES HELD: Advertising manager, Hispania magazine, since 1950; treasurer,

Connecticut Chapter, American Association of Teachers of Spanish and
Portuguese, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Connecticut State Advisory Committee on Foreign Language

Instruction, American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese;
Masons; Amvets.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Memorias de un estudiante soldado, New York, 1954;
numerous reviews and news notes for Hispania,

[ 258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT is with a very philosophical outlook on life that I sit down to
type out these few words. By now we have almost become able to
accept calmly the idea of a Harvard Democrat in the White House,
but the idea that he is also a Choate School graduate rubs it in a
little strongly. Of course we are proud of his achievements (along
with those of other grads, such as Adlai Stevenson and Chester
Bowles), but we resent the implication that our school is the cradle
of “new frontierism,” when it is actually as “reactionary” as most of
the New England prep schools. However, with our faculty motto
of Aequanimitas, 1 can settle back and even face the prospect of
bringing up two girls in a boys’ prep boarding school!

Coming from a long line of teachers, I began the professing of
French and Spanish after spending a year in France to find out what
life was all about. Five war years in Panama and Europe proved
that foreign languages can be of some advantage after all: they
obtained for me a spot in Intelligence, and a much more comfortable
and profitable stay in the service than that enjoyed by many of my
colleagues. Since the war most of my work has been here at Choate,
where I am currently head of the Spanish Department and varsity
lacrosse coach.

Pris is in the second grade and now knows all about reading;
Wendy, a year behind, has not yet finished her schooling. Nor have
they yet awakened, thank Heavens, to the fact that their sex is in a
decided minority here! Mary occupies herself with uniceF and the
United Fund, and in her spare time is getting a Master’s degree in
education, while in the summer I lead groups of boys to Spain. It
is a busy life, but the constant contact with youth is stimulating,
often rewarding, and keeps one in good physical shape — anyone
want to compare waistlines? We do our best to convince ourselves
that these advantages make up for the somewhat modest financial
returns — and usually succeed.

ROGER WILSON CUTLER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 434 Walnut St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Bank & Trust Co., 53 Scare St, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Cume Lrude, 1937; ULB, 1940.

MARRIED: Elise Russell, July 1, 1937, Keene, N.H. (died March 1, 1938); Plira-
beth L. Dieterich, Oct. 15, 1959. CHILpREN: Elise, Feb. 28 togt (vt. George
W. W. Brewster, 3d, June 12, 1961); Clare, June 24, 1943.

[259]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Bradley, ’35, 8.ARCH., ’39; Eric Cutler, ’40. |

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, State Street Bank & Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Attorney General, Commonwealth of Massachusetts;
member, board of directors, Boston Chapter, American Red Cross; member,
board of trustees and secretary, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

IT says to be concise. Two wives, two daughters, one son-in-law,
five dogs, eight places of abode, a war and five jobs. What does this
add up to? You know the answer as well as I do, but I think I’ve
been more fortunate than some and have had as much fun as any.

+ ARTHUR KIMBALL DACY

BORN: Jan. 29, 1916, Morgantown, W.Va. PARENTS: Arthur Lincoln Dacy,
Mildred Backman.

PREPARED AT: Holten High School.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; LL.B. 1940.
piED: January 22, 1947, Colombia, South America.

AS an undergraduate Dacy was a member of the Glee Club and
commuted to classes from his home in Danvers, Massachusetts. Be-
fore his death he had filled out his life blank for the Decennial
Report, giving his occupation as Special Agent for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation with offices in the U.S. Courthouse Build-
ing, Foley Square, New York City. He wrote: “After leaving
College I spent three years in the Law School and graduated with
the LL.B. degree in 1940. I passed the Massachusetts Bar examina-
tions in the fall of 1940 but joined the FBI before starting practice.
I have been with the FBI ever since and have found the work, es-
pecially some lucky assignments during the war, extremely interest-
ing. It has kept me on the move for the last six years, and I haven’t
had much chance to keep in touch with Class affairs, though I have
met many members in the FBI. Now, if I can find a place to live
in New York, which at the moment Jooks doubtful, maybe the
Alumni Bulletin will catch up with me.”
He was killed in a plane crash while on duty with the FBI. He
was survived by his wife.

MARK HEALEY DALL

HOME ADDRESS: 334 Hollow Tree Ridge Rd., Darien, Conn,
OFFICE ApprEss: Dancer, Fitzgerald, Sample, Inc., 347 Madison Ave,, New York
17, N.Y.

[ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: April 9, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarRIED: Pauline T. Kingsland, June 29, 1946, Hewlett, Long Island, N.Y
CHILDREN: Hester Kingsland, Jan. 13, 1949; Marcus Whitney, Jan. 15, 1951;
Eliza Bradford, June 2, 1952; Sara Kingsland, April 6, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Copy writer, advertising agency.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and New
Canaan; Silvermine Golf Club, Norwalk, Conn.; Noroton Yacht Club,
Noroton, Conn,

Career History. I have been writing advertising copy for seventeen
years and I would like to write advertising copy for seventeen more.
(You never know who reads these things.) For the past ten I have
been in the same office, midway between Brooks Brothers and the
Yale Club. But that doesn’t mean I think three-button thoughts
exclusively. I often think double-breasted. Without actually stray-
ing from the straight and narrow lapel, you understand.

Family. 1 am really lucky in love. Married fifteen years, and my
wife has never once asked me how things were at the office. W hat’s
more, she does not believe the TV dinner will ever replace food.
And she just loves children. Ill never forget the day we left one at
the beach by mistake. She went back and got him.

Travels. Thirteen years now, I have been riding the New Haven.
But I don’t mind. Gives me a chance to catch up on the encyclo-
pedia. And five years in the Army taught me to hurry up and wait.
I am in the Air Force Reserve at present, which is a comfortable
place for an old L.C. Even the snack bars are bomb-proof.
Convictions. I am happy with my lot. Crabgrass and all.

HAROLD WESLEY DANSER, JR.

HOME AppREss: 34 Woodbine Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harold W. Danser, Jr. & Associates, 53 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: June 8, 1915, Long Branch N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MarRIED: Margaret Elizabeth Hancock, May 20, 1939, Scarsdale, N.Y. cripreN:
Diana Elizabeth, Nov. 28, 1941; Harold Wesley 3d, Jan. 8 1045.

HARVARD BROTHER: Douglas Barker Danser, '41.

OCCUPATION: Management consultant.

OFFICES HELD; Member, board of trustees, various years since 19g, chairman,
1953-54, Plymouth Congregational Church, Belmont Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; American

[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Institute of Management; Belmont Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Harvard Clubs
of Boston and New York; Society for the Advancement of Management.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to Advanced Management and other
business and trade journals,

IT’S a little startling to see our 25th Reunion already looming just
ahead! Looking back down these past years is just like looking down
dizzily from the side of a steep mountain path; those first few years
out of Harvard seem so very far away back in the valley! It’s much
more comfortable looking up the trail at the steps immediately
ahead in the coming years.

But here is where the path has taken me. Following in my father’s
footsteps, 1 entered the investment banking business after gradua-
tion, analyzing growth companies in promising industries. This
eventually evolved into a management consulting practice, specializ-
ing in long-range financial and marketing planning. My clients in-
clude growth companies in a wide range of industries — electronics,
teaching machines, television, construction, leisure-time products.
Consulting is an interesting, stimulating, rewarding business, with
but one drawback — excessive travel in behalf of clients which re-
quires too much time away from my family.

My family—my real reason for being: my wonderful, under-
standing, fascinating wife, Betty, dream of my undergraduate days
when she was in Wellesley, and even more so today; my daughter,
Diana, yesterday’s curly-haired moppet already in college in St.
Louis; my rapidly maturing son, Wes, soon finishing Belmont Hill
School and then — Harvard?? :

My hobbies — yes, especially joining with my family, relaxing
together at our summer home on Lake Winnipesaukee in New
Hampshire, swimming, motor boating, fishing, sailing, mountain
climbing — and just plain loafing — and reading, too, a wide range

of books on current business subjects, plus Fortune, Harvard Busi-
ness Review. . .

My religion — a Congregationalist, sharing in the fellowship of a
friendly church in which I have been perhaps helpful in a small way

over the years in raising money to burn church mortgages, build
new Sunday school buildings. . . And in my community, doing my
share in working for those never-ending civic projects, such as
United Fund, Red Cross, Salvation Army, hospitals. . . My politics
—a moderately conservative Republican, concerned about both the
extreme right and the far left wings of both parties.

So —“‘this is your life,” old man—and may the coming years
[ 262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ahead on the path you climb be as busy, eventful, happy and satis-
fying as the past twenty-five!

+ THOMAS JOSEPH DARCEY, JR.

BORN: June 30, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Thomas Joseph Darcey,
Mabelle Lyons.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
piED: Oct. 5, 1940, in Lake Erie, off Dunkirk, N.Y.

WITH the exception of five months at the extra session of the Har-
vard Business School in 1938, Darcey had been with the Jones &
Laughlin Steel Corporation in Pittsburgh since graduation.

As an undergraduate he was a member of the business board of the
Freshman Red Book and the Mountaineering Club. In 1936 he won
the University sculling and 150-pound championships. He was asso-
ciate manager of the varsity crew and a member of the cross country
and ski squads. A silver trophy for the winner of the Harvard Uni-
versity Senior Single Sculls Championship was placed in competition
for the first time in the spring of 1941 in his memory. Donated by
his father, the cup will remain in competition for twenty-six years —
Darcey’s age at the time of his death. The award supplants the Car-
roll Challenge Cup which was retired in 1940 after having been given
for forty-six years to the winner of the University Single Sculls
Championship.

Darcey lost his life in a boating accident in Lake Erie, while sailing
in a squall with James M. Graham, ’15, who was also drowned. He
was survived by his father and a sister.

ALAN DARLING

MAILING AppRESS: Main Street, East Bridgewater, Mass.

ROBERT HAMILTON DAVENPORT, JR.

HOME AbpRESS: 15 Standish St., Newton Highlands 61, Mass,

OFFICE apprEss: Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Co,, 100 Franklin Se. Boston 6&
Mass,

BORN: Aug. 24, 1915, Pittsfield, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREES: a.B. (Yale Univ.), 1937; LL.B. (Harvard
Univ.), 1941. ‘

MARRIED: Mary Lee Powell, Nov. 20, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced);
Virginia Armitage, Oct. 19, 1957, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: James

Whitcomb, Jan. 10, 1953; Mary Lee, Jan. 17, 1954 (died March 10, 1957);
Martha, Oct. 8, 1959.

occupATION: Administration trusts and estates.

JOHN LEFLER DAVIDSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1363 Greentree Lane, Glendale 22, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wabash Railroad Co., 1667 Railway Exchange Bldg., St. Louis
1, Mo.

BorN: Nov. 26, 1915, Oak Park, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Oak Park-River Forest Township High School, Oak Park, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1937. DEGREES: B.S.L. (Northwestern Univ.),
1938; LL.B. (ibid.), 1940.

MARRIED: Sara Jane Woodyard, May 14, 1942, Oak Park, Ill. cumpren: John
Woodyard, Aug. 16, 1946; Mary Oliver, Feb. 6, 1949; Fred Woodyard,
Dec. 24, 1951.

occupation: Lawyer; vice-president and general counsel, Wabash Railroad
Company.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Illinois State Bar Association; The
Missouri Bar; Chicago Bar Association; Bar Association of St. Louis; Law
Club of Chicago; Society of Trial Lawyers (Chicago); American College
of Trial Lawyers; The Newcomen Society in North America, Harvard
Club of New York City; Harvard Club of St. Louis; Noonday Club (St.
Louis); Mason (32°); Shriner.

MINE is the customary recital of our generation: graduate school,
war, marriage, children, the suburbs, vestry, fund drives, hospital
boards and where can I find money when it comes time for my
children to go to college if they can get into college.

My wartime service in the Navy from 1940 to 1946 was undis-
tinguished. By avoiding disciplinary action and sudden death, I
came out with the rank of lieutenant commander.

As most of us find out, I too have learned that an indispensable
part of my life has been an understanding wife with a capacity to do
many things well and still find time to take care of three strenuous
children.

I doubt if the past quarter century has left me wiser; I am confi-
dent that I am happier than when I left college. I am more grateful
than ever for the opportunity to live in the age to which we were
born. Just as the depression and the war challenged us to our best,

[ 264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

so also does the threat of the bomb call upon us to achieve peace
under more dangerous conditions than have ever faced mankind.

ARTHUR KENT DAVIS

apprEss: Center for Community Studies, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatch-
ewan, Canada.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1916, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Nashua High School, Nashua, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREES: AB., magna cum laude, 1937; AM., 1938;
PH.D. 1941.

marriED: Anne M. Gray, 1941, Manchester, N.H.; Laura Bryd Campbell, 1953.
CHILDREN: Carol A., Sept. 30, 1943; Randall F., Feb. 9, 1955.
HARVARD BROTHER: Forest Kendall Davis, ’39, S.T.B., 48

OCCUPATION: Sociologist; chief research officer, Center for Community Studies,
University of Saskatchewan.

MEMBER OF: American Ethnological Society; American Anthropological Asso-
ciation, American Association for the Advancement of Science; American
Sociological Association, Canadian Agricultural Economics Society; Cana-
dian Association of Political Economy; Canadian Historical Association;
Alpin Club of Canada; Adirondack Mountain Club; Cooperative Common-
wealth Fed. (Saskatchewan).

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in sociological publications.

THIS is written slightly under duress — a score of requests from the
Class Secretary! Waste seems to be a hallmark of our society — this
record is no exception. .

I picked up an A.M. in 1938 and a Ph.D. in 1941. My thesis topic
was Thorstein Veblen. Never got over that. After twenty years,
however, I may claim to have gotten over my Harvard education.
One gets one’s education and then gets over it — given enough ex-
perience.

Three years in the Navy (England, Hawaii, Okinawa, China) had
a lot to do with the “getting over.” A year more at Harvard finished
it off. In 1947, I went to an upstate New York college to teach and
work in an industrial community. There I came into intimate con-
tact with the “other side of the tracks,” in various welfare agency
activities. A growing alienation from official creeds was fanned by
the stupidities attending the cold war.

In 1958, I migrated to Canada or rather to Saskatchewan, the pro-
gressive beach-head of North America. (Granted, that's not saving
much.) But in these endless northern plains, so ditferent from mv
home in Vermont and New England, I have never been happier.
Nor, let me venture, more useful. Here in the treeless prairies and

[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

in the isolated northern settlements are the people I love, and some of
them love me. Here are no billboards, no liquor advertisements (but
the best rye in North America). Here there are still “publics” but no
“mass society.” But the overweening influence of the U.S.A. dark-
ens the horizon. The States have had it, and the States will doubtless
drag us down too.

How do I pass the time? My research work takes most of my
time. My teen-age daughter is a freshman in the university this year
— may her horizons ever widen. My seven-year-old son lives with me.
He stands on the edge of a dark world. I hope I can help him toward
the light. My office colleagues are a magnificent company of men
and women of great spirit. In their companionship I have grown
humble. What leisure time comes my way is spent on the sand flats
of the South Saskatchewan River and in the high peaks of the Ca-
nadian Rockies and in the forests and lakes of northern Saskatchewan.

What are the decisive trends of the last generation and the next?
Let me advance this proposition, doubtless a novel one for most of
those who read these lines. The great current of our time is the
transition from capitalist industrialism and its colonial underpinning
to socialist industrialism. The world is “over the hump” of this trans-
formation. The future (if the nuclear war lords allow us one) be-
longs to socialism, and the leadership of civilization is returning to the
Fast, where it has resided through most of human evolution. But I
doubt if the nuclear powers can avoid nuclear annihilation of the
world. ,

DONALD WALTON DAVIS, JR.

HOME Appress: 506 E, Prairie Ave., Wheaton, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chicago Blower Corp., 9867 Pacific Ave., Franklin Park, Ill.

BORN: July 16, 1915, Greencastle, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Williamsburg High School, Williamsburg, Va.; Tome School for
Boys, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Emily Jane Ayers, Sept. 10, 1938, Williamsburg, Va. cHiLpren: Don-
ald Walton, 3d, Feb. 25, 1943; James Ayers, Sept. 6, 1944; Emily Jane,
April 20, 1948; Katherine Virginia (“Clover”), April 6, 1950; Paul /Ray-
mond, Nov. 14, 1956.

HARVARD SON: Donald Walton Davis, 3d, ’65.

OCCUPATION: Western sales manager, Chicago Blower Corporation, fan manu-
facturers.

MemBeR oF: Harvard Club of Chicago; American Society of Heating, Air
Conditioning and Refrigeration Engineers.

[ 266 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DURING the twenty-five years since graduation, my work has been
entirely in the “air moving” industry with fan manufacturers. In the
rocess, I have developed an intense interest in the applications of
this air handling industry. This interest in a phase of aerodynamics
probably stems from early desires to be a pilot. These desires were
cancelled as far as professional flying was concerned by the need for
glasses. In college, a few advanced math and physics courses dulled
interest in becoming strictly an aeronautical engineer. With this
combination of circumstances and with the intercession of Classmate
Henry Baum, on graduation I became a budding sales engineer in the
commercial and industrial fan market. While this is a very specialized
field, the applications of the air we breathe is universal.

In this vocation, I started with the B. F. Sturtevant Company lo-
cated in Boston and one of the largest fan manufacturers. After
apprenticeship, two years were spent in the Greensboro, North
Carolina, office where the applications were principally in the textile
and tobacco industries. From 1941 to 1950, I was manager of the
Milwaukee Office. During the war years, most of the air applica-
tions involved our war effort —such things as shell cooling, brass
chip conveying, and even rocket powder conveying. The Navy did
not want me because of my eyes, and the Army did not want me
enough to draft me, so I was not called into service.

At the close of the war, the Sturtevant Company became a division
of Westinghouse Electric Corporation and my work moved more
into the commercial air conditioning field. In 1950, Westinghouse
transferred me to Chicago as area manager with a later promotion to
midwestern regional manager for air handling apparatus sales. Clos-
ing out 1957, I left Westinghouse and became western sales manager
for Chicago Blower Corporation. Our headquarters and plant are
here in Chicago. This firm is an average-size, fast-growing fan com-
pany specializing just in the fan equipment field. Some recent inter-
esting applications of our fans involved missile cooling, liquid oxygen
fume exhaust, and aeration of the country’s vast quantity of stored
grain. I have the responsibility of sales through some thirty-three
offices located from Chicago to the west coast. “As part of the man-
agement team and concerned with the growth and profit of the
company, the challenge is greater and so are the rewards. This posi-
tion brings me back to extensive flying but always with a professional
up front.

Over this span of years, my club memberships have been limited to
the local Harvard Clubs and to the professional society, aster.

[ 267]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

While in Milwaukee, I served as secretary and then vice-president of
the Harvard Club. It was indeed a pleasure to take an active part in
hosting the Associated Harvard Clubs Meeting in 1947. The children
and I have been through the usual Cub Scout, Scout, and PTA pro-
grams. It is pleasing to note a continuation of my Harvard Band
interest in the children with two clarinetists (one in the current
Harvard Band) and two French horn players thus far in our brood.
Other activities have been the Community Chest and Red Cross
drives. As vestryman and building committee member of Trinity
Episcopal Church, I have derived much satisfaction in helping get a
new church built and substantially paid for. Now with Paul, our
youngest, coming along we can start the Cub and Scout program all
over again!

My hobby and only sport continues to be golf. I have improved,
enjoy the game immensely, but still have far too little time for it.
With my two older boys, we have added a new hobby — building
and flying powered control line stunt planes. It is fast, exciting,
challenging, and a good substitute for hot-rodding. Again, I’m just
a frustrated pilot keeping one foot on the ground! Blessed with
good health, a wonderful growing family, and a modest share of the
material necessities of life, I am happily and confidently looking for-
ward to the next twenty-five years.

EDGAR STEUART DAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: Box 236, R.D. 1, New Hope, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Aero Service Corp., 210 E. Courtland St., Philadelphia 20, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MarriepD: Helen Tufts Crocker, Sept. 30, 1937, Fitchburg, Mass. (divorced
1956); Connie Nelson, Oct. 29, 1958, Annapolis, Md. cumpren: Helen
Tufts, Oct. 9, 1938 (m. Robert Whelihan, Nov. 7, 1959); Edmund Perry,
May 20, 1940; Steven K., Dec. 11, 1955 (stepson). GRANDCHILD: Harriet
Tufts Whelihan, May 20, 1961. .

OCCUPATION: Project manager of aerial and underwater surveys.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Davis & Lawrence Company, Dobbs
Ferry, N.Y.; director, Wings, Inc., Ambler, Pa.; president, Solebury Co-
operative Association, New Hope, Pa.; director, Second Careers, Gwynedd,
Pa.; colonel, USAFR Retired.

MEMBER OF: Military Order of World Wars, New York Chapter; Harvard
Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club of New York; Corinthian

[ 268 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Association; International DN Ice Yacht Racing Association, Institute of
the Aero Space Sciences.
LIFE has been kind to me since I left Harvard. I have enjoyed per-
fect health, which can be attributed partly to football practice for
Dunster House and a session on the 150-pound team against Prince-
ton; but most of it was developed i in 1 Henry Lamar’s fate afternoon
classes.

After our sophomore year I traded academic life for an early
career in aviation by flying into old Mercer Airport, Trenton, New
Jersey, to join with Don Luscombe in the development and market-
ing of the first all-metal airplane designed for private flight. Later
in 1940 | was called to active duty with the New Jersey Air Na-
tional Guard, attended and graduated from the Command and
General Staff School, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and spent the war
years in anti-submarine patrol, crew training and heavy bombard-
ment.

I returned to Pennsylvania in 1946 to manage Wings Field Air-
port near Philadelphia until Korea saw me back on active duty with
SAC and the g8th Bomb Wing, Japan. This was followed by
thoughts of settling down, only to find myself on the way to the
Mid and Far East for Aero Service Corporation of Philadelphia.
This included four years of aerial survey and topographic mapping
of Egypt, Arabia, Libya, Cambodia, Vietnam and Iran.

In the fall of 1957 I was able to leave Teheran to settle at last in
the Delaware Valley with a very lovely wife, Connie, and her son,
Stevie. My wife has a football knee which lets us out of vigorous
family sports like skiing, mountain climbing and bicycling. I have
become a grandparent recently and shy away from boxing and judo.
We spend leisure time teaching Stevie to swim and fish. Occa-
sionally, I make an attempt to study a course in small boat design,
and in winter, if we are unable to find our way to a sunny island,
the garage houses a very fast ice-boat to tempt our better judgment.

On the more serious side, my interests center around trying to
develop underwater survey techniques with Aero Service.

I have one observation to make after several years’ traveling out-
side the U.S.A., which is that people of other nationalities have great
difficulty understanding and translating the oral or written F nglish
of the average American abroad. I hope our schools are correcting
this basic fault, and I owe much to my two Harvard years for a
little success in being understood in our native language.

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

The immediate future holds a trip to California to visit a daughter
and granddaughter. My elder son, Perry, joins the Army after

Christmas, and I extend a warm welcome to any classmate crossing
the Delaware.

+ MERVYN LOWREY DAVIS

BorN: Oct. 9, 1913, Des Moines, Iowa. parents: Mervyn Davis, Alma Lowrey.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

pIED: July 13, 1942, Oklahoma City, Okla.

MERVYN DAVIS spent only one year with our Class. He was
survived by his parents, with whom he made his home at Upper
Montclair, New Jersey, at the time of our Triennial Report.

FRANCIS JOSEPH DAVY

HOME ADDRESS: 909 Highland Ave., Elgin, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Elgin National Watch Co., Elgin, Ill.

BORN: July 26, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(39)-

MARRIED: Virginia Knight, Feb. 22, 1945, Elgin, Ill. cumpren: Cynthia Harris,

Feb. 22, 1949; John Talcott, May 15, 1951; Barbara Knight, Sept. 17, 19533
Deborah Byrnes, Jan. 16, 1956.

occuPATION: Export sales manager, Elgin National Watch Company.

MEMBER OF: Elgin Country Club; Elgin Association of Commerce; Export
Managers Club, Chicago.

SINCE the last Report — and I am not sure if my youngest daughter

was born at that time —I have been enjoying watching the children
grow and develop. My wife has done and is doing a wonderful job
in this department.

My work has taken me to all parts of the world, with the exception
of Africa and the eastern European countries. My experiences abroad
have been most rewarding and I am always thankful for the educa-
tion I received, which has enabled me to appreciate them more. On
the other side, also, I think that my education has enabled me to con-
tribute in some small way to help others understand us in the U.S.A.
I sense a feeling of greater understanding abroad today for what the
US. means, and now that our objectives are being put into under-
standable form, we can expect greater support abroad,

My hobbies: golf, swimming and reading, remain the same, but the
enjoyment is greater in the outdoor sports now that my children can

[270]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lay with me. My eldest daughter is quite a diver, and my son does
a beautiful “butterfly” stroke. Their golf is still shaky but formative.
However, my wife gives me all the family competition I can handle
in this area.
I am looking forward keenly to the next five to ten years when
all the children will be getting ready to go to college. It should be
most interesting.

JOHN ANTHONY DAY

HOME ADDRESS: 7943 Winston Rd., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia 18, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National City Bank, 399 Park Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

BoRN: Dec. 15, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia),
1948.

MarRIED: Marcia O’Brien, Nov. 27, 1948, Washington, D.C. cuitprex: John
Anthony, Jr., Sept. 7, 1949; Mary Bruce, April 8, 1952; Anne Cunningham,
Aug. 13, 1954; Andrew O’Brien, March 25, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Day, ’36.

occuPATION: Attorney; assistant vice-president, First National City Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, USNR, Inactive Reserve, active duty,
1940-45; member, Section of Taxation, Committee on Income of Estates
and Trusts, American Bar Association; member, Taxation Section, New
York State Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Phi Delta Phi Legal Fraternity;
American and New York Bar Associations; Preservation Society of New-
port County.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributor to legal and tax publications.

IT seems to me that when we were at college I expected that my
name would appear in future Class Reports in connection with some
luminous and individualistic occupation, like those of Horace
Hyacinth, ’11, Poet, or Wolfgang von Schmielplotz, ’13, City Plan-
ner, or Art Globalspeak, ’22, Foreign News Commentator. I was
sure that I would not be one of those dull tools who had gone into
gray, faceless professions like law or taxes or banking. Well, here
it is twenty-five years later and guess where I am? In law and taxes
and banking. And, as a matter of fact, I find my work very inter-
esting and enjoyable. What with lovely, patient Marcia and four
delectable children, who could ask for anything more? Except that
around every April 15th, you may sce me muttering to myself.
I'm afraid, though, there isn’t much in my existence of any
general interest, except possibly the fact that T was at Pearl Harbor

[271 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

on December 7, 1941. However, I am almost reluctant to mention
this, since the sole reaction from my listeners has usually been a
polite inquiry as to whether we were all over on the beach drunk
that morning. Well, we weren't.

As a Civilian, I have been a tax attorney since graduation from law
school. (And, of course, I think ’'m a whiz at it.) I worked three
_ years for a judge on the Tax Court of the United States, was in
private practice for eight years, and my current function is that of
tax counsel in the First National City organization. I am, now hear
this, a member of the District of Columbia, Maryland, Pennsylvania,
and New York bars.

Behind that last drab statement lies an untold, soul-stirring drama

of toil, suffering, and suspense. As my legal career has led me
northward from state to state (as the woman clerk who stamped
my papers in New York said, “At this rate, you'll be in Maine
soon”), with each move J have had to reenter that Seventh Circle
of Hell known as bar examinations, each state’s being totally dif-
ferent. Of course, there are state reciprocity statutes, but on boiling
down the fine print they seem to have come out something like
this: “Members of other state bars in good standing will be admitted
to practice in this state on motion without examination (except
Day).” Now I have a recurrent nightmare in which, aged and
decrepit, once again I am entering one of those large, bare, badly
lighted halls and walking the last mile to a rickety table, between
rows and rows of eager youths fresh from law school, all with
gleaming spectacles and all bright as George McBundy, or whatever
that fellow’s name is. How I ever made it, in four jurisdictions yet,
I'll never know. Even another Solomons naval campaign would be
preferable!

I must confess that I have had moments of shaken faith in Harvard,
for one reason or another, in the past. But I now realize that, all
things considered, there is no place like it. You could almost say, as
Dr. Johnson said about London, that whoever is tired of Harvard is

tired of life. These days I feel pretty mellow toward the old place
after all. I’m sure you will all be glad to hear this.

PAUL DUDLEY DEAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Colburn Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass,

OFFICE abpress: Peter’s Employment Agency, 59 Temple Pl., Boston, Mass.
BorN: Dec. 9, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

[272 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.; Berkshire School,
Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MARRIED: Frances Guild, April 11, 1937, Winchester, Mass. (divorced 1953),
Verna Dame, March 10, 1961, Wellesley Hills, Mass. cHi_prEN: Sarah
Moseley, Jan. 30, 1938 (7. Donald Moses, Dec. 7, 1957); Paul Dudley, 3d,
Oct. 14, 1939 (mm. Suzanne Morse, April 4, 1959); Alexander Ellis, Feb. 16,
1944; Benjamin Guild, May 4, 1946; Stephanie Crowninshield, Nov. 24,
1961; Valerie Wayne, March 3, 1955 (stepchild); Carlene Wayne, Aug.
24, 1956 (stepchild); Pamela Wayne, Aug. 26, 1960 (stepchild). Granp-
CHILDREN: Richard Moses, Sept. 10, 1958; Paul Dudley Dean, qth, Aug. 11,
1961. _

occuPATION: Manager, Sales Division, Peter’s Employment Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, five years, vice-president, two
years, president, two years, Central Council, Wellesley P.T.A.; director,
New England Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, commodore, vice-
commodore, member, Race Committee, etc., Beverly Yacht Club; Race
Committee, chairman, International Regatta; various committees for Boy
Scouts, church and amateur theatrical groups.

MEMBER OF: Buzzards Yacht Club; Beverly Yacht Club.

THERE has been nothing startling except perhaps for the long list
of children, my latest being younger than two grandchildren!
Starting off in the trust department of a Boston bank, I then pro-
gressed to plant production supervision at duPont, Textron, and
Sylvania. In the postwar era I caught a bug, “private enterprise,”
which flourished until I hitched my wagon to a star that collapsed.
Undaunted, I plunged in again until the domestic situation promoted
me to “chief cook and bottle washer” for my four children. Out of
necessity, I changed my job picture to the more local sales desk in
one of Boston’s largest employment agencies, a challenging and
varied position, which enabled me to keep track of rotating house-
keepers and active children. Thus, I was able to keep roof and as-
sorted limbs fairly well under control—or vice versa. We pro-
gressed on the bumpy and chaotic path of “Father knows best,”
until the two eldest, Sally and Paul, went off to college and then
formed new partnerships — resulting in my becoming a grandfather.
At this point with two down and two to go, I had the good for-
tune to marry a remarkable girl with three daughters of her own, all
under seven. A subsequent siesta in Mexico resulted in the combine
being able to declare a small female dividend. Ole/
Progress Report: Rapidly backwards. Two down and six to go!
In addition to job and noisy household I find time to devote at-
tention to my outside business ventures (never having enough pen-

[ 273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

icillin to cure the bug). I have also been able to travel a bit, Berm

d
the Bahamas, Canadian Northwest, Hawaii, and Mexico, ne,

WILLIAM TUCKER DEAN

HOME AppRESS: 206 Overlook Rd., Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFICE abpress: Myron Taylor Hall, Ithaca, N.Y.

porN: Aug. 31, 1915, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Nicholas Senn High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; J.v. (Univ,
of Chicago), 1940; 1.4. (Harvard Univ.), 1943; M.B.A. (ibid.), 1947.

marrieD: Ann Coulson, May 15, 1943, Cambridge, Mass. cuttpren: Jonathan,
Dec. 16, 1944; Robert Coulson, Jan. 6, 1947; Tobias, Sept. 19, 1952; Sheila
Ann, Oct. 4, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Hervey Dean, Bus. Sch., 1941-42.

OccUPATION: Professor of law, Cornell Law School.

OFFICES HELD: Admitted to bar of District of Columbia, 1940, State of New
York, 1949, Supreme Court of United States, 1953; private to major, US,
Army Reserve, 1942-56; member, Advisory Board, American Bar Associa-
tion Journal, 1947-49, National Society for Medical Research, since 1950;
editor, Annual Survey of American Law and Survey of New York Law,
1950-53; member, editorial board, American Journal of Legal History,
since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Phi Kappa Phi, Order of the Coif, American,
New York State and Tompkins County Bar Associations, American Society
for Legal History; American Foreign Law Association; American Society
of International Law; International Law Association, American Branch;
Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Country Club of Ithaca;
Ithaca Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “International Legislation,” Ross Prize Essay, American Bar
Association Journal, 1947; “World Government and the Constitution of
the United States,” California Law Review, 1950; “The Conflict of Conflict
of Laws,” Stanford Law Review, 1951; “Conflict of Laws under the Uni-
form Commercial Code: The Case for Federal Enactment,” Vanderbilt
Law Review, 1953; “Matrimonial Property Law in the State of New York,”
Matrimonial Property Law (Vol. 2, University of Toronto Comparative
Law Series, Friedmann ed.), 1955; “Conflict Avoidance in Trusts of
Movables,” Law and Contemporary Problems, 1956; co-author, Study of
Uniform Commercial Code, Article 4—Bank Deposits and Collections
(New York Legislative Document, 1955, No. 65 E, prepared for the Law
Revision Commission); numerous book reviews, including reviews of first
eight volumes of the Food Law Institute Series.

AFTER graduating from Harvard College what scems not very
long ago, I went to law school in Chicago. I felt I was two hundred
years too late to settle in New England, especially with the idea of
practising law. The new approach of Robert M. Hutchins at the

[ 274]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

University of Chicago further attracted me. Three years there were
exciting and fruitful years, and to avoid becoming too immersed in
the law, I completed the requirements for a Master’s degree in the
history of culture, except for the thesis. That thesis still hangs over
me, incidentally. During the winter quarter of my final year, I served
as student assistant to the general counsel of the Bituminous Coal
Division of the Department of Interior in Washington, as a kind of
legal intern, and upon graduation in 1940 I joined that agency.
After practising two years with several agencies in Washington, it
was my intention to try teaching for two years and then private
practice for two years as the basis for deciding which to select
permanently.

Shortly before Pearl Harbor I met Ann Coulson, friends of mine
in college had known her but thoughtlessly had neglected to intro-
duce me to her then. In May, 1942, while she was at Bryn Mawr, |
proposed to her and was turned down. When summer sent her to
Marblehead, I followed her and finished ROTC at Harvard Business
School. Without her ever having accepted my proposal, Ann and
I were married in the Memorial Chapel two weeks before my call to
active duty in the Army.

After a sojourn with the Harvard Bridge Club in the woods at
Camp Devens, I was sent to the Transportation Corps Officer Candi-
date School in New Orleans. Duty in San Francisco and Hawaii
followed with service also with the 96th Infantry Division in Leyte,
Philippines. Some brief indecision almost diverted me from the law
to history as a civilian member of the Historical Division of the
War Department after the war, but I returned to the law, this
time as a member of the faculty at the University of Kansas Law
School. In 1947, after having completed my M.B.A. at Harvard
Business School in the summer, I joined the faculty of New York
University School of Law. By now I was richer by two young
sons. Six years at New York University were lively and stimulating
but were not enough to tame me to the exurbanite routine, and the
opportunity to join the faculty of Cornell Law School brought me
to Ithaca in the summer of 1953 where I have remained ever since.
The third son arrived while I was still in Westchester, and my
daughter was born here seven years ago.

While I have enjoyed some limited private practice, and espe-
cially my part-time work as secretary and general counsel of a small
scientific company, Geotechnics and Resources, Inc., my major
interest has been in teaching and in legal writing. A year on sab-

[275]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

batical leave at the University of Chicago during 1959-60 gave me a

start on a book on the administration of law schools which is still in
gestation.

1 remember Vincent Rossi dreaming in college of performing
great deeds, as did I, but at forty-six I have lowered my sights to
that of increased effectiveness in teaching and presentation of some
ideas of mine on law reform and codification. Country life with Ann
and the children in a home overlooking Cayuga Lake fills my spare

time very pleasantly. Ann and I enjoy gardening and puttering;
she is in charge of the former and I of the latter.

I am running for Justice of the Peace on the Democratic ticket in

the Town of Ithaca. A Whig was elected to this office in 1858 but
since then only Republicans!

MIGUEL pe BRAGANCA
HOME ADDRESS: Pound Ridge, N.Y.
orFice appress: Auchincloss, Parker & Redpath, New Canaan, Conn.
BORN: Sept. 7, 1915, Berlin, Germany.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935-

marrieD: Ann Hughson, Nov. 18, 1946, Delray, Fla. CHILDREN: Anita Stewart,
Oct. 24, 1947; Michele, Oct. 5, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Miguel de Braganga, ’35.

occupaTION: Broker, Auchincloss, Parker & Redpath.

CYRUS COLE DeECOSTER

HOME ADDRESS: 1030 Sunset, Lawrence, Kans,

OFFICE apprEss: University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.
BORN: Sept. 21, 1914, Leesburg, Va.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1937, a.M. (Univ.
of Chicago), 1940; PH.D. (ibid.), 1951.

marriep: Barbara Krause, Dec. 28, 1948, Minneapolis, Minn. cHmprEN: Janine

Brooks, Sept. 29, 1950; David Cole, Sept. 26, 1951; Kenneth Brooks, Jan. 4,
19573 James Krause, Jan. 3, 1959.

occupation: Professor of Romance languages.
MEMBER OF: Various professional societies,

puBLications: Edition; Correspondencia inédita de Don Juan Valera, Valencia,
Editorial Castalia, 1956; occasional articles in professional journals.

AFTER graduating, I spent a year studying at the Ecole de prépara-
tion des professeurs de frangais a Pétranger, Sorbonne (1938) and

[276]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

three years at the University of Chicago until the Navy jarred me
loose from the ivy-clad halls. After the war I taught French and
Spanish at Carleton College in Minnesota for eleven years. We
managed to get to Europe, mostly Spain, twice, for a semester in
1949, and for a year, 1954-55, but now with four children, such
jaunts are more complicated. In 1957 1 moved down to the Univer-
sity of Kansas. Teaching continues to be fun and stimulating, if
rather hectic. Summers, which we spend back in northern Minne-
sota, are more leisurely. In the winters we try to get out to Colorado
for some skiing. Otherwise, I get most of my exercise riding my
bicycle to and from class; only college profs can do that. And

really, university life is not like Strictly Academic or The Groves of
Academe.

+k ROBERT BURNETT DELANO

BORN: Aug. 24, 1914, Southboro, Mass. parents: Lyman Delano, ’o6, Leila
Burnett.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

piep: May 31, 1936, Barranqueras, Argentina.

HERMAN FRANCIS DE LONE

HOME Appress: N. Wayne Avenue and Eagle Road, Wayne, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Dechert, Price & Rhoads, 1600 Three Penn Center Plaza,
Philadelphia 2, Pa.

BORN: May 8, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; LL.B. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1940.

marrieD: Madeline Heckscher, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa. cHitpren: Richard
Heckscher, Jan. 27, 1940 (m. Cary Page); Herman Francis, Jr., April 21,
1943; Pamela Sharpe and Austin Stevens (twins), June 16, 1946. GRAND-
CHILDREN: Madeline Heckscher De Lone, Oct. 4, 1959; Anderson Page De
Lone, July 7, 1961.

HARVARD SON: Richard Heckscher De Lone, ’62.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Dechert, Price & Rhoads,

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1956-58, chairman, 1958, judiciary committee, member,
board of governors, 1959-61, committee of censors, 1962, Philadelphia
Bar Association; director, since 1951, president, 1953-55, United Cerebral
Palsy Association of Philadelphia; director, since 1953, member, executive
committee, 1956-59, vice-chairman, allocations committee, since 1959s
United Fund; director, Philadelphia Health and Welfare Council, since
1961, Friends Neighborhood Guild, 1948-57; chairman, Operation Poplar,
1958—6o.

[277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MEMBER OF: American, Pennsylvania, and Philadelphia Bar Associations; Ameri-
can Judicature Society; Order of Coif; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

MINDFUL of Bill Bentinck-Smith’s admonition to “be as concise
as you can,” here are the broad outlines of my “life since gradua-
tion.” Since law school I have practiced in a Philadelphia firm, spe-
cializing chiefly in trial work, except for several years spent in the
Marine Corps during World War II. Because the law is a jealous
mistress this biography cannot be larded with description of many
unusual hobbies or extensive travel experiences, but my work has
been challenging and stimulating. Practising with a fine group of
men, it has led me into a host of new and different fields and into
association with many entertaining and interesting people. I feel
fortunate in the choice of my profession.

I was even more fortunate in my marriage. Madeline and I were
married while I was still in law school. Four children arrived in due
course, and our home life has been a full one. Our family recently
added another generation when my eldest son, Rick (Harvard °62,
and a star shot-putter), and his wife, Cary (daughter of Andy Page,
also Class of ’37), presented us with a grandson and a granddaughter.
My second boy, Sandy (Francis, Jr.), is a freshman at Williams, and
the next two (twins, Pamela and Austin) will also be off to college
two years from now. Surely, after that, I'll get around to more of
the books I want to read and the trips I want to take. For the time
being, I am glad to continue our present way of life: a large, old
home on the “Main Line” where the usual routine of meals, studies,
and work brought home from the office is interspersed with visits of
family and friends, kids home from college, teen-age parties, or
guests for dinner; sports, most often tennis, which we all play; vaca-
tions (wish there were more of them), usually in a family group to
Maine or some nearby spot, but occasionally more ambitious, such as
a pack trip in the Rockies four years ago (with Andy and Louise
Page and eight kids, four theirs, four ours) or a cruise along the
New England Coast last summer (with our twins aboard).

Perhaps the foregoing will serve to explain why I do not elaborate
on any political activities. I have found time, however, to participate
in a number of community activities, most of which can be suffi-
ciently understood from the biographical data above. A little out
of the ordinary was Operation Poplar, a United-Fund-financed proj-
ect which involved coordinating the efforts of a number of private
and public agencies to try to develop techniques for working to-
gether and for combating juvenile delinquency,

[ 278]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

If I am allowed another twenty-five years I hope they will be
as much fun as the last — and that for our Fiftieth I'll be able to re-
port on some of the many things I still look forward to doing.

MacDONALD DEMING

HOME AppRESS: 251 S, Mountain Rd., New City, Rockland County, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haight, Gardner, Poor & Havens, 80 Broad St. New York
4, N.Y.

BORN: July 24, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; LLB. (Yale
Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Judith Freedman, Nov. 3, 1949, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Laura,
Nov. 1, 1950; Michael MacDonald, Sept. 26, 1952; Ann Meredith, Oct. 22,

1954-

occupation: Maritime law; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, Business & Professional Chapter, A.V.C,, since 1947;
treasurer, D.E.M., Inc., 1948; director, Downtown Harvard Lunch Club;
president, Deming Realty Corporation, 1954-59; chairman, Committee on
Government Plans for Merchant Shipping, Maritime Law Association of
U.S.; president, North Clarkstown Civic Association, since 1959; vice-
president, The Bookstall, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Coffee House Club; Harvard Club of New York;
Downtown Athletic Club; Whitehall Club; American Bach Society; Nyack
Field Club.

AFTER graduation from Harvard, I attended Yale Law School, and
then spent a very interesting year at Sullivan & Cromwell, working
mainly on International Law matters for John Foster Dulles and
Allen W. Dulles, on behalf of the governments of Belgium and The
Netherlands, temporarily residing in London. In January, 1942, I
entered the Naval Reserve, and eventually got to ACI (Air Combat
Information) School at Quonset Point, Rhode Island. Since the idea
was to teach us a smattering of everything a pilot might be expected
to know, or report about, and in a very short time, the course was in
some ways tougher than either Harvard or Yale. My eagerness at
this point (I was later “squared away”) to put this wide smattering
to use was not immediately gratified. However, after an extended
tour in the the Chairborne Division, I was eventually pleased and
surprised to find myself at sea, on Atlantic convoy duty on the USS
Nevada, during the winter of 1944. Then the Aleutians, at various
Naval air stations, until March of 1946, Although, for a time, Attu
was the closest point to the enemy in the Pacific, it ended as an eddy,

[279]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

with boredom the chief enemy. This battle with boredom developed
into quite a personal education toward a more democratic view of

people and things. Some of my best friends were former stevedores,
rofessional wrestlers.

On being promoted to civilian, a rather painful, though stimulat-
ing, process of political awakening began. Of major importance was
the American Veterans Committee, of which I became a chapter
chairman and delegate to the city and national conventions. vc,
whose motto is “Citizens First, Veterans Second,” stood for inde-
pendent liberal citizenship. It also faced, and successfully met, the
extraordinary problem of defeating Communist-led efforts to destroy
it, without resorting to the methods of McCarthy. It provided a
microcosm of the world struggle, not excluding the neutralist powers.
I was also active at this time in the Young Democrats, who worked

for reform, particularly in New York City. In 1948, it seemed im-
portant that a liberal Congress be elected. It also seemed that a Na-
tional Hero was needed to achieve this. It was obvious to me, as to

Mr. Luce, that Harry Truman was not going to make it. So I found

myself investing my efforts and savings in an organization called

D.E.M. (Democratic, Deming, and Draft Eisenhower Movement),

whose object was to persuade Ike to run as a Democrat, and pre-

sumably sweep in a good Congress with him. He said “no.”

In 1949, Judy said “yes,” and immediately became my most ab-
sorbing interest, with Laura, Mike, and Merry, who followed in a
small avalanche. a

The practice of admiralty law has also become more and more
absorbing, combining an unusual ancient body of law with the end-
less variety of adventures which happen to ships at sea. It has led

me to travels in Europe, Canada, and most of the South American
countries. The interest of these trips has been considerably shar-
pened by the fact that I always seem to make them on matters con-

cerning the local government — Perén’s Argentina, Jimenez’s Vene-
zuela, Castro’s Cuba, and the Brazil of Joscelino Kubitschek.

Jn our home community, which is New City, Rockland County,
New York, an intellectual and artistic exurb, my wife and I
are active in the choral and solo singing of Bach, in tennis (a doubles
cup this year — twenty-six years between cups! ), in landscaping our
new Henry Varnum Poor house, in the book business, and in local

civic affairs. The notorious population explosion is in full blast and
we are fighting to retain the zoning laws which protect the rural
character of the community. I believe in the effort of the New

[ 280 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Frontier to lead America to adapt to a changing economic world,
particularly the new European community, but in the local com-
munity, I consider resistance to change an essential of survival. 1

am considering running for mayor on a program on enlightened re-
action.

ETHAN ALLEN DENNISON

HOME ADDRESS: 4600 Douglas Ave., Riverdale, New York 71, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johns-Manville Corp., 22 E. goth St. New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1914, Overbrook, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; B.ARCH (Yale Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Frances Ferry, Sept. 13, 1941, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Lee Mansfield, May 15, 1944, Diana Mansfield, Feb. 16, 1936;
Elizabeth Jean, March 24, 1949; Allen Mansfield, Sept. 28, 1952; Andrew
Oliver, Oct. 25, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Pugh Dennison, M.B.a., ’49.

occuPATION: Manager, Gypsum Product Group, Johns-Manville Corporation,
manufacturers of building materials.

OFFICES HELD: Senior warden, Christ Church, Riverdale, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Riverdale Yacht Club (commodore); Badminton Club of New
York (president); American Institute of Architects.

GOOD luck which brought me to and through Harvard has con-
tinued to favor me. In pursuing the study of architecture, I spent
three happy years at Yale and started my practical education work-
ing for the Turner Construction Company in Boston and New York.
In 1941 I married Frances Ferry (Vassar ex ’42), my first and only
wife. A year later the Navy sent me to Africa as officer in charge
of an Armed Guard Crew. Floating on a load of aviation gay mv
luck preserved me and the ship from several torpedoes, and our guns
downed two German bombers. Following this indoctrination my
interest in construction led me to a year’s study of naval architecture
at the University of Michigan, after which the Navy sent me to
England and later to Guam to handle ship repairs.

At the end of the war I returned to architecture, practising with
two New York firms and later on my own. This was enjoyable bur
not highly remuncrative, so it is easy to guess why I was lured away
by industry. I started with the Johns-Manville Corporation as stall
architect in 1951, becoming manager of the sales engineering depart-
ment in 1954. My present position was established in February,
1961, When Johns-Manville entered the gypsum business, and [was

[ 28: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

appointed manager of this new enterprise. It has been gratifying to
achieve a sales volume of several million dollars in one year from
a standing start. The road ahead is promising.

My good fortunes have blessed me with three enchanting daughters
and two rambunctious sons. Lee graduates this year from Milton
Academy, and Diana completes her first year at Concord. Beth is a
seven at Chapin in New York. The boys are at Riverdale, Allen in
fourth grade and Andy in third.

My spare time is claimed in large degree by my family, but I have
served as president of the Badminton Club of New York and as
commodore of the Riverdale Yacht Club. At Christ Church in
Riverdale I have been director of religious education and am cur-
rently senior warden. I have remained active in the American In-
stitute of Architects and have participated in several industry as-
sociations, including the Building Research Institute.

By the time this Report goes to press we confidently expect to be
in our new home in Riverdale which I designed and supervised in-
tensely. The contractor got away with no mistakes, and I won't
talk about mine.

Our vacations have been spent at West Chop on Martha’s Vine-
yard or at Nonquitt on Buzzards Bay, except last summer, when all
seven Dennisons made it to Tepee Lodge in Wyoming. Shorter
holidays are sometimes possible to ski at Bromley or Mad River, and
during recent summers we chartered a yawl or a sloop and cruised
the waters of Buzzards Bay, Vineyard Sound and Massachusetts Bay.
I play tennis, squash and badminton with some regularity and ski

when snow and family cooperate. Gardening, home repairs and
fixing broken toys are routine, but I wish I had more time for in-
tellectual activities to pursue the many interests inspired by Har-
vard.

FRANCIS EDMUND DENNY

HOME appress: Willis Road, Sudbury, Mass,

orrice appress: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Born: Aug. 21, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREES: A.B. 1937; Ep.M, (Boston Univ.), 1939.

stakainp: Dorothy Fearon, Sept. 1, 1945, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN: Robert,
Sept. 30, 1945; Nancy, Dec. 31, 19495 Peter, April 30, 1959.

occupation: Teacher, Browne and Nichols School.

[ 282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MURRAY WILDER DEWART

HOME ADDRESS: 130 Aspinwall Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 St. Paul St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: May 12, 1914, Winchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Gilman Country School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREES: A.B. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1941; Bo.
(Virginia Theological Seminary), 1943.

MarrieD: Clare Haxall Beirne, Oct. 21, 1944, Baltimore, Md. cHitpreN: Ann
Tewksbury, May 27, 1946; Murray Wilder, Jr., Sept. 19, 1947; Rosamond
Randall, July 24, 1950; Christopher Beirne, June 20, 1955.

occupation: Rector, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Brookline, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Curate, St. John’s, Waterbury, 1943-45; priest-in-charge, St. Paul's,
Waterville, 1944-45; rector, St. Andrew’s, St. Johnsbury, Vt., and in charge
of St. Peter’s, Lyndonville, and St. James’, Concord, Vt., 1945-48; rector,
St. James’, Dundee, IL, 1948-52, Grace Church, Everett, Mass. 1952-56,
St. Paul’s Church, Brookline, since 1956.

WEARING your collar backwards makes some people think you a
Communist and so invite you to leave their church (probably the
best compliment I have ever received) and it makes other people
think you are an institutional man who is prefabricated according
to plan, and still others that you are totally irrelevant to the con-
temporary scene.

I used to be very seriously offended and guilty about the image
the world has of the church; now I am uncomfortable about the
image the church has of itself, but maybe I shall relax and leave
something for the next generation to do, because the secular world
has taken over the prophet’s gloom and doom; therefore, I can find
fulfillment in “being” sweetness and light so long as there are eyes
to see and ears to hear.

I console myself with two parakeets, two dogs, a cat, an aquarium
with thirteen tropical fish, thirty-four house plants, almost any

minority group in need of support, a parish of seven hundred souls,
four natural children and one wife for the present.

BRADLEY DEWEY, JR.

HOME ApprESS: Simon Willard Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Cryovac Division, W, R. Grace & Co. 62 Whittemore Ave,
Cambridge qo, Mass.

BorN: April to, 1916, Pittsburgh, Pa.

preparen AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

[ 283]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., cu7m laude, 1937; PH.D. (Massachu-
setts Inst. of Technology), 1941.

MarRRIED: Jane Holcombe, Aug. 10, 1940, Duxbury, Mass. cHitpren: Margot,
March 10, 1942; Bradley, 3d, Dec. 26, 1943; John Holcombe, July 25, 1946;
Carolyn, Nov. 9, 1949; Joan, Aug. 6, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Davis Rich Dewey, ’38.

occupation: Packaging; president, Cryovac Division, W. R. Grace & Company,

OFFIcEs HELD: Member, executive committee, Nashoba Country Day School,
1960-61. .

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemical
Engineers; American Institute of Chemists, The Society of the Chemical
Industry; Alpha Chi Sigma, Society of the Sigma Xi; Chemists Club of
New York; Harvard Club of New York; Concord Country Club;
Schussverein, Inc.

AFTER Harvard, I spent three years at M.LT. studying chemical
engineering and in 1940 went to work in the laboratories of the
Dewey & Almy Chemical Company in Cambridge. Jane Holcombe
and I were married just before I went to work. She, too, was from
Cambridge (Professor Holcombe — Government 1). Except for
an interlude in the Chemical Warfare Service from 1943 to 1945,
we have lived in Cambridge, Belmont and Concord, successively.
I must admit that at first glance we must be suspected of “pro-
vincialism.”

However, both job and recreation have given all the Deweys
except the youngest some look at the world beyond Beantown.
Since as far back as I can remember, I have been traveling two or
three days out of every seven. Once in a great while Jane comes,
too. High spots of family vacationing have been skiing in Colorado
and a 5,000-mile trip through Europe in a Volkswagen bus three
suMMETrS ago.

Job and family remain my principal interests and leave little
opportunity for much else. Cryovac has grown into a fairly big
business (about 1500 employees) in only a little over ten years and
keeps growing.

Daughter Margot is studying medical technology at Colby Junior
College; son Brad is a freshman at Dartmouth; son John is a sopho-
more at Belmont Hill School and the two younger daughters are
growing up too fast. With two out of five already in college, the

house has started to feel a bit empty.

Next summer, Cryovac’s headquarters will migrate to Spartanburg,
South Carolina. This includes us. While we have some deep-seated
regrets over moving away from our New England friends and from

[ 284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

those of our children who will be at school or college here, we are,
at the same time, enthusiastic about the South and look forward to
being in our new home and surroundings.

Tennis, skiing and being outdoors are the major forms of Dewey
recreation. Both mother and father in this family could rightfully
be accused of being unwilling to admit that time marches on. We
are fighting a losing battle in keeping up with the younger generation
at work and play and are enjoying every minute of it.

THOMAS CHURCH DILLON

HOME ADDRESS: Sleepy Hollow Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc., 383 Madison Ave., New
York, N.Y.

porN: March 27, 1915, Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MarRIED: Georgiana Adams, Nov. 8, 1939, Minneapolis, Minn. CHILDREN:
Thomas A., Aug. 16, 1942; Victoria C., Feb. 8, 1948; George A., April
20, 1950.

occuPATION: Executive vice-president and treasurer, Batten, Barton, Durstine
& Osborn, Inc., advertising agency.

AS a result of a dare accepted in the Eliot House dining hall during
my sophomore year, I was offered a summer job as a copywriter in
the Minneapolis office of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc., in
1935. Through lack of initiative and other factors, I have never since
worked for anyone else, except for a period of moonlighting as a
gripman for the California Street Cable Railway in San Francisco.

At the end of my junior year, it appeared evident to me that the
intensive examinations that I might expect to undergo in my senior
year would unquestionably reveal that the Harvard grading system
had greatly overestimated by knowledge of the subject matter of
my studies. Utilizing the gambler’s assumption that it is better to
quit while you are winning, I applied for leave of absence for the
purpose of spending a year traveling around the world. I am afraid
that it reflects on my limitations as a scholar that I found the world
more interesting than Harvard, although less ably administered.
Thus, my leave of absence lapsed, and I am only a courtesy member
of the Class of 1937.

In 1938, I signed on with Bzpo full time and worked in its offices in
San Francisco and Los Angeles, as copy chief, account man, and

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

office manager, for some eighteen balmy, sunshiny yéars, until movin
to BBDo’s New York office as executive vice-president and treasures
in 1959:

Over the years I have become increasingly fascinated by the ad-
vertising agency business and, as a result, all other activities other
than breathing have shrunk to the vanishing point.

Prior to this, however, I married a fascinating girl and have raised,
or partially raised, three children, all of whom are handsome, self.
possessed, and engaging, and don’t resemble me in any other way
either. .

On the whole, I feel I have so far been very lucky and the world
has treated me better than I deserve. All I have to do now is quit
while I am winning.

ALAN JACOB DIMOND

HOME ADDRESS: 82 St. Paul St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Bernkopf, Goodman, Houghton & Dimond, 73 Tremont St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 8, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; LL.B. 1940.

MARRIED: Muriel H. Schiff, May 17, 1949, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lee Agoos Dimond, "41.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in law, Northeastern University, Boston, since 1950;
associate editor, Massachusetts Law Quarterly, since 1957; secretary, Massa-
chusetts Bar Association, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations.

puslications: The Superior Court of Massachusetts: Its Origin and Develop-
ment, Little, Brown & Company, 1960; chapter on Administration and
Justice, each year from 1956 to 1961, in Annual Survey of Massachusetts
Law (Boston College Law School — Litre, Brown & Company); various
legal articles and notes, chiefly in the Massachusetts Law Quarterly.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard Law School in 1940, I
began to practise law in Boston. This lasted for the usual brief
interval of those days. I was soon in the Army Signal Corps, most
of my service being in radar and all of it on this side of the waters.
After the war I again entered the law in Boston and have since
practised there. Two years ago I joined my present firm, which
carries on a general civil practice. I write occasionally on legal
subjects and participate in the usual professional activities.

For recreation, I swim regularly, thanks to excellent instruction

[ 286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the Harvard pool when I was an undergraduate. I enjoy reading
American history, an interest that has developed in the last few years,

ROBERT FRANCIS DINE

HOME ApprEss: 31 Chestnut Hill Terr., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 454 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: March 15, 1917, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; M.D. (Yale Univ.),
1941.

MARRIED: Estelle Ruth Levy, May 24, 1942, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Carol
Joy, Aug. 30, 1943; Laura Lee, June 28, 1948.

occuPATION: Physician; orthopaedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Brotherhood of Temple Israel,
Boston, 1954-57; president, Graduate Club of Boston, Phi Delta Epsilon
Fraternity, 1956-57; member, staff council, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston,
since 1957; assistant orthopaedic surgery, Harvard Medical School, since
1957.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery; American Board of
Orthopaedic Surgery; Boston Orthopaedic Club; Phi Delta Epsilon Fra-
ternity; Massachusetts Bay Lodge of Boston; Harvard Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: “Role of Magnesium in Thyroid Disease,” Journal of Clinical
Investigation, November, 1942.

IT doesn’t seem that twenty-five years have flown by, although the
last few have appeared to move slowly as the family kept inquiring
as to when we were moving to Cambridge for the Twenty-fifth.

From Cambridge, I transferred to New Haven and spent six
pleasant years there, four at medical school and two at the New
Haven Hospital. In October, 1936, at a Winthrop House Halloween
dance, I met the girl to whom I proposed on a return visit to Win-
throp House in 1941. We were married in 1942 and the first month
of married life was spent on a cot in the interns’ quarters until our
apartment in the hospital was ready, Estelle supported us that year,
a house officer’s salary being zero in those years, and in return, I’ve
been supporting her ever since — with pleasure.

The years from 1943 to 1946 were spent as a captain in the U.S.
Army Medical Corps. I did orthopaedic surgery at Walter Reed
and Woodrow Wilson General Hospitals during most of that time,
and was ready with the 117th General Hospital to go into Japan after
the invasion, when the war ended. Following a final year of residen-
cy, I entered the private practice of orthopaedic surgery in 1947,
and have been engaged in that endeavor since. It has certainly been

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

rewarding to be able to help people in difficulty and to earn a living

at the same time. Instructing Harvard Medical students and interns
maintains my academic connection.

The girls have grown up. Carol is at Wheaton now, and through
her, college is coming alive again, The similarity of the Wheaton
campus to the Harvard Yard is bringing back memories. Laura is
now in junior high school and going through the on-again-off-again
“going steady” stage. My only disappointment had been in not
having a Harvard son, but Estelle and the girls have more than made

up for it, and have been rooting with me (and more loudly) every
Saturday afternoon in the Stadium.

Golf, gardening, photography and short vacation trips have oc-
cupied my spare time. We had planned and finally arranged a trip
to Europe two summers ago, but a ruptured appendix three weeks
before embarkation time postponed that vacation. If that turns out
to be my major disappointment in life, how can I complain?

WILLIAM DINNEEN

HOME ADDRESS: 80 Irving Ave,, Providence 6, RI.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Brown University, Providence, R.I.
BORN: June 10, 1916, Malden, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1936-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1937(38); A.M. 10535
AM., ad eun, (Brown Univ.), 1954; A.AG.0., 1957.

MARRIED: Frances Virginia Latson, June 7, 1943, Arlington, Calif. CHILDREN:
Jon A., Jan, 31, 1947; Ralph Edward, Sept. 19, 1949.

occupation: Professor, director of music, Brown University.

OFFICES HELD: Dean, Rhode Island Chapter, American Guild of Organists, 1951-
52, 1961-62; usual committee chairmanships in musical organizations.

MEMBER oF: American Guild of Organists, College Music Society; Renaissance
Society of America; Music Library Association; Providence Art Club.

pusLications: Music at the Meeting House, 1958; Early Music in Rhode Island

Churches, with Joyce Ellen Mangler, 1959; various articles on Renaissance
and American music from 1944.

GEORGE AUGUSTUS DODGE

HOME ADDRESS: 292 Middle Rd., Portsmouth, N.H,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 232 Court St., Portsmouth, N.H.

porn: Aug. 17, 1915, Hull, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; mo. (Tufts Coll.), 194!

[ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarrieD: Martha Nichols, March 21, 1941, Brookline, Mass. cuitpren: George
Augustus, 3d, Feb. 22, 1942; David Michael, March 28, 1943; Laurie
Nichols, Nov. 21, 1944; Mark Stickney, Sept. 28, 1946, Frank Sumner, Jan,

3, 1950; John Hovey, Jan. 14, 1954; Peter Christian, March 1, 1956.
OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Education, City of Portsmouth, 1958-62;
member, House of Delegates, New Hampshire Medical Society, 1958-62.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); American
Medical Association; New Hampshire Medical Society; American Heart
Association, New York Academy of Sciences; Piscataqua Medical Poker
Club; Seacoast Savoyards.

AS well as I can recall, I graduated from college quite uncertain of
my future. Originally, I had intended to enter medicine, and had
somehow, along the way, completed the necessary pre-med courses,
but my family felt that I should go to business school. Consultation
with a professional vocational counselling service indicated that I
excelled only at clock-reversal problems, an ability which, at that
time, was not recognized to be important in any field of work.
Therefore, I enrolled in both Harvard Business School and Tufts
Medical School, and did not finally make up my mind until I had
attended a day at each.

The medical school years were busy. I did well, and, shortly be-
fore graduating cum laude, married Martha, whom I had been
admiring and quietly courting for three years. Internship was in-
terrupted after fourteen months, by a call from the Army Air Force,
in which I served three and one-half years as mosquito-control officer
in Florida, and rat-control officer in the Azores. Sick-call was an
additional chore, and I got so tired of listening to aching backs, that
I decided on pathology after demobilization. A year of this made
me long to talk to some patient once again, and I took two years’
residency in internal medicine. In 1950, I began private practice in
Portsmouth, and managed to pass the specialty board exams in 1952.

The uncertain forties saw us acquire five sons, and the decision to
enter solo practice was difficult, but one I have not regretted. The
fifties flew by, so busy that we produced only two more sons. Now
that the sixties are here, and all the kids are in school, we are trying
to pause and relax a bit. It is only i in the past two years that we have
found time to discover the excitement of home, instrumental music,
and amateur theatricals, and lots of other things, including, Harvard-
Princeton football games and Harvard °37 Reunions,

[ 289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

SAMUEL HOWARD DONNELL

HOME appress: Blueberry Lane, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Book Binding Co. 24 Blackstone St., Cambridge,
Mass.

BorN: Feb. 28, 1914, Peabody, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937} M.B.A. 1947.

MARRIED: Barbara E. Phippen, June, 1943, Salem, Mass. (divorced 1949); Marion
L. Moynahan, Nov. 12, 1954, Boston, Mass. cuttpreN: Robert Phippen,
Feb. 5, 1945; Leslie Ann, April 14, 1956.

occuPATION: Owner, New England Book Binding Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of North Shore, 1949-53; director,
Warren Five Cent Savings Bank, 1952-55, Harvard Business School Club
of Chicago, 1957-58; member, Schools Committee, Harvard Club of
Chicago, 1957-58; member, Education Committee, Graphic Arts Institute
of New England, 1960-61; member, executive committee, 25th Reunion.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Faculty Club; Graphic Arts Institute of New England.

IN looking back it appears that the only constant in my life is a
predilection for Cambridge as a vocational location. In 1937 I
started on Arrow Street in that city at the Boston Bookbinding Com-
pany. I left for an undistinguished naval career in Maine and Hawaii,
and after the war returned to Cambridge and ground out an M.B.A.
at the Business School (as an elder statesman of my class). For the
next eight years I experienced the leisurely and very pleasant life of
the “academician” while in the employ of the University as bindery
manager and later as an assistant dean of the Business School.

In 1955, Madison Avenue held out her glittering hand and I wan-
dered down the primrose path to the wacky world of industrial de-
sign as assistant business manager for Raymond Loewy Associates.
My career away from Cambridge was brief as 1 spent only two and
one-half years with Loewy in New York and Chicago before I re-
turned. In one of her rare moments Harvard was selling instead of
buying and lured me back to buy her bookbinding plant. For the
past three years I have been attempting to impress upon both my em-

ployees and customers that despite what is taught at the Business
School, the sole purpose of a business is to make a profit.

What with visiting a son at Andover weekends, just having bought
the business and built a house, I have very litle time for civilized ac-
tivity such as travel, acknowledged hobbies or recognized sports.

[ 290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS DORE

ADDRESS: 1300-01 Northern Life Tower, Seattle 1, Wash.

BoRN: Aug. 8, 1913, Seattle, Wash.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Washington), 1936.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Kernan, March 6, 1943, Utica, N.Y. cHiLprEN: Elizabeth
Constable, March 28, 1944; Rosemary Kernan, April 30, 1947; Julia Peebles,
Aug. 6, 1948; John Francis, 4th, March 2, 1950; Patrick Kernan, April 6,
1951; Anne Devereux, June 9, 1952; Michael Robert Kernan, Oct. 14,
1953; Mary Kathleen Dickinson, Dec. 8, 1954; Thomas Kernan, Feb. 24,
1956; Christopher James Linden, Oct. 18, 1957; Virginia Alice Avery,
March 1, 1959; Martha Louise Butler, April 18, 1960.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

WELL, here we are, all of us Classmates, whether we like it or not,
and it looks as if time and tide are beginning to take their toll.

I am still practising law; a rather noxious profession, but occa-
sionally brightened by a client with substance. I have always said
that there are few ailments which a good fee will not cure.

After several years, as chief assistant to the United States District
Attorney, I became a politician and ran for public office, at the sug-
gestion of my friend, Senator Magnuson. Whereupon, I became the
Democratic nominee for prosecuting attorney, but was defeated in
a close race. Then I returned to my duties in the District Attorney’s
office pursuant to the promise that I would be appointed District

Attorney for the Western District of Washington. But that election
year, the Republicans were victorious and I did not become District
Attorney. So, I returned to private practice, concentrating upon
trial work. Shortly thereafter, I was nominated for the Supreme
Court of the State of Washington, which is our highest tribunal.
This contest appeared successful, and panicked the railroad and in-
surance companies for some unknown reason, whereupon their con-
tributions subdued my efforts. So, it was back to private practice
again, with the feeling that there is “no rest for the weary.” And
then, more recently, I ran for City Attorney against the prominent
incumbent, who has retained the office for over thirty years. Again,
I was nominated, but lost by less than two votes per precinct. So it
looks good next time, and we are already getting our forces in order
for combat. The newest political suggestion is that I run for Con-
gress against our Mr, G.O.P. (Tom Pelly). My answer is no.

This summer the family spent at the Adirondack League Club at

Little Moose Lake and at Alder Creek in New York State, where we

[291]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

had a great family reunion and a wonderful time. Our visit was hap-

Le P
pier by and through the visitations of Harvard’s Farley brothers and
Harvard’s Kernans.

My son John and my wife Lizz won the Sailfish Sailing Champion-
ship during the July regatta at Little Moose. Since then, back
at the ranch, my charming wife Elizabeth (Kernan), sister of Class-
mate Hubie Kernan, has been cooking with electricity and caring
happily for our twelve children. Next year our eldest, Elizabeth,

enters college. If the fees get fatter and stronger, Lizz and I shall be
seeing you at the 25th Reunion.

RICHARD MERCER DORSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1223 Southdowns, Bloomington, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Folklore Program, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.

BORN: March 12, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; AM., 1940; PH.D.
1943.

Margiep: Dorothy Diamond, June 14, 1940, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1948) ;
Gloria Gluski, Aug. 8, 1953, Farmington, Mich. cuttpren: Ronald Mercer,

Jan. 26, 1945; Roland Mercer, April 18, 1955; Jeffrey Norman, Jan. 29, 1958.
occupation: Professor of history and folklore, Indiana University.

OFFICES HELD: Editor of the American Folklore Society, since 1958; vice-

president, International Society for Folk Narrative Research, since 1959-
MEMBER OF: I wenty or so professional societies.

puBLicaTions: Negro Tales from Pine Bluff, Arkansas, and Calvin, Michigan,

1958; American Folklore, 1959, paperback edition, 1960, Italian translation

scheduled for 1962; Folklore Research Around the World, editor, 1961;
Folk Legends of Japan, 1962.

ONE day in 1936 Perry Miller cornered me, I being his tutee, and
asked where in blazes ['d been, and what subject I was interested in.
Having nothing in mind I blurted out “Realism,” a topic on which
he had lectured in “American Literature” that morning. “All right,
go home and read the Autobiography of David Crockett,” he or-
dered. One thing led to another, and I spent the next twenty-five
years in the study of folklore.
Currently I hold the position of chairman of the Folklore Program
at Indiana University, the only university in the United States to

offer higher degrees in folklore. The bizarre thing about folklore,
which distinguishes it from the conventional disciplines, is that any-

body can proclaim himself an expert in it, and consequently much

[292]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time and energy of the past quarter-century has gone into feuds:
with James Stevens, author of “Paul Bunyan,” in the American Mer-
cury (where I coined the word fakelore); with John Gould in the
Atlantic Monthly and most recently with the Wall Street Journal
and Barry Goldwater who have libelously linked folklore with
church music as subjects not vital to the national security.

There are currently some forty-five students seeking master’s and
doctor’s degrees in folklore at Indiana University. Students have
come from Pakistan, Thailand, Israel, Egypt, Turkey and Finland.

As a result of a year in Japan in 1956-57, I got together with old
friend and Classmate Charles E. Tuttle, now an eminent publisher
based in Tokyo, on a book Folk Legends of Japan, which is being
published this year, and which we hereby submit in the competition
for the class book. Gloria, my wife and former student, has kept
up her theatrical interests and appeared in plays in Lansing, Michigan,
Tokyo, Japan, and now Bloomington. She has just finished directing
her first play, in the round, in the basement of the local high school.

DAVID DOVE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 Hale St., Beverly, Mass.

BorN: April 8, 1915, Andover, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1938. DEGREES: $.B., ct laude, 1937(38);
M.D., 1942.

MARRIED: Jeanne Pope, June 3, 1941, Beverly, Mass. cuitpren: David, Jr., Dec.
17, 1942; Janice, Feb. 5, 1944; Barbara, June 18, 1947; Gordon Barker, July
14, 1948; Webster Pope, Feb. 14, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Percival Dove, Jr.,’29; George Dove, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting physician, Salem Hospital, since 1952; associate physician,
Beverly Hospital, since 1947; consultant in medicine to the Cable Hospital,
Danvers State and Essex County T.B.; president, North Shore Rod and
Gun Club, 1960-61; member board of directors, Civic Musie Association,
North Shore Heart Association.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society
(Essex South District); Massachusetts Heart Association; American Cancer
Society; American Association for the Advancement of Science; The Blood
Club; Rotary Club, Beverly; Beverly YMCA; Conservation Commission,
Town of Beverly; Massachusetts Badminton Association; U.S. Squash
Racquets Association; North Shore Red and Gun Club; Beverly Power
Squadron, J.N. °

THINKING back over the high spots of twenty-five years is ne

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

minor problem. As I review the reports in the zoth and 15th Anni
versary publications, I see that most of the data are reported. Ir
brief, however, my family was started by the time I had left college
four years, and my first-born came during internship and residency
in Baltimore, so that by the time I entered the government service
in 1944, L had two children. After a whirlwind tour through Carlisle
barracks, I joined the 87th Division as a battalion surgeon, and we
went overseas to fight briefly behind Patton’s 4th Armored Division,
and become the first infantry division returned to the United States
for reorganization for the Pacific. Fortunately I had accumulated
enough points so that, with the dropping of the atom bomb, I was
able to resume status in November, 1945, asa civilian, and thereupon

finished training for the practice of internal medicine, in which I
have been engaged since 1947.

A family of five children involves training and retraining in all
sorts of extracurricular activities; and as the years have gone by, I
become convinced that my education, at least part of it, and my
wife feels that all of hers, was obtained for the purpose of getting
children through high school and in coaching them in worldliness
about the house and the more remote environs of the town of

Beverly.

Travels have been restricted by time available or by desire and
we are a New England family, with the exception of 1959, when
for two months, after a training period of five years of camping,
we took two cars and a trailer and the whole family traversed
Canada and drove to Alaska on the Alcan Highway. This was quite
an extensive trip and leaves vivid memories of the size of the country
in which we live, as well as what the rest of it outside of our New
England home is like. The trip itself was most educational for us

all, and has been the source of many a discussion in the home and

in the social environment, as well as in school. Extensive photog-
raphy enables review of the trip as frequently as we desire.
Hobbies, with a family of this size, include every sort of sport,
as well as other activities, inasmuch as one out of five will become
interested in such things as photography and stamps, whereas another
one will be interested in music, and while these do not persist we
have done what we could to make available these things as the time
and necessity arrived. My own active hobbies are mostly sporting
ones and include golf in the summer, badminton and hunting in the

fall and winter, interspersed with some sailing, some tennis, and some
singing, which has more recently gone by the board.

{ 294]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

With the passage of years, professional demands have consumed
time increasingly so that there is less and less for avocational activity.
Socially we do a little drinking, play a little bridge, and see a few
friends now and then, attend the local civic music concerts, and
occasionally join a small social gathering. My work continues in
scouting as the ship’s physician for a Sea Scout Ship, and I have
recently been appointed to the Conservation Commission of the
town of Beverly, which occupies quite a bit of time. Socially, thank
heavens, I find myself more tolerant as time goes on. Politically,
I remain a staunch Republican. And from a religious point of view
I still embrace agnosticism, not shutting out churches or organized
religious groups entirely, but finding that my religious preference
lies in the woods, in the fields, or on the ocean rather than in a
building with stained glass windows and the rote of the worship
service.

In preparation for the 25th Reunion, I can report that perhaps I
am slightly ahead of the rest inasmuch as I was team physician for
the Reunion of the Class of 1936 at the Essex County Club last
year and believe me, it was an eye opener. Hope to see you all there
in June of ’62.

GUY ADAMS DRAKE

HOME ADDRESS: 11400 W, Lakeview Lane, Minneapolis 26, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phelps-Drake Co. 5440 Douglas Drive, Minneapolis 22, Minn,

BORN: Nov. 4, 1915, Minneapolis, Minn.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MarriED: Patricia Kent Weld, July 31, 1937, Minneapolis, Minn, (divorced),
Ruby J. Drake. cxitpren: Holley Kent, Sept. 25, 1938; Mary Patricta,
April 7, 1940; Judith Anne, June 11, 1947 (died Nov. 19, 1949); Guy Adams,
Jr. May 1, 1951,GRANDCHILDREN: Three.

OCCUPATION: President, Phelps-Drake Company, Inc. contractors.

I AM in the contracting business, president of a firm called Phelps-
Drake Company, Inc. I have three children, one of whom is mar-
ried and has produced three grandchildren. Another daughter is a
senior at Simmons College and will graduate this spring. The third
is a son, eleven years old. T have been divorced, my present wife is

Ruby J. Drake. My address remains the same. Tam hoping to make
the 25th Reunion.

[ 295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

THOMAS FLING DRAPER

HOME AppRESS: First Cliff, Scituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thomas F. Draper Co., Inc., 232 Summer St., Boston, Mass

porN: Aug. 22, 1914, Canton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MARRIED: Ethel Draper, March 19, 1956, Virginia City, Nev. cHiLprEN: Thomas
Fling, Jr. (7. Marie Powers, 1956); Edward D, (7. Patricia Nugent, 1958);
Joanne Draper Flynn, divorced (all children by previous marriage).
GRANDCHILDREN: Three girls; four boys.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Fling Draper, Jr., ’57.

occupation: Wool merchant; president, Thomas F. Draper Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF; Algonquin Club; Boston Madison Square Garden Club; Boston

Chamber of Commerce; Boston Wool Trade Association; First Cliff
Association.

I ENJOYED my one year at Harvard so much that I decided that
further time spent there would be more than I deserved. Conse-
quently, I set sail immediately on the troubled waters of matrimony
and business. Several years were spent battening down the hatches
and trimming ship, and just when the situation was completely under
control, I found my course altered with a call to the colors.

I furthered my education in the Philippines, Borneo, and the Dutch
East Indies, with USN C.B. 111, which indeed was a happy ship. Re-
turned to the normal turmoil of everyday life to re-embark on my
interrupted social and business career, which included exploring all
forty-eight states in this land of liberty, parts of Canada and Mexico,
Europe and South America. After numerous tacks to port and star-
board, eventually got her back on course.

Am convinced that the world is no worse or no better than it ever
has been, but if the human race insists on creating chaos, will do my
best to help.

Pride myself on being ’37’s poorest dancer, singer, golfer, bridge
player, or what have you. Have a great passion for the great out-
doors, the great indoors, and a love for people and life in general;
and have the utmost faith in the good old U.S.A., in particular.

EDWARD ALLEN DREW

HOME ApprESs: 162 Sixteenth Ave., Sea Cliff, Long Island, N.Y,

orrice appaess: Pan American World Airways, Inc. Overseas Division,
14, New York International Airport, Jamaica 30, N.Y,

BORN: June 14, 1916, New York, N.Y.

[ 296 ]

Hangar

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cust laude, 1937.

MarrigD: Harriet Bradbury Sage, April 18, 1946, Bellport, N.Y. cxitpren;
Margaret Rich, Jan. 26, 1947; Helen Lane, June 12, 1948, Charles Davis,
2d, Aug. 2, 1950; Rebekah Sage, May 3, 1953.

occuPATION: Airline pilot.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. Luke’s Church, Sea Cliff, since 1958; lieutenant
colonel, Air Force Reserve (non-affiliated), since 1958; secretary, Sea Cliff
Junior Baseball Association, since 1960; co-chairman (with Mrs. Drew),
Student Selection Committee, “Americans Abroad” Program, since 190,
Host Family Selection Committee, U.S. Program for Foreign Students,
since 1961, North Shore Chapter, American Field Service; committeeman,
Pack 43 (Sea Cliff), Cub Scouts, US.A., 1960-61; delegate, Diocesan
Convention, Episcopal Diocese of Long Island, 1961; member, Scholarship
Award Committee, Community Scholarship Fund, North Shore High
School, Glen Head, N.Y., since 1961.

MEMBER OF: St. Luke’s Church Choir; Air Line Pilots Association; Sea Cliff
Yacht Club; Manhasset Bay Power Squadron; Society of Ninth Company
Veterans, Seventh Regiment, New York National Guard.

IN June, 1961, I was startled to read an item in John Crosby’s New
York Herald Tribune column about the Yale depression class of
1936, then celebrating its 25th. He relayed the statistic (among
others) that the average annual income of his classmates was some-
thing over $50,000. Is Harvard ’37 doing as well? You can’t prove
it by me.

In earlier reports I have given detailed accounts of my career to
1957. I shall therefore spare my Classmates a repetinon of my
previous military and civilian explonss and confine myself to current
events.

I am still flying with PanAm, and hope you all will, too (advt.).
Specifically, my duties, as of October, 1961, are as first officer (or
second-in-command) on DC-7C cargo and charter flights to (most-
ly) Western Europe. I got as close to flying jets as two wecks of
ground school in February, 1961; but there was a cut-back in
DC-8 pilot quota requirements at the New York base, and I returned
to piston equipment, With no prospects at present writing of any
immediate promotion. DC-7s have a good schedule, if you don't
mind smelling like horses and monkeys (ugh!) much of the time;
and I am senior enough in this category to bid the more desirable
trips. I also seem to have more time I can call my own at home
than the jet people.

The airline pilot business is more than just getting a flying machine
from here to there, Our careers are affected by a host of things

[ 297]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

beyond our control; government decisions at home and abroad, th
activities of our own and other labor groups, the relative influenc
in Washington of our own and other carriers, and the whims an.
economic condition of the traveling public. Occasionally, I get suf
ficiently worked up over one or more of these frustrations to si
down and bang out letters to various people who may or may no
be in a position to do something about them. My Congressman tell:
me he can hear my letters as they sizzle through his mail slot. But
most of the time I relax and enjoy being a career pilot. It beats
commuting, is a a fine job for as long as a man can pass his physicals,
and one that I find pretty congenial. It is also pleasant being able to

take my family on low-cost vacations to Europe and Honolulu, or
perhaps just for a weekend in Bermuda.

Now about that military status. What with one thing and another,
1 don’t like to make any predictions, but last time I looked I had
been eased out of the local Reserve Group (1959), and am continuing
to do my duty solely by means of Air University Correspondence
Courses. I think by February, 1962, I shall have put in twenty years
(1 lost out in Fiscal 1959 because PanAm wanted me in London or
Frankfurt on too many drill nights). If crisis piles on top of crisis,
so they really need the retreads, it seems a toss-up between being
drafted on an individual basis as a lieutenant colonel who will need

a lot of refresher training on desk work, and carrying on in my

familiar job as PanAm assumes its function as part of the Civil
Reserve Air Fleet.

My wife and I sometimes feel a bit bogged down with community
jobs — nothing spectacular, but just the little ones where “you are
the only person available.” I can usually plead my irregular schedule
to avoid the most time-consuming demands, but she is beginning to
get the habit of saying “No!” to the most persuasive arguments, and
to pick and choose the things she will undertake. Right now she has
just about cut out everything outside the home except church and
American Field Service. I have pretty well followed suit — while I
have occasionally done some jobs on union committees or for school
fund-raising that have involved some leg-work or not too much let-
ter-writing, I have generally backed out of most jobs that require
too much continuing responsibility. This way we keep our sanity,
and even manage to have an occasional evening at home together, or
spend an afternoon on the boat. We observe that the tight time-
schedule even extends to the kids, to a shocking extent — much
more than I remember as a boy. What with piano, flute, trumpet

{ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and cello lessons, after-school sports, dramatics, choir, Junior Altar

Guild and Young People’s Fellowship — to name a few of their ac-

tivities — it’s a wonder they’re not all nervous wrecks. This year
our eldest, Mardi, entered the sophomore class at Northfield, where
we fondly hope the rationing of extracurricular activities and the
elimination of commuting and much telephoning will ease the pres-
sure of high school life to some extent, even though she does miss
“hearing the boys’ point of view between classes.”

I think I can boil down the Drew family life to this: I don’t mind
going off on trips when I know I'll be home in four or five days and
then will stay home for at least that long. But my wife went to
Hawaii for six weeks in the spring of 1960 to visit her brother. After
four weeks I phoned her, in twenty-four hours she was home; and
I can still tell her I’m sure glad she came home from Honolulu.

DAVID HARDY DREWREY

MAILING ADDRESS: Harvard Club, 374 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

ALBION CLIFTON DRINKWATER

HOME AppRESS: 38 Lincoln St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE aDpREss: Norfolk County Trust Co., 2 Elm St. Braintree, Mass.

BORN: June 16, 1914, Braintree, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

‘MARRIED: Cynthia Harrison, May 30, 1942, Hingham, Mass. CHILDREN: Roger
Lee, April 5, 1945; Harrison, June 14, 1949; Cynthia Clapp, Jan. 9, 1959.

_ HARVARD BROTHER: Davis Clapp Drinkwater, "35.

occupation: Banking; branch administration, Braintree office.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, Davis Bates Clapp Memorial YMCA,
Weymouth, Massachusetts; member, Lions International Service Club
(both currently); chairman, Advance Gifts, United Fund, 1952, and
Shelter Committees for Red Cross and Civil Defense, 1948-533, Hingham,
Massachusetts.

THE twenty-five years since leaving Cambridge have been swift be-
yond understanding. Where have they gone? I have movies of the
children taken, it would scem, a short time ago as they were learning
to ride tricycles and bicycles and generally behaving as moppets do.
Now, suddenly the older son is licensed to pilot the family car.

I was in the Naval ROTC at Harvard and soon after eraduation
went into the Navy; there I stayed for some five years, doin mostly

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

antisubmarine and convoy duty. In 1942 I married — on May 3oth,
Memorial Day, to be exact — and so far, thanks to reminders of the
calendar and of the good spouse, have not forgotten an anniversary.

We have lived in Hingham since our marriage and lead the usual
and, to me, the pleasant life of the suburbanite. We try to: (1) keep
most of our bills paid, (2) keep the crab-grass under control, (3)
keep the house weather-proof, (4) educate the children, (5) be
friendly with our neighbors, (6) vote in such a way that the world
will continue to be safe for democracy.

My hobbies, sports-wise, have varied over the years. First it was
tennis. But it became increasingly difficult to find suitable opponents
and impossible to find suitable partners. I had a noticeable tendency
to hit the ball over the fence. Then it was golf. I found that to be a
game filled with great exasperations and conducive to profane ex-
pressions. Now my hobby is one designed for comfort: sitting on a
beach or sitting on a boat, and watching the waves go by. Also
photographing the passing scene in color.

Politically I am a Republican but do not think, as do some, that we
are in greater jeopardy because Mr. Nixon was not allowed to enter
the White House. I feel that our present President is showing good
courage and imagination and political leadership. His Harvard train-
ing would, of course, account for these qualities.

Three years ago my wife and I enjoyed a rush tour of Europe. I
majored in Romance Languages at Harvard and so was especially
pleased that English is still spoken in every country — communica-
tion is best when done in the native or American tongue. Also, over
the years we have managed a few weeks in Bermuda or in Florida.
But for travel in the near future we are all looking forward to the
trip to Cambridge in June. With the help of name tags I am sure to
recognize some of my old Classmates.

EMILE DUBIEL

HOME ApprESS: 5a Avenida “A” 20-63, Zona to, Guatemala City, Guatemala.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 Calle 5-62, Zona 1, Guatemala City, Guatemala.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1915, Fairhaven, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B., 1937,

Margiep: Kyra Balachoff, 1941, Guatemala City, Guatemala. cimoren: Peter
John, June 11, 1942; Roger Anthony, Jan, 12, 1946,

HARVAKD BROTHER: Edward Dubicl, ’29.

OocUPATION: Owner, export-import company.

[ 300 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Director, Comercial Aseguradora, Radio Television, Guatemala,
and Industria da Cafe (all S.A.).

MEMBER OF: Guatemala Country Club; American Club of Guatemala.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, while clearing customs in Guatemala
for the first time, little did I realize that this charming small coun-
try would be my home for more than half a lifetime. This land,
with its beautiful mountains, plateaus, lakes and coastal plains, has
just about everything. Golf, boating, fishing, jungle hunting, etc.,
are year-round things. Politics are played for keeps. Dictators, Com-
munists, revolutions, poverty, wealth, disease, sun, rains, street noises,
the old and the new all blend to make up what I have become accus-
tomed to live with — Latin America; and my recommendation to you
Classmates is that you insist that your children take that course in
Spanish and, when they say they want to go west, tell them, “Go
south, young man.”

EDWARD JOHN DUGGAN

HOME ADDRESS: 295 LaGrange St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lyne, Woodworth & Evarts, 75 Federal St, Boston 10, Mass.

BoRN: March 6, 1915, Chelsea, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea Senior High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LLB., 1940.

MarRIED: Gertrude Ahearn, Feb. 14, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHitpreN: Edward
J., July 26, 1944; Neil F., Aug. 27, 1946; Brian C. Feb. 19, 1949; Kevin,
April 4, 1951; Rosemary, May 29, 1953; Michael, July 23, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in Lyne, Woodworth & Evarts.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Voluntary Defenders Committee, Inc., since 1945;
secretary, St. Vincent de Paul Conference of St. Theresa's parish, since
1958, St. Theresa’s Holy Name Society, since 1959; chairman, Massa-
chusetts Defenders Committee.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Bar Associations; Harvard Law School
Alumni Association, Society of Former Special Agents of the FBI;
Catholic Alumni Society; Eire Society, Parkway Interfaith Association;
Current Topics Forum.

ALTHOUGH I have never looked for paradise in this existence, life
during the past quarter-century has been generally agreeable and
often quite pleasant. Perhaps its most gratifying feature has been my
happy marriage and family of six children.

My legal career has been satisfying and rewarding. After a brief
internship in trying cases as assistant counsel of the Voluntary De-
fenders Committce, the local public defender group, and four years
as a special agent of the F.B.L, I became associated with the Boston

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

law firm of Lyne, Woodworth & Evarts. For the past seven years I
have been a partner in this firm and have been mainly involved in
litigation matters. It has sometimes seemed that greater financial re-
turns would be available in other fields with less expenditure of time
and effort, but it has always been clear that no greater satisfaction
could result than has come from practising law.

Until some brittle muscle supporting the Achilles tendon in my
left ankle snapped last spring, I had enjoyed chasing a tennis ball, and
occasional baseball and ice-skating with my family. It now appears
that my interest in athletics must be satisfied in swimming and walk-
ing, and in viewing Harvard’s football and hockey efforts.

Outside of my home and office, I have a number of interests. A
year ago, I helped to draft the legislation which created the Massa-
chusetts Defenders Committee. As a result of this law, Massachu-
setts now has a unique, non-political system for securing to indigent
criminal defendants the constitutional guarantee of a fair trial. Par-
ticipation in two discussion groups, regular attention to the New
York Sunday Times, and a moderately faithful pursuit of serious

reading permit a constant sharpening and refinement of ideas on a
variety of philosophic, religious and political questions.

In addition, I work with the St. Vincent de Paul Conference in my
parish in charitable and social activity among the less fortunate. Iam
also active in a local interfaith group which seeks to bring together
persons of different faiths for joint action on various community

problems.

Despite the lack of satisfactory solutions for so many of this
world’s problems, I am made confident by the promise of everlasting
happiness for those who live in accordance with the will of God.

ROBERT DUNN

HOME ADDRESS: 1703 East-West Hwy. 507, Silver Spring, Md.
OFFICE ApprEss: Library of Congress, Washington 3, D.C.
porn: March 20, 1915, Boston, Mass.

prePARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREES: S.B., 1937, A.M., 1939.
magrigp: Luiza Ngan Ying Fung, Aug. 27, 1961, Dallas, Texas,
OccUPATION: Research analyst, Library of Congress,

[ 302 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWELL ELDRIDGE DvuPUY, JR.

HOME ApprEss: St. George Street, Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 211 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High Schol, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marrieD: Dorothy E. Drew, June 4, 1938, Newton, Mass. cHiLpreN: Howell
Eldridge, 3d, July 24, 1940; John D., June 3, 1947; David W., Nov. to, 1949.

OccUPATION: President, Stevens, Fisk & DuPuy, Inc., bank stationers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Massachusetts Casualty Insurance Company, Financial
Advertisers Association; corporator, Waltham Savings Bank.

MEMBER OF: Dalhousie Lodge, F. & A.M., Newton (past master); Aleppo
Temple, Boston; St. Paul’s R.A. Chapter, Boston; Gethsemane Commandery,
Newton; Duxbury Yacht Club; Weston Golf Club, Kittansett Club;
American Legion Post 223, Duxbury, Mass.

CLEMENT STORY DWYER

HOME AppREsS: 35 Maple St., Bangor, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 205 French St., Bangor, Maine.

BoRN: Oct. 18, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1941.

MarriepD: Marguerite L. McKay (mo.), July 2, 1941, Bar Harbor, Maine.
CHILDREN: Clement Story, Jr., Aug. 18, 1948; Thomas McKay, Oct. 11, 1950.

occuPATION: Physician; anesthesiologist, Eastern Maine General Hospital, Ban-
gor, Maine.

OFFIcEs HELD: Charlton research fellow in physiology, Tufts Medical School,
1941-42; past president, Maine Society of Anesthesiologists, 1954-55, staff,
Eastern Maine General Hospital, Bangor, 1960-61, member, board of
directors, Good Samaritan Home, since 1958, Community Concert Asso-
ciation, since 1959; president, New England Society of Anesthesiologists,
1961-62, Penobscot County Medical Society, 1961-62; senior partner,
Anesthesia Associates, Bangor, Maine.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Anesthesiologists (diplomate); American
College of Anesthesiologists (fellow); American Society of Anesthesiolo-
gists; International Anesthesia Research Society; American Medical Asso-
ciation, Alpha Omega Honorary Medical Scholastic Society; Phi Chi
Medical Fraternity; Bangor Symphony Orchestra (patron); Bangor Medical
Club; Harvard Club of Bangor; Tufts Club of Bangor.

PUBLICATIONS: Fifteen clinical and scientific articles.

PROBABLY my most novel distinction during college years is that
I did chemistry experiments, dissected frogs and examined xylem and
phloem while dressed in a tuxedo with wing collar and black bow
tie. I had not been “gay” but had played “hot” clarinet nights as a

[ 303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

member of Local No. 9, Boston. During the depression of the 193
one had to “double” on several instruments and thus I carried thr
from home to the Yard each day. The tuxedo had to be worn —
could not carry it in any other way. It is good to remember ho
graciously both instructors and students received me in my strang
apparel. Playing music was worthwhile during college and graduai
school because my boyhood dream finally came true —I became
physician!

World War II taught me how much I missed my wife. I learnes
to bury tents in the ground of North Carolina, California and wintry
Massachusetts. Overseas, as anesthesiologist to one of the busies
general hospitals on Leyte, I learned much about medicine and the

foolhardiness of war. The practice and teaching of anesthesiology
at Bangor, Maine, where my physician wife lured me, has been fruit-
ful in all ways. My two boys insist that I teach them music —a
pleasure, of course! “Tough teacher,” they say! Truly, it is hard to
stay away from show business. I own and run a theatre in Bar Har-
bor, rehearse and arrange music for the boys’ “combo.” Gout stif-
fens some of the joints so the hands “Don’t Get Around Much Any-
more” on the “stick.” Even so, a little bit of Dixieland wouldn’t hurt
much!

All in all, I love life, family, medicine, music and all else that comes
along!

JOHN FRANCIS DYER

HOME ADDRESS: 658 Elepaio St., Honolulu 16, Hawaii.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Judiciary Bldg., Honolulu, Hawaii.
porn: Aug. 10, 1916, Honolulu, Hawaii.

PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. 1942.

MmarRieD: Frances Dudley Turner, Aug. 22, 1942, Southfield, Mass. CHILDREN
Peter Turner, May 21, 1943; Kathryn Shepard, Jan. 5, 1950.
OccUPATION: Judge, First Circuie Court, Honolulu, Hawaii.
OFFICES HELD: President, Junior Bar Section, 1951, member, executive board,
1954, 1957, Bax Association of Hawaii.

MEMBER OF: Bar Association of Hawaii; American Bar Association; American
Judicature Society, Harvard Club of Hawaii; Pacific Club; Kailua Racquet
Chub,

WHAT an incredible thought — the 1962 that seemed so far away
in 1937 is now upon us. Fantastic!

Career. My carcer has moved from a busy law practice to the

[ 304]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

busy life of a judge. Try sometime keeping one jump ahead of a
group of attorneys. I was first appointed by President Eisenhower
in 1958, and upon admission of Hawaii to Statehood in 1959, was
reappointed by Governor William F. Quinn.

Family. What can a man say except that I’m proud of all of them.
A friend used to tell me, “She will be beautiful at age —” (censored
at the request of my wife). Well, he was right. My son is now at
Colgate, playing basketball on the freshman team. My daughter —
well, you'd say I was bragging.

Home. We recently moved to a new home designed to take maxi-
mum advantage of the Hawaiian climate—even the bath opens
onto a garden.

Travel. Two summers ago, we fulfilled an ambition and showed
the kids most of the historical spots between Bunker Hill and York-
town. My wife has nixed any battlefields on our next trip. I still
have a very warm memory of standing beside the U.S. Constitution
in the Archives Building in Washington, and overhearing a gentleman
from Brooklyn say to his son, “If ennybody ever does ennyting to
yuh, trow dat at ’em.”

Hobbies. 1 play volleyball, tennis, golf, and am roped into an
occasional game of bridge.

War Record. My chief memory of the war is that Aviation Cadet
School was harder than law school. I did take part in the invasion of
Okinawa.

LEO ANTHONY ECKER

HOME ADDRESS: 31205 Nantucket Row, Bay Village 40, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Michael Flynn Manufacturing Co.. Room 244, The Hanna
Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: May 8, 1914, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarRRIED: Mary Madeleine Sullivan, Jan. 13, 1940, Belmont, Afass. citpreN:
Patricia Ann, July 26, 1948; Leo Anthony, Jr. April 36, 1950.

occuPATION: Sales engineer, Michael Flynn Manufacturing Company, manu-
facturers of window walls, curtain walls and windows, steel and aluminum.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Indian Guide Program—YMCA, Cub Scouts and
Troop 9, Boy Scouts, Bay Village, Ohio; member, St. Raphael's Choir,
Bay Village; member, Cleveland Chaprer, The Construction Specifications
Institute, Inc.

AFTER graduation, I spent two years at the “B" Schoo! and then

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

entered the business world. Until World War II, I remained with the
Independent Coal Tar Company of Boston, selling road tar materials
to the New England states. It was quite an education in a field of
selling. Anyone who has sold materials to states, towns, and munic-
ipalities will know what I mean. The most important step I took
during those years was my marriage to my high school and college
(Radcliffe) sweetheart, M. Madeleine Sullivan.

In July, 1942, [ joined the U.S. Navy as an ensign in the Supply
Corps and again attended the “B” School, where I went through the
Supply Corps School Training. After stateside duty, I ended up in
the invasion of Okinawa where, until after V-J Day, I was supply
officer to the port director of Buckner Bay. A few typhoons, the
Kamikazes and the mud made it an interesting assignment.

The end of the war found my previous business connection sort
of “Gone with the Wind.” Starting fresh, I spent two years in the
life insurance game and today can put it down as excellent sales
experience. From the end of those two years to date, I have been in
the sales and sales management field associated with companies selling
tangible products. Most of the years have been in the construction
field. Before leaving New England, I was New England district sales
manager for the Kawneer Company. I was transferred by Kawneer

to Cleveland in 1953 to take over as their Cleveland district sales
manager. This association lasted until January of 1960. Since, then,
I have been associated in sales work with the Michael Flynn Com-
pany of Philadelphia. My present sales activity centers here in Cleve-
land with heavy emphasis on the use of aluminum curtain walls in
the commercial and non-residential construction field. My business

associations have kept me very close to the glass industry and my

travels have covered all New England states and the northeastern
states, and I have spent considerable time in Canada opening up that
market.

Aside from business, I guess I’m one who hasn’t anything
too exciting to report. Real excitement happened to the Eckers in

1948 and again in 1950 when Patricia Ann first arrived and then Leo

A., Jr. Our two children, needless to say, changed our mode of life

and the years since have been rewarding and busy ones, Other than

an occasional game of golf and an active part in the men’s choir of

St. Raphael’s Church, Bay Village, my time is spent with Patsy and

Lee. Camp-out trips, Boy Scout activities, swimming, skating and

some YMCA activities take up my time. I’ve been all through the

Indian Guide program and the Cub Scouts with Lee and now em-

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bark on the Boy Scout program. This goes on along with a year-

round swimming program. Being members of a swim club with

year-round facilities, Patsy and Lee and old Dad really spend a lot
of time making like the fish. Lee has two years of competitive swim-
ming behind him and shows promise of being a good swimmer.
Although swimming was never one of my sports, thanks to Kiphuth
of Yale and other authors of swimming technic, I now coach Lee and
even demonstrate the dolphin kick with butterfly stroke — not bad
for a ’37er. However, this swimming, quite a bit of winter skating
and a two-year-old exercise and health program keep me fit and at
college weight. I still hope to bring this staunch Republican and his
family back to New England before the younger Eckers hit college

age.

THOMAS ANDERSON CONOVER EDDY

HOME ADDRESS: 1441 Beech Lane, East Meadow, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Sperry Gyroscope Co., Great Neck, N.Y.

BoRN: Oct. 14, 1914, Wickford, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: South High School, Youngstown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES; A.B. 1937; A-M. (Columbia Univ.),
1948.

MARRIED: Laura Davis, Aug. 28, 1948, Auburn, N.Y. ¢ cHiLp: Christopher Thomas,

June 21, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Leigh Eddy, 35, s.1.B,, '38.

OCCUPATION: Technical illustrator, Publications Department, Sperry Gyro-
scope Company.

OFFICES HELD: Departmental representative, area chairman, Reps Council chair-
man, Sperry Engineers’ Association, 1954-58; president, Good Government
Group, East Meadow, N.Y., 1954.

MEMBER OF: Sperry Engineers Association.

AT Harvard, I studied fine arts and museum work, and thought of
being a museum curator or picture restorer. Twenty-five years after
graduating, I am somewhat of an expert in the air brush retouching of
photographs of mechanical and electronic devices. This is the un-
foreseen result of studying design and representation in a department
where the professors belittled the air brush as an instrument and Petty
as an artist. I have been a technical illustrator at Sperry for almost
thirteen years, and do some free-lance work at home. Since I always
stress quality in my performance, I get many challenging assignments.
My wife teaches art in a nearby junior high school, while her
mother watches our baby boy (aged two and a half).

Contrasted to the lack of material possessions which suppressed

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

me at Harvard, I feel some release in our present regime, with its
two cars, two televisions, numerous radios, electric typewriter,
camera and darkroom equipment, power tools, patio and finished
basement, with air conditioning going in next spring. We like living
in suburban Long Island where we feel that we can drive into New
York City occasionally to shop, to see a play, or visit our “club
house” —the Museum of Modern Art. Since Nassau County has
always been Republican in elections, we tend to sponsor progres-

sive measures, even with the attendant radical changes. We belong to
the Unitarian Church here.

By allowing my wife to work, I have definitely proved to myself
that a family can succeed today financially if it has two incomes. It

is also due to my wife's three years in the South Pacific that we have
a GI. mortgage.

Until recently, I hadn’t solved the problem of what to send to

Harvard besides money. So my son Christopher was born. The
whole thing was very flattering: he was born on Father’s Day which
was also the first day of summer, and he looked like me at that age.
He has been a constant source of delight and hope ever since. Al-
though he cries at times, he is the only one in the family who can
laugh in a rhythmical cadence. What energy! I don’t intend to hold
the threat of a Harvard education over his head all during his
youth, but I hope that he gets the equivalent. We are starting a
savings fund now for such a purpose,

I believe that the narrative account of my life since graduation
has been adequately covered in the three previous volumes of this
Class’s history. In some future report I may prepare an evaluation
of whether the gathering together of the utensils of living such as
I have described constitutes success in terms of a Harvard training.
My father originally sold me on the proposition that whatever you
turn out to be, you will be better off with a college education, even
though the result is delayed. 1 am still weighing evidence on this

and trying to reach a conclusion. This certainly seemed true when

1 was a freshman, but I am not old enough yet to tell if it will work
out in the long run.

BERNARD ELI EDELSTFIN
Home appress: 131 Fuller St, Brookline 46, Mass,

orrice appaess: Prince School, Newbury and Exeter Streets, Boston, Mass.
porn: April 18, 1916, Boston, Mass. ,

[ 308 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1946-1948. DEGREES: A.B. 1937(48); ED.M. (Boston
Univ.), 1955.

MARRIED: Augusta Goldman, June 13, 1946, Brookline, Mass. cHitprREN: Susanne
Elise, June 28, 1949; Evalina Hester, Jan. 11, 1953; Hazel Miriam, Feb. 3,
1955.

occupaTION: Teacher of English and geography, Prince School, junior high
school.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and National Audubon Societies; National Parks
Association; Civil Liberties Union; Temple Sinai, SANE; Massachusetts
Forest and Parks Association, Nature Conservancy, American Federation

of Teachers; Fine Arts Museum, Science Museum and Horticultural
Society, Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Letters to the editor.

POLITICAL info.: I generally vote Democratic on national level,
Republican on state level. More sympathetic to the Democratic pro-
gram. Hobbies and special interests: conservation of natural re-
sources; nature; birdwatching; play golf in the sixties (nine holes).
Subscribe to thirty magazines which keep me in a merry whirl keep-
ing pace with them.

War service, 1941-46, from private to first lieutenant. Stationed
overseas in, or visited, England, Scotland, Wales, France, Luxem-
bourg, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium.

Fell in love with a small town in S.W. England with the improb-
able name of Fowey (but not revisited after service); and with
coastal Maine in 1960, especially Acadia National Park (also not re-
visited); between the two, “earth holds not anything more fair.”
Love gardening, but since being compelled by family illness to give
up own home, have done none. Dahlia and torenia, favorite flowers.

Have taught fourteen years in same system (Boston), of which
thirteen in same school (Prince). Teaching the most financially un-
rewarding, but the most cordially rewarding “profession.” Can't get
enough of classical music (I play nothing), reading, teaching, forests,
or shore.

Pearl-producing irritants: Birch Society; “drop-the-bomb-now"
enthusiasts; motorists who don’t obey stop signs and red lights; wom-
en who speak up for service out of turn in a crowded store; Southern
senators who hate Castro but loved Trujillo; Francis Walter's inn-
migration policy; generals who indoctrinate troops with their own
political ideas; rapid decrease in amount of undeveloped land, people
who hunt for sport; Texas millionaires who shoot eagles from air-
planes, censorship, seemingly permanent inability to master the

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

three-wood, failure of the Russian people to prevent resumption
testing, contempt of Russians for increased radioactivity; drift

conformity of belief in America; threat to my children’s future; fz
that any child anywhere has to go to bed hungry!

+ DELANO EDGELL
BORN: June 12, 1916, Cambridge, Mass, parents: George Harold Edgell, ’oc
Jean Delano.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Harold Edgell, Jr., ’37.
pDIED: July 30, 1940, Mooresville, Ky.

EDGELL attended Harvard for a short time before withdrawing to

accept an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy. In the spring
of 1940 he was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Regular

Army and he was on leave, prior to assignment to active duty, at

the time of his death, which resulted from an automobile accident.
He was survived by his parents and brother.

GEORGE HAROLD EDGELL, JR.

HOME apprEss: Box 217, Newport, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Field Service, 313 E. 43d St. New York 17, N.Y.
Born: May 8, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Beacon School, Wellesley Hills, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: A.B. (Stanford Univ.), 19338.
UN MARRIED.

OccUPATION: Assistant director, American Field Service; secondary school
student exchange between the United States and abroad.

AFTER graduating, did some further study in history and literature
without taking a degree, and wrote a little fiction. Volunteered for
the Army in 1940 and spent a year and a half in the Artillery, then
obtained a commission in the Adjutant General’s Department. Served
in France and Belgium from 1944 to 1946, and was discharged as
major. Worked in the Coordination and Planning Division of the
western regional office of the Veterans Administration in San Fran-
cisco, and continued some writing.

Then, in 1949, I came east again and discovered the teen-age for-

eign student exchange program of the American Field Service, then

in its infancy with a total of only thirty-two students. Have con-

[ 310 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tinued with it ever since, as it grew to its present size of 2,222 foreign
students in the United States (my prime responsibility) and 1,200
American students going abroad. It has been pretty much a seven-
day-week job, leaving me little time for hobbies outside of enjoying
music (Bach through Bartok), amateur cooking, and the family farm
in New Hampshire, which somehow in all this I have managed to
keep operational, too.

Life is busy and therefore limited, but not dull, and I cannot com-
plain with the way it has turned out.

“MILTON ELKIN

HOME ADDRESS: 13 Kingston Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Ave.,
New York 61, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937, M.D. cum
laude, 1941. :

marrieD: Gloria Constance King, Nov. 12, 1943, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Philip Ian, Sept. 3, 1947; Karen Anne, March 3, 1951, Laura Sue, June 19,
1953.

occuPATION: Professor of radiology and chairman, Department of Radiology,
Albert Einstein College of Medicine; director of radiology, Bronx Munic-
ipal Hospital Center,

OFFICES HELD: President, Medical Board, Bronx Municipal Hospital Center,
1960-61; secretary, Section on Radiology, Medical Society of the State
of New York, 1961.

MEMBER OF: American College of Radiology; Radiological Society of North
America; American Roentgen Ray Society, New York Roentgen Society;
New England Roentgen Ray Society; Harvard Medical Society; American
Medical Association; Bronx Medical Society; Association of University
Radiologists.

pusLications; “The Changing Roentgenologic Picture in Pulmonary Tuber-
culosis under Modern Chemotherapy,” Amenican Journal of Roentgenology,
February, 1959; “The Effect of Whole-Body Radiation on Autologous
Skin Transplants,” British Journal of Radiology, January, 1960, chapter on
Radiography of Skull Injuries, in book, Jnyuries to Brain, by Brock, pub-
lished by Springer, 1960; “The Prone Position in Intravenous Urography
for Study of the Upper Urinary Tracts,” Radiology, June, 1961; about
twenty other publications in various medical journals and several articles
in medical books,

I ENTERED the College to prepare myself for the Business School;
so on graduation I went on to the Medical School. Undergraduate
days convinced me that my true interests lay in a scientific ficld and

[311]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

hence September, 1937, found me at Harvard Medical School alon
with several other members of our Class. With the M.D. safe]
tucked away in 1941 I began a scheduled twenty-one-month medical
internship at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. However, the world
was at war, schedules gave way to needs, and the military needed
doctors. After an internship of twelve months, I was in the Air
Force. A few months of training sufficed to teach me the required
mannerisms of military officialdom and a few more months were
required to teach me the problems of “flying men.” The affluence
of lieutenant’s pay allowed me to consider added responsibilities and
in November, 1943, I faced up to these responsibilities; I married

Gloria King, an alumna of a girl’s school in Cambridge which is now
part of Harvard.

In February, 1944, I was overseas as a flight surgeon with a P-38
squadron in the Ninth Air Force. In those days, England, France,
Belgium and Germany all looked alike to me — tents, airplanes and
rumors. Finally in January, 1946, we were back to normal, and I
was back at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital to continue my train-
ing. Having decided that academic medicine was to be my lot, I had
only to choose the field. An assistant residency in medicine was fol-
lowed by a year of research in physiology at the Medical School and

finally into my chosen field — radiology. The residency in radiology
at the Brigham took three years but it seemed like only three months.

I found it difficult to tear away from the local scene, so I stayed on

for an extra year at the Brigham as associate radiologist, and even

then my tearing away was not tearing away very far at all, for in

1952 I was at the New England Medical Center and at the Cambridge

City Hospital. In January, 1953, I left forever (I thought) the land

of snow and cold to take on the position of associate radiologist at

the Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Los Angeles, in the land of sun
and orange trees. This was the Easy Life —swimming, croquet,
sightseeing and some work. However, the lure of the academic life
is such that when in 1954 I was asked to return east to undertake the
chairmanship of radiology of a new medical school, I came back to
the snow and cold. 1 am now in New York occupying myself with
teaching medical students and residents, administering a large aca-
demic department, participating in several research programs and
doing clinical radiology.
My political and social convictions? It would be easy to say Dem-
ocrat and democratic. To those of us in medicine who struggle with
the problems of the preservation of life — any life, no matter how

[ 312]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

old or how weak it may seem — it is difficult to comprehend the
attitude of our day which speaks of possible quick destruction of
millions of lives. Our salvage must lie in the finding of big men, not
big bombs or deep shelters.

I have no consuming hobbies—a little dabbling at golf, weak
forays into tennis, occasional sailing and infrequent attempts at oil
painting. My off-duty thoughts revolve about the problems of medi-
cal education, for here too our world has changed since 1937. The
pool of topnotch applicants for medical schools has been diminishing,
possibly due to increased length of training now needed to become
a doctor as well as greater career opportunities for our young sci-
entific minds in other fields. We shall undoubtedly see an increasing
role of the government in medical education.

I have the. same wife I started out with and I am quite happy with
her. I have three children and I am quite happy with them. Having
no divorces to report, I guess I’m old-fashioned. Our three children
keep us busy, not only with matters of direct concern to them but
also obligating us to be interested members of the P.T.A. of several
schools; our P.T.A. meetings are like those of any of the suburbia —
eight o’clock coffee, discourses of resident or visiting educators on
the importance of learning for its own value with no great concern
for class standings or worrying about college admission, and finally
question periods of anxious parents who are willing to concede the
importance of learning but are more interested in finding out how to
get Johnny into an Ivy League school.

As I look back now on the twenty-five years since graduation, I
appreciate the tremendous value of the four years before gradua-
tion, and I am sure that I shall feel the same way at our Fiftieth.

WILLIAM FUTTER ELKIN

HOME appreEss: 1308 Yerkes St., Philadelphia 19, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Henry Phipps Institute, University of Pennsylvania, 42:19
Chester Ave., Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BoRN:; May 5, 1916, Atlantic City, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Atlantic City High School, Adiantic City, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $.8., Cum laude, 1937; 5.M. (Univ. of
Michigan), 1941; MS$.P.H, (ibid.), 1942.

MarrieD; Elsa Cecilia Soffer, April 3, 1944, Washington, D.C. cat: Judith
Eve-Marie, June 16, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Biostatistician,; research associate in School of Medicine. and
lecturer in School of Nursing, University of Pennsylvania,

[313]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Oak Ridge (Tenn.) Tuberculosis Association, 1946-48,
Anderson County (Tenn.) Crippled Children’s Committee, 1948-49;
treasurer, Eastern Cooperative Recreation School, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association; Biometric Society (East North
American Region); Pennsylvania Public Health Association; American
Public Health Association (fellow); Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

puBLicaTions: Articles in American Journal of Public Health, American Review
of Tuberculosis, and Atomic Energy Commission Documents.

IT is now January 13, two days before Bill’s final deadline to get this
in. I plead extenuating medical circumstances. The period since this
Class Life form came last September has been without “free time.”
As I write this with one hand, the other is applying a hot boric acid
compress to a nodule of fibrotic tissue, the last vestige of a profusion
of boils due to Staphylococcus aureus. The other excuse is semi-
incapacitation from a series of surgeries on my gums, This “pre-
ventive” medicine to save my teeth is an attempt to postpone the
degenerative effects of the aging process in my oral cavity — age
which is quite obvious on the top of my pate.

The above experiences, so important in the life of ONE indi-
vidual and his family, are of little concern to others, except as they
reflect aspects in the mass action of disease on groups of individuals.
This is where my profession, biostatistics, enters the picture. The
word itself was apparently coined at Johns Hopkins University
about the time members of our Class were wearing diapers. My work
involves the application of statistical methodology in public health,
and is currently concerned with study of the relations of popula-
tions of people to agents of disease under varying environmental con-
ditions.

My professional studies were at the University of Chicago, Uni-
versity of Michigan, and University of North Carolina. On the way,
I acquired Master’s degrees in mathematics and in public health.
Symptomatic of these migratory times, my research and teaching has
taken me to Washington, D.C., Oak Ridge, Tennessee, Chapel Hill,

North Carolina, and Philadelphia, with a few positions held in each
of these places.

Perhaps the most valuable specific course I had at Harvard was
freshman instruction on the Soldiers Field tennis courts. Years later,
on Washington, D.C., courts, 1 could display this aspect of manly
prowess (notwithstanding 4-F draft status) to another “warworker.”
Our daughter came as an “atomic baby” in Oak Ridge. For the
busy person, I now recommend folk dancing, which I first picked up
at the University of Chicago International House. Like the well-

[314]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

known three-in-one headache remedy, this recreation simultaneously
serves three functions: it provides physical exercise, aesthetic ex-
ression, and social gratification.

During the last twenty-five years, “from the age that is past to the
age that is waiting before” has taken on added meaning. Any psy-
chological effects of the Harvard-above-all editorials in the Har-
vard Crimson were thoroughly washed away in other places. But
in this era of the necessary and inevitable increasing governmental
support and participation in education and research, Harvard, as
exemplar of the privately-endowed university, assumes a more vital
role in preservation of our cultural heritage of individual freedom of
thought.

ARTHUR ELLISON

HOME ADDRESS: §1 Hartmann Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 7 Water St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1915, Chelsea, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB. 1937; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Sylvia M. Morrison, Oct. 27, 1940, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Martin Alan, Dec. 12, 1944; Enid Deborah, July 11, 1949; Harolyn N.
March 30, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law; realtor.

OFFICES HELD: President, Temple Israel of Nantasket,; trustee and vice-president,
Nantasket Youth Center; chairman, Jewish National Fund; director, Temple
Emeth, South Brookline; member, Adviser's Committee, City Bank &
Trust Company, Boston; member, Committee for Planning for Metro-
politan Communities, American Bar Association; member, Lawyers Ref-
erence Service and Eminent Domain Committee, Boston Bar Association,
chairman, Standard Forms Committee, member, Communiry Lecture
Bureau, Gerater Boston Real Estate Board.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts, Boston and Middlesex County Bar
Associations; Massachusetts Trial Lawyers Association; Harvard Club;
New Century Club; Greater Boston Real Estate Board, Home Builders
Association of Greater Boston; American Jewish Congress; B'nai B'rith,
various charitable organizations,

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on urban renewal and real estare law in Realror Maga-
zine; Lectures on real estate law.

SYLVIA, my wife, graduate of Radcliffe, 1940, has been and still is
my greatest source of inspiration and joy. My three children, Martin,
Enid and Harolyn, help me to round out a family life which |
cherish above all else. I shall always be grateful for the pleasure

[315]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

afforded me of watching them grow and learn, and participating
with them, on occasions, in their learning processes.

The satisfactions I derive from my law practice are wonderful.
I have always regarded law as a sacred profession. Just as a rabbi,
priest, or minister has to do with the relationship between man and
his soul or his conscience, his God, if you will, so does a lawyer
concern himself with the relationships between man and his fellow
man. I say that this latter relationship is also a holy one, and, in
that respect, a lawyer is like a man of religion. And I revere and
respect the profession in which I am engaged, and the people whose
problems are the subject of that profession.

In my law practice, I am called upon to do considerable personal
counselling. Never is there a dull moment, for I deal in real estate
law, corporation law, probate and family law, estate planning, and
tort law. Yes, every facet of life passes before me on the other side
of my desk. |

Recently, I have become aware of the great benefits in improving
the standard of living that are available through the program of
Urban Renewal. I have been spending some time preaching that this
new program to erase blight, if handled properly, can help maintain
in our own country the highest living standards in the world.

In earlier years, we were ambitious, aggressive. Now, twenty-five
years out of college, there is an adjustment settling in, less a striving
after something and more an attempt to learn and teach from the

experiences of the past.

I look forward, with feelings of hope and anticipation, to accom-
plishments during the rest of my life, as long or as short as it may be.
And I pray that my children may be spared a wartime and warlike

society, and that they may have the opportunity to enjoy full
and satisfying lives.

JAY MORSE ELY

MAILING ADDRESS: 1057 University Ave., Palo Alto, Calif.

ROGER HILL EMERSON

HOME AppRESS: 757 Main St., Hingham, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS; 52 Columbian St., South Weymouth 90, Mass
BORN: July 20, 1915, South Weymouth, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,

[ 316]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: M.D. (Univ. of Rochester), 1941.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Turnbull, Oct. 27, 1945, San Francisco, Calif. curren:
Roger Hill, Jr., Sept. 17, 1948, Susan Janet, April 3, 1951.

occuPATION: Physician — obstetrics and gynecology.

SINCE starting in private practice in obstetrics and gynecology on
the South Shore of the Boston area in 1953, there have been few
changes in either my family or business situation. Each day is more
than filled with the practice of medicine and the business of being
a father, homemaker and civic-minded citizen.

Aside from business, my chief concern recently has been in restor-
ing and furnishing a most interesting historical house, 1746 vintage,
that I purchased in 1956. Both my wife and I have found the study
and acquiring of antiques a most fascinating hobby. The biggest
problem has been the desire to acquire museum pieces at much less
than museum prices.

As much time as possible is devoted to enjoying sports with my
family. I find a certain amount of time for skiing, sailing and fishing.
Recently, golf was added to the list; allegedly as an aid to limbering
up a bad back. I have joined the large and prominent group of citi-
zens afflicted with chronic back disability. In addition to a rocking
chair, I have found golf a most therapeutic regime, and a wonderful

excuse to leave the office early once a week for a most enjoyable
activity.

MANNING EMERY

HOME AppRESS: Cumberland Foreside, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rigby Manufacturing Co., 120 Thadeus St., South Portland,
Maine.

BORN: May 19, 1915, Newburyport, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Madeline Jackson, Oct. 3, 1937, Dedham, Mass. cHitpren: Madeline,
Nov. 15, 1938; Manning, Jr, March 14, 1940; Nathaniel Bowditch, June
16, 1942; Rachel, March 16, 1946; George Lee, May 26, 1953; James Jack-
son, July 23, 1954.

OccuPATION: Treasurer, Rigby Manufacturing Company, machinery manu-
facturers.

THE first ten years after graduation were spent in the textile
industry, beginning in Maine, then New Hampshire and New York.
This led to a variety of employment from apprentice to assistant

[317]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

treasurer. The post-depression and post-war developments in the
industry wrought changes that made it no longer attractive to me,

Having always preferred the out-of-doors and the country as a

mode of living, and with the intent of eventually working for my-
self, it seemed quite natural to go into agriculture as a business
instead of the hobby it had been for some years. At the time I was
living near Oswego, New York, on the edge of that state’s great
farming areas. From 1947 to 1959, I was a farmer. Only those who
have done likewise can understand what such a life is. I enjoyed it.
I worked hard at it. However, the economic returns were not
adequate to the demands of a growing family and rising tuition bills.

In May of 1959, with the purchase of a small special machinery
business, I changed occupations from farmer to machinist. This was
the result of a two-year search for a business in which the element
of interest was large enough to compensate for leaving the farm.
The hours are just about as long, the locale and conditions are
changed, the financial returns roughly equal, but potentially greater.
Although my new venture dictates long hours in pursuit of business
success, the pursuit is vastly different. With our machinery in use
in eleven foreign countries, I look forward to having to go on busi-
ness to many places I have long hoped to visit on vacation or
retirement.

It is hard to separate hobbies and interests from my career, as
they seem so often to blend. Maine offers untold facilities to indulge
in hunting, fishing, skiing and sailing. The family enjoys all these
pursuits, and the greater availability of these sports now provides
a more tempting environment for living. With only limited oppor-
tunity to yield to these temptations and too cramped a budget to
indulge them to satiety, I find myself looking forward to the day
when I shall have time to enjoy them more fully. All this tends to
provide life with considerable savor. I still awake in the morning
with relish for what the day may bring.

WILLIAM BACON EMMONS, JR.

HOME aAppRESS: Cloudland Farm, Woodstock, Vt,

OFFICE appRess: 5 Central St., Woodstock, Vt.

BoRN: March 17, 1914, Weston, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1949.

[ 318]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Elizabeth Barlow, July 6, 1940, Woodstock, Vt. cHitpren: Margaret
Dana, Nov. 1, 1946; William Bacon, 3d, Nov. 10, 1948.

occuPATION: Law and agriculture.

MEMBER OF: Lakote Club, Country Club, Woodstock, Vt.; Racquet and Tennis

Club, Boston; Country Club and Yacht Club, St. Croix, US. Virgin
Islands,

WITH the opportunity of a lifetime in hand, ie. a lengthy auto-
biography underwritten by Classmates, regretfully, I have little to
add since the earlier reports. I still operate a dairy farm and practise
law in Woodstock, Vermont. I manage to keep a finger on the pulse
of the Class of ’37, during the shooting and skiing months when it is
open season on local Harvard residents of all classes. The fact that
our two children have graduated to the boarding school level gives
my wife and me the opportunity to escape from Scout dens and to
investigate other dens overseas. Since the last report we have built
a house at Estate Carlton, on St. Croix, one of the American Virgin
Islands, which, when not rented, is an ideal spot to be during the
spring mud season.

WILLIAM JAMES ENGLISH

HOME AppREsS: 24th Parkway, Sarasota, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kit Circus Operating Co., Inc., Van Skike Bldg., Sarasota, Fla.

BORN: July 3, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1937; M-B.A. 1939.

MARRIED: Mary Catherine Mackay, Jan. 10, 1948, Reading, Pa, cumpren: John
E,, July 12, 1952; Catherine, Nov. 14, 1953; William, June 29, 1957.

OCCUPATION: President, Kit Circus Operating Company, Inc.; general manager,
Sells & Gray Circus.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard Business School, worked
for a Boston investment firm until entering the Army in early 1942.
Went overseas as an enlisted man on July 1, 1942, served with the
Corps of Engineers in England, North Africa, Corsica, and Italy.
Returned to the U.S.A.,, in late 1942. Resumed activity in the invest-
ment business briefly, then entered the outdoor amusement business
in 1949. After a rather bumpy start, have been very actively and
happily engaged in show business since that time. Moved my resi-
dence to Florida several years ago, although my business takes me
continuously all over the United States and Canada,

[ 319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

GEORGE ELDRIDGE ENOS

HOME ADDRESS: 2750 Chesterton Rd. Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1300 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.
BorN: Feb. 12, 1916, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

MaRRIED: Nancy Jane Crawford, Aug. 29, 1938, Cleveland, Ohio. cxtrpr:
George Eldridge, Jr, Nov. 8, 1946, Marguerite Miller, Dec. 3, 1949; Lu
L,, Feb. 4, 1956.

occuPATION: Coal mining; president, The Enos Coal Mining Company, Eno
Collieries, Inc., vice-president and treasurer, Algers, Winslow & Weste
Railway Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, 1956-60, chairman of board, 19¢

National Coal Association; member, board of trustees, Cleveland Clin
Foundation, since January 1, 1959.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Mayfield Country Club; Hermit Club; Indianapol
Athletic Club, University Club of Indianapolis.

LEO EPSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 194 Evelyn Rd., Needham Heights, Mass.
orFice appress: U.S. Dept. of Labor, Boston, Mass,
BORN: Jan. 27, 1917, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; EDM. (Boston Teachers
Coll.), 1938.

MarrieD: Nancy Steg, Feb. 15, 1958, New York, N.Y, cHrtpren: Barbara Jane,
April 5, 1959; Michael Steven, Dec. 16, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Epstein, °32; LLB, ’35,

OCCUPATION: Regional wage analyst, Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S, Depart-
ment of Labor.

1 RECEIVED a postcard today reminding me that my biography for
the 25th Anniversary Report was due. How does one write an auto-
biography? The factual information requested can be furnished
easily. After a very brief teaching career, I entered government
service. I’ve been with the Bureau of Labor Statistics since 1944, 45
a labor economist, and am at present the regional wage analyst for
New England. My career with this Bureau was not planned — there
was an opening, and I was job-hunting. It turned out to be a happy

choice. I’ve thoroughly enjoyed my years here and know we're per-
forming a very useful public service,

Defying all class statistics, I remained a bachelor until I met Nancy
four years ago, and then that state came to an abrupt and happy end.

{ 320]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The arrival of our daughter and then our son completed the domes-
tication process.

Somewhere along the line, I developed a fondness for tennis and
card-playing. Other matters have left me little time for both, but I
still play bridge regularly and hope to get back to more tennis soon
(now that I have my new lawn under control).

Political and social attitudes don’t seem to change much over the
years. With an increasing respect for our courts, at one time the
seeming obstacle to all progress, comes the disturbing feeling that
only our courts have been effective in preserving our civil liberties.
And we can certainly be proud that Harvard was among the few
other institutions with the courage to fight the tdes of repression in
the 1950's.

JOHN HOWARD ERIC

HOME ADDRESS: 4608 Dorset Ave., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: U.S. Geological Survey, Washington 25, D.C.

BoRN: April 25, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; A.M. 1940; PHD. 1042.

MarrieD: Nancy Ann Loomis, Dec. 19, 1942, South Hadley, Mass. cHiLpREN:
Jonathan Loomis, Oct. 25, 1944; Pamela, May 25, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Geologist; assistant chief, Publications Division, U.S. Geological
Survey. .

OFFICES HELD: Various local P.T.A. positions, 1950-56; member, board of
directors, Bethesda Fire Department, 1956-58; treasurer, River Road Uni-
tarian Church, Bethesda, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; Geological Society of Washington; American
Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers; Harvard Club
of Washington.

PUBLICATIONS: Various papers on the geology of copper, gold and uranium
deposits.

I’M not accustomed to writing my biography at a moment's notice.
The only reason for doing so now is to get you guys to stop making
with all those damn postcards telling me to hurry up and send in my
biography. As though that were important. You seem to think I left
college twenty-five years ago. If that’s true, and inasmuch as I'm
now thirty-nine, I figure I must have been fourteen at graduation, a
fact that was unknown to me at the ume. (You sure it wasn't sixteen
years ago? )

Northing much has happened since then, except I've grown fatter,

[321]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

balder and sixteen years older. I’ve acquired a couple of cars, a
couple of houses, a couple of kids and one wife. I do interesting
things, like go to the office in the morning and come home at night.
In between, I do other things. I like to observe. People drive care-
fully to work and recklessly from work. Volkswagens go faster than
Buicks. I do some bird-watching (including a Christmas census) and
fish-watching, and in the spring I enjoy watching the bamboo grow
in the back yard. I sing in a motet and madrigal group and in a
church choir. I square dance.

I used to do a lot of field work for the Geological Survey, map-
ping and studying rocks and ore deposits, but in 1950 I was trans-
ferred from Berkeley to Washington, where mostly (as the field men
say) | push pencils and shuffle papers. Actually, it’s not as bad as it
might be, because in most of the administrative jobs I’ve held I’ve
been able to utilize both my undergraduate education in English and
my graduate training in geology, a rather unusual combination (and
one that I'd hesitate a long time to recommend to anyone today).

Now that I’m an office man I enjoy doing a modest amount of
community work. My current kick is being treasurer of a Unitarian
church, which is mostly an excuse for meeting a lot of interesting

people, because the numbers are deadly. As to political and social
convictions, I used to be a conservative, then I became a liberal con-
servative, and now I guess I’m a conservative liberal (no use being
too specific when you're a civil servant, is there?). I’m still a regis-
tered Nacilbuper, though. I do not subscribe to the Harvard Alumni

Bulletin, because it is full of news about Classmates I never heard of

before.

DAVID PAYSON ERLICK

HOME ADDRESS: 12809 Atherton Drive, Wheaton, Md.

OFFICE appRESs: Dept. of the Army, Office of the Chief of Ordnance, The
Pentagon, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937- DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; M.B.A. (George
Washington Univ.), 1956.

Marriep: Edith H. Stone, Sept. 9, 1943, Brookline, Mass. cHitprReN: Paula
Rachel, Aug. 2, 1945; Deborah Miriam, Aug, 8, 1949; Harriet Ann and
Louise Susan (twins), Jan. 4, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Program budget officer, management analyst,

oFFices HELD: Member, executive board, 1961, secretary, Men's Club, 1961-62
Har Tzeon Congregation, Wheaton. ’ ’

[ 322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Wheaton Lodge, B'nai B'rith.

PUBLICATIONS: “History of Court of Common Pleas in Massachusetts,” Journal
of Massachusetts Law Society, May, 1940, contributor to Housing, Bulle-
tin of National Council of Social Studies, June, 1940, “Management Re-
ports, Are Yours Up to Par?” Armed Forces Management Magazine,
January, 1961.

LIFE in Washington suburbia is quite different from the environ-
ment in which I grew up as a boy in Boston. We live on the out-
skirts of Washington surrounded by all the outward manifestations
of conformity — like little houses, riding to work in carpools, and
the attendant small talk of grass seed and do-it-yourself projects.
But this is only the superficial scene. Ideas still remain, from my
observation, fresh and uncontrolled.

It is a little difficult to transport myself from the present scene to
the war years (WW II) spent both in this country and in China and
India, where I was with the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), as
an intelligence officer. My role as an agent in intrigue seems slightly
fantastic now, but still makes a good story.

Some of the stimulating freshness these days comes from my
family of wife and four daughters. Edith, my wife, is a Rad-
cliffian, Class of ’39. I go to Radcliffe Club meetings, and she goes
to the Harvard Club functions when she can. The conversation
and interests at home range at three or more levels —my twin
daughters in elementary school, my daughter in junior high school
and my daughter in senior high school. Our activities as a family
consist of dutifully attending P.T.A. meetings, back-to-school
nights, peripatetic participation in local and national fund-raising
and the ubiquitous Girl Scouts. Of course, my civic-minded eldest
daughter occasionally writes indignant letters to the Washington
Post. |

To keep this family of females in pocket change I work as a
civilian employee in Army Ordnance. I am a program budget
officer and management analyst in the Plans and Programs Division
of the Office of the Chief of Ordnance. In between Pentagon con-
ferences and “flaps” I wade through endless mountains of paper
which have pressing due dates for completion or reply.

My hobbies and interests? I still have an interest in books on
history and public affairs, an interest which began in college when
I concentrated in history. In the ficld of management I am con-
vinced that communication is one of the biggest problems in govern-
ment work and will hold forth on this topic at the drop of a hat.

[ 323]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

If anything I have said or failed to say gives the mistaken idea that
I am not concerned about the miserable world situation I'll quick]
disillusion you. But the state of the world is too big a topic for inclu-
sion here. Suffice to say, I am an optimist and believe that the human

race will survive, along with Harvard, alumni reunions and class
reports.

THOMAS STACY EVERETT

HOME appRESS: 11 Chatham Rd., Gibbsboro, N.].

OFFIcE ADpRESS: Philadelphia Quartermaster Center, 2800 S. 2oth St., Philadel-
phia 45, Pa.

BorN: March 31, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

Marrizp: Edythe M. Butler, June 6, 1948, Washington, D.C. cuitpren: Dianne
Edythe, Nov. 7, 1950; Patricia Anne, March 29, 1956.

occupation: Supply officer (civilian), Quartermaster Corps, U.S. Army.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; Officers Club, Philadelphia
Quartermaster Center.

I AM not a graduate of the College, but did attend two years as an
undergraduate. Two years which were more than enough to make
the Harvard vaccine “take.” I had the typical list of jobs of a guy
who is just earning a living: salesman, clerk, “insurance man” and
finally federal employee. If I can name a profession, it is supply
requirements officer (civilian) in the Quartermaster Corps. Some-
times, however, you are known as a DAC, which is a title of self-
effacing anonymity used by government to denote “Department of
The Army Civilian.”

The war pushed me into an Army Air Force uniform and a two-
year trek through North Africa and Italy. The military made an
office manager out of me. The French I had managed to absorb
in the hard-benched classrooms of Sever Hall served me well. I
was always the unofficial interpreter.

Marriage was the next milestone. The calm, and the charm, of
the girl I married never fails to make me marvel at some kind of

polarity about opposites. Two daughters make up the family:
Dianne, eleven, and Patricia, six.

Although I claim no Ph.D. or honors academic, Harvard gave

me a solid step-stool with which to peep over the wall at the wider
horizon and the “good life.”

[ 324]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES MILLER EWING

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Stanwood Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hemenway & Barnes, 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Cu? laude, 1937; LL.B. magna cum
laude, 1940.

MarrieD: Esther H. Sawyer, Jan. 6, 1945, Buffalo, N.Y. cHtLpren: Esther Hoyt,
July 27, 1946, David Sawyer, May 12, 1948, Louise Parsons, Oct. 5, 1950;
Josephine Wilcox, March 17, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Maskell Ewing, °42 (deceased); Robert Malcolm
Ewing, 42, M.C.P., ’52.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Abstract Club; American Law Institute; Boston Bar Association,
The Beach Club, Swampscott, Century Association; Eastern Yacht Club,
Tavern Club.

TOWARD the end of World War II, which I spent as a land-
based naval officer chiefly in Washington, D.C., some of us tried
to map out our immediate futures. In particular we worked out
in meticulous detail an ideal year after the Japs and Germans were
disposed of and accumulated leave stretched out ad infinitum. I
can’t remember all the details now, but there were to be some
months in the Alps, a cruise through the Aegean on a schooner, a
trip up the Alcan Highway and so on. Above all there was to be
a complete abstention from all useful or gainful labor for at least
twelve months. |

Things didn’t work out that way, and my actual career has
been much less spectacular but much more enjoyable and rewarding.
In the first place I married Esther, who was (and is) exactly the
right person, shortly before the end of the war. Then the day
after V-J Day I transferred to the Office of War Mobilizauon
and Reconversion as assistant general counsel, which kept my nose
to the grindstone for a good many months and rounded out almost
six years of working for Uncle Sam (clerk to Judge Magruder,
War Production Board, U.S. Navy, OUMR). By the time this
Was over it seemed wise, not to say necessary, to find a job.

After some debate we moved to Boston and the last fifteen years
I have spent my days in town working with my present firm and
nights and holidays in Swampscott helping Es to raise our four
children. These two pursuits occupy twenty-four hours a day
for 365 days a year. Our remaining time is devoted to the following
avocations:

[325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Educational matters, The impact of four children who, between
them, have attended one public, two country day and two board-
ing schools to date, and who show every sign of amassing between
them at least two or three more schools, a couple of colleges and
goodness knows what graduate institutions, has kept us both con-
stantly embroiled with the educational world. Es has served as
officer of the local PTA and president of the Tower School equiva-
lent. I have worked for the local high school building committee
(and as a result was sued, along with the other members, for
$175,000 by the enraged architect) and am a trustee of Shore
Country Day. From a slightly different point of view, I did some

part-time teaching for a few terms at Harvard Law School during

the period when students were over-plentiful and teachers scarce.
Community affairs. From time to time I have done odd jobs for
the town, chief of which is membership on the Finance Committee.

This involves a lot of work but is tremendously instructive if you

want to know what makes a small town tick. In addition, Es and

I are on the boards of various charitable organizations.

Sports. The whole family loves to ski, so we have bought an
ancient farmhouse in South Conway, New Hampshire, where we
spend most weekends between December 1 and May 1. In the
summer we operate a homemade Blue Jay in Marblehead Harbor,
accept any invitations we receive to sail elsewhere, and try to play
tennis as nearly daily as possible. I am constantly distressed to find
how little practice contributes to skill in these efforts.

Vacations and Hobbies. The Ewing family covers tremendous
mileage annually without ever actually getting anywhere. We ro-
tate with a good deal of frequency between Swampscott, South
Conway, Biddeford, Maine, and Nantucket, and somewhat less fre-
quently but regularly take in Savannah, Georgia, and Buffalo, all
of which places involve family ties. Last year we succeeded in
taking a fairly long time in Italy with our two elder children, and

we hope for more as the children grow up. Wherever we go we

take our binoculars, telescope and the appropriate edition of Roger

Torrey Peterson.

Looking into the future optimistically, it seems probable that
our last child will have graduated from her last educational institu-
tion, and her last tuition bill will have been paid, somewhere in the

neighborhood of 1972 to 1975. If things really work out that way,
and if we haven't all been blown up in the meantime, Es and I

[ 326 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

are planning to take off a whole year at that point, and spend it
doing glamorous things like skiing the Alps and cruising the Aegean.

DONALD HILL FARRINGTON

MAILING ADDRESS: 274 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.

ANTHONY FAUNCE

HOME ADDRESS: Sandy Pond Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John C, Paige & Co., 40 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 23, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MarRIED: Mary McAusland Gill, Sept. 20, 1947, Manhasset, Long Island, N.Y.

CHILDREN: Eunice Amanda, Dec. 23, 1948; Jeannette, June 21, 1955; Jessena,
"June 26, 1956; Sandra, June 3, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Partner, John C. Paige & Company, general insurance agency;

officer and director of affiliated companies,

OFFICES HELD: Corporator, Suffolk Franklin Savings Bank, since 1955; trustee,

Insurance Library Association of Boston, since 1955; vice-president, Har-
vard Club of Boston, since 1961; secretary-coordinator, 25th Reunion Com-
mittee of Class of 1937; member, board of governors, Middlesex Club, since
1960; member, executive committee, Lincoln Republican Town Committee,
since 1956; vice-president, Boston Board of Fire Underwriters, 1957-58;
director, Harvard Club of Boston, 1954-57; vice-chairman, 63d Meetung
of Associated Harvard Clubs, 1960; former chairman, Boston Committee
of Class of 1937; chairman for Lincoln, Emerson Hospital Building Fund
Drive, 1957; former member, Speakers’ Bureau, Children’s Medical Center;
former area chairman, United Fund Drive; chairman, Committee on In-
surance, Town of Lincoln, 1958-6o; district captain, WWGBH (Channel 2),
Capital Fund Drive, 1959-60; member, roth, 1sth and 2oth Reunion Com-
mittees, Class of 1937; former chairman, Special Gifts Division, American
Red Cross; chairman, Lincoln Republican Town Committee, 1952-56;
delegate, Republican Pre-Primary Convention, 1956, 1960; chairman, Brad
Morse for Congress Committee, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Algonquin Club; Beacon Society; Boston Chamber of Commerce;

Boston Madison Square Garden Club, Camden Yache Club; Downtown
Club; Eastern Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Boston (life member); Elar-
vard Club of New York; Huguenot Society; Middlesex Club; Sons of the
American Revolution (life member); Tennis and Racquet Club; Wardroom
Club.

ACCORDING to those more authoritative than I in the ficld of
literature, there are several wrong ways to start a 25th Reunion
Report. We should not say, according to these experts, “A lot has
happened since graduation” or “Life has been good to me” or “After

[ 327]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

graduation, I went to Europe.” The list of frowned-upon openin:
lines goes on and on but, as most of the rest of you have found out
it’s damned hard to find the right opening lines and to get into thi
thing without being trite, vapid, or having it sound like your firs
English “A” theme.

Furthermore, I did go to Europe after graduation — twenty-twc

years after. And, a lot has happened since graduation. And, life
has been good to me.

I was fortunate enough to stumble into a line of work that has
been quite satisfying mentally —and reasonably satisfying finan-
cially. This is the “Life has been good to me” department, for ]
took a job in the insurance business because I could get one — not
because of any burning desire to be instrumental in helping restore

working capital, the life blood of our free economic system, in
case of disaster.

Remembering this, I scrupulously avoid asking any young job
applicant why he is choosing the insurance business. I don’t think

it is smart to encourage future employees to try to “snow” the

boss. They learn soon enough, as it is.
Living in a female household has made me realize how little

control most of us men have over certain aspects of our destiny.
So, rather than credit myself with great perspicacity and judg-
ment, I must also put under the heading of “Life has been good to
me” the fact of a happy marriage with four reasonably well-
adjusted and reasonably intelligent (but not too intelligent, thank
God) daughters.

Having a houseful of girls has certain advantages in the area of
sports. Their interests run to things that are within the limitations
of my aging sinews. Last year I took up horseback riding, and
two years ago I got on skis for the first time in my life. On my
own, I have maintained an interest in sailing. As you can see, these
are all sedentary sports — including, at this stage of my development,
the skiing.

My war record was routine but, though it certainly was not
apparent at the time, I gained a great deal of valuable experience

—especially from being skipper of my own ship. Running a

business and running a ship are surprisingly similar, in spite of the
obvious differences.

I've written no books, no plays or musical comedies, received no
honorary degrees, and have won no Nobel prizes. Furthermore,
I have no expectation of doing any of those things. I do hope to

{ 328]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

expand my activities in politics —not as a candidate (that’s not
my dish of tea), but as a businessman working for the recruiting,
developing and electing of: candidates who will try to restore the
way of life which has been the envy of the rest of the world and
has made this country and the people of it happy, powerful, and
prosperous; candidates who believe in freedom of opportunity for
the individual to become great in his chosen field, or fail trying,
and candidates who are competent, professional politicians so that
they can get the job done.

I’m sure there will be many others in this Class, as in every
Harvard class since the New Deal, who will express these political
convictions. But, traditionally, business and professional men have
been willing to do little more than complain. I hope more of you
will join me in answering the clarion call of the counter-revolution.

In this same vein, it’s encouraging to see a resurgence of what
I shall, for simplicity’s sake, describe merely as intelligent thinking
among the undergraduates at Harvard today. They've always
been a pretty level-headed group. In spite of the highly-publicized
extremists and dreamers on the Harvard Faculty, whose utterances
tend to paint a one-sided picture, my faith remains high in the
ability of the College and students to be stimulated, but not unduly
influenced, by the thinking of this brilliant but impractical minority.
[ve tried not to make my Harvard education a way of life, but,
as I’ve traveled around this country —and more especially abroad
—TI’ve become increasingly proud of being a Harvard man. Al-
though my financial contribution to the Class Gift does not, per-
haps, adequately reflect this pride, I have taken the opportunity
to participate in various A.H.C., Harvard Club of Boston, and
Class activities. However, I can’t really claim that this work has
been solely the result of a great sense of duty — it has, particularly
the Reunion work, also been fun.

Now that I’m at the end of my report, I find it as hard to dream
up a scintillating punch line for the closing as it was to get a sharp

opener, but there is one advantage — to finish, all I have ro do is
stop writing.

PAUL FitzSIMMONS FAUNCE

HOME AppRESS: 20 Scott Rd., Belmont 78, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS; 92 Leonard Sr., Belmont 8, Mass.
BORN: Nov, to, 1914. Boston, Mass.

[ 329]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; DMD, (Tufts Coll.), r95c

marrieD: Mary Josephine Rogers, June 27, 1942, Somerville, Mass. cHitp
Susan, March 12, 1952.

occupation: General dentistry.

MEMBER OF: Middlesex District Dental Society; Massachusetts Dental Society:
American Dental Association.

AFTER graduation I worked until 1940 as a soil chemist for the
Harvard University Forest in Petersham, Massachusetts. In 1940,
I started in the chemical laboratories of the Pratt & Whitney division
of United Aircraft in East Hartford, Connecticut. At night, |
attended extension courses in metallurgy given by the University

of Connecticut, so that I could qualify as a metallurgical chemist
in the development laboratory.

In 1942, I married Mary Josephine Rogers in Somerville, Massa-
chusetts. The Army drafted me in 1943 and for a year I was a
technician in the laboratories of an Army General Hospital in Texas.
I was given a medical discharge in 1944 because of my poor hearing.
Within a week I started in to work as a metallurgical chemist at
Raytheon.

Tufts Dental School accepted me in 1946 and the pre- -dental
subjects I had taken in college proved to have been not in vain.
After such a long separation from formal education, it was not easy
going. It was therefore especially gratifying to receive an honor
key when I graduated in 1950.

In an attempt to get enough money together to start a dental
office, I associated in offices in Natick, Boston, Arlington, and
Chelmsford. During 1952 I was assistant director of the Dental
Division in the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, It was
in 1952, also, that my daughter Susan was born. In October of 1952,

I finally managed to get my own office started in Belmont, Massa-
chusetts, and here I have been ever since.

SAMUEL LAMIE FEDER

HOME appress: 5 Rodney Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 E. 97th St., New York 29, N.Y,

porn: Aug. 12, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa.

prepare aT: Simon Gratz High School, Philadelphia, Pa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1937; M.Dy CU?”
laude, 1941.

Marrizp; Marie Vacca, Dec. 29, 1950, New York, N.Y, cupren: Constance,

[ 330]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
June 27, 1944 (by previous marriage); Michael Andrew, Sept. 15, 1951;
Elizabeth, March 16, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Physician, psychiatrist and psychoanalyst; private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attending psychiatrist, Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York
City; associate in psychiatry, College of Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia
University; training and supervising analyst, Columbia University Psycho-
analytic Clinic for Training & Research; member, Scarsdale Recreation
Council, 1959-61; chairman, Fathers’ Committee, Pack 60, 1961-62; member,
Education Committee, 1960-61, co-chairman, 1961-62, Westchester Reform
Temple; co-chairman, local P.T.A. Program Committee, 1961-62; Columbia
Psychoanalytic Clinic: member, Committee on Student Affairs, Committee
on Student Selection, Student Advisor, 1961-62; member, Program Com-
mittee, Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Psychoanalytic Associa-
tion; American Psychiatric Association; New York Academy of Sciences,
A.A.AS.; Harvard Club of Westchester, Sunningdale Country Club; Phi
Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega Alpha.

THE thought of our faithful Secretary, W. Bentinck-Smith, having
apoplexy because of my delinquency is too much. So here goes!

I didn’t join the Class of 1937 until its junior year (having been
at the University of Pennsylvania and Northwestern University).
For a while I wasn’t sure I belonged, but now I couldn’t be shaken
loose, and I am always ready to note that the decision to go to
Harvard, belated though it was, was easily the most important and
best one I made in my first thirty-five years. (The number one
spot must go to my choice of wife.) Having got to Harvard, I
liked it so much that I managed to stay on four more years after
June, 1937, by going on to the Medical School. For a while there
was almost the decision to stay in Cambridge as a grad student in
biology. Finally, however, in 1941, I had to move on and came to
New York. Why did I ever leave Boston?

Life moved quickly after that. In 1942 I married (the first time)
and joined the Army as a medical officer. After eighteen months
in the tidewater area of Virginia (punishment enough for any man)
came two years with the 22d Station Hospital, first on Mani, then
on Oahu, T.H. There I passed from medical officer to chief of
medical service to commanding officer —and from first lieutenant
to major. I was lucky! There was always the opportunity to be a
doctor, which I was. And although I was young enough to have
regrets then, today I am just as happy that no one had a real
shot at me and I was spared the malaria, etc. Following discharge
in 1946, like so many others, I was in a real stew. I had a vacue
idea where I had been, but I wasn’t at all sure where I oughe to

[331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

be going. Having come from Harvard opened many doors. Tha:
was comforting, although it is better sometimes not to have toc
many opportunities.

In rapid succession I was divorced and made an attempt to com-
plete my post-graduate training in medicine, which took me through
several fields until I settled. For three months in 1948 I sailed as
ship’s doctor to South America and around the Mediterranean.
Everyone should study medicine, if only to be eligible for such
a travel opportunity! I started my training in psychiatry and psycho-
analysis (at New York University and Columbia), and here I stay.
Both places consider me enough of an alumnus to ask for funds,
but they come after Harvard. Long after! The work is satisfactory
in every way, but I must discover how to do it standing up some
of the time, and how to get outside on a lovely spring day. My chief

efforts are in private practice, but recent years have found me spend-
ing more time in teaching (at Mt. Sinai Hospital and at Columbia)
and in research. My current interest is in emotional problems as

associated with malignant disease and with all aspects of pain. I

hope that these occupy me more in the future. How to do it all

over again? I’d have chosen an academic career and would have
tried to stay at the School (maybe only to wonder what practice
in New York was like).

In 1950, I married Marie, the girl I should have married the
first time, if I could have got away with taking her out of high
school. After eleven years we're still both delighted it came off. A
major goal was achieved when I finally completed my formal
studies in 1955. My son is not impressed with Harvard, but he’s
only ten; my daughter, at seven, is practical enough to request,
when we go to an occasional football game, that we return not
with a Harvard banner, but one from the winning schoo!!

The following year we rebelled against city dirt, poor schools
and astronomical rents, and are now happily settled in our own
home, busy with the community, the commuting, and wondering
how the children will get into college. Trees, they are wonderful!
Crab grass is denied! I have always been physically active. Up to
Jast year I was deluded enough by my genetic endowment for
persistent hair (and my wishful thinking) to ignore the passing
years. When I finally realized that it took until the following
Wednesday to recover from a weckend of tennis, and when playing

in a tournament turned up hemorrhages on my feet, I gave in and

[ 332 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

switched to golf. My most notable achievement here is to make
any course at least fifty per cent longer than it really is. I like to
do most things around the house and usually do, unless my wife
gets tired of waiting.

Politically, I started as a Roosevelt Democrat and voted for him
four times. I have yet to go the other way. Certainly the Republi-
can choices weren’t very tempting. But even if I had, 1960 would
have brought me back to Harvard. All of this makes it interesting
and challenging, and not a bit frustrating, to be living in a solid
Republican village (Scarsdale) and county (Westchester) where
the Democrats are viewed with some tolerance. But we’re trying!

After twenty-five years a body should have some words of
wisdom. I wish I knew. We are a family that expresses its feelings.
There are days when I’m not sure this is such a good idea. Being
a psychiatrist doesn’t make it too much easier to be a good father
(ask the children) and I’m sure there are times when my wife wishes
I didn’t “know” so much. I wish we all could advance as much in
our living with each other as with our technology. But I guess that’s
the psychiatrist speaking. And I wish we could learn that by rushing
things and making them bigger we don’t really make life last longer.
I’m not complacent, but I do think I have a fair chance (if anyone
these days does) to solve a good proportion of the problems I'm
sure are still ahead. If only I didn’t get that “left-out feeling” each
time I face a questionnaire with the item: “Unearned Income.”
What is that!

Today is Friday, November 24, 1961. Tomorrow we go to New
Haven for the bi-annual football game. For the first time my wife
expects to be on the winning side. That is how to honor '37. Ie
will be fun to rejoin the Class. 1 shan’t wonder too much at how
much everyone else has aged. See you there!

CHARLES VAUGHAN FERGUSON, JR.

MAILING ADpRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.
BORN: Jan. 12, 1915, Schenectady, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
occupPaTion: Foreign Service Officer,

ATTENDED the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administra-
tion, 1937-38. Entered the Foreign Service in 1940 and have served
in Winnipeg, Tehran, Bucharest and Dakar. Was Counselor and

[ 333]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Consul General at Tangier in 1956 and 1957. Graduated from the
U.S. Naval War College at Newport, Rhode Island.

Appointed Director of the Office of Middle and Southern African
Affairs in the Department of State in May, 1957. When the Bureau
of African Affairs was reorganized in Seprember, 1960, was named
Director of the Office of West African Affairs. Was appointed
Foreign Service Officer, Class I, in February, 1961.

BRUCE HUNT FERNALD

HOME ADDRESS: 7301 Lakeside Drive, R.R. 16, Indianapolis, Ind.

OFFicE ADDRESS: American Mutual (Liability Insurance Co.) of Wakefield, Mass.,
3025 W. 16th St., Indianapolis 22, Ind.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(38).

MARRIED: Flizabeth Ann Noland, June, 1938 (divorced 1947); Virginia Florence
Tipton, July 17, 1948. cHiLp: Stephen Bruce, Oct. 14, 1942.

occupation: Insurance; liability claims specialist, Central Indiana and Central
and Southern Ohio.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Indiana; Indiana University Club of Indianapolis;
Claim Managers’ Council of Indianapolis.

I HAVE just reread the 15th Anniversary Report and realize I have
very little to add—except the State of Ohio. I now normally
handle most heavy claims and crime losses in most of Indiana and
Ohio. Lest it be breezed around that I have too much leisure time,
I also am on a twenty-four-hour call basis for catastrophic losses
anywhere in the world.

Indiana University has put up with my presence at intervals as
I labor slowly toward my A.M., and I recently took an advanced
liability course in Boston.

Son Stephen Bruce is now an army private (U.S.) in Bavaria and
reports that modern military life is terrible. He has to share his
room with one other soldier, and is continually being plagued on
leave by blondes and beer.

Dreams of replacing Cecil DeMille have dimmed with my eye-
sight. Not that I need glasses yet, but the dogs laugh a lot when I
lie down on the floor to read the evening newspaper across the room.

I believe everyone should retire at forty-five. Of course, I shall

keep extending (in many ways), as the years increase, but fifty
should be the absolute deadline.

The only possible solution I can see is an extremely profitable,

[334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and as yet unidentified, business venture in, say, Clearwater, Florida,
in which three classmate partners divide up a grueling sixty-hour
work-week. That pace would, I believe, tend to prevent gout, yet
discourage high blood pressure. Naturally, there would be Fringed
benefits, recruited from the local high school graduates, as w ell as
Played vacations, and frequent holidays. To be confining would be
discriminatory, so we'll observe them all—- Mohammedan and
Buddhist, to boot.

It could not be truthfully said that there is a mad love affair going
on between me and the State of Indiana. However, I have accom-
plished what probably appears to be nothing to most New Eng-
landers, but is a virtual impossibility for most Midwesterners: I have
latched on to an authentically constructed Cape Cod house, on a
fifteen-acre lake. The acre of land, surrounding aforementioned
castle, is unHoosier-like in its very old trees and rolling, hilly terrain.
_ Of course, they had to go down over 300 feet to hit water, and
it is loaded with sulphur. Counteractive machinery very closely
resembles the control room of a German submarine. For almost a
year, I could not figure out how to submerge, and visiting friends
politely inquired why we couldn’t afford regular plumbing facili-
ties. When they discovered these, they then offered house-breaking
courses for the dogs. There are advantages, however. If anyone
wants to take the cure and enjoy a sulphur bath, all we have to do
is Up Periscope, and open the hatches.

When the warden unlocks the gates, twice a year, we usually
hit Cape Cod in the summer for ten days, and the same in the winter
in Clearwater.

I wouldn’t say the last twenty-five-year course had exactly led me
to the pinnacle heights of fame and fortune, but it has been a hell of
a lot of fun along the way.

WILLIAM HAWKINS FERRY

HOME AppRESS: 25 Moorland Drive, Grosse Pointe Shores 36, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2124 Guardian Blidg., Detroit 26, Mich.

BoRN: Nov. 18, t9t4, Detroit, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Cranbrook School, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 193).

UN MARRIED,

occupation; Architectural designer and historian.

OFFICES HELD: President, Coventry Corporation; trustee, DL MM. Ferry, Je.
Trustee Corporation, Detroit Museum of Art Founders Society; honorary

[335]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

curator of architecture, Detroit Insticute of Arts; chairman, Lecture Com-
mittee, Friends of Modern Art; chairman, Grosse Pointe Historical Society.

MEMBER OF: Detroit Museum of Art Founders Society; Michigan Society of
Architects; Friends of Modern Art; Museum of Modern Art, New York,
Friends of Detroit Public Library; Friends of Grosse Pointe Public Library;
Grosse Pointe Historical Society; Harvard Club of Michigan; University
Club; Country Club of Detroit, Grosse Pointe Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Representative Detroit Buildings,” Bulletin of the Detroit In-
stitute of Arts, March, 1943; “The Gothic and Tuscan Revivals in Detroit,”
The Art Quarterly, summer, 1946; “The Mansions of Grosse Pointe,”
Monthly Bulletin, Michigan Society of Architects, March, 1956.

THE principal theme of my life since graduation has been a pre-
occupation with the visual world. Having majored in Fine Arts
at college, I spent the next two years studying architecture at the
School of Design. Upon returning to my native city, Detroit, I
spent some time designing small houses for a subdivision. During
the war there was an interlude at the Willow Run Bomber Plant.
Owing to the demand for teachers after the war, I found myself
teaching art history at Wayne State University for a brief spell.
Then I returned to architecture, designing several apartments in
Grosse Pointe.

I have always been interested in local architecture and wrote
several articles on the subject in periodicals. A few years ago Wayne
State University asked me to write a history of Detroit architecture,
which I have almost completed.

For some time I have been active at the Detroit Institute of Arts
and am now on the board of the Founders Society. I have begun
to collect modern paintings and am in the initial stages of building
a contemporary house in Grosse Pointe overlooking the lake.

Other pursuits that keep me busy are the management of family
real estate and philanthropic interests. Between times I manage to
keep in shape by playing tennis and skiing in the appropriate seasons.

I have been to Europe twice since my graduation, but recently I
have been spending my summer vacations on Cape Cod.

JAMES ALFRED FIELD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 612 Hillborn Ave., Swarthmore, Pa,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa.

BporN: March 9, 1916, Chicago, Ill.

prepareD aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1937, A.M., 19393 PH.D.
1947.

[ 336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Lila Ruth Breckinridge, Aug. 30, 1941, Big Moose, N.Y. cHitoren:
Charles Walker, Dec. 31, 1951; Mary Breckinridge, Feb. 18, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Walker Field, ’42 (deceased).

occuPATION: Professor of history, Swarthmore College.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; Mississippi Historical Associa-
tion; American Studies Association, American Military Institute, United
States Naval Institute; Citizens Council of Delaware County, Solent Pro-
tective Association; Print Club of Philadelphia; American Civil Liberties
Union; Great Lakes Cruising Club; Ephraim (Wisconsin) Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: The Japanese at Leyte Gulf, 1947, History of U.S. Naval Opera-

tions: Korea, 1962, with others, Interrogations of Japanese Officials and
Campaigns of the Pacific War, 1946; translation, R. de Belot, The Struggle
for the Mediterranean, 1951; miscellaneous articles, etc.

HAVING been, like a number of others, somewhat uncertain as to
what to do after graduation from college, I was fortunate in being
awarded a scholarship to Cambridge University, where an agreeable
year left me with the constructive conclusion that my education
had barely begun. In 1938, therefore, I returned to enter the Har-
vard Graduate School to continue the study of history, American
this time, in contrast to the English history and literature in which
I had concentrated as an undergraduate. In 1939 I sampled govern-
ment service, and again returned to Harvard. This repeated resort
to the books led in time to a teaching career, as being the most
suitable way to get paid (if not very much) for continuing to learn.

By 1940 I was a part-time tutor in history and literature. In the
summer of 1941 I was married. In December the war began, and in
February, 1942, I commenced a period of active duty in the Navy
which was to last longer than my undergraduate college career, and
which was to prove at least equally educational. Starting with the
most menial of jobs in the Navy Department, I subsequently escaped
to sea and to twenty-four months’ duty in escort carriers, ending up
as gunnery officer of an escort carrier division. Returned to this
country, I spent a few months as War Plans Officer, Air Force,
Atlantic Fleet, and following V-J Day was ordered to Japan as a
member of a small group which had the extremely interesting assign-
ment of interrogating senior surviving Japanese officers concerning
their conduct of the war.

During 1946-47 I returned to Harvard to complete the work for
the Ph.D., since which time I have been a member of the faculty
of Swarthmore College, advancing by good behavior and seniority
to the rank of professor of history. This i institution, if very different
from the one that we attended, seems nevertheless in Many respects

[ 337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

a smaller version of contemporary Harvard: highly selective, with a
strong emphasis on intellectual excellence, coeducational, and with
perennial difficulties in producing a winning football team. In addi-
tion to the teaching of history (mostly American), which I enjoy,
I have done some writing, and have served on the usual committees
concerned with arrival and departure (admissions, academic require-
ments, etc.). One of the pleasures of contemporary academic life
is that as one’s friends’ children reach college age and begin shopping
about, one finds old acquaintanceships being fiercely renewed.

Apart from the daily round, and some leave employed in research,
I have spent a year at the Naval War College at Newport as visiting
professor of maritime history. I have kept in touch, at least inter-
mittently, with Harvard, through fund-raising efforts (as who has
not? and not with Harvard only), and as a member of the Overseers
Committee to Visit the College and the Department of History.
Living, perforce, in a respectable commuters’ suburb, I have been a
sacrificial candidate for local office on the Democratic ticket. In the
summer we generally shift our base to Wisconsin, where we have
a family place on Green Bay, and where a small cruising sailboat
helps to relax the old, discipline the young, and counteract the office
worker's delusion that words are the same as things. We own three
cars, none very new, of which one, a 1939 Ford, excites great envy
in the hot rod set.

Last summer, in one of my infrequent ventures into church, I
heard the minister grapple with the question of why the wicked
prosper. He didn’t solve it. Nor can I. Nor do I as yet have any
particular complaints. But after twenty-five years of watching some
wicked prosper beyond their just deserts, and others suffer far
beyond theirs, I conclude that the most important thing left out of

my education was a proper appreciation of the importance of luck,
or chance, or fortune, in life.

NORMAN HARTRY FIELD

HOME Appress: Phillips, Maine.

orrice avpress: Field Pulpwood Co., Phillips, Maine.

Born: April 25, 1914, Phillips, Maine,

prepared AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YRARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: 8.B. (Bowdoin Coll.), 1937.

MaprieD: Jeanne Badger, Rangeley, Maine. ciitpren; Michacl T.; David B.;
Susan J. i

[ 338 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Treasurer and general manager, Field Pulpwood Company,
dealers in pulpwood and boltwood.

WORKED for Maine Employment Security Commission from 1937
to 1941. Resigned as principal statistician, October, 1941, to work
for Field Pulpwood Company.

Son Michael, Exeter ’57, M.1-T. °61, now studying for Ph.D. in
geology at Cal Tech. Son David, Exeter ’59, now a junior at the
University of Maine, majoring in forestry. Daughter Susan now
a junior at Phillips High School.

ALBERT JACOB FINCK

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Somerset Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. ct laude, 1937; MD I94t.

marrieD: Ruth Weinberg, July 1, 1947, Boston, Mass. cHtLprEN: David Robert,
Nov. 16, 1948; Harriet Lois, April 9, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Agoos Finck, M.B.a. '43.

OCCUPATION: Physician; anesthesiologist.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Anesthesiologists; American Medical Associa-
tion,

PUBLICATIONS: “Clinical Indications of the Various Muscle Relaxants,” Sirposto
Internazionale Su Curaro, September, 1958.

IF our lives are shaped by environment, circumstances, inspiration
and opportunity, there is no doubt that Boston has affected me
significantly. It was the site of my birth, secondary school education,
Harvard Medical education, advanced training (except for six
months in New York City), and subsequent practice of medicine.
However, I deny that I have been snared in the trap of New England
provincialism.

My plans for a surgical career were interrupted by two and one-
half years with the Army Air Force, spent chicfly at an English
Midlands airfield housing combat B-17s, “heavy” bombers in World
War II terminology. On return home, opportunity and circum-
stances shunted me into the specialty of anesthesiology. After I
finished training at the Massachusetts General Hospital at the ave
of thirty-two, I joined the staff of the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston
and have been an instructor at Harvard Medical School, The ad-
vantages of this ficld, I have found, outweigh the disadvantages of
some loss of individual independence and of the sitisfactions from

[ 339 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

continuing relationship with the patient. Overall the life is less
strenuous than that of my father, who was a devoted family doctor
and who inspired me to choose medicine.

My choice of wife, as that of career, has been most happy. Ruth
was a medical social worker, but we did not meet through profes-
sional contacts. Her serving on boards of P.T.A. (twice as president)
and of League of Women Voters has fulfilled the civic responsibili-

ties of this family. Our boy and our girl are a source of great pride
to me.

Three trips to Europe have whetted my appetite for foreign travel.
The first was in the summer of 1939 when I attended a summer
institute at Leyden University and then youth-hosteled. The second

was with the Army. The excuse for the third in 1958 was a scien-
tific convention in Venice.

As to hobbies, window-sill culture of orchids and small boat
sailing have proved enjoyable in recent years.

Politically, I am a liberal capitalist and accept with equanimity
the gradual trend toward the welfare state but with anxiety the
recent trends in international relations.

BENJAMIN GRAEME CLARKE FINCKE

HOME ADDRESS: R.D., Sherman, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Buxton School, Williamstown, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 14, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

marriED: Magdalene Joslyn, June 16, 1941, Westport, Conn. CHILDREN: Ben-

jamin Graeme, Dec. 3, 1942; Magdalene Vanderburgh, Sept. 7, 1944;
Catharine DuBois, April 13, 1950.

HARVARD SON: Benjamin Graeme Fincke, ’65.
OCCUPATION: Boarding school co-director, Buxton School; administrative work,

teaching (English, English History, Contemporary Civilization), guidance.
MEMBER OF: Williams College Faculty Club.

AFTER leaving Harvard and spending a year in the Southwest and
Mexico, I fell, without much effort at resistance, into what appeared
to be a pre-ordained professional pattern. My parents had founded
Manumit School, a progressive, coeducational boarding school which
I had attended as a child. It was situated in what had been our family
property in Pawling, New York, and in 1938, my elder brother
was its director. After a year of training at the City and Country
School in New York, I joined the Manumit faculty. I was, at

[ 340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

various times, dormitory supervisor, art teacher, guidance counselor,
substitute parent, and teacher in the upper grades and junior high
school. Manumit’s was a highly idealistic, almost too rarefied atmos-
phere. The community of life was simple, the politics left of center
(it had originally a direct connection with various trade unions),
and the philosophy an odd blend of Freud and St. Francis. It was
quite unlike any other place on earth and very, very unlike Harvard.
Nevertheless, it proved a vastly exciting, if unremunerative, work
experience, along with having more than its fair share of frustrations
and headaches. I learned more in those early Manumit days about
myself and others, both practically and philosophically, than in all
my years of formal educational experience. The faculty 1 worked
with then, and the students I taught, are still my friends.

I met my wife, Magdalene Joslyn, at Manumit and we were
married while we both worked there. In 1942, we moved to Balti-
more where I taught at the Park School. Our son Graeme was
born in that city. At the end of the year the draft got me. I had
registered as a conscientious objector. My mother was a Quaker,
and my father had been a Presbyterian minister, who had held the
same position in World War I. I had been raised very consciously
in this tradition. The summer and fall of 1943 were spent in various
complexities with Appeal Boards and, in January, 1944, I entered
Civilian Public Service under the aegis of the Religious Society of
Friends. I spent the next two years at the orientation camp at Big
Flats, New York, meeting, through the Quakers, some very fine
men and doing, for the government, some very silly work. It is an
understatement to say that we could have been used rather more
effectively. My elder daughter, Magdalene, was born while I was
at Big Flats. I was released after two years and worked for a time at
the Hamilton School in New York, while taking courses in guidance
and counseling at Teachers College, Columbia.

During the war years, I had done a good deal of thinking of a
philosophical and religious nature. As a conscientious objector, I
had consciously withdrawn from the major experience of the men
and women of my generation. I wanted the rest of my life to be a
witness that withdrawal was a positive, not a negative, act; an af-
firmation of life and not merely an avoidance of death. I have
never been an organization man and do not exactly burn for a cause.
Therefore, work in the pacifist movement, as such, seemed to be
excluded for me. In 1947, I decided that I could best express my
religious beliefs in the immediacy of life itself by helping young

[ 341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

been vouchsafed to me, nor to our State Department either, I s
pect. Wistfully, I hope that somebody somewhere knows what
is doing, but I wouldn’t blame him at all if he didn’t and I am afrai
terribly afraid, that this is the case. I am as much of a pacifist

ever, you see. Negotiation, compromise, and understanding hav
always been the better way of resolving personal or public tensio.
Now they seem the only way. Nobody except Stone Age man wi
emerge from the fallout shelter. Beyond this, and a feeling that th

international climate is dangerously, blindly immoral, I have ur
happily found no specific panaceas.

Religion has become of increasing importance in my life, I am:
member of the Congregational Church, mainly for the sense o.
spiritual community it brings. Institutional religion has never hac
much appeal for me and the social aspects of church attendance
sadden me. I therefore do not participate in church activities, as
such. Such theologians as Tillich and Buber have illuminated my life,

however, and I sincerely try to infuse my work with young people
with the spirit of God as it has been dimly and flickeringly revealed
to me. Youth should, I feel, be released to discover its own identity,

its own soul, if you will, To stamp it with outdated beliefs, either
conservative or radical, philosophical, religious or political, is to
imprison a generation and court destruction. I therefore do my ut-

most to live my religious beliefs, but not to teach them. Every man
must, in the last analysis, seek his own salvation.

JOHN RUNNELLS FINDLEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Brittany Rd., South Hadley Falls, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Cypress St., Springfield, Mass.
BORN: March 6, 1916, Detroit, Mich.
PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.
Marriep: Laurie G. Kemmis, Nov. 16, 1946, San Francisco, Calif, CHILDREN
John Runnells, 3d, Sept. 6, 1947; Elizabeth Ann, Aug. 28, 1951.
occupation: Political writer, Springfield Union, morning newspaper. ;
orFices HELD: President, Springfield Newspapers Employees’ Association, 1961;
director, Valley Press Club.
REGRETS after twenty-five years? No one asked, but it’s a start-
ing point anyway. (1) 1 look at least twenty-five years older; but the
portable I’m using now, the same one I had in college, looks (and
works) the same as ever, and I resent this. (2) I haven’t yet reached
the stage of serious writing. Right now, in fact, ’'d be happy to

[ 344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

crash the Seed Ranchers Journal at two cents a word — as a sideline,
of course. (3) There’s never enough money around. The first of
the month is as much a nuisance now as when I made it on $60 per.
(Don’t laugh. What’s funny about $60 a month — before taxes? ).
(4) The fishing has been terrible lately — at least in western Massa-
chusetts. Some say the automobile age is keeping the ponds and
streams fished out. I may go back to a sapling branch with string,
hook and worm. It used to work fine. |

Obviously, most of my personal regrets are unimportant and I
hope they stay that way. More seriously, my job as a political
reporter has exposed me to a rather alarming condition that shows
no signs of improving. Public office, once coveted by men of in-
tegrity, courage, intelligence, has become a plaything for incom-

etents because the voters elect and re-elect poor performers. This
could run the nation into the ground before the Bomb, or some other
horror weapon, is ever fired. Self-discipline on the part of the
electorate would be fine, but how do you legislate that?

Turning to my family — my wife Laurie is an Australian trans-
plant, now an American citizen, very interested in public education
and politics, a Bob Newhart fan, gardener, expert knitter and auc-
tioneer. My son, fourteen, is showing some interest in the sciences
but more in baseball. His sister, ten, has a sharp memory and a knack
for piano. Working afternoons and nights, I don’t see them from
Sunday to Friday. We don’t like it but we accept it.

I guess that’s all worth reporting. If you’ve read this far, we
thank you.

IRVING GIFFORD FINE

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Rathburn Rd., East Natick, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brandeis University, Waltham 54, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass. Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.M., cunt laude, 1937; A.M, 1938.

MarRiED: Verna Louise Rudnick, June 25, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Claudia Carol, Dec. 12, 1947; Emily Alison, March tt, 1952; Joanna Lisa,
Aug. 27, 1953.

OccUPATION: Walter W. Naumburg Professor of Music and chairman, School
of Creative Arts, Brandeis University; composer.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in music, 1942-45, assistant professor of music, 1046-6
Harvard University; faculty member, Berkshire Music Center, Tangle
wood, 1946-57; Fulbright research fellowship, France, 1949-50; composer

[ 345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

in residence, 1950-52, associate professor of music, 1952-53, Brandeis Uni-
versity; Guggenheim fellow, 1951-52, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: ASCAP; League of Composers —ISCM; College Music Associa-
tion; MacDowell Colony; Signet Society; Musicians Union.

puBLicaTions: “Diversions for Orchestra”; “Blue Towers” (for orchestra);
“McCord’s Menagerie” (written for rooth anniversary of Harvard Glee
Club); “Serious Song, A Lament for String Orchestra”; “Notturno for
Strings and Harp”; “Fantasia for Suing Trio”; “Mutability, a song cycle”;
“Childhood Fables for Grown-ups”; many other chamber music works,
choral music, and recordings, music reviews and articles.

IN the fall of 1949, toward the end of my term as assistant professor
of music at Harvard, my wife Verna, my two-year-old daughter
Claudia, and I left for Paris with the first contingent of Fulbright
Professors and Scholars. Since I had no other prospects at the time,
we had hopes of staying abroad for at least two years — with or
without additional grants. However, after Claudia become seriously
ill, we were persuaded by our French pediatrician to take her back
to the Children’s Medical Center in Boston. My wife left with her
in April, 1950; I followed in June after lecturing at the Center for
American Studies in Salzburg.

In the meantime, having already been awarded a Guggenheim
Fellowship for musical composition for the following year, I began
to receive a few tempting and insistent offers from other schools.
One of these, from the newly founded Brandeis University in Wal-
tham, seemed sufficiently challenging and attractive to warrant the
postponement of my fellowship. Apart from that fellowship and a
renewal some years later, when I was on Sabbatical, I have been at
Brandeis University ever since.

My commitment to Brandeis has been a strong one. I am most
aware of this each time a bid comes in from another school. It is
almost possible for me to be grateful to the Harvard Music Depart-
ment for having demonstrated what I then thought was questionable
judgment in not recommending my promotion. Actually that deci-
sion was not without justification. More questionable have been
(until very recently) the Harvard Music Department’s conservatism
in matters of faculty recruitment and its failure, in spite of substantial
financial resources, to stimulate and attract creativity and to provide

imaginative and vigorous leadership of the musical life in the uni-

versity community.
At Brandeis, I have had many satisfactions, a fair amount of frustra-

tion, and one unique opportunity, as chairman of the School of
Creative Arts, to collaborate in the creation of entire departments

[3461

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of music, fine arts, and theatre. Our Music Department is regarded
very well nationally, though I doubt whether we have any giants
on the staff. We have some genuinely creative people in fine arts
and theatre. They have been hampered up to the present, however,
by inadequate facilities as well as by their inability to obtain addi-
tional faculty appointments which would provide the proper admix-
ture of fresh creative blood and scholarly sinew for their staffs.

Whatever frustrations I have had at Brandeis were at least in part
due to my own lack of professional experience and contacts outside
my own field and in part the natural consequence of building a
school and attempting to establish its reputation. I might have wished
at times that our administration were less impressed with yesterday’s
headlines; that our publicity were better informed; that our archi-
tects would resist certain clichés as well as the temptation of being
creative at other people’s expense; that some artists I know were
more tolerant of their older confreres and that others were less
fearful of competition from younger men; and finally, that art and
music historians in general were less concerned with academic
respectability.

But the satisfactions at Brandeis have far outweighed the minor
annoyances. I have enjoyed teaching and even administering as well
as building. Beyond this I have had the delicious experience of
playing the role of impresario at the rather splashy Festivals of
Creative Arts we produced until 1957. Perhaps too much of my
creative energy has gone into activities which are essentially periph-
eral to my career as composer. In spite of this I have had the
satisfaction of having works of mine performed by such major
orchestras as those of Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, and have
had the pleasure of knowing that my chamber music is frequently
performed and well received both here and abroad. In a less divert-
ing, irritating, and challenging environment than that of Brandeis,
I might have composed and perhaps performed more, but what a
chilling idea!

We are now a family of five, with three lively and mostly quite
adorable daughters, Claudia, Emily, and Joanna, aged fourteen,
ten, and eight respectively, We live in a rather nondescript, though
not unattractive, country house set nicely on six acres of land in a
rural corner of Natick right on the Weston line. My wife Verna
has more than enough vivacity and charm to pull me out of the
torpor that I occasionally find myself in, usually as a resule of the
sheer contemplation of hard w ork — especially creative work. She

[ 347]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

also is very practical and orderly, has a positive genius for figures
and accounts and taxes, adores luxurious living, but chiefly away

from home — which means that she rarely gets it. We are not

hobbyists though Verna once made a pass at gardening. We studied

Italian before we left for Italy and promptly forgot it when we
returned. We have been half-heartedly studying Spanish since we
returned from Spain and since we began to employ Colombian

maids. We have hordes of good friends and probably spend too
much time on talk and drink, |

LAWRENCE MILLER FINKEL

HOME ADDRESS: 13344 Weddington St. Van Nuys, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sunset House, 3485 S. La Cienega Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.
BoRN: Aug. 19, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; M.B.A4 1939.

marriep: Natalie Hatch, Nov. 1, 1953, Hollywood, Calif. cxmp: Lawrence
Arnold, Dec. 28, 1957.

occupation: Merchandise Controller.

THE moment of truth is at hand or, since this is after midnight,
and these deathless words are due no later than tomorrow, according
to our Class Secretary’s final anguished, special-deliveried warning,
maybe it has already passed.

The last, lost twenty-five years seem both too immediate to be a
memory and too hazy to have much meaning. I think of myself as
still young with a lot of “growing up” ahead of me, and yet I
reluctantly realize that by one’s Twenty-fifth Reunion, one’s life-
line is well along its trajectory. If I had to abstract a theme from
my past quarter-century (what a frightening phrase) it would be
lack of direction; both in the sense of orientation and in the sense
of purposeful control. The latter is probably partly a consequence
of the former. The latter is acquired, but the former, I like to tell

myself, is innate. Not all are fortunate enough to be born with
strong inclinations, whether toward a career or an avocation.

This lack of direction is not necessarily an unhappy condition;
in many ways it is rather comfortable. I cannot point with pride
to my accomplishments, but I imagine I have been saved many

frustrations. One rewarding aspect is that more of my satisfactions
have come from home and family.

My family, parental, marital, and filial, continues to give me pride,

[ 348 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pleasure, meaning, and inspiration. The center of this little universe
is our son, Larry, Jr., because of both parental conceit and the sheer
force of his energy. We shall arrive at the Reunion with probably
the youngest eldest child in the Class. He is just four and seems, to
us, a handsome miracle of affection, perverseness, brilliance, and
stubbornness that refreshes our souls and exhausts our bodies.

Career-wise, I have worked for a number of organizations, mostly
mercantile, had my own business relatively briefly, all duly reported
in past Class histories, and for almost two years now have been with
Sunset House, a mail order distributor of gags and gadgets, whose
catalogs and ads may have found their way into many of your homes.
The company is young and prospering, the hours are sometimes long,
the personal relationships are stimulating and the pleasantest I have
ever experienced.

I consider myself a liberal; have, as far as I can remember, always
voted Democratic (not that I think one is a necessary consequence
of the other); have not yet recovered from the shock of a younger
man becoming President. In religious matters, 1 am agnostic.

To the past twenty-five years— you were kinder to me than I
deserved; to the next twenty-five years — may I deserve your hope
and your challenge.

WALTER DUMMER FISHER

HOME appress: 1417 LeGore Lane, Manhattan, Kans.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Economics, Kansas State University, Manhattan, Kans.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1916, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, IIL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; PH.D. (Univ. of Chicago), 1943.

MarRIED: Marjorie Smith, Dec. 21, 1948, Vancouver, Canada. cHitpren: Andrew
Taylor, Nov. 22, 1950; Carol Sturges, Sept. 7, 1952; Dorothy Lynis, May ts,
1955+

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Van Ness Fisher, ‘42; Roger Dummer Fisher, °4}, 11.8.
48; Francis Dummer Fisher, ‘47, ts, '51; Gerard Henderson Fisher, ‘40.

occuPATION: Professor of economics, Kansas State University.

OFFICES HELD: Sccretary-treasurer, Group for Academic Freedom, Berkeley,
Calif., 1950; faculty research fellow, Social Science Research Council,
1954-573 fellow, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, 1940-61;

member, Committee on Academic Freedom and Civil Liberties, American

Economic Association, since 1960.
MEMBER OF: Econometric Society; American Statistical Association; American
Economic Association; American Civil Liberties Union; Chamber of Come

merce of Manhattan, First Congregational Church of Manhattan.

[ 349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

pustications: Articles on economic and statistical subjects in such journals

as Econometrica, Journal of the American Statistical Association, Review
of Economtics and Statistics and International Economic Review.

HAVE continued teaching principles of economics to undergrad-
uates, econometrics to graduate students and doing research in math-
ematical economics and econometrics. Took a year off (sabbatical
leave with a Guggenheim Fellowship) at Yale to do my own re-
search. Showed the family that Kansas is not the only place with
beautiful scenery and rolling green hills. Even got as far as Harvard
one weekend and took in the Loeb Theatre and the monstrous
Leverett House Towers. Oh yes, and Highway 138 and the Wilbur
Cross Parkway. The Kansas Turnpike has less traffic, but it is

beginning to pay its own way (potential purchasers of tax-exempt
bonds please note).

Our three children ask us many interesting questions that we wish
we could answer — is that fifty-megaton bomb really going to drop?
Why do the Negroes have the poorer jobs? Perhaps some Class-
mates will tell us in their Class histories the answers to these questions.

DONALD WINSLOW FISKE

HOME ADDRESS: 5711 Blackstone Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.
OFFICE. ApprEss: Dept. of Psychology, University of Chicago, Chicago 37, Ill.

BorN: Aug. 27, 1916, Lincoln, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; AM. 19395 PHD.
(Univ. of Michigan), 1948.

MARRIED: Barbara Page, Sept. 10, 1938, Chocorua, N.H. CHILDREN: Cynthia
Page, Feb. 15, 1943 (died April 27, 1950); Alan Page, May 10, 19473 Susan
Tufts, Aug. 19, 1952.

occupation: Professor of psychology, University of Chicago.

OFFicEs HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Midwestern Psychological Association, 1955-

58; president, board of examiners, Illinois Psychological Association, 1960—
61.

MEMBER OF: American, Midwestern and Illinois Psychological Associations;

AA.UP., A.A.AS.; Sigma Xi; Society of Multivariate Experimental Psy-
chologists.

puBLications: Co-author, Functions of Varied Experience, Prediction of Per-
formance in Clinical Psychology, one of many authors of Assessonent of
Men, about three dozen technical articles,
ALTHOUGH a New Englander by family background, childhood
and education, I am now well acclimated to the Midwest, I like the
people here but miss the hills and the surf back Fast.

[350]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Graduate work in Cambridge was followed by four years spent
in and around Washington selecting aviation cadets for the Navy
and spies and saboteurs for the OSS. Then I went to Ann Arbor for
research on selection and a Ph.D. Since 1948, I have been at the
University of Chicago. It is a great place! Staff members here have
about as much freedom to do what they want as any place you can
name: e.g., I ordinarily teach only one course at a time. But the
training of graduate students and an assortment of professional
activities cut heavily into the time supposedly available for research.

I married Barbara while she was still at Radcliffe. She has worked
on a variety of community activities. Right now, she is deeply
involved in a local Cleaner Air Committee and in the State Board
of the League of Women Voters. We lost our first-born to leukemia.
We now have a tall fourteen-year-old boy who likes bridge, fishing
and ideas, and a sweet nine-year-old girl who likes people. The
family’s love of camping led to our acquiring part-ownership of an
idyllic little lake in the farmlands of Wisconsin. We escape the city
whenever we can — camping by the lake in the heat of summer and
using the cottage for weekend vacations in colder seasons,

Although my continuing research interest is in efforts to measure
the elusive thing called personality, I have written articles on selec-
tion, statistics, methodology and why people often don’t do the same
thing twice. Middle-age and the need for a change are responsible
for my latest baby, just born, a collaborative book called Functions
of Varied Experience. It sceks to bring out the contribution that
moment-to-moment changes in stimulation make to development,
effective performance and enjoyment.

WILLIAM FirrzGERALD

HOME ADDRESS: 192 Greendale Ave, Needham Heights, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Bemis Bro, Bag Co., 40 Central St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 12, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B, cw rade, 1937; AM. 1030.

marriep: Doris L. Delahanty, May 7, 1942, Williamsburg, Va. citoaxen: Ellen
Doris, Dee. 29, 1946; Walter Mark, Dee. ta, toyo.

HARVARD BroTHER: Walter FitzGerald, °26, Mp, ‘30 (deceased).

occuPATION: Corporate insurance management.

FOLLOWING graduation I returned to Hlarvard to secure a
Miaster’s degree (1939) and to take courses at the School of Piuuca-

[351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

tion. For the brief period from September, 1939, to February, 19
] taught in secondary schools and then entered the Army — Afri.
Italy and out in October, 1946.

On returning to civilian life, 1 secured a position in the insuran
department of Bemis Bro. Bag Company, where I remain today.
a fairly proper commuter and a steady reader of everything fro
the comic strips (“Peanuts” preferred) through Time to Toynb
and beyond.

We enjoy two weeks each summer at Eastham on Cape Cod. VW
keep the lawn cut, the driveway shoveled and chauffeur the childre
to and fro.

‘LT hope the Fiftieth Report finds me worrying about an educatio
for grandchildren.

JAMES BARRON FITZPATRICK

HOME ADDRESS: 2611 N.E. Alameda, Portland 12, Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Christie School, Marylhurst, Oregon.

BorN: Aug. 13, 1916, Portland, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Preparatory School, Portland, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; 8.M.s.w. (Columbia Univ.),
1947. |

MARRIED: Elizabeth Rae Lansworth, June 8, 1945, Hollywood, Calif. CHILDREN:
Thomas Barron, April 17, 1946; Anne Elizabeth, April 11, 1948; Matthew
Raymond, June 20, 1949, Mary Therese, April 19, 1951; Timothy Stone,
Nov. 30, 1952 (adopted 1957); Leo Francis, Feb. 18, 1953; Sarah Catherine,
Oct. 23, 1954, Martin Stone, Oct. 13, 1958.

occuPATION: Social worker.

OFFICEs HELD: Chairman, Oregon Chapter, American Association of Social
Workers, 1951-533 president, 1958-60, member, Schools and Scholarship
Committee, since 1957, Harvard Club of Oregon, member, board of
governors, The City Club of Portland, 1958-60; precinct leader, since 1955;
district leader, since 1959, Democratic Party; president, American Academy

of Clinical Sociologists, since 1959; board member, Catholic Council on
Human Relations of Portland, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Madeleine Conference, Society of St. Vincent de Paul; Oregon
Conference on Social Welfare; National Association of Social Workers;
NAACP, Urban League of Portland; Harvard Club of Oregon; The City
Club of Portland,

AS social workers are known for their verbosity, it is quite a struggle
to summarize the last twenty-five years, try to say something of
one’s philosophy of life, and at the same time be brief.

After graduation, which roughly coincided with our first named

[ 352 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“recession,” I held a variety of clerical and mental jobs for a year
and a half, interspersed with unemployment. From 1939 until 1946,
with a one-year interruption at graduate school and three and one-
half years with Uncle Sam — all stateside and mostly as a psychiatric
social worker — I was a social worker for public welfare in various
parts of Oregon. After a brief stint with a nonsectarian children’s
agency, during which we managed a trip east to complete my work
for my Master’s, I spent eleven and a half years with Catholic
Services for Children in Portland. For the past two and a half years
I have been with another member of the local Catholic Charities
family of agencies, Christie School. Christie is going through an
evolution from an old-fashioned children’s institution with main
emphasis on custodial care to a social agency striving to meet the
current needs of emotionally sick children from emotionally sick
families. While we may be discouraged and even frightened at
times at how far we have to go to render really effective services in
our allegedly highly civilized society, it is fun to be part of a program
which is moving to meet the current needs of children.

Needless to say, since shortly after our marriage, most of the
activities of Liz and myself have been child-centered. From diapers
and bottles, through Cub Scouts and Little League and Brownies
(we really aren’t through with most of these activities yet!), we are
now involved with the high school activities of our eldest boy. The
children accompany us on all vacations. While we do not pretend
that we do not get weary and rather frustrated at umes, I believe that
a large family helps us both to remain young at heart. The children
all seem reasonably happy and healthy. God has been very good to
us. We both think it would be nice to have just one more baby to
fuss over and watch grow up!

It is hard for the professional do-gooder to expound his phi-
losophy without sounding utopian, idiotically optimistic about human
nature, or unduly pessimistic about human frailty. And of course he
expounds at the slightest hint of encouragement. Herewith is my
quota of the present status of my philosophy gathered from twenty-
odd years in social work dealing largely with people who have a
variety of unsolved problems, I claim no scientific breakthrough for
these conclusions:

(1) There is more good than bad in human nature.

(2) We are still in the early stages of understanding and being
able to help people who are socially maladjusted.

(3) The art of accurate communication among people is decep-

[353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

tively complex and we still have a long way to go in understandir
one another’s ideas.

Asa citizen, I believe that leadership in the past administration w:
poor and in the Kennedy administration to date has been disappoin
ing. I have a growing conviction that most of our theologians of a
faiths have ducked some of the obvious moral questions surroundin
nuclear war. I can’t quite buy the solution of the pacifists, and we ar
obviously a long way from world government, but it does seem tha
some more radical solutions are needed than have been given officia

approval up until now. Otherwise we are not going to check the
drift toward nuclear war.

If we manage to avoid blowing the world to bits, I believe that
those peoples who most successfully solve the problems of family
stability, interracial relations, and emphasize the prevention of serious
problems of social maladjustment rather than trying to pick up the
pieces after the problem has become full-blown, will become the
future world leaders. It just may be that we in the good old U.S.A.
won't wake up soon enough to qualify.

Let us not end on a somber note. No Harvard man should take
himself too seriously. A sense of humor — even when a little wry at
times — is a God-given asset not to be taken lightly. So we warn the

25th Reunion Class Committee of 1937 to brace yourselves for the
arrival of ten Fitzpatricks. I also exhort all loyal Harvard men to go
forward in the vital task of combing the byways in order to send
sufficient talent to our beloved alma mater so that we can establish a
new all-time record of consecutive football victories over Yale!

THOMAS BERNARD FITZPATRICK

HOME apvpress: Saddle Hill Rd., Hopkinton, Mass,

OFFICE ApprEss: Saddle Hill Kennels, Saddle Hill Rd., Hopkinton, Mass.
BORN: Feb. 20, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory, Portsmouth, R.1.; Rivers School, Brookline,
Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MarniED: Elizabeth Congdon Barr, June 20, 1953, Hopkinton, Mass.

occuPATION: Kennel owner; operate boarding, grooming, training and breeding
kennel — and handle related lines and supplies,

WITH the requirement of another physical move away from my

native New England (I had already spent two years in New York

City), and the prospect of further geographical moves, at the con-

[ 354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

venience of The Company, I reluctantly decided to resign in 1959,
from Lever Brothers Company, with whom I had been most pleas-
antly associated for almost twenty-one years (barring my wartime
service of three and three-quarters years with the U.S. Air Force).

For a few months I sought a similar alignment with other large
industrial firms in this area, but either what I had to offer them, or
they me, was not satisfactory. So, Betty and I decided to expand one
of our main hobbies — dogs — into a full-time venture.

That decision has proven to be the finest we ever made and our
one regret is that it didn’t take place years sooner!

In our prejudiced eyes, we have the finest kennel facilities in the
East! Some of you must have dogs (and/or cats!) —so when you
take off for Bermuda, Florida, North Conway or Banff — bring
THEM here for THEIR vacation.

HOWARD STETSON FLETCHER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Piedmont Drive, Rutland, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Patch Wegner Co., Inc., Rutland, Vt.

BORN: Aug. 5, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B 1937:

MARRIED: Charlotte C. Chaffee, June 19, 1939, Rutland, Vt. cuitpren: Howard
Stetson, 3d, Oct. 6, 1941; Marsha Keen, April 17, 1943.

occupation: Director and sales manager, Patch Wegner Company, Inc, manu-
facturers of stone working machinery; treasurer, Glens Falls Machine
Works, Glens Falls, N.Y. manufacturers of special paper machinery.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1951, director, 1955-56, Rutland Rotary Club;
president, Rutland Country Club, 1957-59; director, Rutland Visiting
Nurses Association, 1955-59.

MEMBER OF: Rutland Chamber of Commerce.

ALTHOUGH I cannot take credit for any spectacular achievements
that have benefited society, the past quarter-century has indeed been
a happy one for me. After graduation, I reported to the merallurgi-
cal department of the Crucible Steel Company in Ffarrison, New
Jersey. My job was to place ends of steel bars in hot hydrochloric
acid to test the soundness of the stecl. The steel stood up better than
my clothes, and I can still taste the smell of that acid. Several pair of
pants later, I was promoted to assistant night foreman on the eleven-
to-seven shift. This was before the days of the CIO, and my rate of
pay was forty-two cents an hour. But the de pression was still on,

[355]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and it was a job. Besides, my aim was to become a steel salesman, an:
] was gaining valuable experience at the mill.

After a year and a half, my future employer took pity on me, an
I was released from the odors of the Jersey flats and called back te
Cambridge where I became the junior salesman for Wetherell Bros
Company, a well-known Boston steel warehouse. In the evenings |
took courses in metallurgy at M.I.T., and prepared for my coming
marriage to Miss Charlotte Chaffee, the glamorous brunette whom ]
had squired to House dances way back when. On June 19, 1939, we
walked down the aisle assisted by Dick Howe, Brooks Cavin and
Paul Sears.

Our first home was in Harvard’s own Shaler Lane Apartments,
better known as “stork row.” I continued with Wetherell Bros., with
time off afternoons to take a couple of courses in metallurgy at
Harvard. I did not follow this through to a degree, but enough to
be on their mailing list for funds.

October 6, 1941, marks the birth of our first child. He is a third
officially, but called “Terry” (from tertius — the last glimmer of a
classical education). Shaler Lane was too small, and we moved to
Wayland, which was then considered way out in the country.
April 17, 1943, Marsha Keen emitted her first cry and, save for dogs

and cats, our family was complete. About this time, I went to work
for American Steel & Wire in Worcester, Massachusetts, as a product
metallurgist. We made steel for Gillette Blue Blades, band saws, and,
not too much later, cartridge clips. Here, classified as a necessary
technician, I rode out the war, trying to convince myself without
too much success that my job was here and not out there with you
all.

After the shooting had stopped, my father-in-law asked me to join
his firm in Rutland, Vermont. Here we make all kinds of heavy
machinery for cutting and polishing or grinding stone. I am con-
nected with sales, but also do some buying and handle the personnel
problems.

It was not easy to get used to Vermont, or perhaps it was the
other way around, but now we love it. We play lots of golf in the
summer, and ski in the winter. The children have grown up and
both are at Middlebury College. Terry has stretched to 6’3” and is a
varsity tackle and skier, while Marsh is rated among the top six

women skiers nationally, My wife Chotty has just won the state
golf title for the third time, so somebody in the family has to be just

[ 356]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

average. But I can make a damn good martini and I hope you drop
in to let me prove it.

++ HERBERT ELDRIDGE FLEWELLING

BORN: June 6, 1914, Watertown, Mass. parents: Walter Abel Flewelling,
Grace McCullough.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Boston University, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1941.

MarRIED: Jean Tirsbier, July 28, 1945, Calais, Maine. CHILDREN: James Winston,
Feb. 19, 1950; Barbara Ann, May 26, 1951; Betsy, Nov. 11, 1952; Peter,
Feb. 4, 1954.

pieD: Nov. 13, 1954, Peterborough, N.H.

wipow: Mrs. Herbert E. Flewelling, Peterborough, N.H.

FLEWELLING served as resident physician at the Methodist
Hospital in Brooklyn for two years and was attached to the Veterans
Administration facility at Framingham, Massachusetts. After service
as a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force on active duty in Italy and
North Africa during World War II, he returned to the United
States and took up private medical practice in Jaffrey and Peter-
borough, New Hampshire, where he was a member of the staff of
the Monadnock Community Hospital. He was a member of the
Hillsboro County and New Hampshire State Medical Societies,
American Medical Association, American College of Physicians and
the American Board of Internal Medicine. He was survived by his
wife and children.

DONALD REVERE FLINTERMANN

HOME ADDRESS: 890 Lake Shore Rd., Grosse Pointe Shores 36, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dickinson, Wright, McKean & Cudlip, 800 First National Bldg,
Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: July 4, 1915, Holly, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Cranbrook School, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; JD. (Univ, of Michigan), 1943.

MarRRIED: Mary A. Decker, Oct. 23, 1943, Detroit, Mich. crtpren: Charlorte,
Oct. 24, 1944; Barbara, April 27, 1946; Andrew Carl, Sept. 2, tgy>; Mary,
July 22, 1949; Donald Rockey, March 17, 1953.

occupation: Lawyer, member of firm of Dickinson, Wright, McKean &
Cudlip.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1944-57, chairman, 1950, Cranbrook School; trustee,
Village of Grosse Pointe Shores, since 1954.

MEMBER OF; American and Detroit Bar Associations; State Bar of Michigan,

[ 357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Detroit Club; Detroit Boat Club; University Club; Country Club of
Detroit; Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan,

I HAVE been a busy lawyer ever since graduation from law school.
What time I have left I spend with my family. Other than business
trips, my traveling has consisted of sporadic trips to and from my
summer place at Higgins Lake in northern Michigan. My hobbies
are golf, swimming, boating, and bird-watching. My chief social
activity is consuming alcoholic beverages in public. I am a middle-

of-the-road Republican and a member of the Unitarian Church. I

am grateful for my Harvard years and not unhappy about my life
since leaving Harvard.

* CLEAVELAND FLOYD, JR.
BORN: Dec. 15, 1915, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Cleaveland Floyd, M.D., ’03, Hariett
Goodwin.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
MarrigED: Adelaide Louise Risley, Feb. 11, 1942.

pieD: Killed in action, between January 17 and 21, 1944, in Indo-China.

AS an undergraduate Floyd won his numerals in track and was a
member of the track squad in his sophomore and junior years. He
also sang with the Glee Club. After graduation he became a buyer
in the mail order department of Sears, Roebuck & Company in
Boston.

Enlisting in June, 1941, as an aviation cadet, he was commissioned
six months later and assigned to duty, first at Parksdale Field, Shreve-
port, Louisiana, and later with the Air Corps Ferrying Command
at Long Beach, California, and Seattle, Washington, and the Air
Transport Command at Great Falls, Montana. He was promoted
first lieutenant in June, 1942, and captain one year later, at which

time he was assigned to overseas duty. He was killed in Indo-China
while on active duty. He was survived by his wife.

+ JAMES GLEASON AMBROSE FOLEY

BORN: July 3, 1916, Boston, Mass. PARENTS; Martin James Foley, Gertrude Power.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B. (Georgetown Univ.), 1939.

[ 358 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Mary Elizabeth O’Brien. curoren: Patricia, Martin James, 3d; Frank-
lyn.
pieD: June 7, 1949, near Hamilton Field, Calif.

AFTER spending two years at Harvard, Foley transferred to
Georgetown University, where he graduated in 1939. He was then
directly commissioned a second lieutenant, one of four chosen from
500 prospective officers from the nation’s colleges.

After a month at Fort Devens, he served in the Panama Canal
Zone until June, 1941. Following five months’ duty at Hyde Park,
New York, in the 240th Military Police, as commander of the
President’s honor guard, he entered the Army Air Corps, in which
he rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel. He was stationed at Ard-
more, Oklahoma, at San Francisco, at Gulfport, Mississippi, and
overseas as pilot of a B-2g in the First Squadron, Ninth Bomber
Group. In January, 1946, he was aide-de-camp to Lieutenant
General Barney Giles, USASTAF, and was decorated for bravery
several times. At the time of his death he was stationed at Williams
Air Force Base, Chandler, Arizona. He was killed when his jet
plane crashed. He was survived by his wife and children.

GEORGE EDGAR FOLK, JR.

HOME AbpRESS: 430 N. Linn, Iowa City, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1914, Natick, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937} A.M. 1940; PH.D. 1947.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Hilton Sprague, June 21, 1941, Cambridge, Mass.; Mary H.
Arp, June 14, 1956, Moline, Ill. cep: Victoria Elizabeth, July 20, 194:
(m. James J. Blommers, Feb. 4, 1961).

OCCUPATION: Teaching; research.

OFFICES HELD: Local and assistant-state chairman, Harvard Foundation, 1951-53;
director, Bowdoin Science Station, 1950-53; member, Editorial Board,
Journal of Bioclimatology, 1961; Iowa College of Medicine Fellow, Uni-
versity of London, England, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: Eleven scientific societies, including the American Physiological
Society.

PUBLICATIONS: About twenty major articles in scientific journals. Typical titles
are: “Day-Night Rhythms and Hibernation,” 1960, Bulletin of the Museum
of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University, §4:23-48, and “Weather,
Climate and Hibernation,” 1961, chapter in Weather, Climate and the
Living Organism, Elsivier Publishing Company, Holland,

AS I evaluate the last twenty-five years, I feel very fortunate. Ie has

[359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

been possible for me to lead the type of life I wish and to devote m
entire mind to the subjects which seem most interesting and impor
tant to me. Could any person ask for a better way of earning a living
I have consistently done teaching in biology, medicine and dentistry
always with one-half time research in animal and human physiology
This good fortune lasted through the war; I spent this period doing
experiments or field work on human physiology for the Army.

There are no young children in my family now, so my science-
trained wife, Mary, and I have been able to do research together in
the laboratory and field (last summer at Point Barrow, Alaska) and
have been able to travel to science meetings or on Fellowships and to
indulge in hobbies (sailing and skiing) together. We also share the
same political convictions (usually Republican, unless we don’t be-
lieve in “him’”) and the same religious feeling (Episcopalian).

Our social life consists of dancing with, eating with, and showing
travel slides with other university people. When we can, we join
nonuniversity friends, which is for about one-third of our social time.

When I can find the time I try to think out my convictions about
social and political problems. Mary does the actual work to put sub-
stance behind our political discussions (she’s a County Republican
Central Committeewoman). This writing is no place to expound on

morals and ethics; but I do blame a lot of the problems of teen-agers
on their parents, who did not make a change after “sowing their wild

oats.” If parents can pour in love and affection, have a sense of

humor and set a good example, they may perhaps be justified in
saying they did their best for their children. |

ALAN MAURICE FONTAINE

HOME appREss: 131 Fellows Rd., Hampstead, London N.W. 3, England.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Cavendish Pl., London W, 1, England,

porn: Dec. 4, 1914, Nice, France.
PREPARED AT: University College School, London, England; Polytechnic Prepara-

tory Country Day School, New York, N.Y,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934

Mareigp: Frances Mabel Burgess, June 10, 1937, London, England. cum
Carol Frances, Dec. 31, 1943.

occupaATION: Managing director, industrial rubber manufacturers.
orFices HELD: Assistant manager of Sales Managers Organization, U.K.
Member oF: Royal Yachting Association; Little Ship Club; Inland Waterways

Association.

LOVE, hope, fear, disappointment, worry and happiness have been

L 360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the companions of most of us through twenty-four years. As the
seasons hurriedly pass by and the daily pattern of life rushes us ever
onward into tomorrow, the Class of 1937 says, “Halt! Tell us what
you have been doing during a quarter of a century.” Well, what
have I done? Nothing really that might interest a lot of chaps several
thousand miles away.

I cannot boast any outstanding achievements — unless just being
happy can be considered one these days. It is all very well for the
“Big Shots” of ’37 — the generals, political leaders, the key citizens,
etc. — they can say, “I have done this, and I am that.” What they
have to tell is related to fellow Americans, their way of life, the
places and things which form American society. But for an ordinary
Englishman, what then? A chronological list of yearly happenings?
Significant in one’s own life perhaps, but how boring to other people.
Does one really care whether a classmate toured such and such a
place with his family during the summer of 1954, bought a new
house in 1956, or changed his job in 1958? Friendship, yes — Re-
unions, fine — nostalgic memories, definitely — but spare the details
of twenty-four years!

Unfortunately, the photographs will all too vividly reveal the
spreading waistline, the falling and greying hair and the failing eye-
sight. As if this were not enough! No, the “Class Life” insists that
it wants to know all about one’s etc. etc. — no escape, so press on,
chaps.

The war? (I suppose one could say which one, since somebody
is always at it.) However, I presume the 1939-1945 effort. Yes, I
was in it for five and a half years. Bombed? Yes, nearly every day.
Decorated? So were thousands. Unharmed? Thankfully, yes.

After that, we pursued once again a happy family life with modest
living. (Our meat ration was increased in 1952 to twenty-five cents
per person per week, but to compensate, butter was cut to one
ounce. In 1953, we all went “big time” with the ending of sugar
and tea rationing.) Gradually the hte fifties saw us scrambling for
the material things of life. Today, the “tinsel hangs so heavily upon

the tree” that many are blinded by the glitter, and have forgotten
that the real living tree exists.

Yes, the hardest thing during the past twenty-four years has been
to protect the art of living. As a family, we manage to preserve a
simple home and outdoor Tife. In spite of flying off here and there
to the dictates of the business world, weekends and holidays are srill
spent pottcring on the old boat.

[ 361 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Other pertinent facts? Religion, Church of England — politic

Royalist — silver wedding coming up next year and an eighteer

year-old daughter that makes us realize how quickly time has flow:
by |

And that, gentlemen, brings me up to date. If anyone desires th
complete twenty-four chapters, he is welcome to read my full
page diaries on his next trip to London. In the meantime, -
hear my wife in the kitchen and the chink of cups. So if you wil
pardon me, I'll just draw my chair nearer to the crackling coal fire

and enjoy my tea; for as you know, everything stops for tea —
including this report.

GEORGE STEVEN FORD

HOME ADDRESS: 1819 Edgewood Lane, Menlo Park, Calif.

OFFice appress: Soulé Steel Co., 1750 Army St., San Francisco, Calif.
BorN:; April 11, 1915, Belmont, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
Marrigp: Elisabeth Pedrick, Sept. 6, 1941, cHtLDREN: Wendy Ann, May 18,

1943; George Steven, Jr., May 13, 1946, Thomas Francis, May 24, 10949.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president, purchasing, Soulé Steel Company.

OFFICES HELD: Menlo Park City Council, 1948-55; mayor, Menlo Park, 1955-57.

LOOKING back over twenty-five years, I find myself a strict New
England conservative. I seem to have accepted a role that was more
or less forced upon me and did little about pursuing new areas of
endeavor. I have not made any great contribution to either the
political or business world that I was certain I would, but, on the
whole, life has been quite satisfactory. I have the same lovely wife,
three happy, healthy children, a job with adequate income and the
California sunshine. |
I have been in the steel business since graduation, starting with
Joseph Ryerson & Sons in Cambridge and moving from there to
become a trainee at the parent company, Inland Steel Company, in
Chicago. At the time of the war in 1941, I was assistant district
sales manager for Inland at Cincinnati. Filled with patriotism, I
passed up a deferment as an employee in an essential industry, and,
after indoctrination at Dartmouth College, was sent to Washington,
D.C., Raw Materials Section, Bureau of Ships, where we scheduled

steel for the ship building program. On my discharge in November
1946, Giff Pedrick, my brother-in-law, and I toured New England

{ 362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and New York with the idea of establishing or buying out a small
business which we would operate together. This led us to Latisteel
Company, a subsidiary of Johnson Automatic Company, who had
a new concept of modular prefabricated steel construction. This
took us to Pasadena, California. Despite our valiant efforts, one
year later, Latisteel went into bankruptcy. Giff went back East,
and I decided to stay around to accumulate enough money to be
able to take the family back. By the time I had enough money, I
was too entrenched to consider it, and we are a family of native
Californians now, living in Menlo Park, near Stanford University.

After Latisteel, I joined Soulé Steel Company with headquarters
in San Francisco. Recently, I was made vice-president in charge of
purchasing. We are in the construction field, being the largest
fabricator and placer of reinforcing steel bars on the west coast,
with plants in Seattle, Portland, Phoenix, San Francisco, and Los
Angeles. In addition, we manufacture prefabricated steel structures,
metal lath, aluminum windows, and expanded metal.

I have thoroughly enjoyed the children and their activities. I
have done my bit with the Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, Babe Ruth
Baseball League, and the P.T.A. Wendy is at Colorado Women’s
College in Denver; Steve is a sophomore at Woodside High, and
Tom is in eighth grade at Oak Knoll Elementary School. All are
more prominent in extra-curricular activities than in the classroom.

In 1948, I tried my hand at local politics, becoming a member of
the Menlo Park City Council, had two years as mayor, at which
time it became evident that my presence was needed at home and
in business, and meetings were taking too much of my time. Politics
is an extremely interesting field, and probably I would have remained
in it if I could have afforded it.

Barring a major national upheaval, I will be doing the same old
thing at the same old stand at our soth Reunion.

JAMES ANDREW FORD

HOME AbprEss: Spencer Brook Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jerguson Gage & Valve Co., Adams Street, Burlington, Mass.
BORN: July 29, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Livermore Brooks, Oct. 19, 1940, Concord, Mass, critpres:

[ 353 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

James Andrew, Jr., July 5, 1942; Mary Eliot, April 17, 1945; William Tyler,
March 20, 1951.

occuPATION: Vice-president, sales and advertising, Jerguson Gage & Valve Com-
pany, manufacturers of liquid level gages and miscellaneous valves for
petroleum, chemical and power plants.

OFFICES HELD: President, Jerguson Gage & Valve, Ltd., Montreal, Quebec; di-
rector, Jerguson (Boston) and Jerguson Gage & Valve, Ltd.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; American Society of
Naval Engineers; Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, In-
strument Society of America; American Petroleum Institute; American
Ordnance Association.

AFTER graduation a generation ago (zounds! ), I went to work for
the American Radiator Company in various menial capacities such
as warehouse employee, salesman, and internal auditing staff — in
areas including Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Paris, Brussels, and
London — until the war started in Europe in September, 1939. My
ROTC commission got me involved for a little bit before return-
ing to Philadelphia. I was married in 1940 while living in Haddon-
field, New Jersey.

We returned to Boston after Navy complications and honorable
discharge, and I worked for the Crosby Steam Gage & Valve Com-
pany for a few years in jobs including inspector, service engineer,
and sales. In the fall of 1946 I went to work for the Jerguson Gage
& Valve Company as sales and advertising manager, and have been
there ever since. The company is now larger and I have more titles
than when I started, but my basic responsibilities haven’t really
changed. I fly around North America and Europe every year visit-
ing offices or manufacturing affiliates.

Our home is a made-over barn in Concord, and we spend quite a
bit of time at a little ex-farm in Vermont — both summer and win-
ter. Most of my spare time is spent in maintaining the two places
and trying to squeeze in a little tennis, shooting, skiing, etc. Sandy,
our elder son, is a sophomore at Lawrence College in Appleton,
Wisconsin. Miffy, our daughter, is a junior at Rosemary Hall School
in Greenwich, Connecticut. Bill, our younger son, is at Fenn Schoo]

in Concord.

The questionnaire suggests comments on “Social, religious, and
political convictions.” I'll have to admit that I’m neutral on all three.
Maybe because I travel so much and deal with so many sorts of
educated people, I’m unable to feel strongly about any vertical
thinking. All thoughts and belicfs have merit, As long as people

[ 364 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

keep thinking — and free education continues to advance —I1 can-
not feel other than confident for the future.

JAMES GREGORY FORD

HOME ADDRESS: 945 Rio St., Red Bluff, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 206 Hickory St., Red Bluff, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 1935-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1936(37); A.M.
(Stanford Univ.), 1950; LL.B. (ibid.), 1953.

MARRIED: Mary Robins, May 17, 1943, Lawton, Okla.

OccUPATION: Attorney-at-Law.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-commander, American Legion Post, 1949-51; member,
Tehama County Democratic Central Committee, 1953-56; secretary, Wilcox
Oaks Golf Club, since 1954; director, Tehama County Red Cross Chapter,
since 1955; judge, Red Bluff Justice Court, 1956-61, director, Red Bluff
Rotary, 1957-60: exalted ruler, B.P.OE. No. 1250, 1960-61; Red Bluff City
Attorney, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: American, California State and Tehama County Bar Associations,
Rotary; B.P.O.E.; American Legion, VF.AV.; Wilcox Oaks Golf Club.

MY immediate problem after graduation, as with most of us, even
Harvard, was money. Not the alluring stuff in and of itself, of
course, but because most of the things I wanted seemed unfor-
tunately to have a price. Even though my field had been economics,
somehow I had not yet learned how to become a tycoon quickly.
And after twenty-five years, I sull have not learned how, even
slowly.

My immediate goal was law school, so I commenced farming wich
my uncle in Scituate, Massachusetts, thinking the friendly “South
Shore soil would soon provide funds sufficient for my further educa-
tion. Unfortunately, the government farm program was then still
in its infancy, and it was fairly simple to go broke. But it was a lor
of fun the next three years. Life was enlivened from time to time
when the late Bob Playfair, '36, moved in with his typewriter. Bob
wrote most of his published material there. Many of us thought he
had great talent, and his untimely death was a great personal loss.

By the spring of 1940, I was sufficiently solvent to make the fint
installment on law school tuition and planned to apply for admision.
However, one of my undergraduate courses suddenly changed my
plans. That was ROTC. I had all bue forgotten how to get ona
horse, but my name was on the list. After a brief exch. ange of corre-

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

so I'll be happy to tell you more about it if you're interested and °
are fortunate enough to be with you in Cambridge come June. V
hope to make it, because I don’t think I’ve encountered a sing
Classmate since I Jeft New England in 1940, I haven’t even se

anyone who was in college at the same time except one John
Kennedy, ’40, whom I met briefly during the late summer of 19.
while he was on a business trip through California. However, f
schedule was designed to have him meet as many of the state’s ;

million residents as he could during the two days he was here, so
hardly had time for a real bull session.

+ FORREST THEODORE FOSS

porx: March 6, 1916, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Irving Foss, Natalie Helman.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.
MARRIED: Naomi Levenson.

piep: Killed in action, July 6, 1944, in Italy.

DURING his undergraduate years Foss played House football, was
a member of Phillips Brooks House and served as chairman of the
Dudley House Committee. Before entering the Army he was em-
ployed in Boston as a merchandising statistician with the John
Irving Shoe Company. He enlisted as a private in March, 1941, and
was stationed at Camp Edwards, Massachusetts, and Fort Sill, Okla-
homa, before attending Infantry OCS at Fort Benning, Georgia. He

was commissioned second lieutenant on December 24, 1942. He was
survived by his wife.

ROBERT SAMUEL FOSTER

HOME aAppress: 330 W. Diversey, Chicago, Ill.

orice appress: Berke, Foster & Brandzel, 33 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, II.

BorN: July 3, 1917, Kansas City, Mo.

parparep AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. 1941.

Markiep: Phyllis Wechsler, Aug. 19, 1940, Cambridge, Mass, (divorced 1961);
Mary Anne Thomas, September, 1961, New York, N.Y. cxmpren: Laura,
March 15, 1948, Andrew, Feb. 5, 1952; William, Aug. 19, 1956.

occupation: Attorney; partner, Berke, Foster & Brandzel.

orrices HELD; Chairman and member of various professional committecs.

sipMuem or: American, Illinois State and Chicago Bar Associations, Cliff
Dwellers, Standard Club; Harvard Club of Chicago.
publications: Miscellaneous professional articles.

[ 368 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE FRANCIS FOX, Ill

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Essex Rd., Summit, N_J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chase International Investment Corp., 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza,
New York 15, N.Y.

BorN: April 15, 1915, East Bradford, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936, 1937-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937(38);
LL.B. 1941.

MARRIED: Virginia Hollyday Campbell, Feb. 20, 1943, Washington, D.C. cum-
DREN: Lee Campbell, March 23, 1946; John Eshenauer, May 15, 1951; Vir-
ginia Hollyday, Jan. 17, 1954.

OccUPATION: International investment banking.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Cub Scout Pack Committee, San Mateo, Calif., 1954-57;
director, San Mateo Chapter, American Red Cross, 1955-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Shek’o Country Club, Hong Kong,
B.C.C.

COMES the occasion reminiscent of the crack some wag made at
our Tenth Reunion as we, tired from a few days at the Cape, watched
the Twenty-fifth file into Eliot House: “They really don’t look so
old, do they?” But when one surreptitiously checks earlier Class Re-
ports for family date-data hereinbefore set forth — one wonders.

Life so far might fairly be summarized as one of travel. Some of
us have not met since I left the Class in 1936 on an exchange scholar-
ship to China and Europe. Back to the books in Cambridge to finish
law school, a brief stint in Washington and then a few years driving
airplanes over too many politically, geographically and climatically
hostile continents and oceans. The Tenth Reunion found me in
New York — traveling to Washington. The Fifteenth in San Fran-
cisco — traveling as division attorney throughout Pan American’s
Pacific-Alaska Division. For the Twentieth we were in Hong
Kong — traveling the Orient and South Pacific; forming companies,
negotiating deals, trying to raise money to build hotels for you tour-
ists.

Last year in preparation for the Twenty-fifth, we decided to re-
turn “home” and turn over a new leaf. We did return to the east
coast and New York. But my new employer is restricted to “for-
eign” investments! Anyhow, I do hope and expect to travel to Bos-
ton this June.

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PIERRE CRESSON FRALEY

HOME ADDRESS: R.D. 2, Phoenixville, Pa.

oFFice appress: Council for the Advancement of Science Writing, Inc., R.D. 2,
Phoenixville, Pa.

BorN: May 26, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

marriep: Cornelia H. Dodge, June 21, 1948, Philadelphia, Pa. cHipren:
Cresson Dodge, Feb. 13, 1951; Tace Effie, July 28, 1952; Pamela C., Dec. 2,
1953 (died April 14, 1955); Karen Wolcott, June 8, 1955; Hilary, May 2,
1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Sidney Bradford Fraley, Jr. 34.

OCCUPATION: Executive secretary, Council for the Advancement of Science
Writing.

OFFICES HELD: Science writer, Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, ten years; member,
executive committee, Philadelphia Housing Association, 1957-58; vice-
president, Skin and Cancer Hospital of Philadelphia, 1958-59; president,
National Association of Science Writers, 1959-60, Vincent Townships
(Pa.) School Board; second vice-president, Northern Chester County (Pa.)
Joint School District; member, Council for the Advancement of Science
Writing, Inc. 1959-61; member, Philadelphia Community Policy Com-
mittee on Health and Hospital Services.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Science Writers; American Medical
Writers Association; American Association for the Advancement of Sci-
ence.

PUBLICATIONS: Various newspaper and magazine articles.

MY first job after graduation was working for a newspaper. It
lasted twenty-one years. During that one-fifth of a century, I
worked in various jobs in the editorial department of the newspaper
that Nearly Everybody in Philadelphia reads, The Evening Bulletin.
Incidentally, when I was in the Pacific during a four-and -a-half-year
respite from the pressure of deadlines I used to use the slogan to
answer the question of what I did before I got into the Navy. About
half the time the answer would be, “Oh, you worked for the

Inquirer.”
For eight or nine years with the Evening Bulletin I served

as science writer. This may seem a strange job for an English major,
but I have several arguments to offer in defense. The first is that
the job was exceedingly interesting. For nearly ten years I had a
ringside seat at the major advances in medicine and science. Second-
Iv, it is extremely important. I live in a snow-covered world, Sir
Charles P. Snow that is, and he of the two worlds has said: “Scien-
tists are the most important occupational group in the world today.
At this moment, what they do is of passionate concern to the whole

[ 370]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of human society.” Unfortunately, many scientists have not the
time, skill or inclination to interpret their world to the humanistic
world, much less to the general public which may not have much
learning in either the humanities or the sciences. Glenn Frank
pointed out that the interpreter stands between the general public
whose knowledge of all things is indefinite and the scientist whose
knowledge of one thing is authoritative. He said: “The scientist
advances knowledge, the interpreter advances progress. History
affords abundant evidence that civilization has advanced in direct
ratio to the efficiency with which the thought of the thinkers has
been translated into the language of the masses.” The job of inter-
preting, of bridging the gap between the two or more worlds, is
the presumptuous one which the science writer takes as his respon-
sibility. It is an exhilarating, frustrating, never-ending task.

Within the last year, I have become the executive secretary for
the Council for the Advancement of Science Writing. This is a
non-profit corporation established to increase the quality and
quantity of science writing that is being carried in newspapers,
magazines and books and over television and radio. The council is
developing programs in training, information, research and, in gen-
eral, stimulating the media of mass communication to become in-
creasingly aware of the “passionate concern” about science. This
job is a continuation and a direct outgrowth of my long interest in
the public interpretation of science.

The office of the CASW is in a large room on the third floor of
my house. I find that this has its advantages and disadvantages. I
am drawn irresistibly to my desk at about five minutes after eight
when the three older kids, Cresson, Tace and Karen have caught the
school bus. I am apt to drop up again in the evenings for one more
look at something I am working on.

On the other hand, I save two hours in commuting time each
day. I can go out whenever I please to take care of my flock of
twenty-six sheep or look after the forty chickens or check the
usual pony or two we have for the kids. I can have lunch with my
utterly charming daughter, two-and-a-half-year old Hilary. And
I come down when the three older kids come back from school
and have a glass of juice with them and chat and get to know them
better than a commuting father could. My understanding wife,
Cornelia, has resigned herself to the fact that Iam not at home when
I am at my office on the third floor, so I don’t get interrupted with

[371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

household chores. Because both my wife and I are here durir

day we are both ready and eager to go to the theatre, cor
lectures or visit friends in the evening.

Being my own boss gives me freedom to devote time to

activities as: Vincent Townships School Board (president), v
my three older children go; Owen J. Roberts Junior and Se

High School (second vice-president); Philadelphia Child Guid
(vice-president); the Skin and Cancer Hospital (trustee and for
vice-president); the Community Policy Committee on Health

Hospital Services; the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, Sot
eastern Chapter (executive committee); the National Associat

of Science Writers (former president); Pennsylvania Mental Hez
(consultant on public information).

With whatever time is left I play tennis, swim, chop wood or ta
a hike with the kids on the Horseshoe Trail which curves close

our farm in Chester County, or lie under a tree. A good, stimulati:
and satisfying life.

CEDRIC ERROL FRANCIS

HOME ADDRESS: 503 Westgate Ave., Los Angeles qo, Calif.
OFFICE ADpREss: Warner Bros. Pictures, Inc., Burbank, Calif.

porn; April 10, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Ridley College, St. Catherines, Ont., Canada.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937.

marriep: Margaret Fisher, May 22, 1938, Yuma, Ariz. (divorced 1947); Louise
Smith, 1949 (divorced 1950); Charlotte Maria Frost Barrett, June 7, 1952:
Los Angeles, Calif. crrpren: Victoria, Jan. 22, 1945; Barrett Waddill, April
21, 1954; Shelly Maria, Sept. 19, 1956.
HARVARD BROTHER: Victor Francis, ’40,
OCCUPATION: Television production, studio executive, administrative and creative
supervision of eight network series for Warner Bros. Pictures, Inc.
oFFices HELD: Governor, 1955-57, member, short subjects executive committee,
1950-60, documentary committee, 1950-60, Academy of Motion Picture
Arts and Sciences.

MeMaer oF: Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences; Academy of Tele-
vision Arts and Sciences; Southern Skis; Beach Club.

IN remembrance, the past twenty-five years seem divided into two
parts, business and family, with a constant effort to make one com-
patible with the other. My business of making films at Warner
Brothers seems to have been quite demanding, and I still put in ten-
or twelve-hour work days regularly, and then rake scripts home to

[ 372 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

read at night and on weekends. Luckily, I find it a continually
fascinating profession.

It was not always so hectic. I started at the Studio as a sound ef-
fects cutter and became a film editor just before the war. The hours
then were long only when emergency deadlines had to be met.
Now the deadlines are numerous and ever-present.

I spent three years in the Air Force. As an enlisted man, I served
in the Air Force First Motion Picture Unit, where for a time I was
the N.C.O. in charge of the editorial department which covered all
post production activities. I later went to O.CS., graduated, toured
some southern air bases and subsequently returned to the F.M.P.U.

Upon my discharge, I returned to Warner Brothers and after a
few months wangled a job as assistant producer of short subjects.
After several years, I became producer in charge of this department.
It was good fun, and I had crews working in every corner of the
globe. There was one frustration —I never went any place. How-
ever, I had some critical success, with five of my films nominated for
Academy Awards.

In the late fifties, the motion picture business declined, as much as
anything because of television. Warner discontinued the making
of short subjects. I made a few short documentary features and then
plunged into television for the studio. We have a relatively young
and very enthusiastic organization and now have eight series on a
national network. In the early days, I was lucky to get home by mid-
night. Now I often make it by nine.

I am fortunate to have been married for the past ten years to a
lovely and understanding girl-woman, who can tolerate, if not enjoy,
the demanding hours of my business. We have two children, Barry
and Maria, who will be eight and six this year. I also have a seven-
teen-year-old young lady, a daughter from my first marriage. She
still joins us on weekends and on skiing and sailing vacations, though
the competition for her company is steadily increasing.

For many years, I took my vacations in the wintertime and skied
at one of the large resorts. However, for the past six years, we have
been cruising the Bahamas on the boat of a good friend. The cruis-

ing, snorkeling, swimming, and exploring deserted beaches add up
to just about the most relaxed vacation imaginable. I still ski, and
though my wife doesn’t, all three children do. We all spent a week
at Mammoth Mountain in the High Sierras over the recent New
Year's.

My hobbies are still mostly sports. I took up tennis a few years

[ 373]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ago and am a regular weekend player. We all enjoy the beach
where we have paddle tennis courts and often good waves for body
surfing. I manage some sailing and water skiing on occasions.

In February of this year, 1 am doing my first skiing in Europe,
though only for a week. For two more weeks, we'll see Rome and

Paris. We'll be driving, so I hope my Harvard French and German
will come back to me. At the urging of my wife, I took up painting
a few years ago. I had to abandon it after a year. Hopefully, next
year I'll get organized and take it up again, for I enjoyed it.

Prior to television, I used to be active in the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences. I served on many committees and was

elected to the Board of Governors. I have had to give up most of
that because of the demands of the studio.

It’s been a busy and relatively productive twenty-five years, and
though my business seems to take up most of my time, lately my
deepest satisfactions and pleasures are derived from my family.

BENNETT FRANKEL

HOME ADDRESS: 515 E. 89th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 270 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: July 18, 1916, Morenci, Ariz. ,

PREPARED AT: Great Neck High School, Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 7agna cum laude, 1937; LL.B. 1940.

MARRIED: Ethel B. Balter, July 26, 1953, Mount Vernon, N.Y. cuitp: William
Balter, Oct. 28, 1954.

occupaTioN: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York State
Bar Association; Phi Beta Kappa; Thannawaga Club; East Side Democratic
Club.

AFTER graduating from Harvard Law School in June, 1940, I was
appointed a research assistant and remained at the Law School until
May, 1941, when I began practising law in New York. Since then,
with the exception of the four war years, I have been an active
New York lawyer. The years have brought me a substantial prac-
tice and, I like to think, considerable skill, particularly in my two
unrelated specialties, litigation and Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion work. I greatly enjoy practising law and enter my office each
morning full of zest for the day’s challenges. A highly varied gen-
cral practice keeps me on my toes and hardly a week gocs by with-
out the exciting experience of learning someting new — and there
is always more to learn. It is a most stimulating, interesting and even

[374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fascinating profession. As the father of a delightful little boy who
will be only forty-six in the year 2000, I have a real stake in the future
and a strong inclination to long-term optimism.

FRANK ARRANT FRAUD
HOPELESSLY lost.

MORTON FREEDLAND

HOME AppREsS: 219 Gardner Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cosmopolitan Mfg. Co., 712 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: March 21, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Alice Monosson, Sept. 29, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cHiLpreN: Beth April,
April 1, 1942; Scott Alan, March 6, 1944; David Ira, Jan. 14, 1948; Mara
Frederica, Jan. 24, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Cosmopolitan Manufacturing Company, manufac-
turers of topcoats and all-weather coats.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Employees Division, 1951, Rain and Leather Division,
1955, Men’s Apparel Division, 1958, Combined Jewish Appeal; director,
Boston Y.M.H.A. Hecht House.

MEMBER OF: Noddle’s Island Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Scottish Rite Bodies, Aleppo

Temple; Temple Israel; Pine Brook Country Club; Harvard Club of Bos-
ton; Brandeis University Associates; B’nai B'rith.

FORCED by the urging, cajoling, and commanding of the Class
Secretary and more so by the fact that the deadline is now at hand, I
can no longer put off for tomorrow what | should have done so
easily several months ago. We are all creatures of habit and cannot
change a lifetime of habit, even though we are trying to teach our
own Creatures otherwise.
_ Little things are often the immediate cause of great events. One
of the little things that teachers of Harvard taught the members of
the Working Class was if they wished to get ahead in the cruel de-
pressed world they should marry the boss's daughter. This lesson
I learned well! I married her and have learned so well that now I
am recognized as no longer working for him, but being associated
with him in the manufacturing and producing of men’s clothing.
particularly topcoats and all-weather coats or raincoats.

I learned my lesson in production well. We produced four chil-
dren, two girls and two boys: one girl in college, a boy who plans
to enter this coming fall, and a boy and girl still in grade school.

[375]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

My family and my work have consumed the greatest part of the
past nwenty-five years. I have traveled the eastern half of the United
States extensively in my work, buying piece goods or new materials
and selling finished goods or coats. I wish I could say that in my
travels I have met many of our fellow Working Classmates, but I have
not. I believe that inasmuch as we are all products of our times,
most of the Working Class went into the professions and not the
trades, particularly not textile nor retail. However, I have found my
trade very rewarding.

My spare time or hobbies consist of a little weekend golf, week-
end skiing, or even weekend hockey. The time is fast approaching
when the hills are a little longer and the wind a little shorter, though
the spirit is just as willing. I am now becoming more interested in

spectator sports. I enjoy collecting antiques, particularly early Amer-
icana, and going to the auctions.

Religion. I am a member of Reformed Judaism faith, and though
I am not very active in my temple, I have been very active in the
Jewish community. I have been a working member and also chair-
man of many committees for the Combined Jewish Appeal, Associ-

ated Jewish Philanthropies. I have enjoyed working for the many
activities in behalf of the State of Israel.

I have been somewhat active in politics, considering myself a
liberal Democrat. My wife Alice on two occasions has been ap-
pointed Assistant Attorney General for the Commonwealth of

Massachusetts. I believe in the extension of the many legislative acts

that were instituted in our early years, that were condemned at the

time, that were going to ruin our country but are taken for granted
now. Anyone who feels that he is an Independent, and therefore

“above reproach” of either party, is dreaming because anything that

is accomplished, good or bad, is done only by the party. Even in

olitics, it is possible to disagree without being disagreeable but it
should be done within the framework of the party.
My biggest gripe is that I have been working too hard to make
a living and have not been working hard enough to enjoy living. In
the next twenty-five years, I hope to reverse the process!

ARTHUR BERTRAM FREEDMAN

HOME aAporess: 120 Ardmore Pl, Utica, N.Y,
osfick aponess: Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Co., First National Bank Bldg., Utica,
N.Y.

[ 376]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porn: April 21, 1916, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.B.A.. 1939(40).

MARRIED: Carol Loebenberg, April 3, 1941, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Peter
Arthur, June 26, 1944; James Robert, May 29, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Stockbroker, account executive, Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Com-

any.

orrices yew: President, 1950-56, member, board of trustees, since 1956, Temple
Emanu-E] of Utica.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of the Mohawk Valley; Moriah Lodge No. 958,
F. & A.M.; Yahnundahsis Bodies, AA.S.R. Utica; Ziyara Temple, A.A.
O.N.M.S. (Shrine); Utica Lodge 586, Knights of Pythias; B’nai Brith;
Higby Hills Country Club; Munson Williams Proctor Institute.

THE world of finance, in which I find myself happily enmeshed,

is a far cry from the business career I envisioned for myself when

I concentrated in “Retailing” at the Business School. As a matter

of fact, it is even farther from my intended occupation of twenty-

five years ago when I was preparing as a pre-med student at college.

Nevertheless, life in twenty-five years brings many surprises, and

this one I must admit has been most satisfying.

Shortly after graduating from Harvard Business School, I was
actually a “retailer,” spending several years with Bloomingdale's
department store in New York City as a buyer of men’s furnishings
and women’s hosiery. This episode was cut short by a call from
Uncle Sam, who it turned out needed my help in a military way for
three and a half years. I served as a military policeman, a hospital
admissions clerk, and then overseas in England and France as a
supply sergeant in a Labor Supervision Center, supplying equipment
for 8000 German prisoners of war who were chopping down the
Argonne Forest.

My army career in turn was ended by an injury received in an
auto accident on an Alp in Grenoble, France. Back to civilian life
and the retail field again — this time I became the general manager
of a chain of twenty-two retail fabric shops located from New Eng-
land to Louisiana. In 1947 the chain was broken up into groups of
stores, and I became the joint owner of three stores located in upper
New York State. Unfortunately, these stores were purchased at
the height of the textile business cycle and, being undercapitalized,
failed to survive the textile depression of the 1950's.

In 1954, at the urging of local friends in Utica, I became associated
with the Wall Street firm of Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Company
as a registered representative or customer's broker — just in time

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

for the bull market of the Fifties, I have found my work fascinating
and rewarding and believe that my future will be in this field. I
am convinced that the bull market has some years to run as this
great country of ours continues to grow and develop.

My family is, I believe, that “average size” of the statistics —a
wonderful wife, Carol (Pembroke ’40), and two growing sons, Peter
(seventeen) and Jim (twelve), of both of whom I am exceedingly
proud. Peter and I are at that stage in life where we seem to be
constantly on the road visiting colleges, for next year is that time
for Pete. Naturally, he is most anxious to be a Harvardian like
his father and grandfather before him, but only time and the Ad-
missions Office will determine this. He is an excellent tennis player
and a good social activity participant, viz. he is president of his
fraternity and also of his religious youth group. He is also a fine
student, having won the Harvard Club prize book and been elected
to the National Honor Society in his junior year. Jim, at this stage,
is thinking of an engineering career. He is a regular personality
kid and is everybody’s friend. His favorite likes are the Boston Red
Sox, the Harvard football team, for which hope springs eternal,
and golf, which he takes very seriously.

My hobbies are my family, photography, for which I have built
my own dark room (and hope that it doesn’t turn into a fallout
shelter), and golf, at which I am an interested duffer. My religious
affiliation is Reform Judaism. It has been a very important part of
my life in Utica. In 1950 I was instrumental in founding the first
Reform Temple in the city, was its president for the first six years,
and have been an active member of the board ever since. Our con-
gregation has grown from a handful of members to over two
hundred families. We have recently erected a quarter-of-a-million-
dollar sanctuary and religious school building to accommodate our
growing numbers. My political convictions are basically Republican,
although I supported FDR at the time this country needed him.
Other than fulfilling my duties as a voter, I am not at all active in

this field, leaving it to the lawyers and professional politicians.

DAVID FREEDMAN

MAILING AbpRress: 10 Fenimore Drive, Harrison, N.Y,

[ 378]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EMANUEL FREEDMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 376 Main St., Hudson, Mass.
BORN: June 1, 1916, Hudson, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Hudson High School, Hudson, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Retail store clerk.

SINCE I left school I have been almost exclusively employed in the
retail business of my father.

ERNEST JORDAN FREEMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Box 194, Hampden Highlands, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Viner Bros. Inc., 304 Hancock St., Bangor, Maine.

BoRN: March 26, 1915, Wakefield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Hampton School, New Hampton, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B. 1937(38); M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Alice Emmet Whitehouse, March 10, 1942, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ernest’ Jordan, 3d, Sept. 21, 1947; Robert Frederick and William Egbert
(twins), April 5, 1951.

OccUPATION: Treasurer and general manager, Viner Bros. Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Accounting Committee, National Shoe Manufacturers
Association.

MEMBER OF: Tarratine Club; Rotary Club (both in Bangor, Maine); Harvard
Club of Eastern Maine.

HOW do you begin an “account of your life?” It is a shock just to
be forced to look backward for twenty-five years — to realize that
the years have passed —to think of all the things that might have
been and events as they actually developed. Mostly though, it seems
that fate decided in our favor and the years have been good, albeit
different than we had initially planned.

I suppose the war was the principal changer and molder of our
way of life. It certainly changed my career and, I am now convinced,
for the better. The four and a half years in the Navy definitely
alrered many of my ideas and gave me a decidedly different per-
spective on life in general.

We now live in a very small town seven miles outside Bangor,
Maine, having moved here from Connecticut in 1935. It is a pleasant
rural life and we (including a Doberman Pinscher and two cats) all
seem to enjoy it thoroughly. Naturally enough, because of our
location, we seem to be raising a family of skiers. With three boys

[379]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

we have had heavy participation in Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, 1
ball, school activities, church activities and life in general.

I] am now treasurer and general manager of a medium-sized :
manufacturing company. We employ a little over 500 pe
making something over a million pairs a year. Our product lin
distributed to some 3,000 retailers through fifteen salesmen we h
across the nation. We make women’s shoes of a type closely al:
to the old moccasin which was the original product of this facte
and this area. I have been fairly active in our national trade assoc
tion and this, coupled with my regular work, gives me quite a bit
traveling during the course of the year. I enjoy it on those days tk
the planes are flying — all passenger train service has ceased in o

part of the country.

For hobbies, for relaxation — my tastes are much more sedenta1
now. I have a regular weekly chess opponent. I read a great deal -
television doesn’t mean much in northern Maine —take a fe
pictures and in the summer try to master the rudiments of gol:
without any visible signs of success.

As I reread this I note the complete absence of any great accom
plishment. Then I remember that over the years ours has been :
very happy family and, perhaps, this is the greatest blessing of all.

RICHARD FREDERIC FRENCH

HOME avoress: 4 St. Luke’s Pl, New York 14, N.Y.

por: June 23, 1915, Randolph, Mass.

puepareD at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1937; AM. 1939-

UN MARRIED.

HagvaRD BROTHER: Earle Molton French, 18.

oucupaTion: Musician.

ovrices HELD: Teaching fellow, 1939-41, junior fellow of Society of Fellows,
1941-42, 1996-47, assistant dean, 1941-42, assistant professor of music, 1947-
gi, bfarvard University, vice-president, Associated Music Publishers, 195 1-
sy, chairman, 1955-57, treasurer, since 1959, International Sociecy for
Camremporary Music, US, Section; director, since 1957, president, since
1459, New York Pro Musica.

susinea oF: Appalachian Mountain Club; American Musicological Society;
tiarvard Club of New York.

et mieations: Editor, Music and Criticism, Harvard University Press, 1947;

“Phe Dilemma of the Music Publishing Industry,” s00 Years of Music in
America, G3. Schirmer, New York, 1961.

AFTER receiving the A.M. in music at the end of two years’
{ 380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduate work at Harvard, I received an appointment as teaching
fellow in the Department of Music. I think they called it assistant
in those days — at any rate, I taught at both Harvard and Radcliffe,
received salaries from both institutions and adhered to the then
current pattern of classes segregated by sex. As I see it now, the
experience was notable for two things. First, my load of classes
was in excess of ten per week, and I don’t remember having felt
put upon, nor did the remuneration — admittedly modest — seem
inadequate. Second, I found that in my field, the two sexes were
equally competent, but that the approach to the subject-matter had
to be made from two quite different directions: males and females
were finally brought at the end of the year to the same degree and
quality of understanding and competence, but the routes they had
followed bore little resemblance to each other. I have had occasion
to wonder since whether, by choosing to integrate classes, Harvard
and Radcliffe have not swept under the rug the possibility of experi-
menting with an interesting and important aspect of educational
technique.

In 1941 I was elected to the Society of Fellows and I spent two
years in that society, one before my service in the Air Force and
one after it. My field of study was nominally French music of
the late 19th century, but the great benefit I derived from my
intentionally random studies was in learning how a shift in attitude
toward a problem would by itself throw new light on old materials.
We learn in school how to solve problems, in college how to define
them, and in graduate school how the past has defined them. I
remain indebted to the Society of Fellows for having taught me how
the slightest change in position may —or may not — produce a
clearer and more penetrating view.

My tenure as a Junior Fellow was doubly interrupted — for four
years by the war, in which I was a T/Sgt. in the Air Force and
spent thirty-one months in Europe, and for one year by Chester
Hanford, who invited me to become an assistant dean of Harvard
College in charge of the junior and senior classes following on
Skiddy von Stade’s departure. Chester Hanford ran the most effi-
cient office I have ever worked in. The secret of his success was so
natural and so simple —and would appear so unorthodox now —
that it is worth describing. He assumed that his assistants wanted
and would assume responsibility, he gave them all of it, he gave them
hell when they made mistakes (which they had to make first by

[ 381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

themselves), but he never shirked ultimate responsibility for
decisions. In short, he had style, his office had style and the com;
administration of the three upper classes at Harvard was han
by three men. Perhaps we did it badly, but I have always belie

that Chester Hanford knew how to make other people use t
capacities to the full.

I accepted an appointment as assistant professor of music at E
vard in 1947 and held that post for four years. I gave courses o
the whole area of the field to concentrators, non-concentrators <

graduate students in theory, history, style and bibliography, serv
as tutor and senior tutor in Lowell House and became a middli

good squash player. But the focus of my energies and enthusias
at the time was not so much these curricular matters as a comm:
ment to help the Music Department place itself on a more sol
financial footing. We organized the Friends of Music, we gave
series of department concerts at Sanders to standing-room onl}
and we staged a Symposium on Music Criticism which took per
manent form as a book. As a result of this self-help, the Departmen
solicited and received substantial gifts and bequests from (among
others) Walter Rosen, Walter Naumburg and Fanny Peabody
Mason, and now has more than adequate funds for its work. It was
inevitable, of course, that conventional scholarly research on my
part would have to take second place and that therefore I would
be unable to meet the criteria by which Harvard judges candidates
for permanent appointment. The natural distress that was my re-
action to that decision has been mitigated by the knowledge that in
Cambridge I was privileged to do what I wanted to do, and that
the Department has finally felt the benefit of my not inconsiderable
part in these endeavors.

My coming to New York resulted from a purely accidental
meeting with Paul Hindemith, whose American agent (Associate
Music Publishers, Inc.) was seeking a new director of publications
1 took the job at a fortunately gigantic advance over my Harvard
earnings, became vice-president a year later, and remained in that
post for eight years. The primary area of my responsibility was
the selection of a few American composers with whose entire output
Associated might contract for publication and promotion, and the
basis of my interest was to be quality alone. I found three composers
in eight years (a daringly large number at this level), and two of
them subsequently went on to win Pulitzer and other prizes and

[ 382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gain wide international recognition. I also had the opportunity
to get to know music as a business (which has far too little to do
with music as an art), to gain a good working knowledge of copy-
right law, and to make effective use of my French, German and
Italian. I had as well the good fortune to be able to sum up my
view of the present state of the music publishing industry in G,
Schirmer’s hundredth anniversary volume.

Two years ago I resigned from Associated because the company
offered no opportunity for advancement, and because I had felt
for some time that I should not want to find myself at the
age of sixty-five doing the same old business at the same old stand.
I have since been retained as a consultant to Associated, preside
over the destinies of the New York Pro Musica (widely known for
its production of the medieval music drama, “The Play of Daniel”),
have learned the Russian language (I started it in the days when
it was prudent to hide the grammar in a newspaper if you took a
subway ride), and am presently translating into English the only
extensive Soviet book (1920) on the music of Stravinsky.

After twenty-five years, one can fairly begin to ask how the
story of one’s life relates to success or failure. One element of such
a judgment would surely be the ways in which one’s work and
attitudes relate to the traditions in which one has come to believe,
how they combine respect for the past with acts of innovation, how
they add up in terms of self-respect. I have, I hope, treated my
colleagues, friends and responsibilities somewhat better than the
girl in Cole Porter’s life (“I'll be true to you, darlin’, in my fashion’)
treated him. For the next twenty-five, as well as for the last, I
should like to think I might be able to sing Amen to the concluding
lines of Stravinsky’s Noces— lines addressed by groom to bride,
but lines that might be addressed by each of us to his world: “Let
us have so lived together, that others should have envied us.”

ROGER PHILIP FRENCH

HOME ADDRESS: ! Ellison Ave., Bronxville, N.Y.

OFFIcE AppreEss: Pilot Fabrics, 350 Fifth Ave, New York 1, N.Y.

BORN: July 1, 1915, Randolph, Mass. .

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1937.

Marrigp: Amelia MacLean, Nov. 2, 1940, Randolph, Mass. cHitpren: Roger
Myrick, April 25, 1945; Alfred Myrick, April 12, 1952; Walter George, May
10, 1961.

[ 383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occuPATION: Sales executive, Pilot Fabrics, industrial fabrics.

THIS is offered as proof positive to Bentinck-Smith e¢ al. that
not a non-communicant (only that I am not always prompt a
opening my mail), can read, can write, have something to w
with (but appreciate the donation of another ball-point pen to
growing collection), and am finally using the questionnaire -
have generously sent me. In all seriousness, compliments to
committee which has bird-dogged those of us who needed it.

Until the last few days of 1961, I thought it would be jus
choice of which job résumé I would send in as a record of my ti

since leaving Cantabrigiae in Republica Massachusettensium. Bu
can now fill out “Office Address” on the questionnaire and or

again look forward to getting up in the morning in time for t
morning family hassle and catching the 7:53 for Grand Central.

I have a family that keeps me moving, three boys aged sixtes
years, nine years, and seven months. And if you don’t think th
calls for a wide range in interests and activities you just don’t knov
At this point, I certainly appreciate the fact that my good wife .
willing to take care of the night calls of the seven-month-old, or
wouldn't make that 7:53 come 1962.

Career-wise, I have spent all my time in the textile business. Afte.
about twenty years with Wellington Sears Company in New
York, I got that uneasy feeling for a change and shortly thereafter
was with Erlanger Mills. Something called a “change in policy”
ended that. I then learned another fact of modern business first hand.
Most prospective employers give you a funny look when you tell
them you are over forty, and their interest deteriorates rapidly. In
any event there followed a brief period with U.S. Rubber Company
before joining my present Company.

My military service was in the Navy where I was commissioned
an ensign in 1942 and came out a lieutenant, early in 1946. I served
as Armed Guard officer on various merchant ships and then, fol-

lowing further training at Miami and Hollywood Beach, I was
CJ.C. officer aboard a DE in the Pacific.

BRICE ARMISTEAD FREY, JR.

HOME appress; Continental Road, Tuxedo Park, N.Y,

orice appress: General Reinsurance Corp., 400 Park Ave., New York 22, N.Y.
porn: March 31, 1915, New York, N.Y.

pes rAuth AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

[ 384]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.
marriep: Mary Gene Pace, Jan. 24, 1943, Corsicana, Texas. cHILp: Alan, 1953.
OCCUPATION; Vice-president, General Reinsurance Corporation.

CAUGHT disease from Hasty Pudding and went into theatre busi-
ness after graduation. Not being destined or talented to fill Vinton
Freedly’s shoes (that was being saved for Alan Lerner), I went into
the insurance business with the Insurance Company of North Amer-
ica at $65 per month. (Remember those days! )

World War II bounced me from Navy to Infantry, Signal Corps,
and finally, when the Air Force lowered their age limit, I got in.
Spent four years flying practically everything the Air Force had
and ended up flying B-29’s for General LeMay i in the Pacific. Took
my D.F.C. and Air Medals back to the insurance business, and in
1954 when I was assistant manager of an office with over seven
hundred employees and custodian of two telephones, each with six
buttons, I deserted and became a reinsurance nark. Since 1954, I
have been a vice-president of General Reinsurance Corporation (the
largest reinsurer in the U.S.A.) —also vice-president of North Star
Reinsurance Corporation.

In 1942 I met the Assistant District Attorney of Navarro County,
Texas, on a blind date. The combination of beauty and brains has
put up with me ever since we got married in January of 1943. We
have one potential Harvard man named Alan, aged eight, and a
beagle named Skippy.

Otherwise, normal and successful— happy until pointed out as
one of the Harvard men who didn’t make it to Washington.

SAMUEL DONALD FRITZ

AppRESS: 300 Riverside Drive, New York 25, N.Y.
BORN: July 8, 1913, Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937;
MarRiED: Virginia Fritz. cuttp: Randolph.
OccuPATION: Instrument chemical engineer.

HOBBIES: instructing my son in science and athletics, and assem-
bling hi-fidelity equipment.

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ELIOT JOSHUA FROST

HOME ADORESS: 10 Cary Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
orrice aporess: North American Packing Corp. 225 Southampton St., Boston .
Mass.
por: July 20, 1916, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., C171 laude, 1937; LL.B., 1940.
searriep: Cecile Harriet Bornstein, Oct. 22, 1944, Boston, Mass. cHiLprer
Denise Laura, Oct. 26, 1945; Jonathan Mark, Oct. 14, 1947; Andrea Le
Dec. 29, 1953; Cynthia Belle, July 25, 1955.
OccUPATION: Treasurer, North American Packing Corporation.
oFFices HELD: Director, Home Builders Association of Greater Boston, 1946-4§
president, Boston Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1948; national directos
US. Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1948; chairman, Cub Scout Committee
Pack 5, Brookline, Mass., 1958; vice-president and director, New Englanc
Wholesale Meat Dealers Association, 1962.
MEMBER OF: United Lodge, F. & A.M, Boston; Pinebrook Country Club
Weston, Mass.; Newton Squash & Tennis Club, Newton, Mass.; Americar:

Bar Association.

ONE score five years ago, Harvard College brought forth on this
continent a new working class conceived in ingenuity and dedi-
cated to the proposition that once every twenty-five years a report
of this sort must be written.

Upon graduation from college, I entered the Law School and was
admitted to the Massachusetts bar three days after Pearl Harbor.
No time to practise law then or ever since. Entered military service
in the Navy in 1942 (lieutenant, USNR), and marital service in
1944. Separated from the Navy only in 1945.

Developed land and built speculative houses in the Boston area
until 1gs51. At that time I joined North American Packing Corpora-
tion, a meat-processing plant concentrating in governmental con-
tracts for meat distribution throughout this country and abroad.
I am responsible for the labor relations and help establish over-all
policies of this firm.

1 am also a partner with a fellow Law School graduate in a dairy
business in California. We are developing an integrated operation,
whereby we raise our own heifers, feed, produce our own milk and

sell it through our own distributing company.

Cecile and 1 are primarily devoted to the growth and develop-
ment of our four children. Denny and Jonathan are preparing for
college: Denny, a junior at Brimmer & May, and Jonathan, a fresh-
hun at Roxbury Latin, The two lictle girls are just beginning their

[ 386]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

academic training: Andrea attends the third grade and Cynthia the
first.

All of us love to ski, swim, and picnic together. The older chil-
dren play golf and tennis — sometimes with us. We have traveled
with and without the children, and both types of vacation are
wonderful. Cecile and I continue to be partners at duplicate bridge,
proving that our marital bonds are impregnable.

JAMES JEFFREY FULD

HOME AppRESS: 1175 Park Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 300 Park Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

BoRN: Feb. 16, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., #agua cum laude, 1937; LL.B, cum
laude, 1940.

MarRiED: Elaine Gerstley, Sept. 14, 1942, Philadelphia, Pa. cHILpREN: Joan,
April 17, 1944; James Jeffrey, Jr., Aug. 2, 1947; Nancy, March ro, 1954.

occupation: Lawyer — partner, Proskauer, Rose, Goetz & Mendelsohn.

OFFICES HELD: Director of various corporations; chairman, Committee on Corpo-
ration Law, New York County Lawyers’ Association, trustee, Federal
Employment and Guidance Service, member, executive committee, New
York Chapter, American Jewish Committee.

MEMBER OF: Sunningdale Country Club (president, 1956-59).

puBLications: “Some Practical Aspects of a Merger,” 60 Harvard Law Review
1092, 1947; American Popular Music — Reference Book, 1955; A Pictorial
Bibliography of the First Editions of Stephen C. Foster, 1957; “New York's
New Business Corporation Act,” New York County Lawyers Bulletin,
1961.

DURING the three years at Harvard Law School, I had the good
experience of having been an editor of the Law Review, and as a
lark I spent one summer “working” in a law firm, where I practised
for a year and a half until Pearl Harbor. The following month I
joined with Uncle Sam and spent the entire war as a cryptanalyst
or code-breaker —a stimulating wartime job — most of the four
years were spent near the Pentagon, the balance of the time near
MacArthur’s headquarters in Australia, the Philippines and Japan.

I rejoined my law firm after the war, specialized in business and
corporate law, and was “made” a partner in 1952. The law to me
is a most challenging and fascinating field. Our law firm was started
about 1875, I like to think is respected, and has about fifty-five
lawyers. .

A Harvard College Classmate, George Keller, was indirectly re-

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

sponsible for my marriage, since it was in connection with h
wedding in 1941 in Philadelphia that I met my wife, Elaine Gerstley
We were married two days after I finished O.C.S, in September
1942. Joan was a war baby, who is now scrambling to get inte
college. She is always laughing, is president of her school, and wher
she teams up with her mother, they are too slick for me. Our sor
Jim, fourteen, is an all-round boy, and keeps mentioning how “we’
beat Yale, or “we” beat Princeton —I only hope, four years frorr
now, he will still refer to Harvard as “we.” Our youngest, Nancy,
seven, is an endearing, fun-loving little girl who likes to play the
piano (loud).

After a couple of summer vacations abroad, my wife and I decided
to splurge, and last year all five of us took the Grand Tour in
Europe. It worked out better than anyone had hoped, and the only
difficulty is they all want to go again (no such chance).

I am actively continuing a hobby, started in high school, of
collecting first (or early) editions of well-known popular and
classical printed music of all countries and periods. The collection
includes, for example, first editions of “The Star Spangled Banner,”
Bach’s “B Minor Mass,” “Three Blind Mice” (1609), “My Fair

Lady,” etc. Politically, I am a liberal Republican and, collegiately,
am all for Harvard.

HENRY MELVILLE FULLER

HOME ADDRESS: 47 E. 87th St.. New York 28, N.Y.

orrice appress: Wood, Walker & Co., 63 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

Bors: April 9, 1914, Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: 8.8. (Trinity Coll.), 1938.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Investment broker; registered representative, New York Stock Ex-
change, since 1950.

EDWARD DWIGHT FULLERTON

HOME ADDRESS: Centre Street, Dover, Mass.

orsice appeess; Signal Manufacturing Co,, Salem, Mass.

noes: June ot, 1g15, Dedham, Mass.

perpanep at: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass,

Yh Aes TN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

asareita: Ardelle Moseley, Oct. 8, 1938, Wellesley, Mass. citttoren: Susan,

[ 388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

July 1, 1941; Ardelle, Aug. 21, 1942; Rebecca, July 3, 1945; Mary, Dec. 8,

1949.
occuPATION: Industrial engineer.
MEMBER OF; American Institute of Industrial Engineers.

HAVING started in Romance languages and shifted to psychology
in college, upon graduation I found myself working in a factory
making eyeglasses. Unfortunately, my Romance language courses
had not involved the French Canadian or Polish patois in local usage,
nor did my psychology courses shed much light on what happened
to the glass in the moulding furnaces. I consoled myself, however,
with the thought that in a year or two, when I was made company
president, I could take long vacations in France and Spain and, on
returning, use my psychology to outwit other business tycoons in a
rapid series of astute financial maneuvers so I could retire.

Gradually, when I realized I had not even been promoted to
general manager or controller at the end of a full year, it began to
dawn on me that President Conant’s advice, “It doesn’t make any
difference what you concentrate in,” had a few loopholes in it, at
least for my current field of endeavor.

It was time to take a “fix.” Industrial production emerged as the
proper course, and I searched for means to plug the aforementioned
loopholes. The result is that I am currently matriculating in the
“School of Experience,” supplemented by night courses, corre-
spondence courses and plenty of outside reading in my field. With
all this studying, occasionally my eyes got tired, and I had to lay
down my books.

My eldest daughter had two years at Wheaton before going to
work. My second daughter is currently a sophomore at Boston
University. My third daughter is a junior in high school. My fourth
daughter is just starting junior high.

During the (not too) recent unpleasantness I chose the Coast
Guard, but soon found out the enlistment posters had neglected to
specify which coasts.

My good wife has provided constant love, care and comfort to us
throughout all these shenanigans and to my eyes looks more
beautiful today than she did at the Freshman Jubilee.

In closing I should like to point out that I have arrived. My vache
suffered only slightly at the hands of Hurricane Esther. It filled up
with water twice, which I tipped out in my back yard, berween

patching holes in our bedroom roof.

[ 389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

SPENCER BIDDLE FULWEILER

HOME AppRESS: 158 E. 83d St, New York 28, N.Y.

oFFice appress: Berkey Photo, Inc. 77 E. 13th St, New York 3, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 26, 1913, West Chester, Pa.

prepareD AT: Asheville School, Asheville, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. 1937.

mtarriep: Patricia Louise Platt, Oct. 5, 1946, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Marie
Louise, Dec. 15, 1949; Pamela Spencer, Jan. 20, 1953; Hull Platt, Oct. 2:
1954; Spencer Biddle, Jr. March 14, 1958.

occupation: Photofinishing, director of control, Research and Development
Berkey Photo, Inc.

MEMBER OF: University Barge Club; St. Nicholas Society; Grand Jury Associa-
tion of New York County; American Chemical Society; ASA committees
on photographic standards.

1 GUESS I must be getting old since it doesn’t seem so long ago that
I opened my color photo laboratory in Philadelphia in 1938. This
was closed when I joined the Navy in 1942 and served on escort
vessels doing anti-sub patrol and convoy duty in the Atlantic and
Caribbean. My naval career ended after participating in the initial
assault on Iwo Jima, the support of Okinawa and duty in China
waters as commanding officer of the LST 588.

I started earning a living again in Binghamton, New York, at
Ansco in 1946. Upon leaving Ansco in 1948, we moved to New
York City and I became assistant director of the Photo Finishing
Institute. Here I developed quality control programs for the photo-
finishing industry which were later copied and adapted by Ansco
and Kodak. At this time I also taught courses in color photography.

In May of 1955, I joined one of the largest black and white and
color photofinishers in the world, the Berkey Photo Service. Here

I set up the control laboratory which currently handles all our

B&W and eight different color processes —and more to come. As

director of control, R&D, improvements in products and processes

are also my sphere, the most recent being “PERMACOTE” which
was widely advertised. I have been active for some years with the

American Standards Association on photographic standards.

Instead of the usual trend to the suburbs, the arrival of our third
child Jed us from an apartment to a New York City brownstone —
converted by us. Activides and hobbies, of necessity revolve around
the family. They include teaching Sunday School, boating (we had
an ancient fifty-one-foot yawl, lost alas in Hurricane Donna), and

[ 390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lately bench warming in the cold early hours of the morning while
our eldest daughter figure skates. I still take pictures.

ROBERT WILLIAM FURLONG

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Westgate, Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 84 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: May 20, 1916, West Roxbury, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., #2agna cum laude, 1937; LL.B. (Akron
Law School), 1944.

MARRIED: Harriet Eleanor Dailey, Akron, Ohio. CHILDREN: Harriet Louise, Sept.
27, 1942; Susan Elaine, Oct. 15, 1945; Patricia A., Sept. 1, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Joseph Furlong, ’44.

occupaTION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Committee on Chemical Education, Akron Section,
American Chemical Society, 1950-51; lieutenant, Charles River Squadron,
US. Power Squadrons.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Law Associations; American and Boston
Patent Law Associations, American Chemical Society; U.S. Power Squad-
rons.

UNABLE to withstand any longer the importunate pleas of Bill
Bentinck-Smith, I find myself face-to-face with the last twenty-
five years, an awesome spectacle in point of time if not of accom-
plishment. Perhaps the strongest impression I have at this mo-
mentous milestone is one of surprise — surprise that the Twenty-
fifth is here so soon, surprise that most of the world’s problems we
were going to solve at Commencement still need solving, surprise
that we still have so much ahead of us.

Having left college an embryonic scientist and having turned to
the law only after some years as a chemist, it was reassuring to find
that the thought processes of lawyers are fundamentally the same
as those of scientists, although the words are different. A number
of years in the Midwest as an employee of a large corporation, to-
gether with the transition from science to law, left me with the desire
to become more independent, and when an opportunity to join a
private law firm presented itself in 1952 I returned to New Eng-
land.

I have found the practice of law — specifically patent law — very
satisfying, involving as it does the bridging of the gap berween
science and the liberal arts. The difficulty w hich Many non-scientists
even those who are well-educated, have in understanding the ideas

[391]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and concepts of scientists and engineers, expressed in scientific «
engineering language, is exceeded in some cases only by the difficul
experienced by the same scientists and engineers in understandir
the ideas and opinions of other people such as businessmen, lawyer
and politicians, While the bridging of this gap (even though it .
continuing to widen) may ultimately be accomplished by our ever
expanding schools and colleges, the function of communication be
tween the two disciplines— the sciences and the arts — will con
tinue for some time to be performed by people like myself who hav:
a foot in either world. Many will argue that the dichotomy of scien.
tist and non-scientist is merely symptomatic of a more fundamenta
cleavage, which like Vikki Dougan’s goes to the very seat of our
civilization; but until we know the underlying causes we must seek
to cure at least the visible symptoms in the hope that out of the
fusion of science with humanism and religion will come a better
world.
Family life continues to be a major source of satisfaction to me,
as I suppose it does to all who enjoy it. As the children approach
maturity, however, there comes an increasing awareness of the neces-
sity for continuing adjustment to change. This challenge is felt
particularly keenly by one who, like myself, has been blessed with

beautiful daughters but with no offspring who share the male point
of view, limited (I am told) though it may be.

WESLEY LEONARD FURSTE, II

HOME ADDRESS: 3125 Bembridge Rd., Columbus 21, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 113-115 Medical Arts Bldg., 327 E. State St., Columbus 15, Ohio.
Born; April 19, 1915, Cincinnati, Ohio.
purparep aT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; M.D., 1941.
Marniep: Leone James, March 28, 1942, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHILDREN: Nancy
Dianne, Dec. 28, 1942; Susan Deanne, May 4, 1947; Wesley Leonard, 3d,
Dec. 18, 1949.
OCLLPATION: Surgeon, clinical assistant professor of surgery, Ohio State Univer-
sity College of Medicine.
orfices HELD: Secretary of general staff, St. Francis Hospital, 1951-55; audit
supervisor, 1954, program chairman, 1959, Columbus Surgical Society;
chairman, American Red Cross Central Ohio Blood Program Advisory
Commuttee, 1958-62, medical disaster chief, White Cross Hospital and
Kiverside Methodist Hospital, 1958-62; treasurer, Harvard Club of Central

Ohne, t964, chairman, Emergency and Urgent Admissions Committee,
Riverside Methodist Hospital, 1961-62.

[ 392 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; American
College of Surgeons, American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American
Association for the Surgery of Trauma; Ohio Chapter, American College
of Surgeons; Ohio State Surgical Association; Columbus Surgical Society;
American Medical Writers Association, Mont Reid Surgical Society;
Robert M. Zollinger Club; American Geriatrics Society; Association of
Physicians of the Ohio Department of Mental Hygiene and Correction;
American Medical Association; Ohio State Medical Association; Columbus
and Franklin County Academy of Medicine, Academy of Medicine of
Cincinnati, Association of American Medical Colleges; Scioto Country
Club; Harvard Clubs of Boston and Central Ohio; Cincinnau Gymnasium
and Athletic Club; University Club of Cincinnati; Faculty Club of Ohio
State University; Ohio State University Golf Club; American Medical
Golfing Association; Columbus Philatelic Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles including: with others, “The Multiple-Injury
Patient,” Obio State Medical Journal, April, 1960 (A Panel Discussion at
White Cross Hospital, Columbus, Ohio); with others, “Perforations of the
Distal Large Intestine Produced by Intraluminal Traumas,” Azerican
Journal of Surgery, May, 1960 (presented at the 1959 meeting of the
American Association for the Surgery of Trauma); “Successful Non-
Operative Treatment of Swallowed Partial Denture,” Obio Dental Journal,
June, 1960; with others, “The Surgical Significance of the External Length
of the Cystic Duct,” Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, January, 1961,
“Reactions to Horse Serum,” Journal of the American Medical Associa-
tion, May, 1961; with Wells H. Teachnor, “Gastric Hemorrhage due to a
Submucosal Lipoma,” American Surgery, October, 1961.

EVEN though the request for data for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary
Report was not unexpected, its arrival came as a thunderbolt. I still
recall with what awe I looked at the “old” returning Twenty-fifth
Year Classes when we were undergraduates.

Tempus fugit! How truly precious time is and how little we have
of it. As Owen Wangensteen, the noted surgeon, has written,
“There are so many things to do; some we have to do, others we
want to do; and not enough time in which to do them all.” In more
specific terms, my life has centered on three areas: my family, sur-
gery and golf.

After finishing eight never-to-be-forgotten years under the pro-
tection of our college and medical school, I migrated back to the
hinterlands of Ohio to find Leone and to explore the possibilities
of heirs for the family name. We have been blessed with our three
greatest treasures — Nancy, Susan and Wes.

Fortunately — and with a great amount of enjoyment — I have
continued on in the quest of my high school goal to be a surgeon,
The disquicting day of December 7, 1941, and its sequelae produced

[ 393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

a temporary lull for me —as it did for many of us of ’37 — in th
during 1942 and 1943 I was a battalion surgeon with field duty :
the 102d Infantry Division in Texas. On arrival in China in Octobe
1943, I was fortunate enough to meet in Kunming a malaria contre
officer in the United States Army 22d Field Hospital. We wer
able to have orders cut so that he went back to his mosquito count
ing and control and so that I assumed his responsibilities as a ware
surgeon in Yunnan for two and a half years. This stay in the Orien
did not result in my eyes sloping, but I did develop yellow skin like
the Chinese (temporary, however, since the color disappeared wher
I stopped taking Atabrine daily to prevent malaria). The immediate
post-World War II years went rapidly by as I learned again about
medicine in the United States. Surgical practice has been a pleasure
with operations now and then and with an occasional blurb in the
surgical literature.

Interest in golf has been awakened again by General Eisenhower's
devotion to the game and by being a member of Scioto Countr
Club — the first home base of former national amateur golf champion
and recently announced touring professional Jack Nicklaus. Also,
last summer, I finally won something in golf —a cup for being the
winner of the third flight club championship at Scioto.

And what of other activities? Although I consider myself an
adequate Presbyterian and although I continually recall to mind the
advice in Virgil’s Aeneid, Perge modo, I can’t help being a
bit fatalistic. I can’t escape such different situations as the following

two: (1) We of ’37 had the opportunity and the good fortune to
attend Harvard, and (2) A few of our age did not have the mental

capacity or were not in the financial circumstances to finish high
school or even elementary school.

Finally, I would like to put in a strong word for the philosophy
courses. The two of these which I elected have given me much
food for thought and contemplation, and have served as a bulwark
upon which to mold my life. I still recall with deep feeling Professor
Eflocking’s words that the summum bonum of life is happiness.

RICHARD ELWYN FUSON

HOME ADDRESS: Yo Miss Florence Fry, 1465 Josephine St., Denver 6, Colo.
OrFick AbDKESS: Box 73, Idaho Stare College, Pocatello, Idaho.

wows: Aug. 20, 1916, Hingham, Mont.

rerpanin at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

[ 394]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREES: A.B, (State Univ. of lowa), 1938; a.m.
(ibid.), 1940.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Assistant professor of English, Idaho State College.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Rocky Mountain Modern Lan-
guage Association; National Council of Teachers of English.

PUBLICATIONS: Several short stories for children; several poems.

SINCE leaving the State University of Iowa in 1943, I have taught
at the following colleges and universities: Oregon State (English
and director of music for the State radio station), Indiana University,
University of Tulsa, Evansville (Ind.) College, State University of
Iowa again, Memorial University of Newfoundland, University of
Maryland, and Idaho State College (all English, except both English
and speech at Maryland). For the University of Maryland, I
traveled extensively through three continents in their overseas pro-
gram, from 1954 to 1958.

I am a devout agnostic —a fact which, coupled with my lack of a
Ph.D., makes my employability problematical. Any offers? I’m to
leave Pocatello at the end of this year. I usually vote Democratic
because I fee] the Democratic Party is a little less hidebound than its
principal opposition.

My hobbies are bridge (Full Master in American Contract Bridge
League, but no life mastership in sight), and opera (despite limited
income, I have thrown together what is undoubtedly the finest col-
lection of recorded vocal music in the State of Idaho). I hope to be
able to find a new job so as to keep my 7,000 records and 1,200
books together, but if I fail, I shall retire to Mexico in September,
and try to exist on fifty dollars per month. In fifteen-plus years, as
a full-time college teacher, I have assisted more than fifty students
financially, in securing their education. At the moment, I am feed-
ing two and paying tuition for a third. I enjoy life tremendously,
but sometimes wish money were a little more easily come by.

CARLTON DAVID FYHR

HOME AppreEss: 1501 Gleneagle Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.

OFFICE appRrEss: Bethlehem Steel Co., Sparrows Point, Mad.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1915, Brockton, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B, 1937.

MARRIED: Florctta A. Maneval, June 21, 1943, Windber, Pa. ciprex: David

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Ralph, April 8, 1943; Kenneth Maneval, Sept. 7, 1947; Donald Clifford
Dec. 28, 1950.

occupation: General foreman, blooming mills.
oFFIces HELD: Treasurer, Troop Committee, Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Engineers Club of Sparrows Point.

JAMES JOSEPH GAFFNEY, JR.

HOME ADoRESS: 60 East St., Tewksbury, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Governor's Office, Commonwealth of Massachusetts, State
House, Boston, Mass.

Born: Feb. 26, 1916, Danvers, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Danvers High School, Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MaRRIED: Mary Elizabeth Reardon, Jan. 3, 1942, Malden, Mass. CHILDREN: James
Joseph, 3d, Dec. 20, 1942; Anne, Oct. 5, 1944; Mary Elizabeth, Oct. 23, 1947;
Charles Ambrose, July 9, 1950; Martha, Oct. 15, 1953; Kevin John, July 11,
1955.

HARVARD SON: James Joseph Gaffney, 3d, "64.

HARVARD BROTHERS: I homas Michael Gaffney, ° 41; Robert Ambrose Gaffney, ’ 44
(deceased); Kevin John Gaffney, ’51.

occupation: Chief secretary to Governor John A. Volpe.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Tewksbury Planning Board, 1950-54; Tewksbury Town
Moderator, 1947-56; deputy chairman, Republican State Committee, 1952;
member, Tewksbury Republican Town Committee, 1952, Republican Club
of Massachusetts, 1951, Middlesex Republican Club, 1952; chairman, Greater
Lowell United Fund, 1949; director, Lowell Boys Club; president, Greater

Lowell Safety Council, 1947, Greater Lowell Personnel Council, 1955-594
corporator, Lowell Central Savings Bank. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and Lowell; Harvard Varsity Club;
Dugout Club, St. William’s Holy Name Society.

WHEN Bill Bentinck-Smith’s panic button reminders began arriv-
ing ona daily basis, I overcame my incurable disposition to temporize
and completed this very prosaic and very late report.

Since our several previous Class Reports have in some detail
covered the span of years between graduation and the zoth, it would
scem that the briefest review would suffice for this Report.

xctween college and the year 1960, my business career divided
itself into two phases. In the prewar phase, I worked in the in-
vestment banking business, in the postwar period I engaged in in-
dustrial relations work for two major textile companics in greater
Lowell.

These two business careers were divided by five years of World
War H military service, all of which were spent in Ficld Artillery

[ 396}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Armor. My principal assignment was the command in Europe
of the 274th Arm’d F.A. Bn, a unit assigned to the Third Army.
While commanding this unit, I was wounded, and was awarded the
Purple Heart and Silver Star,

In 1960, the pattern of my life changed in a major way. In this
year I left industrial work and entered the political field as chief
secretary to the Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
This decision stemmed from a decade of active participation in
Republican and local political affairs, coupled with a sincere belief
in the philosophy and objectives of the Chief Executive whose staff
I now head.

This service has opened up to me a field of activity which is
absorbing in its interest and sobering in its challenge. For instance,
dealing with the complex problems confronting government, with
the two branches of the Legislature. The Executive Council, twenty
departments of Government and a host of separate agencies, com-
missions and committees produce for those on a Governor’s staff
a workload and a decisional area which would be incredible to any-
one who had not been exposed to service in the State Capitol. How-
ever, having labored in this demanding field for over a year, I am
still persuaded that there is no more constructive challenge than that
posed by the public problem.

In a less serious way, I would like to add that a never-ending
source of wonderment for me is the number of logical points of
view, both pro and con, that can be brought to bear on what would
appear to be the simplest issue. So frequently is this the case that it
is a common joke in state government that politics would be the
best job in the world if only you could vote “maybe.”

Twenty-five years of retrospection is for me pleasant. Marriage
and family have been a happy experience. I have been neither rich
nor poor. Although in business and in the political arena I have
ranged all the way from howling with the wolves to singing with
the angels, I feel, on balance, that the years have been constructively
spent. In fact, the only bad aspect of twenty-five vears later is the
inevitable change in body chemistry.

JOHN ROBERTSON GAINES

HOME Appress: 481 Alpine Terr. Ridgewood, N_J.

OFFICE ApprEss: The Anaconda Co., 25 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.
BoRN: April 7, 1916, Holdredge, Nebr.

PREPARED aT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn,

[ 397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.B.A. 1940,

marriep: Martha Rodger, Oct. 17, 1942, Waterbury, Conn. cuitpren: Barbara
Josephine, Jan. 20, 1944, David Porter, Sept. 19, 1945; Jean Robertson, Sept.
25, 1950; Janet Alma, Sept. 27, 1955 (died Sept. 11, 1958).

occupation: Employee communication director.

MEMBER OF: Nyack Boat Club.

REFLECTING on the Secretary’s wistful counsel to be concise, but
complete, in recounting the details of a full life over the past twenty-
five years, I am reminded of the ancient vaudeville skit in which two
characters set about to compose a telegram. They whittle away at
their original version, trying to economize on words, until finally
they give up the whole idea as the message vanishes completely under
their pruning.

This chore is made the more aggravating by the suspicion that the
Secretary had badly misjudged his classmates in his assurance that
“the Class wants to know all about your career history, your family,
your travels, etc., etc.” I suspect that he has entered into a conspiracy
with the metropolitan dailies to provide, neatly packaged under one
cover, the ready-made obituaries of the Class of 1937. I suspect also
that this mass of breathless prose will command about the same
readership as the average obituary — relatives and close friends of
the family.

Having expressed these convictions and lost, in the process, what
readership my name in bold type might have attracted, I shall relate
briefly the high points of a full and satisfying life for the benefits of
the typesetter and the proofreader.

I have worked for two employers, Uncle Sam and The Anaconda
Company. I spent most of World War II as an instructor and
administrative officer in stateside navy indoctrination schools. The

Korean “action” brought more exotic duty in Kodiak. The whole
family went along on this one for a delightful two years in the
garden spot of Alaska.

Between wars I have fashioned a career in employee relations with
Anaconda. Anaconda is a good company to work for, and I like my
job. However, I dislike commuting, and my family shares my dis-
taste for suburbia. Hard to say how it will all end.

Qur legacy to the future is three fine children. Barbara is enrolled
at Bryn Mawr, class of 1965. David is Ridgewood (N.J.) High,
class of 1963 and headed for engincering school. Jean views the

future from the vantage point of the sixth grade. Mother and I have
wanv more years of P.T.A. ahead.

[ 398 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Somewhere along the way I was indoctrinated with the idea that
one who has been blessed with opportunity and advantages has an
obligation to pay something back to life in return. I have tried to do
this by devoting as much of my spare time as possible to good works.
Over the years I have been active in United Fund campaigning,
YMCA work, and a large variety of church-centered (Baptist)
activities. My biggest source of resentment against commuting and
suburban living is that they leave too little time for this type of
activity. At present I am working with senior high youth groups in
the local church. This close contact with wide-awake, aggressive,
active young people is the best antidote I know for old age.

Power boating on the Hudson River during the summer is my
principal warm weather diversion. Otherwise, between my job, my
family and the normal preoccupations of suburbia I manage to have
very little spare time left. What there is is devoted to outside
activities listed above —and filling out questionnaires such as this.

EMIL JOSEPH GANEM

MAILING ADDRESS: 46 Pleasant St., Methuen, Mass.

JOHN DRAPER GANNETT

HOME Appress: 66 Adin St., Hopedale, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Draper Corp., Hopedale, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MarrieD: Martha Endicott, Nov. 1, 1935, Dedham, Mass.; Suzanne Bitting, June
22, 1949, Kennebunk, Maine. cuipren: John Draper, Jr.. May 12, 1937 (7.
Ute Dirks, Sept. 7, 1959); David E., June 10, 1940; Richard B., June 8, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Brattle Gannett, ’35; Robert Tileston Gannett, °39,
LL.B. "42.

occupation: Director of purchases, Draper Corporation, manufacturers of tex-
tile machinery.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Hopedale Republican Town Committee, since 1946;
director, Milford National Bank & Trust Company, since 1954, Hopedale
Coal & Ice Company, since 1955; president, Milford Hospital, Milford,
Mass., since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Essex County Club; Biltmore Forest Country Club,
Asheville, N.C.

HAVING been associated with one industry since leaving college

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

in 1935 (four years out for service with “Uncle Sam,” 194
1 have scen not only the completion of the transition of the

industry to the South from New England but also, in keeping
the times, the conversion of the firm with which I am conr

from a family-owned, paternalistic outfit to a publicly held
poration. One of my current assignments, “in addition to my
dutics,” is to follow legislation on Beacon Hill dealing wich indv
and to attempt to determine its impact on Massachusetts busi
1 am distressed at the current attitude of many of our politic

regarding give-away programs in the fields of unemployment c
pensation, workmen’s compensation, etc., etc. This, I am sur
not an original observation and possibly one ray of sunshine |
growing awareness of these problems within the business commun

Travel, other than for business reasons throughout the tex
states, has been at a minimum with the exception of a visit to G
many in 1959 to meet my then G.I. son’s prospective in-laws as w
as his bride-to-be. This trip served to whet our appetite for furtt:
travel, which I hope can be possible in years to come.

My three sons still look on golf as an old man’s game; howeve
herein lies my main relaxation, and the old chestnuts of “rathe
being lucky than good” and “making up in enthusiasm what |
lacking in skill” are certainly applicable to my efforts on the link:
David is a senior at Middlebury College and Richard is attendins
Forman School in Litchfield, Connecticut.

The mass of technical data that one must struggle his way througl
tends to discourage reading for pleasure; TV westerns and sports
serve as a ready release from every day problems and are easy to
“take” from the living room chair!

The fact that I now follow the doings of classmates’ children
pretty well highlights the fact that time marches on; and the ap-

proaching 25th serves to confirm this, if any confirmation were
really necessary!

ROBERT HALLOWELL GARDINER

noxty, Apeness: Gardiner, Maine.

ovis abpurss: Fiduciary Trust Co, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.
wan Sept. 79, 1b de Needham, Mass.
resrana at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
SEARS EN COL RLES IQ IZ—IQIT. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B. 1940,
atamnia, Rrances Weld, june 7, 1941, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y, CHILDREN!

{ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Alison, Sept. 28, 1942; Robert Hallowell, Jr., June 27, 1944; Holly, Feb. 13,
1948; Nathaniel Saltonstall, June 16, 1953; Phyllis, Aug. 8, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Hays Gardiner, ’38,; Arthur Denny Gardiner, ’39 (de-
ceased); Benjamin Outram Gardiner, 43, Henry Gilbert Gardiner, *s50,
Charles Winn Gardiner, ’50, M.B.A., °52.

occuPATION: President, Fiduciary Trust Company, Boston, since 1957.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Company, since
1950, United Community Services, 1955-61, Scudder, Stevens & Clark Funds,
since 1957, New England Forestry Foundation, since 1957, Incorporated
Investors, since 1958; trustee and assistant treasurer, Groton School, since
1953; director and former president, Massachusetts Society for Prevention
of Cruelty to Children, 1955-61; trustee, Consolidated Investment Trust,
since 1958, Colby College, Waterville, Maine, since 1960; trustee and treas-

urer, Radcliffe College, since 1960; member and trustee, Gardiner Savings
Institution, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club, Boston; Commercial Club of Boston.

I HAVE been telling my wife that before I die 1 am going to write
a book, but in view of the fact that I am writing these few lines
only under pressure of the final deadline, I think Bill Bentinck-
Smith will agree that my book probably will not be an autobiog-
raphy.

In brief, the wife, the children, the home, and the job are to all
outward appearances about the same as five years ago, but, in fact,
all but the wife are quite different. As with most other Classmates,
education has become an increasingly important part of life; in
our case, the usual contacts have been enriched by school and college
trusteeships. With my wife on the board of Milton Academy
(three children currently enrolled) and me on the board of Groton
(our elder boy due to graduate in June), we keep the school situa-
tion under control, and we are making good progress with the col-
leges.

A trip to Greece in 1959 was the highlight of our recent years.
Having done some preparatory reading on the subject, it was a heady
experience to make contact with this source of our western culture.
Some good luck with a camera gave me the comfortable feeling that
when I can no longer tolerate the telephone and the “people-prob-
lems” of the trust business, I can vary life on the farm in Maine by
giving illustrated lectures to captive audiences at schools and col-
leges. Maybe I would even have time to write that book!

[yor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

FREDERIC SEWALL GARDNER

N. Sheridan Rd, Lake Forest, Ill.
of rice aporess: Dancer-Fitzgerald-Sample, Inc. 221 N. LaSalle St, Chic

HOMIE ADORESS: 1

sors: Dec. 29, 1914, Chicago, Ill.
PREPARED AT: Ot. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
Marniep: Shirley Keith, Feb. 8 1941, Lake Forest, Ill. cumpren: F:
Sewall, Jr, Nov. 21, 1942; Shirley Leslie, Sept. 26, 1947

occupation: Advertising, senior vice-president, head of Chicago office, D
Fitzgerald-Sample, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Onwentsia Club; Shoreacres; Chicago Club; The Links; Ch
Commonwealth Club

GRADUATION from Harvard found me totally unpreparec

make any kind of decision as to the line of work for which I
best suited. Banking, the book publishing business and advertis
were my first three choices. The bank luckily turned me dov
I say “luckily” because 1 would have been a miserable failure in
bank. I turned down the publishing house after hearing fror
friend that he was starving to death. And so, by simple eliminatic
1 ended up in advertising. It was a fortunate choice. While I ha
certainly not set the advertising world on its ear, I have achieve
some measure of success, and have certainly enjoyed every minu
(even the bad ones in retrospect) of the excitement, the widely varie

ficlds of interest and the many fascinating and talented people that g
with advertising.

The next big event (skipping over family life for the moment,
was the war — four years in the Navy with almost three of them
overseas in almost every principal area of the Pacific. I ended up a

Vicuutenant commander in command of several flotillas of LCT’s,
arrived home the day before Christmas and then immediately took a

three-month vacation to get to know my wife again. After that
back to work in my old firm.
Iuring all this time — from 1941 on — I have enjoyed a wonderful

fanny life with my wife Shirley and our two children, Fred, now a

{reshman at Boston University, and Shirley, Jr. now in her first year
at the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry, New York.

‘The Middle West is just right for me. I like the kind of people

who hve here, the aggressiveness and industry displayed by those
who work here and, most of all, che vitality which seems to be in the
air in these parts.

My hobbies are the same as those T had in college — sports, such

[ 402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as golf, squash and fishing, together with as much reading and bridge
as I can find time for.

All in all, I can say very truthfully that all of the twenty-
five years that have elapsed since Harvard have been good ones.
I wish I had them back again.

FREDERICK GARRISON

HOME AppRESS: 6 Sears Rd., Wayland, Mass.

BoRN: April 8, 1915, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; M.BA., 1939.

marrigED: Nancy Scripture, June 6, 1953, Cohasset, Mass. CHILDREN: Gay, March
17, 1954; Timothy Paine, Feb. 11, 1956; Anne, Oct. 10, 1957; Frederick
Rhodes, Jan. 24, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arnold Garrison, ’46.

occupaTion: Manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, New England Confectionery Company, 1954-593
manager, planning department, Megowen-Educator Food Company, 1960-
61; director, National Peanut Council, 1955-59; scoutmaster, Troop 9,
Norumbega Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club.

AFTER graduating from college, I put in two years at the Har-
vard Business School and then became associated with the New
England Confectionery Company. Upon completion of a factory
training program, I became assistant purchasing agent until join-
ing the Navy, as an ensign in 1942.

Indoctrination school at Dartmouth was followed by an ordnance
course at the Naval Gun Factory in Washington, D.C. The next
year and a half were spent on the staff of the Naval Inspector of
Ordnance in Providence, supervising a 20 mm. anti-aircraft gun
manufacturing program. Later, I served as an industrial engineer
assisting a company engaged in manufacturing hydraulic transmuis-
sions for the Navy. In 1944, I was assigned to the San Francisco
Bay area, where my activities involved supervising naval personnel
responsible for the flow of ordnance materials into the private ship-
yards and for the installation of ordnance equipment on naval
auxiliary vessels.

I returned to the New England Confectionery Company as pur-
chasing agent, became a vice-president in 1954, and remained with
this company until 1959. This work was fascinating, as my respon-
sibilitics included asscmbling raw materials, which originated from

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

many diferent areas of the world. The fluctuating p:

acricultural materials introduced a risk element into ¢
which proved to be a constant challenge,

\n 1960 | commenced an association with the Megower
Food Company in Lowell, Massachusetts, My work was

with the development of manufacturing plans and contro.

time of this writing, I am investigating several new and |
connections.

With regard to family life, I married in 1953, and we n
four children. Our youngsters lead us on a merry and rewa
at times hectic, chase. Spare time is devoted to family a

tennis, and reading, with special emphasis on the Civil War

THOMAS DESMOND GARVIN

HOME aporess: 3 Silloway St. Dorchester, Mass.
orrice appress: Garvin Willis Co. 100 Inman St., Cambridge, Mass.
poas: Jan. 3, 1914, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass,
NEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

marniep: Lucy G. Horgan, Nov. 9, 1941, Boston, Mass. cxttoren: Th
Desmond, Jr. March 2, 1943; Brendan Robert, Aug. 21, 1947; Geral
Mary, July t2, 1948; Patricia Ann, March 11, 1950.

HARVARD BaOTHER: Joseph Patrick Garvin, ’52.

occupation: Partner, Garvin Willis Company, manufacturers’ agents.
member or: Harvard Club of Boston,

WHEN I left the Yard, degree in hand, I had no idea what pa
\ would follow. Having concentrated on engineering, quite natural!
1 looked for employment which would make it possible for me t
uke advantage of my limited knowledge in this field. I managed te
obtain a position with U.S. Steel which took me to Alabama anc
into competition with men who were better engineers than I would
ever be. 1 returned to Boston and to school at Boston University,
secking some knowledge of business administration. At the same
uine, | took a sales position with the Glens Falls Cement Company.

‘These two ventures not posing enough difficulties, I] married Lucy
(3. Horgan of Dorchester, Massachusetts, who has blessed me with
four children now ranging in age from eighteen years to eleven,
weo bows and two girls, cach an individual in his own right and
cach giving 2 great feeling of pride to his parents. The joy and
the sadness, the successes and the disappointments, the work and the

{ 404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

play, all the experiences felt by two people establishing at once a
family and a place in the world, we’ve had them all and thank God
for all He has given us.

After some years slugging away in a highly competitive field
selling cement, | switched to the E. & F. King Company in Boston
to take over somewhat similar duties plus the opportunity to wet
my feet in the paint and chemical field. Here I met Harold B.
Willis, Jr., of Weston, Massachusetts, a somewhat younger Har-
vardian with whom I was to become associated in a partnership,
the Garvin Willis Company, located at 100 Inman Street, Cambridge.
We are manufacturers’ agents in the construction field and have
had a moderately successful company.

As to my family, the two girls are at Jeanne d’Arc Academy in
Milton. My younger son is at New Preparatory in Cambridge. My
elder son is a freshman at Boston College, having been refused
admission at Harvard. This is an experience which I am afraid
many of you are going to face. He has all the qualifications neces-
sary for admission but others have better, and the fact that he is a
son of Harvard apparently has no significant bearing. All in all, the
twenty-five years have been good ones, and I look for twenty-five
more of the same. :

CHARLES WILLIAM GAUGHAN

HOME appress: 60 Montclair Ave., Quincy, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Correctional Institution, Bridgewater, Mass.

BoRN: March ro, 1915, Jamaica Plain, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. ctimt laude, 1937; EDM. (Boston
Univ.), 1939; s.M. (Tufts Coll.), 1944.

MarRRiED: Margaret V. Sullivan, April 19, 1941, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN: Charles
Edward, June 26, 1944; Gerard Lawrence, Nov. 14, 1945; Marguerite E.
March 21, 1948; Elizabeth J. Dec. 7, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Superintendent, Massachusetts Correctional Institution,

OFFICES HELD: President, Social Work Action Committee, 1933, Boston Boys
Workers Conference, 1956; board member, National Conference of Social
Workers, 1955.

MEMBER OF: National Conference of Social Work; American Association of
Social Workers; National Probation and Parole Association; American
Public Health Association; Boston Boys Workers Conference.

EXODUS from Harvard and a few other warm university years
during the dreariest period in all our lives brought me full to the

[ 405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

rim of great expectations, the field of social welfare, rehabilitati
a detective game of finding and using strong clues to cement brol
lives. Starting at the top in this great hunt, starting with agenc
wherein psychiatric terminology sufficed to rekindle the delinque
twenty years of retrogression have found me superintending one

the nation’s major correctional institutions. Right out of the pag
of Dickens, I find myself daily passing through my four departmer
peopled with alcoholics and drug addicts, defective delinquen
criminally insane and sexual deviates. Suffice it to say, progress

evident. This year for the first time the volunteers from Philly
Brooks House are fighting to get in our doors.

Of my personal life and family: philosophically I have grow
passive, in actuality I push and prod like every other parent. I se
enough of death and human waste to make me uncomfortable abou
things that used to matter. The humanists and poets of our colleg
years again loom larger in my thinking. But, as a father and husband
events shape me, in particular the events emanating from the zoom
ing maturation of three teen-agers and an almost. Inhibitions or
both our sides prevent me writing of my wife other than to say
that twenty-seven years of knowing her has never dulled her lustre.

When I was once more philosophical, I wondered why more sons

of Harvard did not concern themselves with these broken lives.
Now I know.

GARROW THROOP GEER, JR.

HOME aAppreESS: 80 Pine St., New York, N.Y.
orFice appress: Carlisle & Jacquelin, 2 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Born: Feb, 23, 1913, South Orange, N.J.
PrePareD AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.1.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.
Margifp: Rose Winslow, Nov. 12, 1940, New York, N. Y. curpren: Margaret,
Oct. 17, 1941; Charles, Aug. 31, 1944; Rose, Dec. 11, 1947.

occupaTion: Stockbroker; member, New York Stock Exchange; associated with
Carlisle & Jacquelin.

WAR record — private to captain, U.S. Marine Corps. Active in
Republican Party.

[ 406 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM FREDERICK GERBER

HOME ADDRESS: 2600 E, Cedar Ave., Denver, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1855 Gaylord St., Denver, Colo.

BORN: June 15, 1915, Middletown, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. (Univ. of Arkansas), 1943.

MARRIED: Mary Isabelle Augspurger, Sept. 2, 1939, Middletown, Ohio. cun-
DREN: Thomas David, June 11, 1942; Ruth Anne, Nov. 30, 1944; William
Frederick, Jr., Oct. 31, 1946; Sara Elizabeth, Aug. 21, 1949.

occuPaTion: Neurosurgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in neurosurgery, University of Colorado School of Medi-
cine, since 1945; member, board of directors, Colorado Multiple Sclerosis
Society, since 1961; secretary, 1955-56, president, 1957, Colorado Neuro-
psychiatric Society; elder, Montview Presbyterian Church, since 1957,
member, board of directors, 1955-58, vice-president, 1957, Valley Country
Club; member, board of directors, 1952-58, secretary, 1953-56, Denver
Branch, English Speaking Union; instructor, Advanced Rock Climbing
Section, Colorado Mountain Club, 1960; member, medical staffs of various
hospitals in Denver.

MEMBER OF: American, Colorado State and Denver County Medical Societies:
Denver Medical Club; Denver Academy of Surgery; Colorado Neuropsy-
chiatric Society; National Epilepsy League; Montreal Neurological Institute
(fellow); Rocky Mountain Traumatological Society; Rocky Mountain
Harvard Club; Faculty (Ski) Club; International House, English Speaking
Union; Rock Climbing Section, Colorado Mountain Club, Denver Sym-
phony; Mt. Vernon Country Club; Denver Country Club; Garden of the
Gods Club; Denver Committee on Foreign Relations; Gastronomical So-
ciety.

PUBLICATIONS: “Spinal Extradural Cysts, Congenital and Acquired,” Report of
Cases, Olan R. Hyndam and William F. Gerber, Journal of Neurosurgery,

1946.

PRIOR to graduation from medical school, I had resolved to go into
neurosurgery. To this end, I served a two-year preceptorship in
Denver, following general internship and surgical residency. I then
completed my training with four and one-half years at the Montreal
Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal. We lived in
a quaint French-speaking town on the north bank of the St.
Lawrence River, fifteen miles from the city. We met and became
friends with many interesting people from various parts of the
world who had also come to the Montreal Neurological Institute
for training in neurology and neurosurgery and we have enjoyed
continuing these contacts since then.

I began practice in neurosurgery in Denver in 1951, in association
with an established neurosurgeon, and in 1958, I opened my own

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

office. 1 have taken part in the teaching programs at the University
of Colorado School of Medicine and in the various private hospital
in Denver. I have been privileged to care for many challenging
and interesting neurosurgical patients. Each year I find the fielc
more absorbing and I cannot believe that any other life work would
give me so much satisfaction. In 1939, I married the girl I wrote
to all four years in Cambridge, but it is hard to realize that our own
twenty-fifth anniversary is not far away. Our four children are
fast growing up. Our eldest, Tom, is currently a sophomore at
Middlebury College, Vermont, and is thinking of medicine for his
future career. He is rather quiet and thoughtful but has a good
sense of humor and enjoys skiing. Ruth Anne graduates from high
school in June, and will probably attend the University of Colorado
in Boulder next year. She is lively and full of fun, quite popular
with her classmates. Bill, aged fifteen, is working hard this year.
He is an outstanding skier and diver and thinks he too will become
interested in one of the medical fields. Sara, our youngest, is cur-
rently in the eighth grade. She has a wonderful sense of humor
and takes in everything. We suspect she may be wise beyond her
years.

We have enjoyed traveling as a family each summer and have
seen much of North America, sometimes camping, especially about
beautiful Colorado and other western states. Last spring, however,
Mary and I spent five wonderful weeks in Europe. We acquired
a new car in Stuttgart and drove four thousand miles, seeing old
friends and visiting many interesting places. Ruth Anne sailed to
Europe in June, with a teacher and nine school friends, and also had a
marvelous trip. We had a good time comparing notes on her return.

In my spare hours, I enjoy skiing and photography. Mountaineer-
ing is my most recently acquired interest and fits in well with my
other hobbies. I still enjoy fencing occasionally, but find I am not

in as good condition as I was in college, Last year we acquired a

vacation house in Georgetown, fifty miles west of Denver, in the

mountains, We enjoy it greatly but we seem to run out of time to
spend there much too quickly. Before our Fiftieth Anniversary

Report is due, I hope we shall have found some better answers to the

vld problem of having a variety of interests but only twenty-four
hours each day.

We especially regret not having more time to spend with old
friends, Perhaps more anniversaries is the answer.

[ 408 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD GIBBS, Ill

HOME ADDRESS: 1145 Clinton Terr., South Plainfield, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: North Plainfield High School, North Plainfield, NJ.

BORN: July 19, 1915, Saugus, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; ED.M., 1949.

MarRiED: Violet QO. Arnold, June 28, 1942, Saugus, Mass. cHiLpReEN: Edward,
4th, May 31, 1947; Orry Rice, Feb. 2, 1951.

OCCUPATION: High school principal.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Secondary School Principals; National
Education Association; National Society for the Study of Education; New
Jersey Secondary School Principals Association, New Jersey Education
Association; North Plainfield Education Association; Kiwanis Club of
Plainfield.

PERSUADED by my home town high school principal to try
teaching in 1938, I discovered a satisfying and rewarding field of
work. Encouraged by John A. W. Pearce of Saugus, trained pro-
fessionally by Alfred Simpson and the Graduate School of Educa-
tion and helped by Dana Cotton of the placement office of the
Graduate School, I have moved from teacher of social studies to
high school principal in this manner: social studies teacher and
director of guidance, Saugus (Mass.) High School, 1938-42, 1946-
51; high school principal, Tilton-Northfield High School, Tilton,
New Hampshire, 1951-52, Attleboro (Mass.) High School, 1952-
55, South Plainfield (N.J.) High School, 1955-56; assistant principal,
1956-58, principal, North Plainfield High School, 1958—present.
The gap from 1942 to 1946 was filled with war service in North
Africa and Italy. The U.S. Army inducted me as a private and
returned me a first lieutenant. I did my lengthiest traveling during
this period. Since, I have been content to travel in New England
with a few sorties to the West and Far West of the U.S.A.
Teddy and Orry, who joined us after the War, have prospered.
The old man has survived piano, flute, trombone and ballet lessons.
Ballet is in the past, but the music from the instruments is recog-
nizable. Teddy, in grade nine, keeps us up with his homework,
plays in the school band, has started football and is a senior leader
at the Plainfield Y.M.C.A., where dad is on a few committees and
has been presumptuous enough to conduct some classes in “the
Parent Role in Character Education.” Orry, now in grade five and
a Girl Scout, has already been to camp for a weekend which sug-
gests that both young ones are not long for the nest. Oh yes,

[ 409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

“Momma” has done wonders with the family while dad has answer.
the demands of his professional family. I plucked Violet from
tcachers college in 1942, and she has done the homework well!

At home among the taxes, sewer connections, termites and peelir
paint where the grass and hedges need cutting, the snow shovelin;
the cars washing, the garbage emptying, we have kept up with tt
mortgage, Car payments, fuel bills, doctor, dentist and income ta:
I have worked with youngsters these twenty-five years. There ar
days which are frustrating, but the years are rewarding. Each cro]
of teen-agers is a renew al; an opportunity. They take a great dea
of my time, but they are my stake in the national welfare.

CHARLES COLMERY GIBSON

HOME ADDRESS: 855 Mayfair Rd., Akron 3, Ohio.
OFFICE ADoRESS: Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 1144 E. Market St., Akron 16,

Ohio.
porn: Sept. 12, 1914, Edwards, Miss.
prePareD AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
Marniep: Margaret Eaton, Nov. 4, 1939, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN: Charles
Colmery, Jr. Nov. 15, 1940 (died Oct. 24, 1953); William Bayne, 2d, Aug.
13, 1943; John Clark, May 5, 1950.

occupation: Vice-president, Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1937 Class Committee; trustee, Akron Art Institute;
vestryman, Church of Our Saviour (Episcopal).

MEMBER OF: Society of Automotive Engineers; Construction Industry Manu-
facturers Association; Farm Equipment Institute, Harvard Clubs of New
York and Akron, Tri-State AMP; Portage Country Club, University Club,
Fairlawn Swim and Tennis Club, all of Akron; Bloomfield Hills Country
Club, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; Detroit Athletic Club; The Recess, Detroit.

FXCEPT for the summer following our graduation and a four-year
tour of active duty in the Navy, I have spent the years since 1937
Commencement working for the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Com-
pany. This has been a satisfying and richly rewarding experience in
every Wav.

Goodyear is a highly diversified world-wide corporation with
annual sales in the range of $1,500,000,000, assets in excess of
$1.000,000,000, and average employment of about 95,000, not count-
ing cmplovees on our plantations. There are about 60,000 share-
holders. Our industry is research-dependent, diversification-minded,
vow th-conscious and fiercely competitive. The daily struggle to

[ qr0 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

widen Goodyear’s margin of leadership in sales, profit, product
quality and innovation leaves little time for reflection upon the
deeper, more enduring and perhaps more significant problems of
life. Our comparatively small staff of officers is nearly all internally
trained. A high percentage have been exposed to post-graduate
programs in the Harvard Business School and M.LT. (In 1953 1
received an AMP Certificate at the Business School.) There are both
supporters and detractors of the current vogue for extreme human
relations consciousness in industry in our group.

The present price of Goodyear common stock reflects an increase
in value in the past decade larger than that of any other of the
thirty major American corporations that are used to make up the
Dow Jones Industrial Average on the New York Stock Exchange.
I consider Goodyear’s management possesses to a higher degree than
that of many large companies a professional ethical attitude regard-
ing its obligation to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers
and society, and I consider my daily association with these men a
rare privilege that is both stimulating and satisfying. The world-
wide nature of our business keeps us intensely conscious of the
political and economic developments in foreign countries. Our
objectives are perhaps more nearly aimed at successfully adapting
to changes as they occur on the national and international scene
rather than toward any specific effort to affect those situations for
human betterment. Nevertheless, I feel that we are aware of the
stream of history and the opportunities a corporation has to serve
humanity. No one in our company is expected to violate any
personal principles of conduct in the performance of his corporate
duties.

The dedication of our management group to the company’s
progress is complete, and seems to require almost the total energy of
each. Participation in charitable, cultural and political activities out-
side the company is encouraged, but the time and energy to exercise
this privilege seem hard to find as frequently as I w ould like.

My complete attachment to my original wife is inexpressibly all-
inclusive. She shares my devotion to our sons, our home, my job,
our church, bridge and golf. She tolerates my dabbling in numis-
matics and philately, reading Erle Stanley Gardner in bed, and being
late for dinner when I’m home. She is an excellent cook, and I rec-
ommend unreservedly to every man a New England-trained house-
keeper — so long as ‘she has a good disposition, which mine does.
She forgives my inability to ski and skate, my predilection for hot

(4qit]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

houses in winter, and my inability to throw or give away any boo.
or to pay proper attention to her instructions when I’m trying t
read or watch TV. I thank God for her, and am fully aware that
must have been born lucky. |

| am appalled when I consider there can be two widely-held view
in the world on the subject of what is right and what is wrong.
find it difficult to comprehend that a man can be educated to believ
a lie is as good as the truth, whatever the objective. I view witt
complete repugnance the conception that an individual human being
exists only for the good of the state. I have come to believe that
individual human beings are God’s highest creations, that the least of
us is of great importance, and that, however divergent our views of it
may be at this time, there is a divinely conceived destiny of the
human race. I fervently hope that another war between totalitarian

overnments and free governments is not inevitable.

I feel a little presumptuous putting down some of these serious
opinions and conclusions as though I thought about them all the
time. As a matter of fact, I have vacillated during the past twenty-
five years in my opinions regarding quite a number of matters as to
whether or not they really have any importance. One of the matters,
however, on which I have never had any doubt or change of opinion
whatsoever is the value of my Harvard experience to me. Aside
from all the good and worthwhile things Harvard provided for me,
the place and the name are and always will be the nostalgic symbol
of the most joyous period of my life. How I should love to be

climbing the stairs to Weld 24 again on the first day of our freshman
year, with all of it still before me.

ROGER DANA GIBSON

HOME AND OFFIcE AppRESs: Washington, Conn.
Born: Sept. 23, 1916, Seal Harbor, Maine.
PREPARED AT; Gunnery School, Washington, Conn,
YRARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.
maknipo: Leslie Fuller Larned, Sept. 2, 1942, Wiscasset, Maine (divorced 1950).
HARVARD BROTHER: William Hamilton Gibson, 3d, 34 (deceased).
occcpation: Painter.
Orsicks HELD; Town tree warden, vice-president, Washington Art Association.

1] THINK the most succinct way to account for myself over the
pat twenty-five years is to say that mainly I have been trying, to
the extent that I was really trying to do anything, to be a painter.

[412]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Note I do not say that I have been painting for twenty-five years.
Also, without wishing to make a public confessional of this annoy-
ing (yes) and possibly irrelevant, yet interesting, custom of periodic
accounting, I may as well state, for brevity and accuracy, that so
far I have not made the grade.

Laying in a subject on a new canvas (I usually tone mine to a
reddish or warm neutral ground for reasons immediately following)
it is good practice to establish the darks, then areas of light. Also, if
I have learned anything since I first started messing about with oils, it
is to keep the general scheme on the light side, with rare exceptions.
Accordingly the next step here is to say that I am not continuously
discouraged by this admittedly dismal retrospective. And my friends
do not seem so either, though still to be accurate, I should perhaps
underline the “seem.”

Probably the reason for my irresponsible attitude is that the
whole process has been so hugely enjoyable —in retrospect the
moments of misery and rather longer stretches of petty frustration,
palpable enough at the time, seem meaningless or ridiculous in view
of the objective. For objective, substitute process, since I was re-
minded yesterday by an ad for a national magazine that success
(and its opposite?) is a journey, not a destination. As to that op-
posite, by way of inspiration from a Harvard man (J. R. Lowell),
on the Quaker calendar in this morning’s mail: “Not failure, but
low aim, is crime.” Sentence suspended.

There is another, some say a prior, principle in painting besides the
two I’ve divulged. This has to do with color. It may be of interest
that in representational painting I have found that if you get the
color right, the value takes care of itself. In the freer forms of
graphic art, I believe, sufficiently interesting is “right.” Anyhow I
allow —though Renoir himself, we’re told, did not — that, irre-
spective of composition or form (existence in space) or weight, if
the color is sufficiently vital and handled in an appropriate manner,
it is enough.

On that count J should perhaps ramble on a bit about my spaced-
out year, for instance, as an ordinary seaman in the merchant marine,
or my Norwegian holidays, or the beauties of the Maine coast,
summer and winter, or the pleasures and patterns of mere country
living in Connecticut. But your own notion of life on the high
seas and in the ports of Europe is probably more vivid, maybe truer,
than my experience, which was hardly stuff for a readable story.
The Maine bit, for those not lucky enough to know it, has been

(413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

done in words better than I could hope to. Norway, on the ot
hand, has not, that I know of, since Henry van Dyke’s “Norweg
Honeymoon,” which I could not rival for several reasons. T
war? Well, the color was enlisted man’s O.D. for three and a h

years. One on the Stanford campus, another in Europe and Jap:
A mixed bag.

As for Connecticut, because it is most present, I’ll say that I fe
fortunate to be living in a community that promises to rema
rural. For a while, after the ’55 flood, I was involved in a successft
if not wholly popular, urban, renewal project, though urban was
misnomer here. Incidental info: we have an active art gallery fc
a small town, where I have taken classes, adults and youngsters.
inherited my father’s interesting office of town tree warden, and wis
I were half as well qualified. For five years I have taught, or tried te
tcach, Sunday school (Congregational). Last year I was nominatec
on the Democratic ticket for the state legislature, with predictable
results (negative). If you have not yet had and are offered a similar
opportunity with your favorite party at any level, my advice is:
disregard probable misgivings and take it. Also, by hindsight, run,
don’t stand, within posted speed limits.

Perhaps, come June, I shall have shelled out (in two senses) enough
to enjoy the approaching festivities in good, or more likely oblivious,

conscience. Now, in line with principle two about the general
scheme, Jet me conclude on this frankly optimistic note.

EDWARD THAXTER GIGNOUX

HOME Appress: Cumberland Foreside, Portland 200, Maine.

orice aporess: United States Courthouse, 156 Federal St., Portland, Maine.
porn; June 28, 1916, Portland, Maine.

purpartp at: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. ¢uU772 laude, 1937; LL.B. 1940; LL.D.
(Portand Univ.), 1959.
ssansizp: Hlildegarde Schuyler Thaxter, June 30, 1938, Portland, Maine. cHit-

oxes: Maric Andree, March 31, 1939 (at. John E. Upston, Jr., Aug. 19,
tft), Edward Thaxter, Jr.. Nov. 19, 1943.

oust partion: US, District Judge for the District of Maine.

ossices sienp: Assistant Corporation Counsel, Ciry of Portland, 1947-493
member, Portland City Council, 1949-55 (chairman, 1952); director,
Cireater Portland Community Chest and United Fund, 1951-57 (president,
1405--66), trustee, Maine Eye and Ear Infirmary, since 1947; trustee, Port-
land Public Library, since 1957; corporator, Maine General Hospital and
Maine Medical Center, since 1950, Maine Savings Bank, since 1950; mem-

[414]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ber, Council of Harvard Law School Association, since 1959, The Advi isory
Committee on Bankruptcy Rules, since 1960, Harvard Law School Visiting
Committee, since 1961; president, Harvard Club in Maine, 1955-56.
MEMBER OF: Cumberland County, Maine State and American Bar Associations,
American Law Institute; American Judicature Society; Harvard Club in
Maine.
puBLIcATIONS: Miscellaneous opinions, 1957 to date.

THE last twenty-five years have been full, active and rewarding.

After graduating from Harvard Law School in 1940, I practised
briefly in Buffalo, New York, with John Lord O'Brian and in
Washington, D.C., with the firm of Covington, Burling, Rublee,

Acheson & Shorb. Shortly after Pearl Harbor, I followed a goodly
proportion of the Class of 1937 into the armed forces. For the
first year of my military service I was at the Field Artillery School
at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, as an instructor in the Gunnery Department.
The following three years were spent with the First Cavalry Divi-
sion in the southwest Pacific (Australia, New Guinea, Manus, Leyte,
Luzon, Japan). While overseas, I served in various capacities in the
Division Artillery as battery commander, battalion liaison officer,
battalion executive, and division artillery Intelligence and Operations
officer. Following V-J Day, I was returned to the States and dis-
charged as a major in February, 1946. Following the war, after a
few months in Washington, my family and I finally settled in Port-
land, Maine. I was engaged in the general practice of law with the
firm of Verrill, Dana, Walker, Philbrick & Whitehouse until Septem-
ber, 1957, when I was appointed by President Eisenhower as United
States District Judge for the District of Maine.

Apart from the law and my family, my major interests have been
civic and political, and have included service as a member and
chairman of the Portland City Council, and as a board member
and officer of the Greater Portland Community Chest and United
Fund, and of various other charitable and civic organizations, from
most of which I have had to resign since my appointment to the
Bench, Prior to 1957, 1 was moderately active in the Maine Repub-
lican Party organization, serving at one time as chairman of the
First Congressional District Committee and in 1956 as a delegate
to the Republican National Convention in San Francisco.

My family still consists of the charming wife who was my major
interest while at college and whom I married followi ing my first
year in Law School, a daughter and a son, of whom I am as ‘proud
as any father should be. A fine son-in-law from San Francisco has

[4ts]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

been recently added to our family by the marriage of our daughter
last summer. My son is presently a senior at The Holderness School

in Plymouth, New Hampshire. He will be entering college next fall,
although probably not Harvard. ,

My recreational interests include golf, tennis, skiing, boating,
gardening and relaxing around the new home, which we built three
years ago, on the shores of Casco Bay. I also try to do a bit of non-
legal reading, to see a play, to visit a museum and to attend a concert
every now and then, so that it may still be possible for me to com-
municate with the non-legal members of the Class of 1937.

Frankly, neither Hilly nor I feel twenty-five years older than
when we last saw most of you.

JOHN ELENOT GILES

HOME apprEss: 28 Doublet Hill Rd., Weston 93, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1359 Centre St., Newton Center 59, Mass.
porn: Dec. 25, 1913, Lyndonville, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937 (38).

marriep: Barbara E. Whitcomb, Dec. 9, 1939, New York, N.Y. cuitp: Robert
S., Nov. 20, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Pardee Giles, ’37.

OccUPATION: Partner in insurance agency. .

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1950-51, Vice-president, 1952, Newton Board
of the Boston Real Estate Board; secretary-assistant treasurer, 1953-60, di-
rector, since 1953, James E. Scripps Corporation, Detroit.

Member OF: Antique Auto Club of America, American Numismatic Associa-
tion.

MY career has been in insurance since graduation, except for a
seven-year sojourn in Detroit doing real estate managing work.
There, I had the opportunity to see the physical rebirth of a city.
Today it is a beautiful city with the finest arterial highway system
in the country. I mention this as a contrast to what is going on in
the Boston area — indecision, corruption, and political intrigue.

I am now back in good old New England. I guess it is really in
my blood. My wife Barbara and I are enjoying the rekindling of
old friendships and the warm New England atmosphere and land-
scape. We had to leave behind our son Robert who is graduating

from the University of Michigan in June, 1962. Who knows, he
may be at Harvard Business School this fall.

When | returned to Boston, E bought back into the insurance

[ 416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

agency that I had sold in 1953 to my good friend, Al Chandler,
Harvard ’q2.

As this goes to press, I find that I probably shall miss seeing many
of the “Working Class” because the University of Michigan gradua-
tion is the same week as our Twenty-fifth.

WILLIAM PARDEE GILES

MAILING ADDRESS: 112 Bullough Pk., Newtonville 60, Mass. —

+ THEODORE NICHOLAS GILL, Ill

BORN: Sept. 2, 1916, Washington, D.C. parents: Theodore Nicholas Gill, 2d,
Juliet Parris.

PREPARED AT: St. Alban’s School, Washington, D.C.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.
DIED: Jan, 27, 1946, Marshall, Va.

AS an undergraduate Gill was a member of the 150-pound crew
squad in his freshman and sophomore years, and served on the busi-
ness board of the 1937 Red Book. He spent a year in the Law School
(1937-38) and also studied at Benjamin Franklin University in
Washington. Before his death he was employed in the loan depart-
ment of the City Bank, Washington, D.C.

CHADBOURNE GILPATRIC

HOME aAppress: 55 E, 65th St, New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: The Rockefeller Foundation, 111 WW. soth St, New York 20,
N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1937.

MarRiED: Marguerite Regine Sentenac, Nov. 20, 1941, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
cHiLpreN: David Leavitt, July 25, 1944; Elisabeth Chadbourne, April 1,
1948.

occupation: Associate director for the Humanities, The Rockefeller Founda-
tion.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Harvard Overseers Committee to Visit the Department
of Philosophy, 1954-61.

MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations; American Philosophical Associa-
tion; Association for Asian Studies; Asia Society; Association of American
Rhodes Scholars.

[417]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

imagines about five and acts about three years beyond her age. She
wants me to add she’s looking for boys of the right age at our
Reunion.

Nothing noteworthy in my hobbies, social life or political cam-
paigns. I regret falling out of sailing habits and never being a gra-
cious dancer. My politics are generally left of center and my religion
more personal than church-structured. Thanks to Marguerite and
children, I look ahead happily, as long as heavy smoking allows.

WILLIAM MISHEL GINSBURG

HOME AppRESS: 73 Arlington Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Serta Mattress Co., 155 Second St., East Cambridge 41, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 14, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Raysa Miriam Sacks, June 28, 1947, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Alix
Ellen, Aug. 12, 1948, Robert Leonard, Nov. 5, 1950; David Hirsch, Dec. 7,
1952.

occuPATION: President, Serta Mattress Company, Division of Enterprise-
Moakler Company, Inc. Cambridge, Mass. and Division of Mohawk
Bedding Corporation, Utica, New York.

OFFICES HELD: President, Serta Associates, Chicago, 1948, 1956, director many
years and currently; president, Associated Bedding Manufacturers of New
England, 1948; trustee, 1948-50, 1959-61, treasurer, 1961, National Associa-
tion of Bedding Manufacturers; lecturer, American University, 1957,
Michigan State, 1958, seminars on bedding; director, Cambridge Chamber
of Commerce, 1951-54; treasurer, Harvard Club of Syracuse, 1960, trustee,
Temple Mishkan Tefila, Newton, Mass., 1952-54, Temple Adath Yeshuron,
Syracuse, 1959-60, director, Jewish Welfare Federation, Syracuse, 1959-
60; vice-president, Jewish Family Service Bureau, Syracuse, 1960; chairman,

Industrial Division, Community Chest, Cambridge, 1951.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Syracuse (former
member); Masons; Rotarians; Sales Executives Club of Central New York.

AS we approach the age of thirty-nine (?), there is an easing of the
personal anxieties and uncertainties of life. This is so even though
the world situation certainly leaves me, and I am sure all of us,
deeply and thoughtfully concerned most waking hours as to the
future of our nation, ourselves, our children and grandchildren. Life
to date has been interesting, challenging, and for the most part fun.
My wife and children joined eagerly though regretfully in our move
from Boston to Syracuse, New York, six years ago when we opened
a second bedding plant. We have just returned to Boston and hence

[420]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

back to Harvard football, Boston Symphony, live theater, etc., but
perhaps away from those magnificent summers in the Adirondacks
and our new but dear Syracuse friends. .

Business keeps me traveling between our Boston and upstate New
York plants with more than occasional trips to Chicago, New York,
etc. I am hoping finally to get organized to the point where this can
be considerably reduced. For a long time I have wanted to retire
from business at the age of fifty, and if I stay thirty-nine long enough
this may be possible. I would prefer to have more personal travel
time with my wife to visit more of the world. Since the last Report
we visited England, France, Italy, and Israel, but we still haven’t been
to the Far East and so many other wonderful places in the world.
Our five-year special travel plan is still in effect and our next big trip
is due in 1962 (after the Reunion, of course).

Both my wife and I have been very active in social and religious
organizations and have enjoyed a deep sense of contribution and
accomplishment. Along with this we enjoy being with people who
have a sense of dedication and direction. Nothing gives us more
satisfaction than time spent with old and new friends. Of course, we
are watching with pleasure and concern as our children grow, and
we are looking forward to their advancement to college days and
beyond — but not too quickly. These are probably the finest years

of our lives — so why should we rush them?

My secret ambition after retiring from business would be to teach
or perhaps enter politics, although the latter seems like such a frus-
trating and compromising situation. My second major gripe in life
(after concern over the inept way our government handles world
affairs) is the attitude of people who believe the world owes them
everything from the cradle to the grave — as long as you and I pay
for it. We are happy to be back in Boston with our families and
friends and look forward with eagerness to the big Reunion — espe-

cially after the successful get-togethers before the Princeton and
Yale slaughters.

FREDERICK PHILIP GLIKE

HOME appress: 270 Dexter Ave., Meriden, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 165 W. Main St., Meriden, Conn,
BORN: Feb, 14, 1916, Waterbury, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Meriden High School, Meriden, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., ction laude, 1937; sv, (Yale Univ.),
1941,

[421]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

marRieD: Rachel MM. Bechdel, Feb. 21, 1942, State College, Pa. CHILDREN:
Frederick Carl, April 3, 1944, Marcia Christensen, Oct. 24, 1948.

occupaTion: Physician,

orFices HELD: Meriden Board of Health, 1949-52; director, Visiting Nurses
Association 1954-60, Meriden Y.M.C.A., since 1959; trustee and chairman
religious education, First Universalist Church, Meriden, since 1956, chair-
man, Meriden Citizens Committee for the Public Schools, since 1959;
president, Meriden Music Association (Community Concerts), 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Local, county and state medical societies; Meriden Symphony
Orchestra; Copper Valley Tennis Club,

AFTER leaving Harvard I pursued my medical education at Yale
Medical School and followed this with an internship at the Albany
Hospital in Albany, New York. Married during internship and then
joined the Army Medical Corps in July, 1942. Spent the next three
and a half years in the service, two of them in the European Theatre,
as a company commander. My saddest experience of the war was
the report of Classmate Ed Young’s death in 1945. A few weeks
before we were both attached to the same field hospital, when his
surgical team was detached for duty in an ill-fated glider attack.
Upon discharge from the Army at the end of 1945, I again became
acquainted with my wife and met my eighteen-month-old son for
the first time. In February, 1946, I entered the general practice of
medicine and have been at it ever since in Meriden, Connecticut, my
home town. It is an interesting and busy life with frustrations, but
compensating rewards. I'm still learning about the world’s most
fascinating mechanisms — people — and striving to keep up with the
rapid advances in medicine. At this stage of the game specialization
appears unlikely though my general practice is leaning toward
geriatrics.

Hobbies, time permitting, are still important to me. For the last
fifteen years I have played first clarinet in the Meriden Symphony
Orchestra and have played at times in the Meriden City Band. Such
activites have drawn me into the Musicians’ Union, Local 55. I en-
joy our record collection and some of the fine music on the FM radio.
Television 1 watch very selectively. Sports have always attracted
me, especially tennis. In 1954, 55, 59 and ’6o, I teamed with a local
dentist to win the City Doubles Championship. Other hobbies are
photography — mostly color now — the numerous jobs that fall to
a home owner, and reading. In between all this I try to spend some
time with the family.

[like to think that I have a liberal attitude toward life, a philosophy
based on an honest and intelligent application of available knowledge,

[ 422 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one that is not afraid to question anything and willing to weigh alter-
natives and to make changes if indicated. I am an enrolled Republi-
can, but feel free to vote independently. I have hopes that the United
Nations will gain in prestige and strength to become the deciding
force for peace in the world. In this country I believe that the future
will depend on the quality leadership of its educational systems and
institutions and not on the number of automobiles or cigarettes sold.
My chief regret is the rapid passage of time that leaves so many
interesting activities and so much reading undone.

HERBERT RAYMOND GLODT

HOME ADDRESS: 32 E. New Lenox Rd., Pittsfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: East Street Medical Bldg., Pittsfield, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1941.

marriep: Mary E. Colten, Aug. 21, 1942, Detroit, Mich. cumpren: David
Lewis, March 3, 1947; Barbara Lee, April 3, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Glodt, ’25 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Physician, internist.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Department of Medicine, Pittsfield General Hospital,
1956-59; chairman, Professional Division, United Community Services of
Pittsfield, 1956; member, board of directors, Pittsfield Family & Children
Services, 1959-61; Pittsfield Y.M.C.A., 1960-61; Berkshire County Heart
Association, 1959-61; editor, The Berkshire Physician.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis; Berkshire County and Massachusetts Medical Societies;
American Medical Association; American Board of Internal Medicine;
American Association of Internal Medicine; American College of Physi-
cians; American Diabetic Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Editorials and articles in the County Medical Society publication,
The Berkshire Phystcian.

LOOKING backward into the past twenty-five years brings into
focus a few shining peaks, a multitude of reasonably happy, rarely
humdrum valleys and, gratefully, no real bogs of despair. The Mar-
riage, The War, The Medical Practice, My Community ... . all
good to me.

I met Mary while interning in Detroit. She made the nearly four
years in New Guinea and the Philippines much easier to bear. The
fighting helped me mature, helped me learn a great deal about my
fellowman and even more about myself. We picked Pittsfield from
all the other similarly sized cities in the country because it charmed

[ 423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

us. We've never been sorry. The hills, the streams, the music, the
friends and the patients have treated me royally.

In partial payment for this community largesse, I have participated
vigorously in community affairs: the United Community Services,
Family & Children’s Service, the Y.M.C.A., the two community hos-
pitals. It’s been fatiguing but fun.

On the professional side, medical life has been stirred by a recent
intern-resident program offered jointly by two Pittsfield hospitals
working as a unit with Albany Medical School. Teaching has been
stimulating and humbling. In addition, our medical society has had
a renaissance in the past three years. Editing its monthly news letter
has kept me from sliding too deeply into the easy chair.

Wich all this, Mary, Barbara and David are sometimes neglected.
But we thrive and our two teen-agers are gradually pushing me into
the background with their telephoning, clothes-chatter and record
playing. 1 am content to be so pushed.

JOSEPH DAVID GOLDEN

HOME appress: 391-C Grant Heights, Narimasu, Nerimaku, Tokyo, Japan.

oFFice appress: Hq., Fifth Air Force, Box 242, APO 925, San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: July 6, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

marrieD: Helen Keller, Jan. 26, 1938, Los Angeles, Calif. cumpren: Elizabeth
Brooke, Feb. 23, 1942; Kathe Jane, May 22, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hal Golden, ’38.

occupation: Civilian personnel officer, US. Air Force.

orFices HELD: President, Maricopa Toastmasters Club, 1953; founder and presi-
dent, Wiesbaden Toastmasters Club, 1956.
MEMBER OF: Masonic Blue Lodge; Royal Arch Masons.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago I would have called anyone crazy who
might have suggested that I would be living in Japan in 1961. How
did I get here? I’m not sure myself sometimes. I think it all started
in 1929 when some joker, who was much bigger than I, lifted me
high in the air and smashed me to the ground as I tried to elude his
tackle, succeeding at the same time in smashing my right kidney into
three parts and final uselessness, My first act after graduation in 1937
was to have the kidney removed, since it wasn't working and it was
giving me all kinds of trouble. If that hadn't happened I probably
would now be a vice-president, or maybe president, of Standard Oil

[ 424]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company, where I started working while in Los Angeles in 1938, but
promptly got tossed out on my nose for not having enough kidneys.
Having no special talents nor contacts, and coming from a family
which had no business in which I could start at the top and work in
some direction or other, I floundered around for a couple of years.

I finally launched into a career as a civil servant in 1940 with a job
with the National Park Service in Arizona. With the advent of hos-
tilities in 1941 I moved to the Army Air Force and began to sky-
rocket somewhat slowly, but up. My one kidney served me in good
stead as it drew looks of disdain from local recruiting offices and a
final classification of 4F when the Army got around to giving me a
physical exam. I became involved in the field of personnel adminis-
tration and seemed to have a fairly decent talent for it, winding up
after the war at the Naval Ordnance Test Station at China Lake,
California, in a responsible position, followed by a stretch of six years
as civilian personnel director at Williams Air Force Base in Arizona,
a short stint with the Veterans Administration in Washington, D.C.,
and finally overseas to Wiesbaden, Germany, where I began making
almost enough money to live on. Four and a half years in Wiesbaden
as a civilian personnel director with the U.S. Air Forces Europe com-
plex gave me some good experience and an unmatched opportunity
to see Europe and some of Africa at a very small cost.

When the opportunity arose, I accepted a similar assignment at
Fuchu Air Station near Tokyo, Japan, where I have been since
August, 1960, and intend to stay until June, 1963 (Khrushchev per-
mitting).

In this short twenty-five years I managed to retain the same wife
and to acquire two rather lovely daughters, one of whom is a junior
at Principia College i in Illinois and already engaged to be engaged,
the other a junior in high school and a real brain besides havi ing a
sparkling personality. I have acquired very little of material value
and drive a 1958 Volkswagen (which is the only sensible car in
Japan, which has narrow crowded roads).

I gave up tennis (except for very occasional doubles) in 1954 and
took up golf. After some seven years I’m beginning to get the knack
of the game and now have a fourteen handicap. The highlight of
my golf career was a 113 at St. Andrews one day in the summer of
1959, followed by a 77 the next day at a course in Edinburgh. The
best I’ve shot since then is an 82,

I spent about eight years as a very active member of Toastmasters,
International, acquiring a reasonable facility for expressing myself

[ 425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

orally. This is one skill everyone should be required to attain while
in college.

I voted for Nixon in the last election and presume this is why I
have not received a summons from JFK to serve as a member of his
inner circle. I shall continue to wait patiently.

+ LAZARUS EDWARD GOLDEN

BORN: Nov. 4, 1916, Boston, Mass. parENtSs: Harry Golden, Anne Yoffe.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1936.

MarRIED: Bessie A. Perolman, Nov. 3, 1946, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Jack Steven,
Aug. 24, 1947; Deborah Lee, April 7, 1949.

piep: May 14, 1957, Cambridge, Mass,

wipow: Mrs, Lazarus E. Golden, 443 School St., Belmont, Mass.

LAZARUS EDWARD GOLDEN spent two years with our Class.
He had not been heard from since the time of our Fifteenth Anni-
versary Report when he wrote that he was an accountant in Med-
ford, Massachusetts. He was survived by his wife and children.

ALBERT GOODHUE, JR.

HOME appress: Corn Point Road, Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastman Gelatine Corp., Peabody, Mass.

Born: April 26, 1915, Salem, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

MarrigD: Elizabeth Taliaferro Durham, Oct. 26, 1940, Richmond, Va. CHILDREN:
Albert Goodhue, 3d, July 7, 1942; Temple Durham, July 22, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathaniel Mansfield Goodhue, ’35.

occupation: Manufacturing; vice-president and assistant general manager, East-
man Gelatine Corporation.

OFFICES HELD:, Trustee, Salem Five Cents Savings Bank, since 1955; director,
House of Seven Gables Settlement Association, Salem, Mass., since 1951,
Marblehead Red Cross, 1953-57; incorporator, Salem Hospital, since 1956;
honorary curator, marine paintings, Peabody Museum, since 1957; president,
board of trustees, Essex Institute, Salem, Mass., since 1961; director, Marble-
head Taxpayers Association, 1955-59; trustee, Salem Community Fund, since
1640,

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club, Marblehead, Mass., Somerset Club, Boston;
Salem Marine Society.

FROM my present vantage point and rather nostalgic perspective
of 1937 plus 25, the intervening years since renting a cap and gown

[ 426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at the Coop have been frustrating, happy, and relatively successful.

Following graduation and two years of toil at the Business School,
where I learned there was no cash in surplus, one year of work in a
Worcester machine tool factory, and three years on minesweepers
in the Atlantic, I found myself back in Massachusetts, looking for a
more permanent job.

Fortunately, I started with the Eastman Gelatine Corporation, a
Kodak subsidiary in Peabody, and have enjoyed seventeen pleasant
years assisting in the production of photographic gelatine, without
which no Kodak film can be made, and, on the side, explaining to
friends that gelatine is not made from horns and hooves.

However, the raw materials aren't a great deal more stimulating,
but the sources are world-wide, and their purchase has made possible
a trip for my wife and myself to England, France, Belgium, and
Luxemburg in 1961. The results were apparently successful, and
we look forward to a trip again in 1963, with our two children.

From collecting early American firearms in the past, I have be-
come involved in the collection of nineteenth-century American
marine painting, but for the moment have run out of wall space,
much to the benefit of the family budget. A considerable part of
my time is presently spent serving as president of the board of
trustees of the Essex Institute in Salem, which is one of the largest
county historical societies in the country. We own five houses
open to visitors, dating from 1684 to 1819, have an exceptionally
good museum and library of about 600,000 volumes, but, like many
kindred organizations, have a substantial, but inadequate, endow-
ment. Watching over all this affords plenty of variety, including
the purchase and razing of an adjacent saloon three years ago, much
to the distress of its clientele. The Institute has been on the itinerary
of all recent 25th Reunion tours, and we hope that a sizeable delega-
tion will come this year.

We are still living on a point of land at Marblehead, in the house
we built ten years ago. Our recreation is largely confined to the
ocean, with cruises to Maine, an occasional game of mediocre golf,
and as much time as possible at our place at Oyster Harbors on
Cape Cod. A son, nineteen, and a daughter, fourteen, are reminders
that the old man is getting on in years, but, on the whole, the passage
of time has been kind, and I anticipate with some optimism many
reunions after our 25th.

[ 427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

FRANCIS ABBOT GOODHUE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: McLain Street, Mount Kisco, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood, 4o Wall St., New
York 5, N.Y.

BORN: June 11, 1916, Needham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 19373 LL.B., 1940.

marrieD: Mary Elizabeth Brier, May 15, 1948, Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.
cHILp: Francis Abbot, 3d, June 2, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Thayer Goodhue, 47; Stephen Van Rensselaer Good-
hue, ’51.

OCCUPATION: Partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Scholarships Committee, Harvard Club of New York,
1955-58; Class Agent, Harvard Law School Fund, 1958-60; member, board
of directors, United Fund of Northern Westchester, Inc., 1959-61; member,
board of directors and executive committee, Planned Parenthood Federa-
tion of America, since 1959; member, board of directors and secretary,
Upper Westchester Community Association, since 1959; vice-president,
Harvard Club of New York Foundation, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: New York bar; U.S. Supreme Court, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit; U.S. Court of Claims; U.S. District Court, Southern
and Eastern New York Districts; Tax Court, American, New York State
and New York City Bar Associations (Tax Sections of American, State and
City Associations); Harvard Club of New York; Lunch Club, Inc.; The
Recess; Bedford Golf and Tennis Club; New England Society in the City
of New York.

PusLications: Contributor to New York University Institute on Federal Taxa-
tion.

LAW school, World War II, marriage, the birth of a son, a partner-

ship in our “law factory,” the northerly migration from Peter

Cooper Village in Manhattan to Mount Kisco in upper Westchester

—all of these have been recorded for posterity in prior Reports.

A strong feeling that the world will “little note nor long remember”

what we say here is responsible, I am sure, for much of the trouble

Bill Bentinck-Smith is having in collecting these literary efforts of

the Class. - |

The past years have been good ones for the most part. At least
as interesting at this point is speculation as to whether from here in
we curl up and die or whether the best is yet to come. I incline
toward a guarded optimism on this point and look forward to visit-
ing the Martian Branch of the Peppermint Lounge. While my
capsule is being fitted out, I shall settle for trout fishing in Canada
and cruising (under sail, of course) almost anywhere. The Bras
d’Or Lakes and the Virgin Islands have proved interesting variations

[ 428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

from Maine waters which, of course, are hard to beat. Vacation
trips with Classmates and families to Disneyland (Thieriot and Abel)
and Boca Grande (Gardner, Newberry, Thieriot, and Jaques)
have been more fun than a New London boat race and similar in
many ways. In 1962, my son and I hope to get on horseback (!)
and find out whether Paul Van Cleve is still raising sheep in Montana.

FRANK WARREN GOODHUE, JR.

MAILING ADprEss: First National Bank, 38 S. Dearborn St., Chicago, Ill.

NATHAN GOODMAN

HOME AbpRESS: 65 Valentine St, West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goodman & Goodman, 85 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 27, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cu7 laude, 1937; LL.B. 1940; C.P.A,

1945.
MARRIED: Sylvia Block, Nov. 15, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHitprEN: Sheila Ruth,

July 31, 1945; Harriet Rachel, March 17, 1950.
occuPATION: C.P.A.; partner, Goodman & Goodman, accounting firm; attorney.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of C.P.A.’s,; American Institute of C.P.A.’s;
Boston Estate Planning Council, Massachusetts bar.

IN 1940 I became a member of the Massachusetts bar, and in 1945
received my C.P.A. certificate, after studying accounting at Boston
University. Since 1947 I have been a partner in the firm of Goodman
& Goodman, C.P.A.’s. I have worked on the estate tax committee
and the federal income tax committee of the Massachusetts Society
of Certified Public Accountants, and have delivered several lectures
to tax forums as well as published several articles in the field of taxa-
tion in the Afassachusetts C.P.A. Review.

My professional work as a tax accountant in an expanding account-
ing practice has kept me extremely occupied. Now that the children
are almost grown up, I am hoping that eventually I may be able to
retire from public accounting and realize a long-suppressed desire to
teach taxation and accounting on a collegiate level. This will keep
me in step with my wife who has gone on to postgraduate work in
science education.

We have had a few pleasant ta tastes of travel throughout the United
States and Furope, and if our professional plans materialize we hope
to have more.

f 429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

++ ROBERT THORN GOODSELL

porn: Dec. 9, 1915, South Orange, N.J. PARENTS: Charles Henry Goodsell, 712,
Edythe Frazier.

prepared AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

pep: Dec. 9, 1940, Short Hills, NJ.

ROBERT THORN GOODSELL was with our Class only until the
spring of our freshman year. The Secretary has no information on
his activities after leaving college.

+ JOHN FORBES GORDON

BorN: Feb, 28, 1911, Bryn Mawr, Pa. parents: John Harvey Gordon, Margaret
Thouron.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1940-1941. DEGREE! A.B, 1937(41).

marziep; Nancy Maling, July 17, 1948, Merion, Pa.

DIED: June 29, 1960, Vernon, B.C., Canada.

wipow: Mrs. John F. Gordon, 5689 McMaster St. Vancouver 8, B.C., Canada,

JOHN FORBES GORDON spent two years with our Class. He
returned to Harvard in 1940, received an A.B. degree in 1941, as of
our Class, and did postgraduate work at McGill University during
1948-49. He engaged in work for the blind and spent a few years
in an executive capacity at the Overbrook School for the Blind in
Merion, Pennsylvania, and was a member of the board of managers
of the school for twelve years. He was also a member of the
board of directors of the Pennsylvania Association for the Blind
for twelve years. During the war he was an instructor in re-
habilitation of war blinded at the Navy Hospital in Philadelphia.
In 1950 he moved to Vernon, British Columbia, where he was owner
and manager of the Vernon Bookshop Library. At the time of our
Twenticth Anniversary Report he was president and chairman of
the board of the Vernon Book Shop, Ltd., a wholesale retail book
business. He was survived by his wife.

JAMES ALFRED GORRELL

Hose appenss: 2g28 Bexley Park Rd, Columbus 9, Ohio,

onic avoss: Vorys, Sater, Seymour & Pease, 52 EF. Gay St., Columbus 15,
Oba.

mon: Oe. 2W, igig, Zanesville, Ohio,

[ 430]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Zanesville High School, Zanesville, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 7agna cum laude, 1937; LL.B. cum
laude, 1940.

marRiED: Catherine Black, 1942, Wooster, Ohio (died July 23, 1945); Nancy
Wells Jackson, June 12, 1948, Mt. Gilead, Ohio. cuitp: Louise Quinby,
July 23, 1945.

OccuUPATION: Attorney; partner, Vorys, Sater, Seymour & Pease.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Antitrust Committee, Ohio State Bar Association;
member, board of directors, Columbus Plastic Products, Inc., Stitt Spark
Plug Company, Jaeger Properties, Inc., Mid-Ohio. Electric Company,
Barney Ford, Inc.; member, board of trustees, Ohioana Library Associa-
tion, International School of America; member, Antitrust Section on
Corporations, Banking and Business and Administrative Law, American
Bar Association; chairman, State Antitrust Committee, Ohio State Bar
Association.

MEMBER OF: American, Ohio State and Columbus Bar Associations; American
Judicature Society; Harvard Clubs of New York and Central Ohio, Rocky
Ford Hunt and Country Club; Columbus Club.

AFTER graduation from college, because of business commitments
in Ohio, attended Ohio Law School for one year (1937-38), then
transferred back to Harvard Law School, graduating in 1940. Went
to work with Cravath, DeGerdorff, Swaine & Wood (now Cravath,
Swaine & Moore), 15 Broad Street, New York City, in 1940; worked
there until the summer of 1941 when I returned to my home town
of Zanesville, Ohio, to await the draft. In the meantime ran for judge
asa Republican i in that fall and was defeated.

Enlisted in U.S. Army in January of 1942. Member of the Counter
Intelligence Corps, having charge of an office in Evansville, Indiana,
which covered southern Indiana and western Kentucky; achieved
rank of master sergeant, then sent to OCS in 1943-44. Upon gradua-
tion from OCS in 1944 was assigned to the Provost Marshal General's
Office in Washington, D.C., for staff duty. While at the Provost
Marshal General’s Office was promoted to first lieutenant and then
was sent to Europe on temporary detached duty as a member of
Justice Jackson’s staff for the Nuremberg trials. Served on Jackson's
staff from 1945, when staff only sixteen or seventeen, through the
completion of that portion of the American case with w hich I was
concerned and then returned to this country in December of 1945 in
order to receive my discharge on my fourth anniversary of enlist-
ment. Upon return to this country I was assigned to yac. After
return to this country and discharge I decided that I did not want
a city either as big as New York or as small as Zanesville, and so
went to work for the Columbus, Ohio, law firm of Vorys, Sater,

[431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Seymour & Pease, with which I am still associated. We now have
approximately twenty-four lawyers. I have been a partner since
1950. Afy particular practice is primarily business and corporations.
I see a great deal of several of my Classmates, primarily Geb Keny
of Columbia Plastic Products, Inc., and George Kauffman of The
Kauffman-Lattimer Company, both of whom are presidents of highly
successful corporations. :

As far as hobbies go, they are primarily reading and walking my
dogs. Politically I am a Republican and in religion I am an Episco-
palian, attending St. Alban’s of Bexley.

I live the usual suburban life and, as I have stated above, I have a
lovely wife, who is a 1946 graduate of Wellesley, and a fine daughter,
aged sixteen, who is now in her twelfth year (one year having been
spent in pre-school) at Columbus Schoo! for Girls, a local country
day school. She is presently thinking very seriously about colleges
and trying to decide on which ones she will seek to get into.

My life has been full and quite satisfying, and the only problem I
have is keeping from being dulled intellectually by the comforts of
suburbia. I am only sorry that I do not have a son to contribute to
Harvard, but in his place I strive to contribute at least financially and
to pull my weight in other ways.

ARNOLD GOTTLIEB

HOME aporess: 6 Meadow PI., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Bodin, Gottlieb & Charney, 18 E. gist St., New York 17, N.Y.

BorN: Dec. 1, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: James Madison High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193§-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., Cum” laude, 1937; LL.B. 1940.

MaraieD: Joy C. Woronock, Sept. 9, 1948, New York, N.Y. cuitoren: Andrew
Michael, June 15, 1953; Jill Wendy, July 27, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

orrices HELD: Director, several publicly held corporations.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American Bar
Association; Harvard Club of New York.

THE law, the war, the law. When interlaced with a happy mar-
nage and delightful kids, this thumbnail sketch summarizes my
life during the past twenty-five years. Such summary should suffice
as my autobiography, bur the temptation to rhapsodize is too great.

After graduation, I had the offer of an all-expense-paid tour of
Harvard Law School. The prospects of three more comfortable
years in Cambridge outweighed the low wage and meager existence

[432 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prospects of an unskilled laborer. And so, I became a lawyer and
was destined to be overworked and underpaid for the rest of my life.

Law School was followed by a brief apprenticeship in a good-
sized New York City law firm. For a year and a half, I exercised
my brain by researching law and my muscles by carrying a brief
case for a senior partner who was never quite sure of my name.
It did not require an expert political prognosticator to know that
this association was destined to be short-lived, since the war was
clearly upon us.

I spent the first year of the great conflict in Washington on the
general counsel’s staff of the War Production Board. Since John
Lord O’Brian was the general counsel and Professor Milton Katz
the solicitor of this agency, it was subjected to the somewhat
justified accusation of being overstaffed with Harvard men. Never-
theless, it was a most able and effective group of lawyers who self-
lessly performed a great public service. My particular job was to
prosecute misusers of war materials. This was an exciting and re-
warding experience.

The balance of the war was spent as an intelligence officer in
the Air Force, with two relatively comfortable years in the Euro-
pean theatre. My rank was too low to carry with it great respon-
sibility, but sufficiently high to avoid unpleasant duties.

After the war, I returned to the sometime dull and sometime
exciting, sometime wearying and sometime exhilarating, but always
satisfying profession of the law. First as an employee in a New
York law firm, then through varying degrees of junior partnership
and now finally as a senior partner in the firm I helped organize.
Just as I did some years ago, the young men in our office cast
covetous glances at my room. One of them is bound to take over,
but I intend to put up a tough fight.

My family life has been even more rewarding than my profes-
sional life. In 1948 I met and, with great dispatch lest I lose her,
married the girl I had always hoped to find. Thirteen years, two
children, a suburban home, much worldly possessions, and many
debts and obligations later, I still feel the same way but even more
so. Our life together has had its share of adversity, personal tragedy,
and at times the need to make decisions which to us were difficult
and to solve problems which seemed insoluble. We emerged well
from all of this with a deeper love and more mature understanding.

Like all parents of healthy, bright, and active children, we have
received tremendous pleasures and great satisfactions which have

[ 433]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

overshadowed and all but wiped out the memories of occasional
moments of worry and concern. My eight- and six-year-olds keep
me young, active, and constantly alert during the day. However, I
fee] the past twenty-five years when they are safely stowed away

at night and I sit down to rest the weary bones encased in middle-
aged fat.

_ My active business and family life leave little time for other pur-
suits. As often as possible, I indulge my fondness for golf. Less
often, but at every opportunity, my wife and I indulge our passion
for travel. I engage in as much civic and charitable work as time
permits, and when time does not permit, my wife ably represents
the family. I attend occasional professional and civic meetings,
"write an occasional article in a professional publication, and deliver

an occasional lecture to people other than my children.

I hope the next twenty-five years will bring a diminution in my

professional activities and an increase in my family and Civic activ-
ities.

CHARLES GOTTLIEB, JR.

HOME AppreEss: 156 E. 79th St., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Blackstone Mills, 350 Fifth Ave., New York 1, N.Y.
BoRN: Oct. 9, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, Riverdale, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1033-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1937 (38).

MARRIED: Eleanor Nancy Pierce, Sept. 17, 1948, Elmsford, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Nancy Dana, March 5, 1950; Charles Pierce, Feb. 5, 1953. .

occuPaATION: Textile business; manager, New York office, Blackstone Mills;
responsible for sales in eastern Canada, Ohio, New York, New Jersey,

Michigan, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware and Wash-
ington, D.C.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Divoteer Club (business), since 1950, Sunningdale
Chamber of Commerce, 1950-56.

MEMBER OF: Wallingford (Vermont) Volunteer Fire Department.

AFTER graduation, joined the firm of Julius Wile Sons & Com-
pany, New York, importers of wines and spirits, whose president iS
R. L. Blum, Jr., ’38. Enlisted in Army October, 1941. Received
commission in July, 1942, at Officers Candidate School, Carlisle,
Pennsylvania. Served in New Guinea, Admiralty Islands, Leyte,
Luzon and finally Japan, arriving there the day the peace treaty was
signed on the Missouri. Contracted hepatitis in Luzon and spent six
wecks in a general hospital and rest camp. In that period was detailed

L 434 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to First Cavalry Division, First Maine Division, and 38th Infantry i in
five amphibious far shore landings and received appropriate battle
stars and arrowheads. Was separated from service as a captain in
January, 1946.

Went back to Julius Wile but left after a year because of a recur-
rence of hepatitis. In 1948 married Eleanor Nancy Pierce, born in
Waco and brought up in New Jersey. Then started working in turn
with Goodall Fabrics, Joan Fabrics and now Blackstone. In 1956
bought a 156-acre farm in Wallingford, Vermont, in the heart of the
ski area. Outside of touch football with my son, my main sport and
hobby has been skiing. We all love it, but by now the children ski
rings around us. The farm is within half an hour of six or seven
ski areas and as we have five bedrooms we would welcome any of
the ’37 relicts who might visit us.

Political convictions: Republican. Religious convictions: Episco-
pal. Social convictions: Would like a little inflation and believe
strongly in integration.

CARL LOUIS GOULLAUD

HOME ADDRESS: 150 Summit Terr., Smoke Rise, Butler, N.J.

OFFICE appress: American Academy of General Practice, 33 Lincoln Ave.,
Rutherford, N_J.

BoRN: April 18, 1914, Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

mMarrieD: Ursula Elisabeth Curry, Dec. 28, 1949, New York, N.Y.

occupaTION: Sales manager, American Academy of General Practice, pub-
lishers of GP and Family Physician.

MEMBER OF: Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ Association; Pharmaceutical Ad-
vertising Club; Drug, Chemical and Allied Trades Association; Harvard
Club of New York; Smoke Rise Club, Smoke Rise, N.J.; Harbor Head
Tennis Club, West Falmouth, Mass.

LIFE has been extremely kind to me. I still find every day a new
and exciting experience. After leaving college in June of 1935, I
toured the country for one summer and created an insatiable love of
travel USA style. I entered the Yale Graduate School of Drama in
the fall of 1936 and spent three fascinating years working toward a
degree in theatrical directing. Although I did not pursue the career
I had intended, I have enjoyed the fruits of those years at Yale
through almost constant activity with the Smoke Rise Players, an

[ 435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

amateur theatrical group, and participation in the New Jersey The-
atre League.

The war found me in a naval uniform as a ninety-day wonder
ensign and five years serving aboard a battleship and four cruisers
in almost every body of water in the world. I was one of the lucky
ones who saw action but managed to be aboard ships that were never
hit. Toward the end of the war, I served as a flag lieutenant to
ComCruDiv 13, and later serving aboard the flagship of the Atlantic
I had the pleasant assignment of communications officer on President
Truman’s trip to Belgium, from where he took off for the Potsdam
Conference. I was detached from service in November, 1945, as a
lieutenant commander. Deciding that I had just used up a good five

‘ears which otherwise would have been spent in apprenticing for a

professional theatrical career, I took the field of advertising as the
best one to enter in order to make up for lost time. I have never
regretted this decision and avoided the risks of over-saturated Broad-
way. |

So for the past fifteen years I have been selling advertising space
in medical journals; first with Medical Economics and since July,

1953, with the American Academy of General Practice, an associa-
tion of family doctors, In addition to the work being thoroughly
rewarding in itself, I have been allowed to further sate my enjoy-
ment of USA travel by virtue of covering various territories, and in
addition traveling to many conventions of different sorts throughout
the nation. 7
In December of 1949, I was married to Ursula Curry, a Lynn girl
who had attended Simmons College, so my ties to the Boston area
were further solidified, and we enjoy frequent return visits to our
native habitat. In 1958 my father turned over our lifelong summer
cottage at West Falmouth, Massachusetts, to his children. Now my
wife and I have the pleasure of living in the beautiful mountain
country of northern New Jersey ten months of the year and the
cool and sunny seashore of Cape Cod for almost two months. Since
our marriage was not blessed with children, our lives have perhaps
been a trifle selfish, but the years together have been delightful ones.

The state of world affairs has been tension-producing for all of us,

but by continuing to remain informed and by loyally returning to

the polls to elect people of our choice I] feel we are doing about as
much as can be expected of us in our duty to the world at large.

[ 436]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM GRANT GRAVES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1589 Portland Ave., St. Paul 4, Minn.; 30 Neptune St., Mahtom-
edi, White Bear Lake, Minn. (summer).

OFFICE ADpREss: McGowan’s, Inc., 799 Grand Ave. St. Paul 5, Minn.

BoRN: Aug. 11, 1914, St. Paul, Minn.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937.

MARRIED: Beverly Otto, St. Paul, Minn. cumpren: William Grant, 3d, April 8,
1942; Beverly Hitchcock, Aug. 13, 1947; James Brock, June 5, 1953.

occuPATION: Appliance dealer.

BESIDES business, main hobby is yacht racing on White Bear Lake

— both participating in own class and spectating when the children
are racing their own boats.

CHRISTOPHER GRAY

HOME ApprEss: 17 Elmwood Rd., Baltimore, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johns Hopkins University, Homewood, Baltimore, Md.

BORN: June 22, 1915, Milton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; A.M. (Univ. of California),
1940; PH.D. (Harvard Univ.), 1951.

MarRiED: Alice Darling, July 1, 1939, Whittier, Calif. camp: Margaret Anne,
Oct. 14, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Chipman Gray, ’30, A.M., °33; Roland Gray, Jr. LLB.
"38.

occupation: College teacher, History of Fine Arts, assistant professor, Johns
Hopkins University.

OFFICES HELD: Acting chairman, Fine Arts Dept., Johns Hopkins University,
1956-58; president, Baltimore Chapter, Archaeological Insticute of America,
1958-60.

MEMBER OF: Hamilton Street Club, Baltimore; College Art Association of
America; American Society for Aesthetics; Archaeological Institute of
America; Society of Architectural Historians.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers in publications of Radio Research Laboratory, Harvard,
1942-45; Cubist Aesthetic Theories, Johns Hopkins Press, 1953; “Cezanne’s
Use of Perspective,” College Art Journal, fall, 1959; Patel Gatguin’s Sculp-
ture and Ceramics, ready for publication.

STUDIED to be practising artist and teacher until 1940 (received

General Secondary Teaching Credential at University of California

in 1940), then decided to become art historian, returned to Harvard
to study.

During the Second World War, I worked at Radio Research
[ 437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Laboratory, Harvard. After the war my Ph.D. class work was com-
pleted and I started teaching at Johns Hopkins University in Fine
Arts Department in 1947, where I am still employed. Research was
carried on in western Europe during the summers of 1949, 1952,

1955, 1957, 1959 and 1961.

ERNEST AMLIN GRAY

HOME ApprEss: Meeting House Road, Mt. Kisco, N.Y.
OFFICE AppREss: Fletcher Richards, Calkins & Holden, Inc., 730 Fifth Ave., New
York 19, N.Y.

BORN: June 1, 1915, Roslyn, Long Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Roslyn High School, Roslyn, Long Island, N.Y.; St. Paul’s School,
Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marriep: Marguerite Ramsey Tietjen, Feb. 14, 1942, Plainfield, N.J. CHILDREN:
Susan Maxwell, Aug. 3, 1944; Ernest Amlin, Jr., April 19, 1946, Marguerite
T., Dec. 3, 1950; Richard W,, Aug. 24, 1956.

occupaTION: Director, senior vice-president and account supervisor, Fletcher
Richards, Calkins & Holden, Inc., advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Eastern Region Board of Governors, 1955-57, chairman,
New York Council Committee on Advertising Agency Personnel, 1955-57,
member, New York Board of Governors, 1960-62, American Association
of Advertising Agencies; member, since 1954, vice-president and director,
1957-62, New York State Citizens Committee for the Public Schools;
chairman, Citizens Committee of Bedford, New York, Central School
District, 1952-53; vice-president and director, Mt. Kisco, New York, Boys
Club, 1958-62; vice-president and director, Lions Club, Bedford Hills,
N.Y., 1947-49; trustee, Bedford Democratic Party, Town of Bedford,
N.Y., 1951-52; public information director, United Fund Organization,
Westchester County, N.Y., 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Westchester; Rear Guards
(advertising social club).

PUBLICATIONS: “How To Prevent Race Riots,” 1944 Harper’s Magazine; have
written and published several articles on various phases of the advertising
business for advertising trade journals.

BACK in 1928, when I was thirteen years old, I played a fortune-
telling game of predicting my future. Not long ago, my wife and my
mother, who lives with us, unearthed my thirteen-year-old forecast
for today’s me and here it is:

College — Notre Dame (logical place for a budding All-Ameri-
can); Career —cartoonist; Married—a direct thirteen-year-old
quote, “I suppose maybe I'll have to.” (I’m sure the “shotgun” con-
notation escaped me.) Children — “I don’t know, but I’ll have lots
of dogs.”

[ 438 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

On every count but the dogs, my crystal ball was entirely out of
focus. I do own a collie, a beagle and six recent blesséd beagle-collie
events (ceagles or bollies). But, other than dogs, things have turned
out quite differently for me.

On the matter of marriage, for example, I harbor none of my
thirteen-year-old antagonism. I'm very much for it now —and for
five good and sufficient reasons. The first is my wife — Smith girl,
Peggy Tietjen Gray. She’s a wonderful friend to be married to.
You'd like her —everybody does, particularly my kids and me.
Then there’s daughter Susan, seventeen. She has just made a be-
wildering leap from adolescent to adult, from comic book to school
literary magazine editor, from Westchester provincial to Citizen of
the World (she just completed a self-generated, self-supporting
summer abroad). Son Buzz is an Indian, specifically acting assistant
ranking chief of the Waconda Indian Club, Ele is terse, tenacious,
a talented craftsman. He is also not bad with white man’s books —
watch for a Harvard Indian, Class of ’67. Minnie, eleven, is just
exactly that. She likes dogs, cats, horses, TV, people, boys, girls,
trees, snow, climbing, being alive. Richard’s life is constantly in
danger. He is five and, as the “good guy,” he’s endlessly harassed by
“bad guys” — cattle rustlers, black bears and, just the other day he
added, Yale Guys. Clearly, he has virtue on his side.

Now as to career, what about my thirteen-year-old prediction of
a cartooning life? Again, the young me didn’t know the old me
very well. I am in business — the advertising business — dealing with
such uncartoony, unfunny matters as marketing, distribution, adver-
tising campaign strategy. I am now an officer and account super-
visor of the Fletcher Richards, Calkins & Holden Agency. Prior to
moving into account management, I spent many years in the writing
and creative side of the business.

I like the advertising business. I like the challenge and the change
of it. I like what it does for the American economy and all the social
services it helps to promote. I don’t like its malpractitioners any
more than a lawyer likes shysters or a doctor likes quacks. For-
tunately, like quackery and shystering, the irresponsible oppor-
tunism in advertising is very much the exception rather than the
rule.

It is interesting, though, how many people think of the exception,
the quackery, when they think of advertising. That is, until you pin
them down. Then it turns out that they do find the Volkswagen ads

interesting and informative, the Metropolitan Life Insurance Com-

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

pany’s health ads valuable, the ads contributed by agencies, adver-
tisers and media of fighting forest fires, voting, supporting higher
education and other public services an excellent idea. The fact is
that when they get specific, those people who condemn “advertis-
ing” actually endorse most advertising. And an equally important
fact is that almost all advertising people condemn the black shee
of advertising — impossible promises, “loss leaders,” bad taste — and
these advertising people are working through their advertising asso-
ciations to put these malpractices in their place — out.

Going back now to my years-ago preview of me, I certainly would
never have foretold at the age of thirteen that my adult avocation
would be school. But school it is. You’ve heard all the howls about
the quality of our secondary school education. I’ve seen a lot of
schools, and very, very often the quality problems lie in the com-
munities, not in the schools. They lie with people who call advances
“frills,” who prefer low taxes to high educational standards. There's
nothing new about these community-school problems, but now
something relatively new is doing a lot to answer them. That some-
thing is the Citizens Committee on Education. There are now well
over 10,000 of these Committees across the country, almost 2,000 in
New York State alone. They have sparked understanding and sup-
port for school bond votes, teacher salary increases, better science
labs, a more productive curriculum. The Citizens Committee is my
avocation. I started a Committee in my own community. After
that, I joined the New York State Citizens Committee for the Pub-
lic Schools and, as a member of this group, have helped organize
and activate local Citizens Committees throughout New York State.

Great things happen to people in these study and action Citizens
Committees — they learn and they grow and they’re making great
things happen to the schools. There’s still no beatin’ the old town
meetin’.

Now let’s adjourn this meeting of you and me, until that great
z5th Reunion Day when we meet again.

EDWARD JAMES GREEN, JR.
maitone aboress: P.O, Box 207, Lakewood, N.Y.

[ 440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWIN THURSTON GREEN

HOME ADprgEss: 18 Ash St, Cambridge, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Green Instrument Co., Inc., 295 Vassar St., Cambridge, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 3, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MarRiED: Jean Cornelia Porter, June 22, 1936, New York, N.Y. cuipren: Hope
Stuart, July 26, 1944; Cornelia Porter, June 13, 1947; Jean Merrill, March
25, 1950.

OccUPATION: President, Green Instrument Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Morgan Memorial; trustee, Mount Auburn Hospital.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Eastern Yacht Club; Instrument Society of
America; various other business-connected organizations.

IT has been my good fortune, since leaving Harvard, always to have
done well enough doing what I wanted to do to keep doing it. In
1946, I started a precision instrument manufacturing business that
was an outgrowth of various lesser technical work. 1 had done
some development work in the field of optical instruments (micro-
scopes, etc.) and had been moderately successful with some research
work on diseases of the blood for doctors and drug concerns. My
present business, the Green Instrument Company, is located in
Cambridge and produces small machine tools. ‘The most interesting
product at the moment is a pantographically-controlled milling
machine that forms and drills the printed circuits so much in use in
electronics today. I am the holder of several patents in this field.

I have been happily married for twenty-five years to Jean
Cornelia Porter, and we have three wonderful daughters. The
eldest is at Winsor School and is going to Bryn Mawr College, as did
her mother, next year. The second daughter is also at Winsor, and
the youngest is at Shady Hill School in Cambridge.

_ My hobbies are photography, fishing, golf, tennis, and all other
sports. My social life is probably about average, but with three
‘daughters growing up there seems to be a threat of considerable
more activity in this department.

STEPHEN GREENE

HOME appress: West Dover, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Stephen Greene Press, 120 Main St., Brattleboro, Vt.
BORN: Dec, 18, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

[441]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

marrieD: Janet Churchill Gould, June 29, 1944, Portland, Oregon. cHttpren;
Jennifer, Feb. 17, 1945; Stephanie Nichols Fitch, June 6, 1953.

occupation: Publisher; book seller.

orFices HELD: Member, School Board, other town offices, Dover, Vt.; senior
editor, Vermont Life, since 1951, member, Vermont Legislature, 1951-54;
member, since 1953, chairman, 1957-58, Vermont Forest Festuval Commis-
sion; member, Vermont Educational Television Commission, 1951-53, Deer-
field River Advisory Commission, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Southern Vermont Forest Association (officer since 1950).

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles for Vermont Life magazine, and assisted in

editing its two anthologies, Treasury of Vermont Life and Green Moun-
tain Treasury.

I SAY only (in the very generous space you have given me to say
it) that the past twenty-five years — devoted to newspaper work
and a wide variety of editorial jobs, book publishing and book
selling, a little politics, considerable travel, a delightful family and
friends — have been busy, entertaining and satisfying ones.

WILLIAM FREDERICK GREENWALD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 3339 Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y.
Born: Feb. 20, 1917, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936, 1938-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1937(4I).

MarRieD: Frances Cohn, Feb. 11, 1945, Brooklyn, N.Y, (divorced 1959).

occupation: President and sole owner, Teknol Petroleum Corporation, traders,
petroleum products (jobbers, exporters, brokers).

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of New York.

ACTIVELY engaged in the petroleum industry since 1943.
1943-49 — assistant vice-president, Sonneborn Sons, Inc.
1949-51 — manager of west coast division, Sonneborn Sons, Inc.
1951-57 — vice-president, Industrial Raw Materials Corporation,
petroleum jobbers.
1958 — started own corporation, Teknol Petroleum Corporation,

sole owner of company. At present conduct business affairs from
my residence,

WILLIAM BACON GRESHAM, JR.

HOME AvuMESss: 3904 Granada St., Tampa g, Fla.

ornicy appKESS: 202 N. Dale Mabry (P.O. Box toorg), Tampa 9, Fla.
poms; Oce. 7. 1985, Plainfield, N.J.

yes pani at: Phillips Fxcter Academy, Exerer, NUH,

[ 442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; 8.M. (Univ. of Florida), 1948.

MARRIED: Virginia Ladwig, June 1, 1946, Milwaukee, Wis. CHILDREN: William
Bacon, 3d, June 2, 1947; Mary Lorraine, May 2, 1949; Valentine Elizabeth,
Jan. 14, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Owner, exterminating business.

OFFICES HELD: President, Newell Entomological Society, 1947; secretary-
treasurer, Florida Pest Control Association, 1948-50; director, National
Pest Control Association, 1949, Tampa Junior Chamber of Commerce,
1951, Florida Entomological Society, 1956-59, Pi Chi Omega, 1957-59;
member, 1952-55, chairman, 1955, Florida Structural Pest Control Com-
mission; president, Harvard Club of West Coast of Florida, 1955, elder,
deacon, Palma Ceia Presbyterian Church.

MEMBER OF: Scottish Rite Masons, Kiwanis, Elks; Entomological Society of
America; Florida Entomological Society, Pi Chi Omega.

WHEN I graduated from Harvard I began working for one of the
country’s giant corporations and intended to become a business
tycoon in about ten years. After a few years of lowly toil, I began
to see where this was not going to work out as planned. My talents
were being crassly ignored or overlooked. Not knowing exactly
what to do about it, I “escaped” into the Navy in January, 1944.
This “escape” lasted only ten months because I received a medical
discharge in October, 1944.

I was at loose ends, but I was sure of only one thing: I did not
want to go back to the octopus. Meantime, my father and mother
had retired to Florida, a place I had never been. Being still single, I
joined them, and decided that Florida looked like a very nice place
to live, if I could find some way to earn a living. I postponed that
eventuality by entering the University of Florida under Public Law
16, for disabled veterans. I emerged in 1948 with a Master of Science
degree, majoring in entomology. After working a year for the
Florida State Board of Health, I bought a one-half interest in a
pest-control, or exterminating, business in Tampa, where I have now
lived for fourteen years. I have been through three partnerships,
all in the exterminating business and all in Tampa, and since Decem-
ber 1, 1959, have been the sole owner of Gresham Exterminators.

After diligent research, I am able to find only two other Harvard
alumni in the exterminating business, and only one of these attended
Harvard College. There must be something significant here, but I
do not want to see it.

I never regret leaving the big corporation. I am not a business
tycoon. I own and operate a very small independent business. I do
a great deal of the dirty work myself, but somehow it does not really
seem so dirty. I have made many mistakes running my business.

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Boy! how I have made mistakes! It’s easy. But I have survived.
There is a stimulating challenge in operating the business end of a
business. There are daily challenges in the technical phases of ex-
terminating. I am probably the poorest member, financially, of our
Class, but then perhaps I pay the fewest taxes.

In 1946, I married the girl whom I met at Yellowstone Park on a
summer job in 1933. She chased me for thirteen years. Exhausted,
I finally gave in. Now I wish I had given in during the first year.
Three fine children have blessed our union. Bill, 3d, now fifteen, is
the eldest and should follow in his father’s footsteps to Harvard.
They say that Harvard today is for the sons of the very rich or the
very poor. If so, as a member of the latter group, my son should be
first in his Class — an advantage in being poor. My two little girls,
ages thirteen and eleven, are a heart’s delight in all respects.

] like to think that I take a reasonably active part in my industry,
my church, fraternal organizations, civic affairs and politics at all
levels. I like what I do, and I do as much as I can.

I have seen only a few of the Class members over the years, and
none recently. This is perhaps the main reason I am breaking my

back, and pocketbook, to attend the 25th Reunion. I am really look-
ing forward to this occasion.

WILLARD HENRY GRIFFIN

HOME aApprEss: 28 Walton Drive, West Hartford, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 170 Sigourney St., Hartford 5, Conn.
BORN: Nov, 1, 1914, Manchester, N.H. -

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MaRRIED: Marjorie Alice Carmichael, Dec. 28, 1942, Hyannis, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ann C,, Feb. 27, 1950; Richard C, Aug. 16, 1951; Willard Henry, Jr., Jan.
Tr 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Welby Griffin, ’40.

OCCUPATION: General agent, Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company for
Connecticut.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Red Cross Roll Call, Manchester, N.H., 1938; national
director, U.S. Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1939, 1940; trustee, St.
Mary’s in the Mountains, 1939-48, chairman, board of trustees, Immanual
Presbyterian Church, Milwaukee, 1952, 1958, Westminster Presbyterian

Church, West Hartford, Conn.,, 1961; president, Hartford General Agents
and District Managers Association, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Hartford Chapter, American Society of Chartered Life Under-

[ 444]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wniters; Hartford Life Underwriters Association, Hartford General Agents
and Distnct Managers Association, Hartford Golf Club; Hartford Sales

Executives Club; Wadsworth Atheneum.

ONE week following my graduation, I joined the Northwestern
Mutual as special agent in Manchester, New Hampshire, and during
the next four years unul Pearl Harbor had an opportunity to estab-
lish myself in business and also participate in a number of extra-
curricular activities including helping organize the first Junior
Chamber of Commerce in Manchester, and serving on the national
board of directors for two terms, Being in business for myself and
still being single during these years, | was able to enjoy trips to
Bermuda, the Far West and pursue my favorite hobby, skiing in the
White Mountains area and the Green Mountains. One of the enjoy-
able experiences during these years was to scrve as a trustce of St.
Mary's in the Mountains, an excellent school for girls in Littleton,
New ELampshire.

In January, 1942, I entered the Navy in the Naval Intelligence
Service and had high expectations of being sent immediately over-
seas, but was terribly disappointed to be “exiled” to Cape Cod to
take charge of a Naval Intelligence office. But it was here that I
found waiting the gal I had been looking for, Marjorie Carmichael
of Wellesley, Massachusetts, We were marricd in 1942 while still
on the Cape and had a wonderful life until I went overseas in 1944
to join the Seventh Flect staff, first in Australia and then New
Guinea and finally the Philippines where I served as Navy liaison
with the Army in planning the supply of our guerrilla forces behind
the enemy lines in the Philippines.

Following the war, I returned to Manchester, New Hampshire,
and resumed my business and prepared to sink roots down deep by
purchasing a 150-year-old home which my wife and I planned to
restore. But this was not to be, for less than eight months later I
accepted an invitation to become assistant director of agencies for
the Northwestern Mutual at its home office in Milwaukee. Thus, a
confirmed Yankee found himself thoroughly enjoying midwestern
life in one of the great cities of this country. Shortly after arriving
in Milwaukee, after waiting seven years, our first child, Ann, made
her appearance. She was followed shortly thereafter by her brother
Dick and then in 1955 our third child, Willard, Jr., joined us.

While in Milwaukee I served in several capacities. For a period
I had charge of the company’s national advertising and sales pro-
motion program. During these years I traveled to agencies through-

[ 445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

out the United States. In 1952 I became superintendent of agencic
in charge of one-half of the company’s agencies. In 1954, I wa
appointed administrative officer of the agency department. Al.
though Wisconsin is not known for its mountain country, we €n-
joyed being active members of the Heilige Heugel Ski Club. Again
I enjoyed skiing expeditions to Mount Hood in Oregon and Aspen in
Colorado. Among one of our enjoyable hobbies during these years
was sailing on our “yacht” on Lake Michigan—a_ thirteen-foot
Old Town sailboat. In 1955, one month following the completion of
a brand-new home, I was struck down with polio, as a result of which
the Griffin family faced a grim crisis for the next seven months. By
February, 1956, I was back at work full-time and learning to
negotiate with Canadian canes, instead of ski poles. These have
served very well ever since. _

In 1958 I was appointed general agent for the Northwester

Mutual in Connecticut. We have lived in Hartford during the past
three years and expect this to be our permanent home henceforth.
We are glad to be back in New England where our family enjoys
the seaboard in the summer and occasional trips to New York. We
have a growing organization of approximately fifty Northwestern
representatives in Connecticut who are playing “mighty good ball.”

I enjoy participating in a number of extracurricular activities in-
cluding Westminster Presbyterian Church, as well as a number of
business associations. In spite of being in the home of the Elis, I
find there are a number of Harvard graduates. I am now working
with the recently-organized Harvard Club of Northern Connecti-
cut.

ROBERT ALOYSIUS GRIMES, JR.

HOME Appress: 46 Lincoln St., Waltham 54, Mass.

orFice appress: Hardy, Hall, Grimes & Murphy, 75 Federal St., Boston 10,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1915, South Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; LL.B. 1940.

Marniep: Martha P. Ford, Nov. 28, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Robert
Thomas, Dec. 18, 1944; Ellen Ann, Jan. 15, 1946; Justin, Jan. 25, 19485
Martha, April 5, 1949; Stephen, May 28, 1950; Barry, 1954; Mary G., 1957-

occupation: Lawyer; president of cooperative bank, Commissioner of Assess-
ing, City of Boston.

[ 446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Member, Waltham City Council, 1949-53; past president, Newton-
Waltham-Watertown Bar Association, 1953, USS Massachusetts As-
sociates, 1955; First Assistane District Attorney, Middlesex County, 1956-
58; past chairman, Board of Review, City of Boston, 1960; director, Garden

City Trust Company, 1960-61, Waltham Community Fund, Waltham Red
Cross.

MEMBER OF: Woodland Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Case Reports in Assessment Administration,” published by
International Association of Assessing Officers, Chicago.

UPON graduation I entered Harvard Law School from which I was
graduated in 1940, and immediately became a member of the Massa-
chusetts bar. Shortly thereafter, I enlisted in the Naval Reserve and
spent thirty days on the USS Quincy, as an apprentice seaman. I
then returned and practised law for about six months. I went back in
the Navy in June, 1941, as a midshipman and became an ensign in
September, 1941. Suffice it to say that I served on the USS Massa-
chusetts, USS Boston and the USS Detroit, and participated in various
‘campaigns from the invasion of Africa to the occupation of Tokyo,
primarily as a First Division officer and Turret 1 officer. On being
discharged from the service as a lieutenant commander, I took up the
practice of law in Boston, with Carpenter, Ney, Caiger & Harding,
73 Cornhill, Boston. Oh, yes, by the way, I was married on Novem-
ber 28, 1942, to Martha P. Ford of Waltham, two days after return-
ing from the invasion of North Africa. I practised law with the said
firm for four years and then went into business for myself. I took a
try at active politics and served two terms as a member of the Wal-
tham City Council, from 1949 to 1953. I did not seek re-election
in 1953. In 1953 I founded and became president of Middle-
sex Family Cooperative Bank in Waltham. The then Senator
Kennedy presided at the opening ceremonies. I took an active part
as the man in charge of his campaign in 1952 in the Waltham area
and arranged the first of the great debates between him and Senator
Henry Cabot Lodge, which was held in Waltham. (The bank
started with about $40,000 in 1953 and has now $2,250,000; I am also
general counsel for it.) I practised law very actively, primarily in
trial work and business work and land damage cases, tort cases,
criminal cases and so forth, during this period. From time to time
we had another blessing in the family until we reached seven.

I also participated actively in community and civic activities in
Waltham and in Boston. I was at various times a director of the
Community Fund, the Red Cross, commander of the Amvets, vice-
commander of the Crosscup-Pishon Post of the American Legion in

[ 447]

_ HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Boston, president of the USS Massachusetts Associates and president
of the Newton-Waltham-Watertown Bar Association. I was First
Assistant District Attorney for Middlesex County from December,
1956, until the spring of 1958. We remodeled a big old eighteen-
room house in Waltham and built a new house at Cotuit on the
Cape, both around 1954. Was elected a director of the Garden City
Trust Company in Newton in 1960. Was selected by Mayor John
F. Collins of Boston, for his only department head residing outside
the City of Boston, as chairman of the Board of Review, handling
the defense of millions of dollars of tax abatement cases for the City
of Boston, and succeeded in cutting the tax abatements in half and
cutting the interest paid on them by 97%. Also completed for
Mayor Collins and the City of Boston a reorganization of the
Assessing Department and, on May 1, 1961, was appointed Commis-
sioner of Assessing in charge of all phases of its activities, abatements,

personnel, assessing, etc.

By the time this goes to print, I shall have resigned from said
position, to which I only agreed to devote two years away from my
own business. I am returning to my own firm, Hardy, Hall, Grimes
& Murphy, 75 Federal Street, Boston, to engage in the active practice
of law on January 1, 1962. I am now trying to take better care of my
health, with which I had some difficulties four or five years
ago, playing golf at the Woodland Golf Club, of which I am a
member. I am trying to bring my children up as well as possible and
planning their education. The oldest will be entering college next
year. God has been good to us, and all has gone much better than
we ever hoped for.

As for political convictions, as recited in the outline, I obviously
am a Democrat. As for religious convictions, we are Roman
Catholics. Neither one of those convictions seems to be as much of
a handicap in recent times as it was thought to be prior to President
Kennedy’s election. I have no other convictions — in fact one of my
principal businesses has been defending people from convictions

(legal).

LLOYD PRESTON GRISCOM

HOME appress: Muttontown Road, Syosset, Long Island, N.Y.

orrice appress: John H. G. Pell & Co, Room 4312, 1 Wall Sct, New York 5,
N.Y.

BORN: Feb, 5, 1914, New York, N.Y.

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.
MaRRIED: Olivia Antoinette Dunn, Dec. 20, 1941, New York, N.Y. CHILprEN:

Lloyd Preston, Jr., Feb. 19, 1943; Rufus King, Oct. 14, 1944, Guy Appleby,
Nov. 10, 1950.

occuPATION: Partner, John H. G. Pell & Company, investment counsellors.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Wall Street Management Corporation, secretary-
treasurer and director, Wall Street Investing Corporation, assistant secretary
and assistant treasurer, New York Capital Fund, Ltd, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada; vice-president and director, Optometric Center, member of vestry,
St. John’s Church, Lattingtown, Long Island, New York.

STILL doing business at the same old stand, but on the side en-
thusiastically farming and growing pine trees on my father’s former
plantation in Tallahassee, Florida.

Favorite pastimes: shooting, yachting, bad golf, and tennis.

NATHANAEL BABCOCK GROTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1212 Chestnut St., Western Springs, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Air Lines, Executive Offices, P.O. Box 8800, Chicago
66, Ill.

BORN: July 15, 1916, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Germantown Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Juanita Harmar Brown, June 13, 1953, Whitemarsh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Anne Harmar, April 8, 1954; Sarah Bradley, July 15, 1955.

occupation: Air Transportation, manager of schedule development.

OFFICES HELD: Co-president, John Laidlaw P.T.A., Western Springs, Illinois,
1961-62; treasurer, United Air Lines Toastmasters Club #1513, Chicago,
Illinois, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; National Geographic Society, Toast-
masters International,

ON the very day of our 1937 graduation, I was behind United Air
Lines’ 42nd Street ticket counter in New York, starting to learn
first-hand why passengers prefer a particular schedule. Today, still
with much to learn but, I trust, somewhat the wiser from experience,
I am responsible for advance planning of the company’s system
schedules. Our top satisfaction is working out successful com-
promises among the many conflicting factors which must be con-
sidered whenever over two hundred airplanes and one hundred
Cities are to be matched, We are in a very real sense product-build-
ers, striving to discover those new methods and techniques which
will assure both good service to the public and a corporate protic.

[ 449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

After almost three years in New York from 1937 to 1940, I was
transferred to the company’s General Headquarters in Chicago,
Except for three and one-half years on active duty with the Air
Force, I have been an Illinoisan ever since, regretting that our edge-
of-the-city office location has virtually ruled out attendance at
Harvard Club of Chicago luncheon meetings.

World War II duty was with the Air Transport Command, first
as a civilian consultant, then as an enlisted man and finally, via O.CS.,
as a Priorities and Traffic Officer with assignments in Edmonton,
Whitehorse, Hawaii and Washington. I was fortunate to be part
of the early months of A.T.C.’s organization and to stay with work
which I knew best. .

Life changed much for the better in 1953 when a second Pennsyl-
vanian from Whitemarsh agreed to move to Illinois, as my wife.
Our two girls are now in first and second grade, with community,
school and church activity taking its toll of the few spare hours
available.

The Glee Club meant a great deal to me in college, and I’ve con-
tinued some variety of choral singing ever since — Dessoff Choirs
in New York, University of Chicago choir, Riverside (Illinois)
Men’s Glee Club and now our local Congregational Church choir.
It was a treat to talk with Woody here in Chicago just a few years
ago and more recently to hear the Club on tour with Elliot Forbes.

I am daring to hope that the next twenty-five years will not see
an atomic holocaust — that our growing awareness of its horror and

stupidity will defy even the historical probability of a war in each
generation.

HENRY DONALD GRUSH

HOME apprEss: Bad Godesberg, Steubenring 10/2, Federal Republic of Germany.

oFFice Appress: Office of Legal Attaché, American Embassy, Box 590, APO 80.

BORN: July 9, 1915, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., 1937; A.M., 1947,

mMarrieD: Eleanor Doremus Swartz, Nov. 27, 1948, Summit, N.J. CHILDREN:
Jean Elizabeth, May 10, 1950; Erika Ann, May 20, 1952; Stephen Granville,
July 5, 1954-

occuPATION: Assistant legal attaché, American Embassy, Bonn, Germany.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of San Francisco and Heidelberg.

PERHAPS a youthful interest in travel books has had an effect on
my life. It all began when, in 1938, in an effort to gain enough

[ 450]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

knowledge of the German language to enable me to enter univer-
sity teaching, I convinced my father to finance a year’s study for me
in the Third Reich. I was welcomed to Leipzig with the Kristall-
nacht. My studies at the university there lasted six months, after
which I landed a job at the American Consulate in Stuttgart. The
proposed year lengthened to two during a terrible period of history.
A year after the outbreak of war in Europe I tired of blackout and
rationing, so returned home. Relaxing with a few of my hoarded
dollars, I joined a friend in a two-month trip to Peru, where I
attended a summer course at the University of San Marcos and
traveled through that country, which I consider one of the most
interesting in the world.

Attempts to serve my country with my knowledge of German
ended in my enlisting in the Army early in 1942. I was assigned to
the Anti-Aircraft Artillery, went to Officers Candidate School, and
graduated as a second lieutenant, despite the fact that I never did
know how those gun directors worked. In a spirit of je ne sais quoi
I asked for overseas assignment, and shortly found myself regimental
intelligence officer of the 209th AAA Regiment, stationed in
Northern Ireland. Presumably I was picked for my language ability,
although I must confess that in all my service I interrogated but
three prisoners. My outfit was sent first to England, then to Algeria,
Tunisia, and Italy, and finished the war on the Austrian border.
After a short tour of duty helping administer the 338th Prisoner of
War Enclosure near Leghorn, 1 was sent back to the States and dis-
charged as a captain.

Foreseeing a future in the field of Russian, I returned to old H.U.,
this time to the Slavic Department. I stayed long enough to get an
A.M., but restlessness, visions of having to contend with Old
Slavonic, and possibly an affinity for Sherlock Holmes led me to
join forces with the FBI. My new employers may have considered
that my Boston accent needed tempering; at any rate they sent me
to San Francisco, an assignment for which I shall ever be grateful.
Now that I had a job, I was in a position to marry a girl who had
taken my fancy. The next years were spent in raising dogs, cats,
kids (two girls, one boy), and botanical specimens, interspersed
with all too few trips (to Mexico City, Victoria, B.C. and Hono-
lulu). I had about resigned myself to spending my declining years in
San Francisco in middle class happiness (no bad prospect), when in
1959 I found myself wit Kind und Kegel back in a much improved
Germany as Assistant Legal Attaché at the American Embassy in

[451]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Bonn, feeling in these times of tension that this was where I had come
in before. I have seen dark days in the past, however, and believe

that with determination the West and its ideals will outlast the
eastern tyrannies.

WILLARD PARKER GRUSH

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Colony Rd., Lexington 73, Mass.
OFFICE ADpREss: R, M. Bradley & Co., Inc., 250 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass,
BoRN: May 23, 1915, Winchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.,; Winchester High School, Win-
chester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1937-
marrieD: Helen Avery Butler, Aug. 29, 1942, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN:

Sandra, Aug. 23, 1943; Jeffrey Willard, Jan. 21, 1955; Kimball Warren,
March 16, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Merton Elkanah Grush, Jr., a.M., ’47.

occupation: Real estate; vice-president and head of appraisal division, R. M.
Bradley & Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees and chairman of Building Committee,
Pilgrim Congregational Church, Lexington, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Boston Real Estate Board; National Association of Real Estate
Boards; American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers; Society of Industrial
Realtors; New England Historic Genealogical Society.

THAT dim period right after Harvard now seems to have been just
frittered away. Five non-productive years with the doddering old
B & M Railroad —then my well-ordered life had a complete up-
heaval; a wonderful wife, a cute little blonde daughter, an involun-
tary tour of the country of several years’ duration with the USAAF.
This touring merely whetted my appetite for New England, how-
ever, so here I’ve been ever since, and shall undoubtedly continue
to be.

The fascination of real estate still called, thus I continued in the
ficld — first in selling and leasing industrial porperties, then subse-
quently and presently concentrating on the appraisal of industrial
and commercial properties of all kinds. This is a highly specialized
and stimulating facet of the real estate business, Association with
such a large and well-regarded firm as RMB has been a tremendous
help.

Portier active avocations, such as skiing and sailing, have in recent
years given way to more sedentary pursuits. I've tried my hand at
the customary do-it-yoursclf trades, with a fair measure of success.
Genealogy has proven a dchghtful diversion. Both my wife and I

[452 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have taken active parts in the formation, planning and construction
of a new church during the past three years.

THOMAS GUTHRIE GUNN

HOME ADpREssS: 69 Paxwood Rd., Delmar, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E, M. Hale & Co., Eau Claire, Wis.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1913, Sussex, N.B., Canada.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: June Louise Eaton, March 25, 1939, Boston, Nfass. CHILDREN: Neil
W., Jan. 18, 1941 (died May 7, 1941); Thomas Guthrie, Jr.. May 5, 1942;
Christopher Eaton, Jan. 27, 1944; Sara, June 25, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edwin Percy Gunn, ’30,; Townsend MacNicol Gunn, 731;
John Martyn Gunn, ’33.

occupation: Regional manager, northeastern region, and sales representative,

E. M. Hale & Company, publishers of juvenile hterature in special editions
for schools and libraries.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Educational Salesmen’s Association of New York
State, 1955-58; vice-president, Bethlehem Community Ambassador Pro-
gram, 1959, 1960; director, Delmar Rotary Club, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Professional Bookmen’s Club of America; Educational Salesmen's

Association of New York State; Delmar Rotary Club; Long Island Book-
men’s Club.

MY occupations these past twenty-five years have centered in and
around education. The only exceptions have been a stint of person-
nel work during World War II and a shorter stint as a carpenter
and millhand.

Financial shortcomings notwithstanding, for me there was no more
challenging and rewarding service than that of teaching young
people. Better to provide for my family, however, I returned to the
field of educational sales ten years ago. I am a better salesman for
my experience as a teacher, and I know that many teachers would
develop into better teachers if they were to become salesmen. Un-
fortunately, too many teachers know they have a captive audience.

Further opinions in brief: (1) All that young people need today
is some adversity in one form or another, Adversity is not only the
spur of desire but also the means of discovering the values of life.

(2) The Church generally is losing its position of respect in view
of the fact that it refuses to be the compelling voice of conscience to
the people.

(3) We need more common understanding among all men in this
world. We will achieve it and world peace only through educanion

[453 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and service to others. The practice of ideals is costly, but the cost
is nowhere near so great as that of armaments, loss of peace of mind,
and loss of self-respect. America could gain so much if it would
only pay the price.

Highlights of our family life have been our camping trips across
the United States and into Canada. Another highlight happened be-
cause of our entertaining an International Experimenter from
England. Through him we met Bob Raymond and his family. The
occasion was a Class of 37 reunion in miniature!

I affirm that my wife and children have been and are my greatest
love and possession. Where they are is home, and there is no place
like it for me. I have been blessed in them and the love of family
that I share both on my side and on my wife’s side. We look for-
ward to family reunions with real pleasure. Simpler pleasure I find
in poor golf, good music, fruitful reading, and hard gardening. My
wife shares all these with me, with the exception of golf.

++ HOLDEN COWEE GUTERMUTH
BORN: July 18, 1916, Troy, N.Y. parents: Charles Sylvester Gutermuth, Sarah
Cowee.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, Cum laude, 1937.

MarrieD: Dorothy E. Illick, Aug. 19, 1939, Syracuse, N.Y. cHitpren: Marilyn
Marguerite, Sept. 30, 1941; Holden Cowee, Jr., April 21, 1944; Charles Illick,
May 30, 1948.

prep: April 3, 1960, Berlin, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. Holden C. Gutermuth, Berlin, N.Y.

HOLDEN COWEE GUTERMUTH, while an undergraduate, was
a member of Leverett House tennis and basketball teams. Since
graduation he had been associated with the firm of W. J. Cowee,
Inc., a woodworking factory in Berlin, New York, and was vice-
president of the firm at the time of his death. He was a director of
the Taconic Valley Bank, chairman of the local Boy Scout Com-

mittee and president of the Berlin Water Company. He was sur-
vived by his wife and children.

CHRISTIAN HENRY HABERKORN, III

HOME appress: 16641 E. Jefferson Ave. Grosse Pointe Park, Mich,

ovrice Appress: H. E. Beyster & Associates, 9512 Woodward Ave., Detroit 2,
Mich.

[454]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: July 6, 1916, Detroit, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Detroit University School, Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1937.

marrieD: Hendrieka Beyster, April 20, 1940, Grosse Pointe, Mich. CHILDREN:
Christian Henry, 4th, Nov. 20, 1941; Susan Beck, Aug. 15, 1944; John Bey-
ster, May 5, 1947; Hendrieka Beyster, Jan. 15, 1952; Mary Frances, Jan. 14,
1955+

OccUPATION: Principal and general manager, H. E. Beyster & Associates, Archi-

tects & Engineers, specializing in design and development of educational
and institutional buildings,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Board of Education, Grosse Pointe Public Schools;
trustee, Detroit Orthopaedic Clinic, Franklin Settlement, Detroit, director,

Stott Realty Company, Detroit; member, Budget Committee, United Com-
munity Services.

MEMBER OF: Grosse Pointe Memorial Church (Presbyterian); Rotary Club of
Highland Park, Mich.; University Club of Detroit; Detroit Club; American
Association of School Administrators; National School Boards Association;
Michigan Association of School Boards; Society of American Military En-
gineers; Detroit Metropolitan Area Regional Planning Commission.

PUBLICATIONS: “School Buildings for the Junior High School Program,” 1961.

WHEN I first received my “Life Questionnaire” last fall, I could
reflect on little that would interest you “really active” characters
of 1937, but I thought that, if I waited a bit, something might de-
velop. Now it is the last minute and, as you expected, nothing
dramatic has happened. After all, why would it? I have been quict,
conservative and just “making do” ever since leaving college.

I have been continuously married to my favorite wife for twenty-
one years. Our “brood” has developed in natural course. The elder
boy, a six-foot four-inch fellow who dislikes being called Mr.
Fix-it, but really can, is now in Ferris Institute, Big Rapids, Michigan,
completing the first phase of an industrial arts teaching education;
the eldest girl, a swimming, clarinet-tooting, all-around Girl Scout,
will graduate from Grosse Pointe High School in June, and will be
on her way in physical therapy training at Indiana University this
fall; the younger boy, a stitched-up, hockey-playing, teen-ager-ty pe
student, should finish junior high school this spring (he wrote his
career paper as a prospective Harvard-trained minister — time will
tell); and the two little girls, ages seven and ten, are very pretty,
elementary school challenges.

My good wife Hendricka has been much more active than |
(well, after all, she has more time). She holds together our 1920-
vintage house (we plan to build when all the children are married,
Circa 1975); she takes care of the kids (we added two less fortunate

[455]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

children for a while); she watches over the African violets, the dog,
the cat, the bird, and the tropical fish (we were free of fish for a
time, but they are back again); she plans for our brief visits to our
northern Ontario “retreat” on Lake Temagami (500 miles from
home, we bought a wee island on which my sons and I built an
“A-frame”-type shelter); and, in her spare time, she is a hard-work-
ing president of Franklin Settlement, an integrated neighborhood
activities center in Detroit’s rough Central City area. (I visit with
her during our teaching period at Sunday School.)

As for me, after Harvard, I studied some law, some architecture,
and some engineering (night school type); entered the banking field
as a clerk, but left that eighty-five-dollar a month haven in 1940,
when a “nitroglycerin bandit” held up my teller’s cage; started a
small construction company, which dried up while Uncle Sam’s Navy
“utilized” my services in World War II; and, in 1946, I joined the
architectural firm of which I am now manager and principal owner.
I have had the privilege of developing about $200,000,000 of various
kinds of buildings throughout the country. Basically, because I am
a “push-over” for boys and girls, most of my recent work has been
in the school field, planning for our future citizens. I’m a self-styled
expert in school plant planning.

That’s about it! Life has treated us well and we have tried to
make our contribution in return. We are deeply concerned with
the state of this world we live in. It has gotten so small and so
complex, like a fine watch with many inter-related components,
each needing careful attention. If one part gets out of whack, it
must be tended to. If a major break should occur, the whole com-
plex of civilization may be gone. I can only hope for myself, my
family, and for all people a life of peace and freedom, under God.

ARTHUR JULIUS HACKER

MAILING AbprESS; 18 Pleasant St., Ballston Spa, N.Y.

Born: April 14, 1916, Albany, N.Y.

prepareD aT: Renssclaer High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937 (38).

Marriep: Marilyn A. Pyne, Feb. 14, 1947, Westficld, Mass. ciLpren: Arlynn
Jean, Aug. 14, 1948; Craig Arthur, July 28, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Physician,

NO basic changes. Still in general medical practice in Ballston Spa,
New York. No exciting or interesting events.

[ 456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAMILTON HADDEN, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Long Island Expressway, Jericho, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chemstrand Corp., 350 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.
BoRN: Nov. 29, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1937(36); B.A. (Cambridge Univ.),
1938; LL.B. (Harvard Univ.), 1941; m.a. (Cambridge Univ.), 1959.
MarRiED: Sarah M. Russell, Nov. 28, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Sarah F.,

Sept. 26, 1943; Susan L., Aug. 23, 1947; Hamilton, Nov. 21, 1948; J. C. David,
April 20, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president — general manager, Overseas Division, and secre-

tary, Chemstrand Corporation, manufacturers and distributors of chemical
fibres.

OFFICES HELD: Currently, director, Fiduciary Trust Company; governor, Piping
Rock Club; trustee, Nassau Hospital (Mineola) and Humes Foundation,
member of vestry, Church of the Advent (Westbury); member of execu-
tive board, 1948-59, chairman, Advisory Board, 1950-60, Nassau County
Boy Scouts of America; governor, Lunch Club, New York, 1950-57, mem-

ber, 1950-55, president, 1952-55, Jericho School Board, trustee, Greenvale
School, 1953-60.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club, Meadowbrook Club; Union League; Racquet

and Tennis Club; Beaver Dam Club; American Club (London); Church
Club of New York.

CHRONOLOGICALLY, this account must start with efforts at
further education in preparation eventually for a commercial life.
Thanks to the inspiration of C. J. Symington, I acquired the neces-
sary credits in literature to graduate from college in three years, in
moderately good standing. “Thereafter, he and I attended Trinity
College, Cambridge, originally planning for a one-year stay. How-
ever, the atmosphere being so delightful, we persuaded ‘ourselves
(and our families) to extend the residence another year, in order to
attempt to obtain a degree, the older university being graciously
inclined to value a Harvard A.B., as equivalent to the third year
normally required.

A fair amount of travel on the Continent and British Isles was
fitted in during this period, which was fortunate, since the oppor-
tunity did not re-occur for twenty years. After securing a second
Bachelor’s degree, I entered Harvard Law School in the autumn of
1938, for the usual obstacle course, participating in academic and
extracurricular activities in a manner not too far different from that
of a great number of contemporaries, and receiving an LL.B. in
June, 1941.

The summer of 1940 included a tour as apprentice seaman on the

[457 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

USS Wyoming, principally to Guantanamo Bay. In July, 1941,
still pursuing education in every possible form, I joined the USS
Prairie State to emerge an ensign and be assigned to a newly-built
destroyer in November. I had the distinction (or difference) of re-
maining on this vessel, USS Rodman (DD 456), until demobilization,
in the autumn of 1945, serving in various capacities, including execu-
tive officer from 1943. During this period, we worked the North
Atlantic with fleet units, spent the two summers attached to the
British Home Fleet at Scapa Flow, became familiar with Iceland,
Trinidad, and the Azores, visited Murmansk, had a tour of Medi-
terranean duty, participated in each European or African invasion
but one, were transferred to Pacific duty in time to form a bull’s-
eye for two very accurate kamikazes off Okinawa in one afternoon,
and I acquired the appropriate number of battle stars (one for a
submarine), two Bronze Stars (Cherbourg and Okinawa), and a
unit citation. During this period also, I showed the rare good judg-
ment to find a wife. This has turned out very well, and is, unques-
tionably, the most intelligent event here recorded.

In 1946, it being apparent that gainful employment should com-
mence, I became associated with the New York firm of Shearman &
Sterling & Wright, where I remained, doing largely corporate and
securities work, until 1957, when I joined Chemstrand Corporation,
as secretary and a one-man legal department. For the last two years,
I have been general manager of its Overseas Division, thereby having
cognizance of its manufacturing associates in six countries of Europe,
Latin America, and the Far East, and of its distributors in some
twenty-six additional countries. This supplies such opportunities
for travel that the romance of the wild blue yonder is not now of
itself a compelling reason for leaving home. However, I am having
a good time and have picked up a modicum of the jargons of the

textile and chemical worlds.

Since 1946, we have lived in the same house, surrounded by an
enlarging family and an ever-present conglomeration of dogs, ponies
and poultry. Activities are of a social or athletic rather than of a
civic nature, and it is to be hoped that the emphasis will stay that
way. Number one daughter, Kitty, is at Bradford College, having
taken a trip two years ago with a student group further into Russia
than her old man has ever been. Susie, next year, will be at Oldfields
School, Maryland, although her heart is in the Tetons; Hammy its

at the Fay, and David at the Greenvale School. We hope all to
reassemble at Cambridge in June.

[458]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BAYARD HADLEY HALE

HOME ADpRESS: 26 E. gist St., New York 28, N.Y. .
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sterling Drug, Inc., International, 1450 Broadway, New York,
N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937-

marrieD: Evelyne Seibold, Sept. 29, 1956, Foster Center, R.I. CHILD: Susan
Seibold, July 21, 1959.

WILLIAM JOSEPH HALEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Copeland St., Watertown, Mass.
BORN: Feb. 24, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MarRieD: Margaret E. Brackett, Feb. 16, 1941, Watertown, Mass. (died Dec. 24,
1958). CHILD: William Joseph, 3d, Jan. 10, 1942.
OCCUPATION: Pianist.

UPON leaving Harvard, I entered directly into the music business,
playing with various dance orchestras and jazz groups throughout
the country. I am still so occupied, although confining my activities
mostly to New England. My work is my hobby. And my son, a
junior, honor student, and English major at Boston College is my
pride and joy.

Quid hoc ad aeternitatem.

WILLIAM THOMAS HALEY, JR.

HOME apprEss: 2 Wyman Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Atlantic Ave., Marblehead, Mass.

BORN: May 29, 1916, Peabody, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1941.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Nixon Fitzpatrick, Nov. 24, 1945, Newton, Mass, CHILDREN
Eileen Cecilia, Jan. 26, 1950; Peter Dominic, Jan. 13, 1953.

occuPATION: Physician; general practice of medicine,

OFFICES HELD: Staff member, Mary A. Alley Hospital, Marblchead, Salem
Hospital, Salem; incorporator, member of corporation, Goldthwait Reser-
vation, Inc.; member, chairman, Board of Health, Marblehead; member,

Disaster Committee, Marblehead Chapter, American Red Cross; school
physician,

[ 459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MEMBER OF: Essex South District Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical

Society; American Medical Association, American Academy of General
Practice.

INTERN, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, 1941-42. U.S. Army, Sep-
tember, 1942, to December, 1945, first lieutenant, captain, Medical
Corps; service in E.T.O. with 1oznd Cavalry Squadron; decorations:
Purple Heart, Distinguished Service Cross. Married Elizabeth Nixon
Fitzpatrick of Newtonville (sister of J. Barron Fitzpatrick, room-
mate in college) in 1945. Since October, 1946, physician, general
practice of medicine in Marblehead. Hobbies: watercolor painting,
recorder playing. Sports: sailing. Travel: Europe, summer, 1938,
with Tom Broderick, ’37; Europe, 1958; transcontinental U.S., seven

trips. Reading: professional; non-professional, average six books a
year.

GEORGE EDWARD HALL

HOME ADDRESS: Oak Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Dewey & Almy Chemical Division, W. R. Grace & Cow
Cambridge 40, Mass,

BorN: Oct. 1, 1915, Dedham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marriep: Sarah W. Millett, Sept. 13, 1941, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN: George

Edward, Jr. Jan. 16, 1943; Olivia Ford, Oct. 22, 1944; Ellen A., June 16,
1956.

HARVARD son: George Edward Hall, Jr., 64.

occuPATION: Staff engineer, Dewey & Almy Chemical Division, W. R. Grace
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Factory manager, Boston Woven Hose & Rubber Company;
assistant to general manager, The Vellumoid Company; chairman, Special
Gifts, Concord Community Chest; fund chairman, disaster chairman and

chapter chairman, Concord Chapter, American Red Cross; member, Prop-
erty & Finance Commission, Trinity Church, Concord.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Rubber Division, ACS; Boston

Rubber Group, Harvard Business School Club of Worcester; Concord
Country Club; Concord Sailfishers.

pugtications: US. Patent 2,318,441 — “Non Static Belting.”

CHEMISTRY was my major, so I am glad we are asked to write a

simple account of our lives in the past twenty-five years, I couldn’t
write it any other way.

My business life has been divided about equally between produc-
tion and product development. I started as a chemist with Boston

[ 460 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Woven Hose & Rubber Company, but soon moved over onto pro-
duction supervision. After a brief time in the service, I did a variety
of jobs for Boston Woven Hose, becoming assistant factory manager
in 1953 and factory manager in 1955. American Biltrite Rubber
Company obtained control in 1956. This was the first of two ac-
quisitions to which I have been subjected and I can testify that it is a
real experience in learning to “roll with the punches” and adapt to
change, whether you agree with it or not. I have found it easier to
tackle a new job in a new situation than to work under completely
new management in an old job.

In 1957, I left to join the Vellumoid Company of Worcester.
Vellumoid was a small well-established company with some very real
problems. In 1959 this closely-held company was bought by the
Dewey & Almy Chemical Division, W. R. Grace Company, and I
found myself working in Cambridge again. This was a happy result
for me. I’m involved again in product development, and this is a
welcome change of pace after the many years of production
management problems.

Education was continued for me when the Navy offered me a
commission as ensign in 1943 and sent me to Princeton, M.1.T., and
NAS Opa Locka, Florida, for ten months of intensive training in
radio and radar. The only common denominator we all had was two
years of college math, but they managed in the short time available
to provide a good background in electrical and electronic engineer-
ing.

Further formal education was had when my company sent me to
the Advanced Management Program of the Harvard Business
School in 1955. I think this is one of Harvard’s great programs,
where for thirteen weeks well-experienced men from many com-
panies interchange ideas under the guidance of the faculty.

As to community activities, I have had some energy left for fund
drives, church affairs and mainly Red Cross. Currently, I'm chapter
chairman. Walden Pond has been and still is the scene of our water
safety program. This was Thoreau’s retreat and the object of the
recent internationally publicized “Save Walden” campaign.

The family has three generations, or almost does. Mv wife and
I comprise the first generation. We met skiing and still go after it
hammer and tongs . . . We skied in Davos in 1950 but the needs of
the family, especially for education, have cut out travel since. A
few years back we bought, together with two other families, a nwo-
bedroom cottage in Vermont. Some weekends there you will find

[ 461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

six adults and up to fourteen children, mostly in beds in the un-
finished attic. I can still recommend it! Family skiing is great.

We participate in that frustrating so-called game of golf, sail and
race a truly fine little craft called a Sailfish, read (most enjoyed
recently was Advise and Consent), watch too much TV and have
as much social life as time and a shortage of baby-sitters allow.

Geordie was born prewar, graduated from Middlesex School and
is now a sophomore at Harvard. He has worked summers at every-
thing from boat liveries to insurance offices and helps me carry the
frightening college expenses. Lee is the other member of the second
generation and was born during the war. She wants to go to
Middlebury next year. It could just be that skiing has something to
do with that. She has her junior “A” rating for racing in skiing but
can’t quite get that B average at Concord Academy. Ellen was
born post-postwar (1956) and is the “third generation” or our “do-
it-yourself grandchild.” It is just possible she is (or will be) the
greatest joy of all. I can’t omit a succession of pairs of Labrador
retrievers who are privileged members of the family. Often you
can get them to give you a place on the sofa.

There is nothing new or profound I can add by commenting on
the state of the world and the problems and rewards of life. We've
been happy and had our successes and failures. I confidently look
forward to our Fiftieth Reunion with or without a fall-out shelter.
The stress of our times was most impressed on me by Dr. Claude
Fuess, headmaster emeritus of Andover, while addressing the graduat-

ing class at Middlesex in 1960. His subject was “Will There Be a
Year 2000?”

JAMES BREWSTER HALLETT

HOME apprgss: 51 Thomson Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Travelers Insurance Co., 700 Main St., Hartford 15, Conn.
porn: Aug. 30, 1915, Denver, Colo.

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),
19

MarnrieD: Nancy Handy, Feb. 20, 1943, Riverside, N.Y, cuitp: James Brewster,
Jr. (Bruce), July 25, 1944,

HaRvagD BROTHER: Moses Deering Hallett, 'qo.

occuPATION: Lawyer, associate counsel, Travelers Insurance Company.

orrices Helo; State Legislative chairman, Health Insurance Association of
America, 1956-62; commander, Division B, Greater Hartford Community
Chest, 1959; chairman, Social Security Sub-committee, Connecticut Cham-

[ 462 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ber of Commerce, 1959-61; member, Joint Committee of Lawyers and
Life Insurance Companies, American Bar Association-American Life Con-
vention-Life Insurance Association of America, 1959-62, vice-president,
1957-60, president, 1960-61, Harvard Club of Connecticut, chairman,
Schools Committee, Harvard Club of Northern Connecticut, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Connecticut and New York bars; American, Connecticut and
Hartford County Bar Associations; Delphic Club, Harvard College, Uni-
versity Club, Hartford, Appalachian Mountain Club; Hartford Audubon
Society, Inc.; Northeastern Bird-Banding Association.

pusLications: “The Extra-Territorial Effect of State Regulatory Laws: Some
1955 Comments,” Monograph: Association of Life Insurance Counsel;
usual briefs to courts and memoranda to legislative committees.

LAST night I was on a public platform in another of a series of
hot public debates on a very controversial national issue. The other
panelists were a congressman, a doctor and a union official. Each
side possessed —to paraphrase an outstanding author—a sane,
reasonable, fair-minded and impartial inability to conceive that the
other’s viewpoint had the slightest merit! The event had the usual
political and publicity overtones — press, radio and TV — that is,
another headline war. The issue, however critical, is not important
here; there will always be others.

What is important to me right now — struggling with this 25th
Anniversary obituary — is to put a current worry on paper.

Justice Holmes said that a man fails to participate in the events of
his time at his peril. I’m sure he meant businessmen as well as
lawyers and professional politicians, and that he didn’t care whether
a man was a Democrat, Independent, Republican, liberal or con-
servative. He just wanted him to be informed on public affairs
affecting him and then to stand up and be counted. At cocktail
parties as well as town meetings. And particularly before hostile
audiences, not just before those who agree and vote with him.
Those of us in legislative work can stand being out-voted by juries
or legislative committees so long as our side is fairly heard; we
detest losing by default. |

Thus, unless we stop leaving to others the public scrap — endless,
to be sure — over the proper balance between citizens and corpora-
tions and their government, most of us, if we live to our Fiftieth
in 1987 (as our wives certainly will), are going to list our occupa-
tions as “Retired — ward of the federal government.”

So much for my present distress over those who sit on their hands.
Just how do you get to a point where, while some agree with you,
others think you're dead wrong and therefore better off dead?

[ 463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Well, from Cambridge you go to the Yale Law School; coach an
intra-mural football team; become a freshman counselor of young
Elis, and have a wholly unintended brush with the gendarmerie —
the greatest lesson of all in constitutional law. Then a New York
law firm (Alexander & Green) ull World War II, where — in as a
private, out as major — you end up chasing the Gestapo in Europe
with General Patton’s headquarters and the Counter Intelligence
Corps (Bronze Star; Croix de Guerre).

On the way home by victory ship (Hudson River, September 19,
1945) you are the only one of eight million in uniform who saw his
willowy blonde wife and thirteen-months-old son on shore — and
they saw you — before you again set foot on U.S. soil hours later.

Back to the New York law firm, then to the National Association
of Life Underwriters as general counsel, where you take the heady
plunge into legislative work with Congress and state legislatures.
Then, you are suddenly recalled during the Korean War for fifteen
months to teach law to recruits and learn to respect and commiser-
ate with all teachers. And now, ten years with The Travelers In-
surance Companies, Hartford, Connecticut.

Lawyers get few esoteric thrills. Such as they are, mine have come
from working on prospective legislation with both political parties
through five sessions of the Connecticut General Assembly; and —
most especially in the past year from having been in close contact
with a major breakthrough in health insurance for the elderly, the

Connecticut 65 Plan.

Hobbies: camping, skiing, fishing, hunting, birdbanding ( Permit
8054), white-water canoeing, and seeing Harvard win tough games.

HYMAN HALPERN

HOME AboRESS: 624 Norfolk St, Mattapan, Mass.

orrice appress: Milhender Distributors, Inc. 297 Dorchester Ave., South
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1914, Boston, Mass.

pupartn at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1937 (38).

Makkibp: Frances 5. Greenberg, July 14, 1946, Roxbury, Mass. CHILDREN:
Gerald Steven, March #1, 1944, Ralph, April 28, 1951.

onepaTion: Auditor —accounts payable, wholesale housewares distributor
and appliances; promotional and advertising director.

Ornicss Helo Recording secretary, Congregation Kehillath Jacob, Mattapan,
Mass. 1448-61, vice-president, Brotherhood Kehillath Jacob, 1960-61,
maesipe OF; Adclphi Lodge, AF. & AM.

[ 4% ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TO review the span of twenty-five years since graduation seems a
difficult task in the sense that time has passed so quickly and so many
events have occurred. I entered the business world by way of the
Jordan Marsh Company in Boston. Having studied some funda-
mentals of the retailing field in the executive training course, I
wound up in the wholesale merchandising world in my present
occupation with one of the largest distributors of housewares and
electric appliances in New England. The competitive conditions
and discount atmosphere in this business are conducive to many
problems of promotion and customer relations leading to the proper
maintenance of the credit and accounts receivable. My position is
not enviable, as one must go all-out to keep things in proper balance,
both with the manufacturer and with the retail dealer. I some-
times wonder if those courses in economics are as applicable today
as they were when I left college.

The war years, from February, 1941, through August, 1945, were
spent with a heavy artillery unit, 36th F.A. Bn., in the African-
European theatre. As the battalion supply officer, I experienced the
red tape of requisitions and distribution together with the formalities
of Tables of Organizations and Equipment. I was discharged just in
time, as my outfit was alerted to the Pacific.

Shortly after my return to civilian status, I met my wife who has
been a source of constant good companionship and devotion. To-
gether with our two sons, the elder one a student at Boston Latin
School, the younger one an advanced fifth-grader, we have enjoyed
traveling and visiting relatives outside our community. My family
is my means of pleasure as hobbies have been few for me. Fraternal
contacts are offered through my affiliation with Masons and social
activity comes from various groups and organizations incorporated
with my religious congregation. I have strong faith with the Ortho-
dox Judaism and have supported the maintenance of my synagogue
and community center and Hebrew school. The Democratic | party
and platform have always received my votes and support. With a
Harvardian Kennedy as President, we trust the world will acknowl-
edge his attempts at peace, so that our sons will live in a state of ad-
vancement for good, not for war and destruction.

At this writing, I feel that the pase twenty-five years have been
good to me; I may not be the wealthiest member of the Class, but |
take pride i in the fact that I am a member of the “w orking class,”
enjoying the fruits of a fine family and good name in the com-
munity, May I live to say the same at our Fiftieth!

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JAMES HOPKINSON HAMLEN

HOME ApoRESS: 2908 N. Pierce St., Little Rock, Ark.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 327, Little Rock, Ark.

BORN: July 6, 1913, Portland, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937 (38).

MARRIED: Elizabeth N. Heiskell, Dec. 19, 1943, Southboro, Mass. (divorced
1953).

occupation: Vice-president and general manager, J. H. Hamlen & Son, Inc,,
lumber and cooperage manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Associated Cooperage Industries of
America; member, Pulaski County, Arkansas, Republican Committee.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Foresters, National Affairs Committee, Na-
tional Lumber Manufacturers Association; Little Rock Country Club;
Bardstown, Kentucky, Country Club.

IN the fall of 1937, I moved to Little Rock, Arkansas, and entered
a family-owned business, which was founded in 1846 at Portland,
Maine. With the exception of approximately five years in the Army
and Air Force, I have resided in Little Rock since 1937. I now
manage our company, which has plants in Little Rock as well as
south Arkansas. We have manufactured cooperage since date of
founding and, since the early post-World War II years, have diver-
sified into the hardwood lumber field. I have become entirely ac-
climated to the Southwest, and rarely go eastward, except in
emergencies. Though seldom in accord with the politics of this
county, I have concluded that its vitality and climate more than
compensate for what was left behind in New England.
Hobbies: flying, golf, swimming, fishing.

JOHN MACLEOD HAMMOND

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Stone House, Weybridge, R.D. 1, Middlebury, Vt.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerficld, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: 8.8, 1937(38); M.auUTO.E. (Chrysler Inst.),
1942.

MarnieD: Barbara Gilman, Sept. 4, 1948, Orleans, Mass. CHILDREN: Roger Gil-
man, May 6, 1950 (died July 8, 1950); Hilary Macleod, Nov. 15, 19525
Patience Mackay, Jan. 14, 1955.

HARVARD BRoTHER: Franklin Tweed Hammond, Jr.,'22, ue. "25,

occupation: Design engineer.

orrices HELD: Moderator, 1954, Town Agent, 1955-60, Town of Weybridge, Vts
trustee, Vermont State Symphony Orchestra Association, since tgs6; mem-

[ 456 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ber, board of directors, Middlebury Community Players, 1957-61; chairman,
Democratic Committee, Weybridge, Vt., since 1959.
MEMBER OF: Middlebury Community Players; Pleiad Ski Club.

CHANGE seems to have been the keynote since 1937. I changed
my field of concentration from English to engineering, and went
to the Chrysler Institute to finish graduate engineering training. I
worked at Chrysler until 1942.

The next change was World War II; it took me around the
United States for two years, then through Western Europe and
Berlin for three more. Came home in ’47 and crammed for the
State Department Foreign Service exams at Mannix Walker's.
Passed the writtens, but failed to please the oral board, and thus
was spared the trial of fitting myself to the procrustean bed of the
fifties.

A winter’s skiing in Vermont provided the appropriate break
between bachelordom and benediction. I married Barbara Gilman
in 1948, and a year later, we moved from Cambridge to Vermont,
where we have lived since. Domiciled, that is; we have got away
at intervals for all-too-brief visits to a number of interesting places:
Mexico in ’51, Italy and Yugoslavia in "54, Switzerland in ’57, Switz-
erland, Italy and France in ’58. Our interest in history, languages,
painting, people, and local wine made each of these trips memorable.
I particularly remember a train companion in Yugoslavia, an army
officer in considerable pain from a broken arm, who quite appar-
ently thought it would be rude not to share his (anesthetic in lieu
of aspirin) slivovitz with visitors.

Until last year, I worked in a small airplane instruments company,
developing various products and ways to make them. As the Cor-
porate Image slithered gluily over things, it was borne in upon me
that I am not an organization man. So, on to the next change. I
have spent a twelvemonth thinking about what this change might
be, the while doing a lot of things I always wanted to have time
to do.

Throughout all this hurly-burly, Barbara has managed to carry on
her career as a writer. She also teaches French as a volunteer in our
elementary school. I have been teaching algebra on a similar basis
to a highly selected audience. My success in this has seemed only
moderate so far; but there is no doubt about the thrill to be had from
spotting a nugget of mental response suddenly glinting amidst the

workaday gravel, That sort of prospecting could become an addic-
tion.

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

The last three summers have taken us to Cushing’s Island in Maine,
the least east island in Casco Bay. Our house is a thirty-second walk
from Sid Thaxter’s tennis court. His hospitality is unmatched, and
I exploit it daily.

There are plenty of contemporaries for Hilary and Patience to
do the classic summer things with; our basset hound George is
pleased by his daily arguments with his contemporaries over the
precedence to be observed at the pilings of the wharf. There are
blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, mushrooms, mussels, and crabs.
And lobsters. The water is cold, and there is fog. The horn at
Portland Head and the diaphone at Cape Elizabeth blow in the fog,
and have been known to sound off at considerable length. I sup-
pose there are limits to how much of this one would like to put
up with, but I have always found the clearing away to be worth the

wait. We are planning to spend next year in France, at Grenoble.
But we shall go to the island first.

WILLIAM JOHN HAMMOND

HOME apprEss: Training Field Road, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Westwood Lodge, Inc., Westwood, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1913, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

marrieD: Elizabeth Poole, Nov. 25, 1939, Canton, Mass, cHiLpreN: Elizabeth

P., June 23, 1941; Hope L., April 20, 1944; Polly S., Nov. 25, 1950; William
John, Jr, Jan. 3, 1953.

OCCUPATION; Owner and president, Westwood Lodge, Inc., private psychiatric
hospital.

IT does seem entirely possible that twenty-five years have slipped by
since graduation and it has been made cruelly obvious to me by
having to set down some sort of a record of what I have done with
the passage of this particular time.

After a year at the Business School | embarked on a career in labor
relations which terminated when I left Sylvania Electric in 1947.
Those years, particularly with Sylvania, were most enjoyable and re-
warding but after seven years, most of which involved labor ne-
gotiations, I had my fill of a Jot of talk, much of it fruitless, and try-
ing to be an organization man in a large company. It juse didn’t
Jeave time for doing some of the things IT really wanted to do. 1
left Sylvania, with some fears, to start a mail order business, known

[ 468 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as Will Hammond’s New England General Store, which I have re-
ferred to in previous Class Reports. Until I sold it in 1959, those
years were most exciting, gratifying and enjoyable and filled with a
Jot of hard work, but they did help provide the means for a summer
place in Woodstock, Vermont, and some off-season vacations that
an organization position would have made unlikely or impossible,
for me.

In addition to the mail order business I have been operating, on a
part-time basis, a psychiatric hospital which I inherited. I have been
devoting full time to the hospital as business manager for the past
two years. It is terrifying to see the predicaments in which some
people become involved, but it is certainly gratifying to see what
intelligent and modern psychiatric treatment can do, with a sem-
blance of cooperation. A pleasant cheerful room will always be held
aside for a Classmate or two! |

Politically, P'm still a black, conservative Republican, but after
seeing how Nixon ran his campaign I prefer Kennedy in spite of
some of his advisors.

From what I can observe, my family life is normal, thank God.
Like most other people, Lib and I are struggling to get our offspring
educated. When they were very young I helped with the home-
work, but once they got through the third grade I developed such
an uncontrollable temper, due of course to the fact that the work
was far too difficult for me, that it was felt advisable to turn the
young minds over to the care and sympathetic understanding of
their mother. She has done an outstanding job — Betsy is now a
junior in Chatham and doing well. Hope will go to college next
year without question and the two young ones, Polly and John,
should have no difficulty as long as I’m not again called upon to help
with their school work. Fortunately, for the children, I'm consulted
largely on matters of finances, and I handle those problems with my
usual good grace and generosity — fighting and objecting to the
bitter end; losing each round ingloriously, but somehow maintaining
their respect and loyalty.

JOHN GARNSEY HARDER

MAILING AppREss: Glezen Lane, Wayland, Mass,

[ 469 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

THOMAS WALTER HARDY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 9758 Old Warson Rd., St. Louis 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hardy Salt Co., P.O. Box 449, St. Louis 66, Mo.

por: Aug. 23, 1915, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

marrieD: Eleanor Lee Collins, May 4, 1946, St. Louis, Mo. cHrt_preN: Thomas
Noel, Jan. 29, 1947; Owen Collins, Aug. 26, 1949; Lawrence Washington,
Feb. 24, 1952.

occupaTiION: President, Hardy Salt Company, production and distribution of
salt and salt products.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Salem Methodist Church; president, Kingdom House
Association; director, Tower Grove Bank & Trust Company, National Feed
& Ingredients Association, Ambassador’s Club of St. Louis, Tennessee So-
ciety of St. Louis; metropolitan chairman, Commission on International
Justice & Goodwill, and member, Metropolitan Area Planning Commission,
Methodist Church; executive board member, Federation of St. Louis,
1958-60; president, Missouri Branch, 1950, member executive council, 1951,
United World Federalists, member, St. Louis Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions; director, Greater St. Louis Citizens Committee for Nuclear Infor-
mation, 1958-61; member, Committee for a National Trade Policy.

MEMBER OF: Bach Society of St. Louis (concert manager, 1943); Harvard Club
of St. Louis; Harvard Business School Club of St. Louis (president, 1944);
University Club of St. Louis; Manistee (Mich.) Golf and Country Club,
Portage Lake (Mich.) Yacht Club; Otsego Ski Club; Old Warson Country
Club; Missouri Athletic Club; Rotary Club of St. Louis.

BASICALLY, I am a World Federalist. I have tried to broaden my
viewpoint to become more sophisticated and even to reform, but
invariably I come back to it driven by my conscience and world
events. It seems to be a primary reason for my existence, both a
religion and a politics. My activity in this regard is minimal com-
pared to my conviction, which leads to a considerable sense of guilt
at times.

My pathological revulsion at war is perhaps surprising in that I
have never seen anything of it (maybe I just suffer from fright and
cowardice). A congenital defect in my spine (corrected by a
fusion) kept me in the 4F category during the war. This did not
prevent me from mecting a charming Wave, who, after the Japs
signed up on the Mighty Mo, became my bride. Our honeymoon
was spent in Mexico with a second one a year later at the Tenth
Reunion of the Class of '37. This gave me a chance to introduce
Ellie to Harvard and some of my Classmates. We shall be looking

forward to the 25th, this time with three Harvard hopefuls to
accompany us.

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our three boys have been a delight and a horrible expense. The
two eldest boys are now in John Burroughs School, the arch rival
of my Alma Mater, Country Day. This traitorous situation results
from the fact that we decided that co-education was the thing for
an all-boy household. So far it is working out fine; girls are recog-
nized as inevitable, normal, and something of a bother.

My business career has undoubtedly been no more than could be
expected. The company which my father founded has sheltered
me from unemployment. It also has provided a diversity of experi-
ence as I moved from purchasing duties to advertising, production
planning, product development, to administration. Summer vaca-
tions have been somewhat predestined also, as our only plant (pro-
ducing salt by hydraulic mining and evaporation) is at Manistee,
Michigan, on the shores of Lake Michigan. My boys have followed
my interest in sailing, our fleet consisting of a Thistle and a Sun
Fish. With the advent of the ski boom in Michigan over the past
decade, I have also been able to introduce the family to my second
sport love, skiing. Last spring we spent spring vacation at Boyne
Mountain ( a 5o00-foot hill with five double chair lifts!) and this
Christmas had our first taste of the Rockies at Taos Ski Valley,
New Mexico.

I have developed quite an interest in international economic policy,
testifying on behalf of extension of the Reciprocal Trade Agree-
ments Act before the House Ways and Means Committee the last
two times this legislation has come up for extension. In domestic
policy, I am a conservative almost of the Goldwater variety; when
it comes to international affairs, I think the Senator has lost his mind.
I have suffered from this political schizophrenia for the last three
or four presidential elections and, therefore, was highly elated by
developments such as the Willkie and Eisenhower campaigns.

Socially, we have conformed pretty much to the usual suburbanite
pattern, too many cocktail parties, club dances, and knife and fork
affairs — not enough time for reading, study, and outdoor activities.
I still try to play squash but much too infrequently, and golf is not
better. Oh, yes, now that we are back to sports, there is one histori-
cal event I must record, The old Afowgli, which I purchased while
in college from Dick Fisher and Ben Lawson (°36) in two picces
after a hurricane, is still afloat! Many Classmates were involved in
exploits aboard ship, including the sail around Nova Scotia and
through the St. Lawrence River to Manistee in 1938. I sold her
during the war, when the annual caulking expense became excessive,

[471 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and sailing companions were few. She is now under the able care
of a furniture-maker in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Glenn Van Otter-
an. His skill and patience in woodworking are admirably suited to
the Afowgli’s age and condition (launched at Lawley’s in 1896).
Last summer we were able to inveigle a cruise aboard, and it was
wonderfully strange to feel the weather in the same old wheel I had
not held for twenty years and to relieve the flowing bilge with the

same hand pump I had installed. But it was especially strange to

have aboard my three boys who were nonexistent when I had last
put the Afowgli to sea.

Returning to the issue of war or peace, I believe it has been the
overriding problem of our first quarter-century. Solution of the
problem has been seriously hampered by inertia, indifference, and
compartmentalized thinking, a natural result of specialized education
in the military, literary, theological, and scientific fields. The present
danger of war is not from surprise attack but from accident and
emasculation from “limited” engagements. The value of a compre-
hensive “ultimate” plan is not in its immediate acceptance but in the
guideposts it provides for evaluation of intermediate steps and events,
and also its moral value as a beacon of hope for all mankind during
the struggle.
The movement for European federation was widely espoused in
high places before actual progress began through the Coal and
Steel Community, the O.E.E.C., Euratom, etc. Likewise, intellectual
acceptance of World Federation can greatly facilitate the practical

intermediate steps which cannot by themselves assure world peace
but which are steps in the right direction.

PHILIP SMYTH HARING

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Hillcrest Drive, Galesburg, Ill.

orFice appress: Knox College, Galesburg, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1915, White Plains, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; a.m. (Univ. of Chicago),
1953; PH.v. Cibid.), 1954.

mMarpiep: Ellen Newton Stone, 1942-1951; Jacqueline Kolle, March 8, 1952)
New York, N.Y. cup: Helen Victoria, Jan. 1, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of political science, Knox College.

orrices HELD: Teacher of history, Browne and Nichols School, 1938-39; assistant
to president, Henderson Bros., 1939; ensign, USNR, 1940-42 (wounded);
head, Research Department, Employers’ Group (of insurance companics),
1943-44, trustee, Soldiers Home in Massachusetts, 1944-49; assistant pro-

[472 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fessor, Boston University, 1948-51, lecturer, Northwestern University,
1953-54; assistant professor, 1954-61; associate professor, since 1961, Knox

College; member, board of planning consultants, Schenkman Publishing
Company.

MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association; Midwest Conference of
Political Scientists; Library of International Relations (governing mem-
ber); American Association for the Advancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Book reviews in American Political Science Review, Midwest
Journal of Political Science, Landscape, Books Abroad.

FOR the last seven years ve been teaching at Knox. This small
college, small city environment safely tucked away one hundred
miles west of the projected urban strip from Chicago to St. Louis
has vast advantages for our sort. As our mental horizon ranges
nervously and fearfully along the great cleavages of ideology and
military power between the Soviet and Western blocs, or the in-
dustrialized and underdeveloped areas of the globe, our refuge from
these pressures provides a vantage point for viewing things calmly.
It was not always so. After graduation I spent a year trying to write,
taught school for another year, entered business where eventually I
became a department head in a large insurance company. There
were also two years of service in the Navy as a gunnery officer,
ending at Pearl Harbor where I commanded the A.A. batteries on the
California. Those were hectic times when it was never clear exactly
what sort of life I wanted to lead, what sort of world I'd been born
into. Things must be better now simply because it hasn’t occurred
to me to ask such questions for quite a while.

No doubt my second marriage has made a great part of the
difference; also, my interest in social-political theory draws upon
everything I’ve known or done, resulting in a program of projected
work that will keep me busy long past retirement. I love teaching
as much as research and writing. My wife’s artistic sense has raised
about us a beautiful house on an acre and a half of orchard. We
enjoy buying and selling antiques, an all-too-full social life in the
pleasantest of communities and summers on Cape Cod. Our daughter
Tori, now nine, has grown into a wonderful combination of sen-
sitivity and tomboyishness. The family includes a cocker, a Siamese
cat, a stray Persian calico, odd turtles, orphan birds and a pet cater-
pillar. Some day we're going to Europe and the Far Ease (if my
wife will budge past Italy) and dream about returning for a year to
Bermuda where we Spent our honeymoon, Meanw hile, if a missile
comes our way, we've had an excellent life.

( 473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HARRISON LEROY HARLEY, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 64 Sewall Ave. Brookline 46, Mass.

PAUL VINCENT HARPER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 543 Dundee Rd., Glencoe, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 950 E.. 59th St., Chicago 37, Ill.

BORN: July 27, 1915, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; M.D., 1941.

MarRIED: Phyllis Sweetser, Aug. 31, 1939, Holliston, Mass. cHmLpren: Stephanie
Alice, June 1, 1941; Cynthia, Nov. 15, 1942; William Rainey, May 1, 1944;
David Paul, Sept. 15, 1946.

occuPATION: Professor, Department of Surgery, University of Chicago.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Chicago Surgical Society, 1960; vice-president, Chicago
Yudanshakai, 1960-61; secretary, U.S. Olympic Judo Committee, 1961.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; Chicago Surgical Society, Sigma
Xi; Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; American Physiologi-
cal Society, Society for Nuclear Medicine; Society for Clinical Surgery,
Chicago Yudanshakai, Radiation Research Society, Society of University
Surgeons.

PUBLICATIONS: A variety of papers on gastric, pancreatic and pulmonary physiol-
ogy, diagnosis and therapy with radioisotopes, radiative destruction of the
hypophysis, and the production and use of iodine-125.

FOLLOWING graduation, life continued much the same in medical
school on Shattuck Street, except for getting married. Trartsplanted
to University of Chicago for internship and residency, which was
interrupted by three years’ service with the armed forces, exiled in
Texas and Alabama, and a brief tour in Europe. Returned to Uni-
versity of Chicago for residency in surgery, and then slowly up
through the ranks. At present, deeply involved with the Atomic
Energy Commission and various attempts to introduce new and
peculiar approaches for using radioisotopes peacefully.

Live in a suburb at the other end of a crowded expressway, with
wife and two dogs (children all away at school).

RALPH HARPER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: St, James’ Church, Monkton, Md.

Born: Sept. 1, 1915, Winthrop, Mass,

perpanto at: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGRERS: AB. cum laude, 1937; B.LITr. (Oxford
Univ.), 1947.

[ 474]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Rita Tranopoulou. cHipren: David; Andrew.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Carsten Harper, ’46.
occupation: Rector, St. James’ Church.

AFTER Harvard, Oxford and University of Fribourg, Switzerland,
for two years. During the war, the Red Cross in Washington, then
three years teaching at St. John’s College, Annapolis, then seven
years at Harvard, teaching English A and Humanities courses. At
this point, a break, as I read for orders in the Episcopal Church for
a year. For several years after ordination, I wasn’t sure how to
combine my two interests, in teaching and the priesthood, and passed
quickly through several unsatisfactory jobs, with schools and col-
lege chaplaincy at Bard. Finally made a decision four years ago,
went to Holy Trinity, Philadelphia, as associate rector, and a year
later to my first and probably last parish here. This is a foxhunting
parish for some and a countryside a little removed from Baltimore
for others: I like it. It’s one of the few thriving authentic country
parishes left in America. (I’ve never stopped teaching; now I’m
teaching part-time in the evening college of Johns Hopkins.)

I have produced four children, two sons, David and Andrew, with
the help of my wife Rita, and two books with the help of many
greater minds. We were married in Greece over twenty years
ago, and returned briefly last summer. I learned there, at forty-six,

that it really is possible to relax, but I haven't yet learned how to
impart that lesson.

RAOUL EDWARD HARPIN

HOME AppREss: 29 Norfolk Ave., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 8, 1915, Nashua, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarRiED: Mary L. Pyne, 1946, Medford, Mass. cuipren: Edward, 1947; Thomas,
1948; Raymond, 1949; Paul, 1951; Mary Ann, 1952; Virginia, 1954; William,
1958.

occupation: Biology teacher, Lynn Classical High School.

SHORTLY before Sputnik I became interested in scientific subjects,

studied for review at M.I.T. and Harvard and began to teach phys-

ical geography, chemistry and general science. Later I found
biology very fascinating, and am enjoying teaching the functions
of plant life, animals and human physiology. I am also desperately

[475 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

trving to keep up with science advances in physics, chemistry and
astronomy. New devices such as the maser and laser, techniques
using nuclear magnetic resonance, etc., are of tremendous importance
and should be studied by all who can.

At present I am enjoying the job of guiding the gropings of my
younger ones on the royal road of education. Their school teachers
are very competent, but I believe parents should try to contribute
steadily as they are able. My wife fully concurs and runs a “home-
reading club,” reading aloud to the young ones. So far the results
have been worthwhile.

Going back to early times, after leaving Harvard in ’37 I dabbled
at odd jobs in merchandising without enthusiasm, took a few courses
in education on the graduate level, did a little substituting in high
schools — and oh, I forgot to say I spent the year after graduation
studying physics, organic chemistry, and comparative anatomy at

Boston University. Then I entered Harvard Dental for a half-year
but left when I realized it was not my life’s work. Later in 1940 I
joined the Army on a three-year hitch to dodge the draft, remained
in the Army till 1945 (three years overseas), and was discharged as
a first lieutenant. Then followed a year at Chamber of Commerce
work, five years as advertising representative on a newspaper, and

then a few years of teaching at (1) Martha’s Vineyard, (2) Wren-

tham, (3) North Reading, and (4) Lynn, where I have been for the

last six years. It took me a long time but I finally settled down to a

work I really enjoy. I usually obtain summer jobs to supplement
the income. (P.S. My children will wear out shoes.)

GORDON WARE HARRINGTON

HOME AppreEss: 25 Keeling Rd., Wakefield, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Cotting & Harrington, Inc., 188 Lowell St., Wakefield, Mass.
BORN: Nov. 30, 1913, Everett, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1936-1939,

marniep: Marjorie Greenwood, January, 1949, Montreal, P.Q., Canada.
cuit: Leslie W. (daughter), July 28, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Realtor.
MeMBER oF: National Association of Real Fstate Boards, Eastern Middlesex
Board of Realtors, Bear Hill Golf Club, Stoneham, Mass.
HAVING adopted no blucprint for the pursuit of the dollar, I found
mysclf selling advertising for the Boston Herald, and several years
later | joined the Boston Transcript, where } co-engineered a weekly

[ 476 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

industrial section. Later, and until 1942, I joined the Feed Promotion
Division of the Quaker Oats Company in Chicago.

The Draft blew me into the Army where I k.p.’d myself into Mel-
vin Purvis’ School for Criminal Investigation studies. England,
France, Germany, and Austria were visited as I carried out investiga-
tions dealing with murder, rape, suicide, larceny, and desertion as
a C.I.D. agent attached to SHAEF and USAFE, respectively. I was
discharged at Frankfort, Germany, and became a U.S. Government
criminal investigator attached to the European Air Transport Service
Command. :

I returned in 1946 and entered the real estate business in Boston.
I took myself a bride and have a daughter, Leslie. For the past twelve
years, we have lived in Wakefield, eleven miles north of Boston,
where I own and operate a real estate firm known as Cotting & Har-
rington, Inc. Do drop in.

Life is pretty relaxed here, where my main hobbies are fighting a
fourteen handicap, cheering Harvard football teams, and fighting
off innumerable questionnaires from tenacious Bill Bentinck-Smith.

RICHARD HARRINGTON HARRIS, JR.

HOME ApprREss: 501 Dickemery Drive, Akron 3, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. Akron 16, Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1913, Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

mMarrigeD: Margaret Elizabeth Symes, Aug. 13, 1939, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Margaret Kean, Jan. 29, 1953; Richard Harrington, 3d, Aug. 14, 1954;
Christopher Symes, Nov. 9, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Means Harris, ’38.

occupaTION: Advertising manager — Film Products, Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and member, board of trustees, Weathervane
Community Theatre, Akron Shakespeare Festival, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Akron Art Institute; Harvard Club of Akron; Advertising Club
of Akron, Inc.

SAME wife, same children, same house, same job, All's well.

NEWTON KEITH HARTFORD, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: gt Orne Sc, Marblehead, Mass,
BoRN: Feb. 27, 191§, Cleveland, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Morristown Preparatory School, Morristown, NJ.

[477]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.B.A, (Boston Univ.), 1953.

marriep: Dorothy Stearns Dean, Dec, 27, 1941, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barbara Dean, Oct. 23, 1946; Helen, Sept. 15, 1948; David Newton, Aug. 2,
1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Souther Hartford, *41,; Elliot Howard Hartford, °42,
MBA, '48.

ALAN KERTH HARTMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 115 E. 34th St, New York 16, N.Y.
Born: March 5, 1915, Glen Ridge, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

DUE to a long illness and physical disability, Hartman cannot par-
ticipate in the 25th Reunion activities.

GEORGE DAVID HARTSTONE

HOME ADDRESS: 24878 Long Valley Rd., Hidden Hills, Calif.
OFFicE appress: Hart Distributors, Inc., 1216 W. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles,
Calif.

Born: Oct. 27, 1916, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

Mararien: Irene Saxe, Nov. 23, 1940, Elkton, Md.; Doris M. Comey, April 18,
1958, Reno, Nev. cHitpren: Christine, Oct. 29, 1945; Joanne, Sept. 19, 19465
Jill, April 24, 1948; Laura, Feb. 3, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leon Charles Hartstone, ’41.

occuPaTION: President and active chief executive, Hart Distributors, Inc.,
distributors of phonograph records; mayor, City of Hidden Hills, newly
incorporated city in California.

AFTER graduation I entered the retail music business in Boston.

Stayed with this until World War II when I went into the U.S.C.G.

Commissioned at the Coast Guard Academy at New London and

then assigned to the Academy as instructor in navigation. Trans-

ferred in 1943 to deck service aboard DE-151. On escort duty in the

North Atlantic until that war ended and then the ship went to the

Pacific. The Pacific war ended before we got involved in much

active duty. Did a brief bit on coastal patrol in Japan and then was
discharged. I returned to the music business in Boston. Since then
there has been a steady but unspectacular growth in our business,
along with the general growth of the record business. In 1955 we ex-
panded our business to the West Coast, and shortly thereafter it

{ 478]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

became apparent that I should move my headquarters to the Los
Angeles area.

In 1959 we moved into Hidden Hills — then a small suburban area
about thirty miles northwest of the center of the City of Los Angeles,
devoted completely to horses, children, and do-it-yourself family
type living. The tremendous expansion of the Los Angeles area and
the rapid growth of the San Fernando Valley posed a constant threat
to our way of life in Hidden Hills. In order to protect ourselves from
the encroachments of civilization, it appeared necessary for the com-
munity to change from an unincorporated part of the county (gov-
erned by the big boys downtown) to an independent city, with local
autonomy. A prolonged drive for cityhood culminated in an elec-
tion on September 19, 1961, in which eighty-five percent of the in-
habitants voted for cityhood. On October 19, 1961, we officially
became Los Angeles County’s seventy-third city, thus preventing
the City of Los Angeles from ever annexing our area, or the county
from coming through with public roads (our entire city has only
private streets). I was elected to the City Council at the general
election and subsequently elected by the Council as the first mayor
of the new city. It has been a fascinating and tremendously satisfy-
ing job, although a very demanding one. As far as lam concerned,
life seems to get better as it goes along.

DUDLEY NICKERSON HARTT, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 14 Birch St., Wilbraham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Law Dept., Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. Spring-
field, Mass.

BORN: July 23, 1915, Cohasset, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1940.

MaRRiED: Anne Barbey, July 25, 1953, New Canaan, Conn, cnitpren: Edmund
A. M,, Nov. 27, 1957; Suzanne Madeleine J., July 31, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; associate counsel, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee,
since 1950, Wilbraham Republican Town Committee, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American and Hampden County Bar Associations; Association of
the U.S. Army, Reserve Officers Association; American Society of Char-
tered Life Underwriters; Cazenovia Club.

ON graduation I went to Law School at the University of Virginia,
worked for a few months, then left civilian life with a Natienal

[ 479 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Guard Regiment in Rochester, New York, and didn’t return to
civilian pursuits until December, 1945, with only a short stint over-
seas as an Infantry officer during the five years of Army service.
After getting out of the Army, I went back to Rochester and after
a short time as law clerk to a federal judge worked there in a law
firm for eight years, spending my spare time in National Guard ac-
tiviies and social pursuit of females. Only in 1953 did I marry, and
a vear after that came to work in the Law Department of the Massa-
chusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company in Springfield. We now
live in Wilbraham, a New England town which has turned into a
suburb with some rural amenities left. So far we have two children,
aged four and two.

Travels have been limited to one trip to Europe since the war to
be exhibited to my wife’s Swiss relatives, and to local excursions
around the Northeast. My time seems to be occupied by the duties
of the suburban citizen, such as vestryman, finance chairman of the
Town Republican Committee, and member of the Hampden-Wilbra-
ham Regional School Committee. I keep up a tenuous connection
with Army Reserve, assuming that aging officers are not wanted for
any serious purpose. As for political convictions, I don’t promise to
remain a registered Republican until Hell freezes over.

FLOYD KIRK HASKELL

HOME appress: 2711 Willamette, Littleton, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tippit & Haskell, 1110 Denver Club Bldg., Denver, Colo.
BORN: Feb. 7, 1916, Morristown, N.J.

PREPARED AT; Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B., 1941.
marriep: Eileen Nicoll, Dec. 27, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHitpreN: Ione N.

Feb. 27, 1947; Evelyn C., June 21, 1948; Pamela C., Dee. 11, 1952.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to legal periodicals.

FOLLOWING graduation, I embarked on a career (duration —

one year) of playwriting. Finding a regrettable lack of talent, I went
to law school and graduated in 1941.

After a few months’ law practice in New York, I entered the Army
(private — eventually major), spent two years in various camps in
the United States, then two years overscas — New Guinea, the Phil-

ippines, and a short sightseeing trip in Japan — returning November,
1945.

[ 480 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Eileen and I moved to Denver, February, 1946. Motivation —
avoid commuting and the “rat race.” In 1948, 1 formed my present

law firm. Our practice is a reasonably varied business law practice
and I find it extremely enjoyable.

Extracurricular activities have included the usual school and
charitable organizations. Political activities have been minimal.
Recreation includes tennis, skiing (I can just keep up with my
youngest daughter) and, on vacation, sailing.

I look forward to our Reunion in June, and hope to bring the
whole family.

WILLIAM FREEMAN HASKELL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Wilmot Flat, N.H.

Born: May 9, 1915, Enfield, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: A.B. (Dickinson Coll.), 1937.

MarRigED: Barbara Allen, May 10, 1941, Walpole, Mass. cHmpren: Lee, Aug.
18, 1942; Christopher William, Feb. 2, 1947.

occuPaTION: General store owner and postmaster.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of trustees, First Baptist Church, Wilmot Flat, N.H.
MEMBER OF: Beta Theta Pi; American Legion.

LIFE for me, so far, has proved to be greatly more interesting and
pleasant than I thought it would be. As a youth, looking forward
to it, it appeared to consist only of endless commuting from cramped
suburbia to teeming city, a monotony broken solely by summer
vacations in crowded resorts and by cocktail parties “staged” to
bring together, for business reasons, the “best people,” whose ac-
quaintance with each other many would secretly forego. Once this
bull had been grasped by the tail, I could see, in the offing, little op-
portunity for a much-needed independence and individualism. It
seemed to me that nothing short of coronary thrombosis could pro-
vide a release with honor from this characteristic adhesive of tradi-
tion after one had become mired in it up to his family, friends, job,
etc., etc,

Therefore, when military service pulled up my roots in Pennsvl-
vania, I relocated in Massachusetts and finally ended up at home in
the great outdoors of my native State of New Hampshire, in busi-
ness for myself, which had been my objective all along.

Locating in New Hampshire, with its developing schools and
industries, has proved to be a good move for me and my family. All
of us enjoy the scenery, fresh air, and sports afield. My land hold-

[ 481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 937

ings have expanded my hobby of forestry and lumber dealing, and
have provided my husky son with a wealth of constructive outdoor
work, My daughter Lee is a sophomore at Colby College in Water-
ville, Maine, and my son Christopher is a sophomore at New London
(New Hampshire) High School. There is little we want, which we
do not have, and there is no one with whom we would exchange
places.

I graduated from college with a Liberal Arts background which
had prepared me for no field in particular. A job of any kind in
business looked as good to me as it did to many career beginners
in the depression year of 1937. I entered the financial world and
took evening courses to build a commercial background. A year at
the Business School completed what I wanted, and I entered the
accounting profession in time to be drafted for “limited service”
with the Army. I was honorably discharged after a year because
of nearsightedness, went back into accounting, and in the next thir-
teen years, rose to the chief accountant comptroller level. It was
at this point that the desire for independence overpowered me. I
have been on my own for six years and I am on it to stay.

To those who might opine that I have regressed to a rural exist-
ence, I can only point out that I have found the real happiness in
life that many of them are still seeking. Furthermore, ten years from
now, when the wife brings them slippers and robe by the fire where
they are resting “the old ticker,” I suggest they make a note to tell
“Junior” to get in touch with me next deer season with the idea of
getting in a little hunting. I will guarantee that “Junior” will turn
in early each day after enjoying every healthy minute of it.

I need not restate the principles to which the greatness and prog-
ress of the United States of America are commonly ascribed. 1 wish
merely to say that in constructing my own life and in guiding the
development of my family’s according to these principles, I have
had some success. Therefore, I believe that I have followed to an

extent the admonishment of one of our younger schoolmates, “Ask

not what your country can do for you but, rather, what you can
do for your country.”

WILLIAM CHANDLER HASKINS

HOME appress: 8 Wood St., Concord, Mass.
OFFICE appress: Simonds Saw & Steel Co., 470 Main St., Fitchburg, Mass.
BORN: June 20, 1914, Belmont, Mass.

[ 482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB. 1937; M.B.A. (Boston Univ.), 1953.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Carpenter Ivins, Sept. 23, 1944, Plainfield, N.J. CHILDREN:
Anne Chandler, June 26, 1947; Beverly Ivins, Jan. 10, 1951; William
Chandler, Jr., Jan. 21, 1953, Thompson Fox, March 31, 1954. .

occuPATION: Manufacturing executive, vice-president and director, Simonds
Saw & Steel Company, Fitchburg, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Graduate trustee, Noble and Greenough School, member, execu-
tive committee, Brooks School, Concord, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club; Wianno Yacht Club.

THEY say that if you still think you're in the prime of life, you
should look at some of your Classmates. This word of caution is
no longer necessary for me after reviewing the last twenty-five years.
I just couldn’t be in the prime of life any more — even if I do think
so occasionally.

Two weeks after graduation found me apprenticing at a steel heat
treating furnace, starting each morning at 7:00 A.M. Occasional
evening sorties with Classmates not yet working had a rather del-
eterious effect under this Spartan regimen, but I managed to keep
the job. I’ve been here at Simonds Saw & Steel Company ever since
(not at the same furnace, luckily).

My tour of duty with the Navy during the war took me to Trini-
dad and parts of the Pacific. Also, more important, helped me find,
in New Jersey, not Trinidad, the bride for whom I had always been
looking. Three moves, all in the greater Boston area, and seventeen
years, find us with two girls and two boys — all different, all fun.
Time really is not expandable enough to handle my job and spend as
much time as I would like with them.

We own a ski camp in Franconia, New Hampshire, jointly with
great and good friends. This has been a glorious experience and
each year another child passes me on the slopes. We hope to take
all on a western safari in a year or two. We've gotten as far as sleep-
ing bags and air mattresses. We also hope to repeat a trip abroad
with the whole troupe if I can dig up the wherewithal. In the mean-
time, we’re in Concord, Massachusetts, and Wianno on the Cape, in
the summer.

I still believe in these troubled times that there is hope and a future
for our children to enjoy as we have, for without that faith and hope

there would be nothing. And, I’m looking forward to our Twenty-
fifth and raring to go!

[ 483 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

NELSON HASTINGS

HOME AppRESS: Swift Road, South Dartmouth, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: 34 Arnold St., New Bedford, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 28, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: M.D., 1940.

marriepD: Barbara Locke Clarke, July 27, 1938, Brookline, Mass. cHILpren:
Jane Wendell, Feb. 19, 1941; Susan Grafton, Nov. 17, 1942; Mary Elizabeth,
Sept. 25, 1946, Sarah Locke, May 11, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wendell Morse Hastings, "35. |

occupation: Neurosurgeon in chief, St. Luke’s Hospital, New Bedford, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Consulting neurosurgeon, Morton Hospital, Taunton, Mass., Cape
Cod Hospital, Hyannis, Mass. Tobey Hospital, Wareham, Mass., St.
Anne’s Hospital, Fall River, Mass.; warden, St. Peter’s Episcopal Church,
South Dartmouth, Mass., 1958-61.

MEMBER OF: New England Neurosurgical Society; Congress of Neurological
Surgeons; American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Bristol South Medical Society, New Bedford Medical Society; National

Medical Veterans Society; American Association for the Advancement of
Science; New Bedford Yacht Club.

puBLications: Livingston, K. E., and Hastings, N., “Tumors of Peripheral
Nerves,” Surg. Clin. of N. Am., June, 1947; Hoff, E. C., Kell, J. F., Jr.
Hastings, N., Gray E. H., and Sholes, D. M., “Acute Renal Cortical
Ischemia Produced by Stimulation of the Pressor Area of the Cerebral
Cortex,” Federation Proceedings, 1949; Hoff, E. C., Kell, J. F., Jr., Hastings,
N., Sholes, D. M., and Gray, E. H., “Wasomotor, Cellular and F unctional

Changes Produced in Kidney by Brain Stimulation,” Journal of Neuro-
physiology, 1951.

ABANDONING the Class of 1937 after junior year, I entered Har-
vard Medical School and received my M.D. in 1940. Then began
ten years of apprenticeship in medicine, or more precisely surgery,
during which time | was variously house officer, resident, or fellow
at the Boston City Hospital, the Free Hospital for Women in Brook-
line, several Army hospitals, the Lahey Clinic, Deaconess, Baptist,
and Psychopathic Hospitals, and the Medical College of Virginia
Hospitals in Richmond. During the Second World War, my
peregrinations included Texas, New Guinea, Leyte, Luzon, and
finally Tokyo. My rank never advanced beyond captain, but this
had compensations in allowing me to do things medical and avoid
things administrative. My biggest surprise during the war was to
find that the Pacific Ocean was just full of water and not completely
sprinkled with islands every few miles, boasting exotic trees, girls,
etc. I opened my office for the private practice of neurosurgery in

1 484]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New Bedford, Massachusetts, in July, 1950, and have been here
ever since.

So much for making a living, which is quite a different thing, I
believe, from living. The latter might be said to have begun when a
stubborn Vassar girl who was bound and determined “to marry a
doctor” finally persuaded me to say “I do” right after my second
year of medical school. Now after approximately twenty-four
years of connubial bliss, Barbie and I are proud to present four
daughters: Wendy, aged twenty-one, graduating from Vassar this
June to go into teaching; Susan, aged nineteen, finishing sophomore
year at Goucher College in Baltimore; Polly, aged fifteen, finishing
second year at the Mary C. Wheeler School in Providence; and
Sarah, aged eight, looking forward to her third grade of primary
school in Padanaram, a suburb of New Bedford. Watching “our
jewels” grow up has been our major preoccupation and joy, and
we hope they will have as much fun out of “living” as we have.

Low points “in sickness and in health” might be in 1942 when
Barbie almost died of a streptococcal septicemia or in 1949 when she
had polio, or in 1960 when I had to take a month’s vacation because
of a peptic ulcer. Traveling except for the war has been vicariously
through our children, with Polly taking a seven-week auto tour out
to Disneyland and back, Wendy spending a summer in Northern
Ireland as an American Field Service exchange student, and Susan
spending a summer in Sweden with the Experiment in International
Living. My hobbies have been confined to planning our house
which we finally moved into in 1956, playing the piano when no
one is around to listen, and sailing. Last year we acquired a twenty-
year-old, twenty-three-foot Herreshoff designed auxiliary sloop, the
Orion, which sleeps three and which has afforded us many hours of
pleasure on Buzzards Bay. Politically, we are Republicans, by which
I mean conservatives, and I hope that soon, perhaps under the
leadership of Barry Goldwater, the GOP will go back to some of
its original principles. I still feel that the Right is right and the Left
is wrong. Socially, I would like to see some mechanism devised so
that the relationship between labor and management could be re-
stored to what it once was, namely a solemn individual contract
between each employee and his employer; then the “right to
strike” would be an individual matter only, and not a matter for
yearly undeserved pay raises for less work, demanded by unions run
so often by racketcers and gangsters,

Finally, I’m wondering why the rubric of this Class Life reads

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

“and your social, political, or religious convictions.” Does this
mean that if we have religious convictions we don’t have social or
litical convictions? Or is it a tacit admission that in this secular
and even atheistic world, political and social convictions have largely
replaced religious convictions, particularly in Red communities?
I am convinced that the one most important thing, which must be
acquired by every person to survive in our increasingly complicated
civilization, is a personal philosophy (and what else is religion?)
which can simplify his life, aid him to make decisions, and give him
“peace of mind” by holding before him as a guide the very few
important principles which have been constantly reaffirmed by
countless generations, and by many religions, and which do zot
change any more than man has changed physically in the thousands
of years that he has been populating the globe. I believe it is time
that Harvard and other colleges and schools should reinsert into
their basic required curriculum a fresh study of the old subjects of
virtue and sin. It seems as if the laws of human behavior and the
laws of society, etiquette if you will, courtesy, diplomacy, inter-
national relations, etc., should be rediscovered, spelled out, tested,
proved, and accepted, as we seem to have accepted already the
physical laws of gravity, friction, electricity, expansion of gases,
etc. — at any rate, I would like to see included among the required
courses for a liberal arts education the subjects of ethics, religion,
semantics and psychology, possibly because I never had a chance
to take these courses myself, due to concentration on biochemical
sciences.
We are looking forward to the next twenty-five years, and per-
haps some male grandchildren to send to Harvard.

ELWOOD NORTON HATHAWAY

HOME AppRESS: 900 Dennis Way, Yuba City, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 395 Del Norte Ave., Yuba City, Calif.; Suite 2, Oroville Medical
Arts Center, Oroville, Calif.
Born: May 2, 1915, Boston, Mass.
preparep AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.
YRARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $.B, 1937, Mo, (Boston Univ.), 1941:
Maraibp: Dorothy Alma Kandolin, May 11, 1946, Malden, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mark K., Aug. 15, 1949; Dwight K, Oct. 7, 1950; Kent K., Aug. 6, 1956.
OUCUPATION: Orthopaedic surgeon.
orsicys neta: Vice-president, Oroville Medical Arts, Inc;

River Pharmacy, Inc president, Feather

[ 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Yuba-Sutter-Colusa Medical Society; American Medical Associa-
tion; A.A.O.S.; A.A.P.S.; C.M.A.; W.O.A.; American Board of Ortho-

paedic Surgery.
TWENTY-FIVE years — it doesn’t seem really that long ago as

I think back on the individual episodes I associate with those happy
years of ’33 to 37. Yet when I stop to think of what has transpired
in the interim, I guess it must have been that long. (One of my
sons just looked at the few words above and asked “What’s that
for?” When I told him it was supposed to be a summary of what
had happened to me since I graduated from college twenty-five
years ago this coming June, he replied, “Gee, that’s a long time
ago.”’)

Against a background of piano lessons and “Quick Draw Mc-
Graw” on TV in nearby rooms, I ask myself just what of signifi-
cance has happened to me since that warm June morning in Sever
Quadrangle in 1937. Beyond question, the most important event was
my marriage to my boys’ mother, but there were several interludes
before that May (1946) day, some of which are best left covered
by the pages of unwritten history, while others will be briefly
noted below. |

Four years at Harvard were followed by four more at Boston
University School of Medicine. In the summer between the junior
and senior years, I was an extern and, as such at the late and lamented
Haynes Memorial Hospital, I met a young student nurse from Massa-
chusetts General Hospital, who caught my fancy. But soon an in-
ternship at Meadowbrook Hospital in Hempstead, New York, in-
terrupted all else and in turn was interrupted in July of 1942, by
a stretch with the U.S. Army Medical Corps. First with the greatest
unit in military annals — Fox’s Army —a group of medical officers
assigned to the U.S.E.D. and caring for personnel on various lend-
lease bases. Following a course in tropical medicine at Walter Reed,
the realistic thinking in government service stationed me in New-
foundland, Miami (Florida), and Skagway (Alaska). In late 1944.
I returned to be debushed at Grove Park Inn in Asheville, North
Carolina, where I asked to be sent overseas with an evacuation hos-
pital. So I was assigned to Camp Edwards General Hospital, some
fifty miles from Boston, While there I looked up my “M.G.H. student
nurse” and eventually talked her into marrying me. We set the date,
but a week before, on three days’ notice, my orthopaedic residency
started at the Veterans Administration ETospital in Bronx, New
York. After working a weck, we were married and went ona week's

[ 487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

honeymoon. We had to get back so another resident could get mar-
ried and go on his week’s honeymoon. After two years there I
spent a very happy year as a fellow in children’s orthopaedics at the
Hospital for Special Surgery, then on g2d Street in New York City.
Thereafter, I became associated with the Ross-Loos Medical Clinic

in Los Angeles. In the fall of 1951, I joined the Fargo (N.D.) Clinic
as orthopaedist. One winter was enough to convince us that we were
Californians. We returned to northern California this time, where I
was associated with the Marysville Medical Clinic until three years

ago when I went into practice by myself. (Everyone always asks,
so here is the answer.) Yes, living in Yuba City, we were right in
the middle of the 1955 Christmas flood —three feet through our
living room.

So here I am, twenty-five years older but not much smarter;
working too hard everyone says, and having no time for hobbies or
recreation; with a wonderful wife, three fine boys, a huge old dog,
and a monstrous black cat; and a strong dislike for the way our
politicians, including a goodly number of our noble Alumni, are
leading the way to creeping Socialism. Veritas it seems can be per-
ceived only through a thick fog and then only by a few. I live in

hope that its shield may yet shine clearly and untarnished for all to
see,

MORRISON CHANDLER HAVILAND

HOME ApDoREsS: 1879 Ridge Ave., Montgomery 6, Ala.
orFice appress: Air University Library, Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.
BorN: April 7, 1915, Glens Falls, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Junior-Senior High School, Glens Falls, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; s.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1938;
s.B. (Univ. of California), 1947.
marriep: Mary Elizabeth Mooney, Aug. 26, 1939, Woodsfield, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Randolph Thompson, Oct. 20, 1944; John Beard, March 20, 1947; William
Morrison, Jan. 28, 1952; Peter LeRoy, Oct. 9, 1956.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Grant Haviland, Lx.s., 734.
occupation: Librarian; chief, Reader Services, Air University Library, Maxwell
Air Force Base.
orFices HELD: Officer in charge, U.S. Navy Reserve Training Unit, Burlington,
Vt. 1957-61; college liaison officer, ONOP, Albany, N.Y., 1957-613 chair-
man, University Lecture Committee and Joint Social Activities Board,
1957-60; member, Senate Library Committee, Personnel Policy Committee
and Student Advisory Committee, University of Vermont, 1957-60; presi-

dent, Burlington Junior-Senior High School P.T.A,, Burlington, Vt.
1959-60; Federal Relations Coordinator, Vermone Library Association,

[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1957-61; chairman, College Section, Association of College and Research
Libraries, 1959-60; Vermont State Recruiting Representative, Library Ad-
ministration Division, American Library Association, 1957-61.

MEMBER OF: American Library Association, Special Libraries Association,
Vermont Library Association; Vermont Historical Society; Bibliographical
Society of America; The Bibliographical Society; Association of Special
Libraries and Information Bureaus; Fédération International de Documen-
tation; American Association of University Professors.

puBLicaTIONS: “The Reference Function of the Lamont Library,” Harvard
Library Bulletin, 3:297-299, 1949.

THE simple fact of our life is that we seem always to be at the be-
ginning of a new enterprise, anticipating its imminence, planning
for its accomplishment, and then before its completion moving on
to another new enterprise. All the while life goes along at an ac-
celerating pace. The daily process continues. Libraries, college
and university libraries, have been my vocation and enjoyment.
Starting with the Adams House Library in my junior year and the
position of stack supervisor, Reference Department, New York
Public Library, during the following summer, and continuing to the
present — even including a brief period during World War II when
I was assigned a study in Widener to complete a Navy-sponsored
literature search —I have worked in libraries. Walter Woodman
Wright and I completed Columbia Library School the year after
graduation and spent the next four years happily in Widener.

After war years in the Naval Reserve, during which I kept files
in Boston for twenty-seven months, distributed publications to the
fleet from Pearl for eleven months and was a station patrol officer
at Treasure Island for six, 1 completed an A.M. in librarianship at
California (Berkeley) and returned to Harvard for two and a half
years to help with the preparation of the Lamont Library, to work
there as reference assistant for six months and as Widener circula-
tion assistant for another six months. Wabash College called me for
five years, during which I planned a new library building but left
its construction to my successor. The same experience was repeated
at the University of Vermont. The first paper on my desk in
Burlington was a memo from the president instructing me to begin
the planning with the architect of a new library building, while the
last i impression on leaving six years later was the scene of masonry
being built to enclose the structure.

And now we have started a new life in the Air Force as a civil
servant. What could be more challenging and stimulating in this
day of space exploration than to participate in the professional

[ 489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

education of the officers who will be tomorrow’s leaders in man’s

conquest of space! So, we seem always to be at a beginning because
what is past is prelude.

WILLIAM FREDERIC HAYDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 135 Cambridge Ave., Dayton 6, Ohio.

OFFICE appRESS: American Friends Service Committee, 915 Salem Ave., Dayton
6, Ohio.

BorN: May 7, 1915, Denver, Colo.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; A.M., 1941.

MARRIED: Marie Antoinette von Geldern, May 18, 1939, Munich, Germany
(divorced 1957). CHILDREN: Marie Louise, July 5, 1940; Margaret Anne,
June 6, 1945.

occupation: Regional secretary for interpretation and finance, American
Friends Service Committee.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Music Association.

‘++ ROBERT FRANCIS HAYES

porn: Feb. 17, 1914, Somerville, Mass. parents: John J. Hayes, Roberta
Branwhite.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREFS: A.B., 1937; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1948.

Marrigep: Miriam F. Comfrey, June 15, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy
(m. Warren E. Sweetser, 3d) and Susann (twins), March 17, 1939; Robert,
Jan. 1, 1941; Ellen, Feb. 6, 1943; Joseph, July 14, 1946; Elizabeth, Oct. 18,
1948; Michael and Patricia (twins), Aug. 23, 1950.

piep: March 27, 1961, East Boston, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Robert F. Hayes, Stepping Stones, Scituate, Mass.

IN the prewar years Hayes was in the liquor business in which
he remained until the war. After serving as a jeep driver in the 893d
Tank Destroyer Battalion in the ETO, he entered Boston University
Law School, where he received an LL.B. in 1948. Since then he
had been practising law with the firm of Hayes, Field & Hayes in
Boston. He was a director of the Winter Hill Savings and Loan
Bank of Somerville and a former chairman of the Planning Board in
the Town of Scituate. He headed the Community Fund drive in
Scituate in 1954, was chairman of the Scituate March of Dimes
Committee in 1957, and in 1960 was Commodore of the Scituate

Harbor Yacht Club. He was survived by his wife and their eight
children.

[ 490 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANA WALDRON HAYWARD

HOME ADDRESS: 320 West Point Terr., West Hartford 7, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pratt & Whitney Co., Inc., West Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Sept, 26, 1915, Portland, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.B-A., 1939.

MarrieD: Marguerite Harris, Aug. 18, 19445 Burlington, Vt. cmp; Nancy
Page, Jan. 5, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary, Prate & Whitney Company, Inc. Chandler
Evans Corporation, West Hartford, and Colt’s Patent Fire Arms, Hartford.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Pension Board, Town of West Hartford.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Northern Connecticut.

THANKS to the prodding of wife and child, my first New Year’s
resolution — quite possibly the only one I'll keep —is hereby duly
adopted and recorded.

Army service, however lightly it may have brushed me, has, as
much as anything, brought us to the middle forties in mid-Connecti-
cut. I met Margie during a tour (well, all right, basic training) in the
Coast Artillery, and Nancy was born in Springfield while I was with
Ordnance. From there it was an easy step to Hartford.

West Hartford — we've lived around this area since 1946 —is a
pleasant enough town. Margie serves on the expected drives and
committees, Nancy, turning sixteen at this moment, is a sophomore
in the local school. Her grades are fine, her college undetermined,
and her swains undergo the usual parental scrutiny.

Work (career? occupation?) is primarily coordinating and ad-
ministering insurance, pension, and corporate programs for three
local Fairbanks Whitney companies, an amalgam of dubious past,
but, let me hasten to add, of somewhat brighter future. Political ac-
tivities are currently confined to serving on the town Pension
Board. At least I think I do; the appointment ts new.

Skiing, I abandoned with considerable reluctance several years
ago. There’s a lake across the road, nonetheless, with adequate
skating. Summers, or at least this past one, we've a few races —
Rhodes 19 — on the Sound.

Vacations usually find us in Maine at Little Sebago Lake, with
my annual promise to Margie that next year we'll take a long trip.
Well, we will, next year, after the Reunion.

[4or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ALFRED HAZOURY

HOME ADpRESS: 24 WV. Walnut Pk., Roxbury 19, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Mutual Life Insurance Co., 30 Huntington Ave., Boston
16, Mass.

porN: March 23, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Frankford High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937 (38).

MARRIED: Louise Marie Milton, Sept. 24, 1944, Roxbury, Mass. cuizp: Elaine
Lucille, April 17, 1948.
OCCUPATION: Insurance agent.

OFFICES HELD: Senior class adviser, Barton (Vt.) Academy, 1946-47; Head of
English Department, Colebrook (N.H.) Academy, 1948-50.
MEMBER OF: Masons; Tall Cedars of Lebanon.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Park Street Church, Christian Endeavor Publication,
1937-38.

BEING one of Harvard’s lesser lights, I may not be able to say much
that is illuminating for Classmates who have undoubtedly made a
much bigger splash in the puddle of life. Nevertheless, not my will
but that of the Class Secretary, so here goes!

It should be mentioned at the outset that my first two college
years were spent at Syracuse University and that I transferred to
Harvard in my junior year. No regrets either way, except that
four years under one system might have been more advantageous
professionally.

My working career has really been a battleground in one sense.
You might call it one man’s effort to reconcile the idealistic with
the practical. In the early years, after leaving Alma (most other
girls left me) I seemed to have a genius for securing low-paying
jobs. Among them were drug clerk, factory worker, office worker,
YMCA secretary, and high school teacher. The last two named took
up eight years of honestly trying to serve humanity. For some
strange reason, humanity decided that virtue should be my only re-
ward.

The gains from these varied jobs were nonetheless very real. Being
a drug clerk taught me cleanliness; an office worker, meticulous at-
tention to detail; the YMCA, friendliness; and local school boards,
profanity. Somehow I have been able to merge all these qualities

in my present insurance career, which began in 1950, and this time
for a proper fee.

Some few friends feel that I have sold myself to Mammon. To

them I quote an ancient saying: “Men with empty pockets seldom
have weight in community,’

[ 492 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

To be sure, my work has been only a moderate success. I count
far greater the real blessings I have had in family and friends. A
wife who has retained all her charm after seventeen years, and a
daughter who is fast becoming a real personality (I almost said
character) have made my personal life all that I could want. Friends
and relations? The problem is to find enough time for all.

Elaine, the one and only offspring, is studying tap and ballet. Since
the rest of the family possess some small musical talent, we have a
ball with friends who, like us, love to “ham it up” at every op-
portunity. Vacations have sometimes been like episodes from vaude-
ville days, complete with musical instruments, costumes, and loads
of “corn.” Some of our more generous friends in northern New
England refer to us as “the road show.” It follows that my great
love and hobby is music. This I can enjoy in almost every field and
on every level. Listening is what I can do best, although I have per-
formed with an amateur group that had enthusiasm and talent.

My religious life is something that could stand much improvement.
Somehow I lack the faith that I had as a younger person. Neverthe-
less, I do have a love for Christian teachings, apart from the stran-
gling effect of many churches which, in my opinion, have burdened
_ Jesus with everything except His real intentions for us. I detest fear
and superstitions as a basis for religion.

How can I summarize all this to reflect a philosophy of life? I
should like to say that I consider life a succession of ever-widening
concepts and that everything that happens is to be met well and
courageously, With more regard for truthfulness, I do say that work
or career is only secondary; that the only goal that really counts is
the personal impact we make on others. To that end, I can honestly
recommend a life-long effort to improve oneself in cheerfulness,
friendliness, and poise. Whether or not one reaches this goal is not
the issue. It can be fun trying.

JOHN FRANCIS HEALY

MAILING Appress: qt Auckland St., Dorchester 25, Mass.

LOUIS BOUTWELL HEATON, JR.

HOME appress: Amherst, N.H.
OFFICE appress: New Hampshire Insurance Co. Manchester, N.H.
BORN: Jan. 18, 1916, Melrose, Mass.

[ 493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937
PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

naarrieD: Marjorie Niles, June 7, 1940, Melrose, Mass. CHILDREN: Douglas
Mansfield, Jan. 25, 1943; Robert Mansfield, Oct. 24, 1947; Donald Mansfield,
July 1, 1939.

occupation: Secretary, in charge of engineering department, New Hampshire
Insurance Company.

I HAVE been associated with the engineering branch of the fire
insurance business for the past twenty-two years, the first eleven
years in the Boston area and the last eleven years here in New
Hampshire. Our home office is in Manchester, and I work there
as a secretary of the company in charge of the engineering depart-
ment.

I spend as much time as possible, however, enjoying country liv-
ing in the small village of Amherst and feeling sorry for all those
who would like to do the same thing, but cannot. My principal
interests, aside from trying to keep an old house from falling apart,
are keeping my wife happy, bringing up three boys properly, and
sports — mainly tennis and hockey, but with some golf and shoot-
ing thrown in for good measure.

CHARLES HENRY HECHLER, JR. |

HOME appress: Glen Cove Road, Roslyn, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cineque Color Laboratory, 424 E. 89th St., New York, N.Y.
BoRN: Dec. 11, 1912, Roslyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Roslyn High School, Roslyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: 3.B. (New York Univ.).
UN MARRIED.

occuPATION: Color laboratory technician.
MEMBER OF; Anchor & Sabre Club of New York.
PUBLICATIONS: “Tony Pastor,” in the Music Journal.

THE most encouraging thing about life since graduation is that I
suill seem to be growing: in interests, in hobbies and in scope.

My career, as color technician in a laboratory that publishes film
strips, is incidental to other hobbies which seem to have no end. The
past few years have been more involved with pictures and frames,
with art history, with photography, and with discovering design
and ornament than with my regular work. These were blind areas
when I was in school, And it now appears that the best and most
interesting years are here right now or are still to come.

[ 494]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SANFORD MICHAEL HECHT

HOME ADDRESS: 2789 Bedford Ave., Brooklyn 10, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Arnold & S. Bleichroeder, Inc., 30 Broad St. New York 4, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1916, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Bayzer, May 12, 1948, Brooklyn, N.Y. cHipren: Joanne,
Jan. 16, 1949; Elizabeth, Jan. 9, 1952; Joseph, Aug. 13, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Foreign Securities trader.

HARVARD KAUFMANN HECKER

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Black Creek Lane, St. Louis 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Medart Engineering & Equipment Company, St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1915, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. (Massachusetts Inst.
of Technology), 1938.

MARRIED: Patricia Gamble, March 11, 1949, St. Louis, Mo. cHitpren: Susan
Ross, June 25, 1951; Bruce Gamble, Nov. 10, 1952; Clark R., Dec. 1, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of engineering, Medart Engineering &
Equipment Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Curtis Manufacturing Company,
1944-55; director, Security National Bank, since 1955.

GRADUATED from St. Louis Country Day School, 1933. At-
tended Washington University, 1933-34; attended Harvard Univer-
sity, 1934-35; attended M.I.T., 1935-38, graduating with S.B. in
Mechanical Engineering in 1938; attended Harvard Business School,
1938-39.

Design engineer, The Medart Company, 1940-44; design engi-
neer and vice-president and director, Curtis Manufacturing Com-
pany, 1944-55; currently, vice-president in charge of engineering,
Medart Engineering & Equipment Company.

Hobbies: sailing and square dancing. In 1955 I rode in the cab of
a steam locomotive, which I fired for fifty miles. In 1956 my wife
and I took a trip to South Africa and the Belgian Congo.

LOUIS JULIUS HECTOR

HOME appress: 3470 N. Moorings Way, Coconut Grove, Fla.

OFFICE Appress; Elector and Faircloth, 831 duPont Bldg., Miami 32, Fla,
BORN: Dec, rt, 1915, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1935.

[ 495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

marritp: Dorothy Anne Dooley, Aug. 12, 1950, Miami Beach, Fla. cHipren:

Dennis Howard, 1951; Dorothy Anne, 1953, William Frederick, 1955; Louis
Julius, Jr.
occupaTion: Attorney,

] LEFT Harvard in the middle of our sophomore year because of
my health and went back to college the next fall in the invigorating
climate of Williamstown. From there I went to Christ Church, Ox-
ford, and then on to Yale Law School. All of these, plus Andover,
keep me deep in alumni biographies, alumni drives, capital fund
drives, drives to save the Christ Church Meadows, not to speak of
reunions and alumni dinners. In all of this, I fear that Harvard,
where I spent the shortest time of all, is pushed aside.

Briefly, after a tour with the wartime agencies in Washington and
OSS in China during World War II, I returned to Miami, settled
down to the practice of law, was pulled away for a few years to run
a chemical and fertilizer business, returned to the practice of law,
became a member of the Civil Aeronautics Board in Washington,
and am now returned again to law in Miami. In the time I have left
from the law and alumni affairs, I am chairman of the board of
Miami Library Trustees, a member of the Florida Inter-American
Center Authority, and serve on various government and ABA com-
mittees in the field of aviation and administrative law.

I had the pleasure of teaching a seminar at the Harvard Law
School last year, and was greatly pleased with many of the new facil-

ities in Cambridge, particularly, the Undergraduate Library and the
Rare Book Library.

GEORGE GORDON HEDBLOM

HOME AbDprRESS: Esterbrook Road, R.F.D. 1, Acton, Mass.

OFFICE appreEss: Electronic Systems Division, Hanscom Field, Bedford, Mass.

BORN: June 12, 1915, Shanghai, China.

PREPARED AT: Lake View High School, Chicago, IIL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1951-

marriep: Elizabeth Marion, April 28, 1951, Concord, Mass, cHILDREN: Eric
Gardner, April 20, 1953; Karen Eleanor, May 31, 1955.

occupation: Lieutenant colonel, US. Air Force, Electronic Systems Division,
Hanscom Field, Bedford, Mass.

AIR Force cadet — 1941.

1942 — Fifty combat missions; recipient Air Medal, nine Oak Leaf
Clusters and Presidential Citation; ETO.

[ 496 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1947 — Reserve; received LL.B., Boston University Law School,
1951 (passed Ohio State bar, 1953).

1951 — Married and recalled to active duty, Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base, Air Tech Intelligence, then Air Material Comm., pro-
curement investigation.

1958 — Hanscom Field; appointed to the regular Air Force.

1960 — Air Force Commendation Medal.

1962 — Still at Hanscom Field, Electronic Systems Division.

MAURICE HASKELL HEINS

HOME ADDRESS: 603 W, Illinois St., Urbana, IIl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Mathematics, University of Illinots, Urbana, Ill.

BORN: Nov, 19, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1937; AM. 1939;
PH.D., 1940.

MarRIED: Hadassah Wagman, Aug. 25, 1940, Sharon, Mass. cHitpren: Sulamith
Hannah, Feb. 8, 1944; Samuel David, May 31, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Heins, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Professor of mathematics, University of Illinois.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Société Mathématique de France;
American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

PUBLICATIONS: Analytic Functions, joint author, Princeton University Press;
Selected Topics from the Classical Theory of Functions of a Complex
Variable, Holt, Rinehart and Winston.

+ STEPHEN HELBURN

BORN: Nov. 27, 1914, Salem, Mass, parents: Willard Helburn, ‘04, Margaret
Mason.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., migra cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Mary Barry.

pDIED: Sept. 26, 1942, Indianapolis, Ind.

AFTER graduation Helburn held a Public Service Fellowship at the
Graduate School of Public Administration, and participated in a
survey of the tax rates of 351 Afassachusetts cities and towns, a proj-
ect supported by Rockefeller funds. He then joined the U.S. Na-
tional Resources Planning Board as a research technician in the
Executive Office of the President, Washington, D.C, and held this
post until his death. He was survived by his wife.

( 497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

SAUL BENJAMIN HELPERN

HOME ADDRESS: 210 Sherman Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEsS: Touraine Stores, Inc. 1360 Commonwealth Ave, Allston 34,
Mass.

porn: Jan. 14, 1916, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.
mMarrieD: Olga Green, Feb. 15, 1942, Boston, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHER: David Moses Helpern, ’38.
occupation: Merchandising; retail clothing.

I WENT to work in the retail field shortly after graduation. Join-

ing the U.S. Air Force in October, 1942, I served as a radioman in
the U.S.A. and Europe.

After discharge, returning to Touraine Stores, I have been buy-
ing, merchandising and doing store planning and layouts.

My hobbies have been fishing, golfing, travel and bridge (family
style and duplicate).

ELWOOD HENNEMAN

HOME AporEss: 197 Coolidge Hill, Cambridge 38, Mass.

oFFice Appress: Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck St., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 22, 1915, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Pelham Memorial High School, Pelham, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. (McGill Univ.), 1943.

marrieD: Karel van Syckel Toll, Dec. 30, 1950, Denver, Colo. cHiLpreN: Cyrena
van Syckel, Sept. 8, 1952; Abby Hastings, Jan. 16, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Harry Henneman, *44.

occuPATION: Neurophysiologist; assistant professor of physiology, Harvard
Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: Intern, Royal Victoria Hospital, Montreal, P.Q., Canada, 1943-
44; lieutenant (j-g.) and lieutenant, USNR, 1944-46; fellow in physiology,
1946-47, assistant professor of physiology, 1951-55, Johns Hopkins School
of Medicine, research associate, Illinois Neuropsychiatric Institute, 1947-
49, Guggenheim Fellow, Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, New
York, 1949-51; associate professor of physiology, Harvard Medical School,
since 1955; member, editorial board, and section editor, American Journal
of Physiology.

MeMnex or: American Physiological Society, Sigma Xi; A.A.A.S.; Longwood
Cricket Club, Brookline, Mass.; Badminton and Tennis Club, Boston.

I HAVE tried the special blue ball-point pen the Secretary sent to
facilitate writing, but I find it will not enable me to describe what
has happened to me in the last twenty-five years. Perhaps he forgot

[ 498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to fill it with truth serum. The pen somehow refuses to become in-
volved in this vanished quarter of a century. The reason it balks,
I suppose, is that I don’t really know how I feel about it. Repres-
sions, no doubt. They say that Americans are Jung and easily
Freudened of their past.

As regards the present, I am a happily married ex-bachelor,
father of two girls, living about a mile from Harvard Square. My
wife, a Colorado girl who grew up on a horse, is now a hard-riding
neurologist.

I have been fortunate in finding a field which suits me. After
an early infatuation with neurosurgery, and some practical expe-
rience with head injuries on a hospital ship in the Pacific, I found
my true love, neurophysiology, in the laboratory, curled up by the
oscilloscope. She is a creature of impulse, rather nervous but full of
potential. If I had anticipated my ultimate needs in college, I
would have concentrated in electrical engineering to woo her more

effectively. Neurophysiology today isa wedding of electronics and

physiology.

My research is supported by the National Science Foundation.
I am studying circuits in the brain which control and coordinate
the action of muscles. To do this, I record signals from the nerves
passing to and from muscles and from the spinal cord. With the
information obtained from this wire-tapping, we are trying to ana-
lyze the servomechanisms which regulate movement. Unul ten or
fifteen years ago, progress in neurophysiology was slow; now, with
advances in electronics, it is accelerating very rapidly. The future
leads on like a progressive dinner to unknown desserts — hopefully,
to an ultimate understanding of the processes of the mind.

BURNS HENRY, JR.

HOME AppreEss: 956 Lake Shore Rd., Grosse Pointe Shores 36, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1702 Buhl Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1914, Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MarrieD: Dorothy Roberds, Sept. 27, t9gt, Yuma, Ariz, cuivoren: Josefina R,
June 24, 1952; Lawrence B., June t, 1956; Burns, 3d, May 26, t95>.

occuPATION: Real estate — owner and manager. "

MEMBER oF: Sons of the American Revolution; Detroit Museum of Art
Founders’ Society; Country Club of Detroit; University Club of Detroit.

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

‘++ GROVER MARTIN HERMANN, JR.

BORN: July 27, 1915, New York, N.Y. Parents: Grover Martin Hermann, Hazel
Hessinger.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MARRIED: Barbara Hermann.

pieD: Killed in action, Jan. 26, 1945, in Germany.

HERMANN spent only freshman year with our Class. Before enter-
ing military service, he had been employed as an executive and di-
rector of his father’s firm, the American Marietta Company, manu-
facturers of industrial and architectural finishes in Chicago. He
entered service as a second lieutenant on March 20, 1942, at Fort
Benning, Georgia.

He was killed in action in Germany on the afternoon of January
26, 1945. The Seventh Armored Infantry Battalion in which he
was serving as captain and company commander had been finally
pinned down by German fire after an all-day assault on enemy posi-
tions. Grover and part of his company moved around the flank
under cover of woods and reached the objective. He then started
back for the rest of his men. On the way back he was hit by a

sniper’s bullet and died almost instantly. He was awarded the
Purple Heart.

ROBERT SOLOMONT HERMANN

HOME ApprEss: 108 Lawn Terr., Mamaroneck, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2d District Office of Special Investigations (IG) USAF, 111 E.
16th St., New York 3, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1917, Malden, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B., 1941.
MargiED: Ruth Fishburne, June 28, 1953, Brookline, Mass.

occupation: Lieutenant colonel, USAF; commander, 2d District Office of
Special Investigations,

OFFICES HELD: President, Wiesbaden Chapter, Reserve Officers Association,
1957-58.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Law School Association; Varsity Club; Air Force

Association, Reserve Officers Association; Judge Advocates Association;
Masons; Shrine.

WHEN I enrolled in the Harvard ROTC in the fall of 1933, I hadn’t
the slightest expectation of writing my portion of the 25th Anni-
versary Report as a member of the Armed Forces. After the Law

[ 500 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

School and five years as an Army Air Forces procurement officer,
I] became a litigation lawyer in Boston. Recalled to duty with the
Air Force for the Korean emergency, I decided to stay in the
service indefinitely and am happy to have made that decision.
Luckily, Ruth likes the service and enjoys the life and travel oppor-
tunities.

The highlight of our assignments was a three-year tour of duty
in Wiesbaden, Germany, which began just before the Twentieth
Reunion. Living there gave us a chance to spend some time in most
of the European countries west of the Iron Curtain. We took many
of the conventional trips: Paris in the spring, tulip time in Holland,
Copenhagen in June, Brussels for the Fair, London for the theatre,
Switzerland for skiing and Monaco for a few laughs. We found a
few places off the beaten path for relaxation. I also had an audi-
ence with the Pope, a couple of trips to the Arab world, and a
visit to Israel.

About seven years ago I was transferred from my original organ-
ization, the Air Materiel Command, to the Office of Special Investi-
gations. I am now stationed in New York City and command an
OSI district. Working in the Big City and living in a suburb have
brought back the life of the commuter. We see a few Broadway
shows. I play some golf, and see an occasional game of baseball or
football. My job requires sufficient local and out-of-town travel to
break up the monotony of the daily commuting. The long-distance
trips planned for me sometimes involve places which none of us
would select for vacation jaunts but prove to be interesting never-
theless.

Due to the transiency of the military life, we have lost contact
with some of our old friends. Therefore, we are looking forward
to seeing them at the 25th Reunion.

SOLOMON LOUIS HERSHOFF

HOME AppreEss: 45 N. Ash St., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lewiston, Ltd., 52 Haverhill St., Brockton, Mass.

BoRN: April 9, 1915, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937.

MaRRIED: Anne Andler, July 3, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHttprEN: Flaine Frances,
Feb. 8, 1943; Arthur Lawrence, April 28, 1945; Marcia Adelle, Jan. 22, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Office manager, Lewiston, Ltd. manufacturers of misses’ coats.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Temple Bech Emunah, two years; member, Brockton

[ 501 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

United Fund Budget Review Committee, two years, Present Inner Guard

— Knights of Pythias.
MEMBER oF: Oliver Wendell Holmes Lodge No. 25, Knights of Pythias; Old

Colony Harvard Club.

I WANTED to be an economist —so—I went to work for a
manufacturer of men’s clothing. Since I still wanted to be an
economist, I left him after two years — and ended up working for
an outfit making women’s coats, which was just shifting into pro-
duction of outerwear for the Army. During the war Uncle Sam
examined my eyes and suggested that, for the sake of our men,
I remain a civilian. Well, the war ended, our contracts ended, my
outfit —I started looking again.

This time I was no longer in the clothing trade — worse. The
outfit I joined sold mostly freight damaged, surplus, and discon-
tinued items. You name it—sooner or later we sold it. What an
education. You could never be bored.

Then in 1953 a foreman I knew previously in the clothing trade
asked me to work for his company which manufactured misses’
coats. So—for the past eight years I have been back in the coat
business.

Meanwhile my family has been growing up. Elaine is a sopho-
more at Brandeis University; Arthur is a junior at a private high
school in New York, where he is obtaining both a secular and a
Hebrew education; Marcia is in the fifth grade in public school.

Between my work and my family I have had little time for any-
thing else. Politically, 1 am a Republican, surrounded, it seems, by
millions of Democrats. Just about all my friends, relatives and
associates are on the wrong side. Religiously, I am in the middle
group of Judaism; I belong to the Conservative Movement.

Oh yes, my wife is a teacher (Boston Teachers College, S.B. in
Ed., 1937); her subject—retarded children. Sometimes I think
that’s why she married me; I am so — different.

+ LAUREN JAMES HERVEY

BORN: June 27, 1912, Milwaukee, Wis, parents: James Archer Hervey, Goldie

Stiles,
TRANSFERRED FROM: Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.M. (Wisconsin State Coll.), 1936.
Marriep: Dorothea Canzani, June, 1937.
pit: April 27, 1938, New Lisbon, Wis.

[ 502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERVEY spent the sophomore year at Harvard with our Class.
He then studied at the state college in Milwaukee and received a
Master’s degree in 1936. The following two years were spent in
teaching and writing. His manuscript for a novel, The Moraine
Road, was nearly completed at the time of his death by accident
while rock climbing.

RICHARD ARNOLD HERZBERG

HOME ADDRESS: Roxiticus Road, Mendham Township, N.J. R.D., Far Hills,
N.J. (mailing).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Prudential Insurance Co., Prudential Plaza, Newark, N.J.

BorN: Sept. 11, 1915, Newark, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Columbia High School, South Orange, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1937; s.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1938.

MaRRIED: M. Olga Roston, May 1, 1946, London, England. cur~pren: Deborah
Marion, Sept. 2, 1947; Elizabeth Newman, Dec. 15, 1949.

occuPATION: Publications manager, Prudential Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1956-59, vice-president, 1957-58, Board of Education,
Hanover Township; member, board of trustees, Morristown Unitarian
Fellowship, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Chester Little Theatre Group.

WHAT does one write about twenty-five years, except that it
can’t have been that Jong? On the other hand, they have been
mighty full years. As earlier Class Reports reported, a year at
Columbia Journalism School led to miscellaneous writing and edit-
ing jobs, then to the Prudential to write not insurance but company
publications. And shortly after to the Army, where my assignments
were varied and traveled. As a S/Sgt. (an honorable title no longer
used), I was in charge of a school where we tried to train some
hundreds of illiterates to read in three months. After OCS I found
myself attached to Military Intelligence and sent to the United
Kingdom in February, 1944, to Normandy in July, 1944, to Paris
in October, 1944, to Germany in July, 1945 (briefly), when one
packed a pistol and wondered why. The dates may sound impressive
and earned battle stars, but I’m afraid there were WACs in Nor-
mandy before me. There weren’t many Germans anyway. My
Army career ended as a captain, executive officer in the Personnel

Section of the Information and Education Staff Section. While in

Paris, I met my wife-to-be, a Britisher serving with the American

Army, and we were married in 1946 before I was returned home.

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

My job history is simple: After editing a magazine for Prudential
for ten years, I was put in charge of all corporate publications, some
six in all at the present time. Perhaps my greatest public service was
when I spearheaded a campaign to sell a school building program
while serving on the Board of Education. It was a close-to-a-million-
dollar program in a township where $300,000 had only a few years
before loomed large; it won in an atmosphere that a few months
later beat our budget and put hostile members on the Board. As a
result, the township has had a five-year breather in building and
got additional rooms that it needed at minimum cost.

One thing that has been increasing ever since I settled down has
been my commuting. A few years in an apartment just outside
Newark were followed by ten in a ranch house seventeen miles
away from work. In 1959 we bought ten acres on a hillside facing
the sunset. We built a house with a lot of windows, and from
it I drive ten miles each morning to the most convenient sta-
tion. But it has been worth it, and the work (unending) of keeping
up the grounds (mostly wild) has kept my weight close to what
it was twenty-five years ago.

Travel has consisted of several trips to London, one to Nassau,
several to San Francisco and California, plus much local looking
around in the Fast. Politically, I was a highly inactive publicity
chairman for Citizens for Kennedy in highly Republican Morris
County. Although I have no sons headed for Harvard, I do have
two daughters who seem to be headed for Radcliffe, and the closer
association of the two colleges is very satisfactory to see. Altogether,
classify me among the contented ones.

ROBERT GLYNN HESKETT

MAILING ADDRESS: S, 3104 Jefferson St., Spokane 42, Wash.

ENGEL PHILIP HEVENOR

HOME apprEss: Poccia Circle, Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 667 Madison Ave., New York 21, N.Y.; 149 Purchase St., Rye,
N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1915, Stamford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Iona School, New Rochelle, NLY.

YPARS IN COLLEGP: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1937; Mw. (Columbia

Univ.), 1941.
[ 504 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Clementine Helen Smith, Sept. 3, 1951, Pelham, N.Y. cHILpRen:
Sheran Catherine, Jan. 17, 1955; Renée Ann, March 7, 1961.

occupation: General surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attending surgeon, St. Luke’s Hospital, New York City,
United Hospital, Port Chester, N.Y.; instructor in surgery, Columbia
University.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American Medical
Association; American College of Surgeons (fellow), Larchmont Yacht
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Adenolymphoma,” Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, June,
1951; “Repair of Defects of the Thoracic Wall,” Journal of Thoracic
Surgery, February, 1951.

THE world in which we studied and in which we are now taking a
part has been one in which the sciences have come to the forefront.
I consider myself to be very fortunate to be in the sciences at this
time, and to have been basically grounded in them and in literature
and history. It irks me very much to hear people complain of the
time in which they live and at the fast pace and change.

After completing my formal medical school training in 1941,
I went to St. Luke’s Hospital, New York City, where I received
my surgical training. This was interrupted from 1943 to 1946 by
the Navy and most of that time was spent in the Southwest Pacific
during the New Guinea, Philippines and Borneo campaigns, where
I had charge of Surgical Team No. 6 in the Seventh Amphibious
Forces. My residency and fellowship training in surgery was
finally completed in January, 1950. In other words, I was off to a
Jate start. Since that time, the practice of general surgery has
consumed most of my time, energies and ability.

My main frustration in life—in a day in which every man is
supposed to be researcher and writer — is to do that research and
writing and take care of patients at the same trme. Therefore, some-
thing has had to give and I am afraid it has been the academic
side. The one luxury and avocation which has been permitted me
in the past five years has been sailing. In this endeavor, I am a
cruising man, rather than a racing man.

I haven’t been a joiner or organizer, but one cannot be all things
to all people. My niche in private life is a satisfactory one, but I
am never satisfied or complacent with my professional life, which
always requires pruning and progress.

[ 505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

THEODORE COOPER HEWITT

HOME ADDRESS: 1000 Union St., North Marshfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Norwell High School, Main Street, Norwell, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1914, Syracuse, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933—1934.

MarriED: Elisabeth Field, Oct. 22, 1942, Brookline, Mass. cHiLpREN: Thea
Elizabeth, Aug. 1, 1944; Marshall Cooper, Oct. 24, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Cooper Hewitt, ’49.

occupation: Director of music, Norwell Schools, Norwell, Mass.; choral and
orchestra conductor, concert violinist, lecturer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Advisory Committee, Boston and Cambridge Centers
for Adult Education; assistant director, Cambridge Center for Adult Educa-
tion, 1946-50; faculty member, Cambridge Center for Adult Education,
Wells Memorial Institute; member, board of directors, Plymouth County
Teachers Association, since 1960.

MEMBER OF; N.E.A.; Massachusetts Teachers Association; Plymouth County
Teachers Association; Norwell Teachers Club; Old Colony Harvard Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Teachers Manual for Schools, poetry (Survey Graphic); musical
scores of American folk music.

WHERE have the years gone? It was just the other day that I felt
the awe of being grown up, of smoking my first pipe, and feeling
the new stature of being a part of Harvard. I can remember so
vividly that pouring autumn day, the crowded New Lecture Hall,
my late arrival, arms laden with books. I can hear Professor Merri-
man’s fierce command: “Take off your hat!” I can hear the de-
lighted roar of 1,200 classmates and recall my chagrin and flaming
face as a cascade of falling books accompanied a futile gesture
toward my head piece. Twenty-five years! A lifetime of events
race past: the tragedies, the joys, the successes and the failures.
Marriage. Children. War. Struggle against destiny’s relentless
pressure. The transfer of self-interest to the responsibilities of
family, friends and career. My college years were years of economic
hardship thanks to the depression, followed by the bitter-sweetness
of a wartime marriage. The war: a period of humiliations, smashed
ideals, terror and pride. Postwar: the rebuilding of an individual,
an ammnesia-like attempt to forget these years of spiritual privation.
Today: a time to live creatively, a time to cease the futile wing-
beating and struggle against the tide; a time to recognize one’s
limitations and to capitalize upon one’s potential. My family, the
beginning and the end of all things. My wife, a concert pianist, is
my associate in all things. My daughter, a fine flutist, intellectually
inclined and lovely, is headed for college next year. My son, a

[ 506 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sensitive, eager and talented child, has an eight-year-old’s ambition
to be a Son of Harvard. This is the real story of those twenty-five
years — the whole and all its parts.

Oh yes, I did serve in the U.S.C.G. and the U.S. Army (under
Jim Gaffney’s command in the ETO). I was captured, escaped and
survived the Battle of the Bulge and countless other nightmares,
After combat, I enjoyed Biarritz American University, and played
in a French opera orchestra. I turned my back on a career as a
symphony player and went into music education and concert work.

Politically, I am uncommitted but by no means dispassionate, I
refuse to blame the world’s ills on F.D.R., Harry, Ike or J.F.K. I
believe our apathy as a people, our supreme devotion to the shoddy
and material, our scorn for all things not American and our in-
difference to the world around us are the true causes of America’s
present dilemma. I am convinced that a return to fundamentals
will do more to solve our educational problems than all the new
trends, innovations in testing and measurements, team teaching,
combined. I know there is no shortcut to anything worthwhile, be
it art, education, science or international affairs. I wish we Ameri-
cans had greater dedication, reverence and respect for the past
which made the present possible, and the future predictable. I feel
that expediency has been the cause of our decline, and the magic
formula of a rebirth will be found in a return to the old values, of
caring enough about things and of individual pride in one’s work.

We enjoy our Marshfield home with its rolling, uncultivated
fields. Our summer home in New Brunswick, Canada, provides a
welcome relief from the pressures of the school year. Occasionally,
I wonder how it would feel to be bored, but I haven’t the time to
experiment with that luxury. In short, it’s a great life, and I'll settle
for another twenty-five years as vital, as productive and happy as
these just past.

ESTILL SAMUEL HEYSER, JR.

HOME appreEss: 4425 Highland Drive, Dallas 5, Texas.

OFFICE appress: Heyser & Heard, 1408 Life Bldg., Dallas 2, Texas.

BORN: Aug. 9, 1914, Greenville, Miss.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933~1934. DEGREES: A.B. and LL.B. (Southern Methodist Univ.),
_ 1938.

Marriep: Nancy Townsend, August, 1934, Dallas, Texas, critoren: Mary

Claire, July 6, 1939; Nancy Townsend, Feb. 22, 1945,

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occupation: Oil exploration and production; partner of Heyser & Heard, real
estate investments; chairman of the board, Bank of Dallas.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Texas Independent Producers & Royalty Owners Asso-
ciation, since 1946, Independent Petroleum Association of America, since
1950; councillor, Production Division, American Petroleum Institute, since
1956; first vice-president, 1957-59, president, 1959-61, Mid-Continent Oil
& Gas Association.

MEMBER OF: Phi Alpha Delta (honorary legal fraternity); Texas Bar Associa-
tion; Petroleum Clubs of Dallas, Houston, Fort Worth and Midland; Dallas
Country Club; Brook Hollow Golf Club; Northwood Club; Dallas Gun
Club; Engineers Club of Dallas; Imperial Club; Dallas Club; City Club;
Cipango Club; Koon Kreek Hunting and Fishing Club; Chapparal Club;
London Club; Salesmanship Club; Idlewild Club; Terpsichorean Club.

AFTER leaving Harvard at the end of my freshman year, I entered
the University of Texas where it was possible to obtain a combina-
tion of A.B, and LL.B. within five years, rather than the usual seven.
This seemed to make sense, in that I was married after the first year
at Harvard. [ attended the University of Texas for two years, then
transferred to Southern Methodist University because of the serious
illness of my father, who lived in Dallas. I graduated from Southern
Methodist University as president of the senior law class in 1938.
After a tour of Europe in the summer of 1938, I returned to Dallas,
which I thought would be headquarters for a life in Texas “oil.”

As with all of us, the war changed my plans considerably. I
entered the Navy early in 1942, as a lieutenant (j.g.), and was dis-
charged in September, 1945, as lieutenant commander. During this
time I was stationed in Washington, D.C.. New York, the West
Indies for a year, and Arabia for a year. I did mot encounter Presi-
dent Kennedy’s P.T. boat.

Upon release from the Navy in 1945, I resumed my oil activities
which have had their focal point in Texas, with occasional ventures
in Oklahoma, Louisiana, Alabama, Wyoming, and California. Dur-
ing the last few years I have spent considerable time in Mexico,
Nevada, and California, working on various deals, but principally in
real estate in those areas.

I had an interesting experience in 1961, in a successful effort
along with several friends in obtaining the charter for the “Bank of
Dallas” of which I am chairman of the board.

I plan to go to Argentina in early 1962 to look into the real estate
and oil situations in that country.

Almost everybody in Texas is interested in politics and certainly
everybody in the oil business is. In our historically “Democratic”

{ 508 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(party) state, I must be classified as “independent” since 1 have
voted Republican in all national elections.

A back injury forces me to forego tennis, golf, and water skiing,
but I still enjoy white-wing shooting in Arizona and Mexico, and
duck and pheasant shooting in California. Reading is far and away
my favorite hobby.

My seventeen-year-old and twenty-two-year-old daughters give
me the affectionate, bemused tolerance that a representative of the
Stone Age, such as I, deserves.

I would like to hear from any of you who come to my part of
the world.

* ROY CARL HICKS, JR.

BoRN: Feb. 12, 1916, Detroit, Mich. Parents: Roy Carl Hicks, Marguerite
Bieber.

PREPARED AT: Detroit Country Day School, Detroit, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. .

MARRIED: Lucy King Selden, Feb. 29, 1936, Ypsilanti, Mich. cHmpren: Roy
Carl, 3d; Mary Angela.
DIED: Sept. 30, 1943, Marfa, Texas.

AS an undergraduate Hicks was a member of the orchestra of the
Pierian Sodality, and he left Harvard at the end of his sophomore
year. He worked successively for Graham-Paige Motors, Inter-
national Business Machines Corporation, Pittsburgh Plate Glass
Company, and, just prior to his military service, was employed as
an accountant and auditor with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company,
certified public accountants of Detroit. He joined the service as a
private (unassigned) in August, 1942, and was to have received his
wings on October 28, 1943. He died in the crash of an Army train-
ing plane. He was survived by his wife and children.

4 KEITH HARRISON HIGGS

BORN: Jan. 11, 1916, Milwaukee, Wis. PARENTS: Edmund Robert Higgs, Hazel
Baum.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
MARRIED: Jean Higgs. cuitp: Allison.

piep: March 6, 1944, Edmonton, Alb., Canada.

HIGGS captained the football team at Belmont High School and at
[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Harvard played varsity and junior varsity football. As a member
of the undergraduate ROTC, he was commissioned a second lieu-
tenant of Field Artillery upon graduation. For five years he engaged
in the insurance business in Chicago, serving as divisional corre-
spondent of the Hardware Mutual Casualty Company. Called to
active duty in January, 1942, at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, he was later
ordered to Camp Barkeley, Texas, where he was promoted first
lieutenant. In October, 1942, he was transferred to the Air Force.
After training at San Antonio, Coleman, and Waco in Texas, he was
assigned to the Alaskan wing of the Air Transport Command. He
was killed in a night airplane accident, and was survived by his wife

and daughter.

ARTHUR GORMAN HILLS

apprEss: Jackson Memorial Hospital, 1700 N.W. Tenth St., Miami 36, Fla.

BoRN: Aug. 5, 1915, Washington, D.C. .

PREPARED AT: St. Albans School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1937; M.D. (Johns Hopkins
Univ.), 1942.

UNMARRIED,

occupaTION: Physician and medical educator; professor of medicine, University
of Miami.

A(RTHUR) GORMAN HILLS, physician and medical educator.
M.D. Johns Hopkins, 1942; internship and residency in internal
medicine, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 1942-43 and 1946-48; trip
around the world, courtesy of Uncle, 1943-46; military service un-
glorious, some risk from microbes, practically none from missiles,
1 to 1% educational years each in Oceania and India-Pakistan;
1948-55 devoted to acquiring research skills and inching painfully
up the academic ladder (to assistant professor) at the University of
Pennsylvania, 1955 to date helping start a medical school (Uni-
versity of Miami), where I am now professor of medicine. Fifty
scientific articles, none momentous, and a few younger associates
propelled a short way along the path of clinical science is the not
very impressive sum I should have to present if summoned to-
morrow to make my final reckoning.

So much for the curriculum vitae, dry grains of dust, of interest
(possibly) to some prospective employer. But as I have (on the
one hand) no intention whatever of attending the Twenty-fifth or
any other Class Reunion, and have also I notice made conspicuously

[ 510 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

close-mouthed entries in previous volumes recording the fates and
sentiments of the men of ’37, while (on the other) I have thoroughly
enjoyed browsing through the entries of classmates who are almost
all the dimmest of shades to me, all except a handful mostly sub-
sequently encountered by chance, barely identifiable, if at all,
by some capricious nominal or pictorial stimulus, perhaps I should
be ungrateful and unmannerly if I did not now for once make an
effort at stocktaking for the amusement if not derision of my fellow
ex-Harvardians,

What has life brought or yielded? Notably mot a wife nor chil-
dren. A pretty bad miss, according to the social adjustment tally
sheets dear to the age and profitable to the social scientists; doubt-
less also by saner standards as well. Well, why not? Perhaps be-
cause a protracted struggle to renegotiate the pecking order imposed
in the nursery has produced as an end product some slackening of
those bonds commonly generated by the natural order — kin,
schools (hence no reunions), race, religious affiliation, social and
economic Class, helpmeet and offspring? Probably as accurate, or
as inaccurate, as any other explanation I— or you, gentle classmate
—might concoct. Das alles ist geheim—so viel gehbeim—as the
foreign lady remarked in the play.

The consequences are more decipherable, and comprise prin-
cipally one variety or another of unclubbability; general social life
tends toward restriction; and although one doesn’t take it lying
down, one naturally focuses on areas of relatively little interest
to classmates and others engaged in raising families, and vice versa.
There are some compensations: Principally, less obligatory distrac-
tion from work, and more especially from sacrifices which one may
wish or need to offer at other altars, particularly those great ab-
stractions — truth, for example — whose claims don’t derive from
the natural order and often conflict with it. The Viscount St.
Albans said sooth when he called the wife-’n-kids hostages to For-
tune — a saying soothing to a célibataire sérieux.

“Célibataire” 1 find charming, although bhominum divumque
voluptas alma Venus is not nowadays, | think, if ever, so con-
spicuously dutiful to ox-eyed Hera as the expression would seem
to hope. But lest a false impression be conveyed, let me add at
once that although I have, like most mortals, felt the sting of the
lady Aphrodite’s lash at several places and times of her choosing, I
have been no particular votary and assuredly no great favorite of
hers. The Baron Verulam — wise and worthy worldly philosopher!

[sit]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

— soothes again: “The stage,” said the sage, “is more beholding to
Love than the life of man.”

Friendship, health, money, in declining order of value — does not
every man, as Dr. Johnson said of Greek, get as much of them as
he can? As much, that is—over and above that minimum with-
out which life is insupportable — as is consistent with the claims
made by the first things. While I could not truthfully pretend to
notable achievements in these categories — indeed in a couple I may
well be on the shy side —I do value what I have of all three.

What first things? Work, certainly, and it is here that I feel
most grateful to Fortune. Convinced already in the Harvard Yard
by Oswald Spengler — indicating perhaps that good advice can be
had from improbable sources—that in our age the professional
practice of the arts or the humanities is apt to infect the center of
our life with the disastrous central cleavage of our society, I early
decided to secure scientific training. The practising physician con-
sumes science, but generally cannot give himself actively to it; but
the academic physician must submit daily to science’s stern school-
ing, yet daily also is applying it, subordinating it to human needs and
values as, indeed, does his practitioner colleague. I know of no
other calling which draws upon so much of a man for his work as
does academic medicine, and which demands always so much more
than he can give of self-discipline, of intellect, of patience, of devo-
tion to the best in our cultural inheritance, or service to men’s
needs. As one can never properly meet these challenges, one can
never tire of the work, and one is forced to keep teaching, learning,

growing. The reward, an inestimable one, is wholeness in one’s
work — the valid sense of professional solidarity, of real working
communication, between past and present, old and young, with
workers in the exact sciences, in social services, in government —
indeed with everyone concerned with health and humane values;
and there is even still the chance to develop a personal style in

one’s career. The price? Incessant struggles to raise essential operat-
ing funds; endless paper work and administration; a schedule which
makes a work neurosis almost required equipment, exceptional pro-
fessional and economic insecurity. Twice the price would be cheap.

Not a first thing, but a valued felicity —my home: A region of
great beauty; a climate exceptionally friendly to human needs and
pleasures, minimizing time required for survival and basic function-
ing; a pretty, quict house near my work and surrounded by grow-
ing things, a lively and cosmopolitan community, large enough to

[sz]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

give cultural advantages, not yet so large as to banish wild life or
dehumanize society.

My country: She does pretty well by most of us compared to
any other in sight, much more for me than most would. She fur-
nishes me with necessities and comforts too in return for my
services, allows me to harbor unpopular thoughts and to read what
I like, Praising her is like praising one’s family, for I am linked to
her by a tie of the natural order, but by something more as well.
I salute my good fortune in having been allotted to her by birth,
but believe loyalty is well served by politely drawing attention on
suitable occasions to her undoubted shortcomings. One of these,
I think, is her current propensity to sell herself short — to sell her-
self specifically on dross of various kinds, all well enough symbol-
ized by the prominence now given to the slogan Free Enterprise,
that literary legerdemain whereby the sanctity of the profit motive
— the hand is quicker than the eye — is being stealthily substituted
on the blazon of the Republic for those glorious abstractions of the
Enlightenment invoked by the Founding Fathers. Another is that
parochialism by which she is too much divorced from that with-
out which she was and Is literally inconceivable-—the West, our
true family: Our grandparents, the glorious Hellenes and the He-
brews; our parents, the Romans; our older and younger brothers
and sisters of Europe, the British Commonwealth and Latin America.
I am grateful, immeasurably so, for this inheritance and this kinship.

At the end of such catalog belongs, I suppose, the foremost of
the first things, the way the Cosmos looks to be ordered. Here I
descry little progress since quitting the Yard, unless it be progress
to come to think these questions the most important of all. The
answers, however, don’t come readily, and I still choke on revela-
tion and am short on faith. Perhaps there'll be a breakthrough to
report for the Fiftieth. Meanwhile, my thanks go to the editors
for stimulating this timely inventory, fallible and ephemeral though
it must be — like the flower of grass that withereth; like the life
of man, in fact, which, just at the moment, I feel grateful for having
been given a crack at.

EDWIN AUGUSTUS HILLS, II

HOME appress: 34 Martin's Lane, Hingham, Mass.
OFFICE Appress: Boston Plate & Window Glass Co., 4a Wormwood Sr., Boston,
Mass,

[513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

BORN: June 9, 1914, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937+

marrieD: Margaret Scott Brydon, Jan. 31, 1953 Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Dorrepaal, May 16, 1954; Barbara Brydon, Aug. 12, 1955; Joseph

Snow, June 4, 1958.

occupation: Construction department architectural representative, Boston Plate
& Window Glass Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1935, trustee, since 1947, president, two years,
Massachusetts Charitable Fire Society.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Cohasset Yacht Club; Ward-
room Club; Hingham Civic Chorus; Harvard Musical Association.

MY life as much as anything has been my interest in the friends
I’ve made. Acquaintances are fine, but friends are different and
more sincerely lasting. My best one, my ever-loving bride, Margie,
didn’t come along until 1952. We were married on a lovely winter
day in 1953.

But to relate my activities since college: I left home in Brookline
in a ’32 V-8 Ford convertible and pulled up in Rockway, New
Jersey (not Long Island), at the Package Research Laboratory to
learn the wire bound shipping container (orange crates) business
with the idea of assisting some box manufacturer in the South some
time later. “How strong is strong enough?” was the lab’s byword.
I lived in Morristown, New Jersey, and thoroughly enjoyed the
friends I made there. A few of the best harked back to my days
of teaching sailing at Edgartown Yacht Club in ’36 and 737. In
Morristown I batched about, tennis, beagling, dancing at the Brook
in Summit, cruised once from Larchmont to Nantucket and back
in Starlight, a forty-foot cutter. Another time I cruised from Edgar-
town to Eastport in Golden Fleece, a thirty-foot sloop. Until the
spring of 1940 it was a gay life,

To maintain my Harvard NROTC commission, I requested active
duty in Cruisers Pacific, not to exceed one year! In November,
1940, my sister Ernestine accompanied me to Grand Canyon, San
Francisco, Yosemite Valley and Los Angeles. On board the USS
Savannah as an ensign, deck duty. After a delightful few months
in Pearl Harbor with a trip to Samoa, Auckland, Tahiti, and back,
we shoved off one day little knowing Boston was our destination.
That was May of ’41. The Nazi navy was a threat. Patrolled the

Atlantic until early ’42 when I transferred to armed guard. A de-
cision turned into good fortune, wherein I accepted an offer to
train the gunners instead of continuing to the disastrous Merchant
Marine convoys of those days. Thus, I spent a year on the USS

[514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Dubuque teaching armed guard crews out of Norfolk and Little
Creek. My car ashore resulted in diversion at Virginia Beach, the
Norfolk Officers Club, and the like. Another very pleasant memory
of shore duty.

Then more duty in gunnery training of naval personnel; this
time a short tour in Manhattan developed into a quick shift to com-
mand of the Anti-aircraft Training Center in Bermuda in 1943.
Spent sixteen months there living the life of Riley. Our BOQ was a
delightful house in Paget. We fired all Navy AA guns from the
cliff at air targets. At night we entertained all of Bermuda with
our fireworks. Then, in 1944, I was sent west to the USS South
Dakota. I joined her in Ulithi and became machine gun officer.
With the high speed task forces, we saw considerable action,
carrier escort including Kamikaze protection (or attempts thereat),
shore bombardment and much high speed lugging of fuel for de-
stroyers. Going into Tokyo Bay for V-J Day, I shifted to the USS
Missouri and came as far back as Honolulu and on the USS New
York back to New York to be separated in Boston in early 1946.
My “year” had turned into almost six. At this time, my “operation,”
a ruptured lumbar disc, was fixed by the “civies” at my choice
though it was a service-connected injury.

Looking forward to a few sailing years with my sister and her
young family, I acquired my first 210, a thirty-foot racing sail-
boat popular in New England waters. But my greatest sadness was
the loss of my sister in connection with the birth of her third child,
my niece, Ernestine Hills Hawkins — she’s now fifteen! I'll always
miss “Ern.” We were very close.

In September, 1946, I started with Boston Plate, a part of which
my grandfather founded many years before. Sailing was my chief
avocation. I had very good luck at the yacht racing game in Co-
hasset and in interfieet 210 activities in New York, Marblehead, Cape
Cod and Boston. Sold the first 210, Comet II], and in 1955 built
another, Sonata. But let’s drop the anchor a minute and fill in.
Marge Brydon had taken up an invitation from a friend to come
“back” to Boston from San Francisco and live with her. Working
at the M.G.H., she accepted an invitation one day to help take
care of “too many men” at Dr. Anne Wight’s house party in Co-
hasset. With this blind date, it all began in the spring of 1952. We
sailed in the moonlight on weekends and vacations, weathered the
Salem squall with Anne Wight and her hand warmer. On January
31, 1953, we were married and lived not ever after but for a while

[515]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

in a very small Hingham apartment. Our honeymoon comprisec
a quick trip to San Francisco to meet Margie’s family. I played it
safe by marrying her first, then meeting her relatives, of which
she has many on the Coast. It worked out okay I guess. In June
we took a delayed wedding trip aboard the Queen Mary, then to
Paris, Nice, Florence, Venice, Interlaken, Geneva, London, Edin-
burgh, and back aboard the Queen Elizabeth, We just missed
the Coronation. The trip, of course, was priceless — never to be
forgotten.

Just as we completed remodeling the carriage house at my grand-
father’s house in Hingham, Elizabeth arrived. It was May of 1954.
Barbara came along in August of 1955 and Joseph in June of 1958.
The first Hills boy is by tradition Joseph Snow. My father was
the exception. His uncle, Joseph Snow Hills, was killed at the Battle
of the Wilderness as a captain in the Federal army. His grandfather,
Joseph Snow Hills, was a supercargo sailing the world over out of
Salem. And so it goes back to Joseph Hills born in England in 1602.
Our Joe is the tenth generation. He is now three.

Our decision to give up small boat racing in favor of cruising is
in step with our thoughts to watch our children in small boats
develop their initiative and independence. There is no better way.
We purchased a floating “cottage,” a thirty-nine-foot cruising cut-
ter, with auxiliary engine, plenty of comfort, safety, ability at sea,
and accommodations for the family. My father, George E. Hills, ’97,
said in his Twenty-fifth yearbook that he hoped to take me cruising
along the coast of Maine someday. That day finally arrived this
summer but not with his company. He’s now eighty-five and very
hale and hearty. We lost Mother last June after a year’s decline.
She was a great person. Her courage, understanding, ability in al-
most everything she tackled from driving a car to singing and
piano playing, to which she devoted much of her life, were mem-
orable. It doesn’t seem possible that she’s gone after all these years.
To get back to our cruising boat, Giralda, we five, along with
a sixteen-year-old boy to help me, “did” the coast from Camden
to Cuttyhunk this summer. I flatly deny that cruising is a result
of getting old. You might say so, but it’s my choice with children

at this state. :

The glass business continues in a modest way. We have glazed
some of “your” buildings like Lamont Library, the Herbarium, to
say nothing of the John Hancock Building, and the Federal Reserve
Bank of Boston. Yes, I’m interested in the construction side of

[ 516 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Boston Plate’s activity. I survey, quote estimates, sell and negotiate
contracts for furnishing and installing flat glass of all types. I do
considerable engineering of the jobs and a certain amount of man-
aging of glazing personnel. We keep our fingers crossed and our
pencils sharp for the future. The Prudential? And thus life goes
on. As a student of Christian Science, I never have followed up
my intention to pursue its fascinating benefits. More in the future.
Can you guess I’m a Republican?

HUGH FREDERIC HINCKLEY

HOME ADDRESS; 5 Oval Ave., Riverside, Conn, ©

OFFICE appREss: Doulton & Co., Inc., 11 E. 26th St., New York 10, N.Y.

BorN: April 25, 1914, Winnipeg, Canada.

PREPARED AT; Riverdale Country School, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

MaRRIED: Betty Hooper Burnham, April 26, 1947, Montclair, N.J. cHiwpReN:
Deborah Burnham, May 23, 1948; Allen Carter, 2d, June 13, 1952.

occupation: Director, vice-president, treasurer and secretary, Doulton & Com-
pany, Inc., importers and wholesalers of Royal Doulton chinaware prod-
ucts for the United States.

OFFICES HELD: Member, three-man tariff committee representing the British
china industry.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Associated Representatives of Staf-
fordshire Potters; 200 Fifth Avenue Club of New York; Village Light
Opera Group of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in trade publications,

WITH time on my hands as a captive chairborne passenger at 40,000
feet crossing the Atlantic, I now find it difficult to resist any further
the forceful exhortations of the eloquent pleas of the Harvard 1937
Class brass.

In brief, I still carry on in the china dinnerware business and am
presently making a weekend trip to our factory at Stoke-on-Trent,
England, for the purpose of design decisions for 1963. As in many
fields of endeavor, styling and design in our business become increas-
ingly important as the years roll by. How slight the difference be-
tween a pattern that gathers dust on the retail shelf and one that is
in constant demand!

On the personal side, I seem to have given up singing in amateur
shows for lack of time and returned to the inevitable church choir.
At least it is a paid choir, which means little financially but does
eliminate the hooty contralto, the wobbly tenor, and the voiceless

[517]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

growling bass. I still feel Doc Davison towered in stature easily
over any choir conductor I have since encountered.

Our family has stayed the same in quantity since the Twentieth
Report, but I like to think has grown in quality or at least maturity.
In any event, I find myself being reschooled in correcting high school
math homework and various other subjects —- most of which I seem
to have forgotten if I ever knew them. Of one thing I am convinced
— never as a teen-ager did I come close to the tasks the children seem
to manage nowadays. Cub Scout monthly meetings provide more
active evening work.

My wife has covered the gamut from running charity drives, selling
a bit of real estate, and presiding over the Greenwich Junior League.
Needless to say, my only contact with the family car is an occasional
view in the garage plus the acceptance of an odd repair bill. To
cope with the problem, I wrestled until last year with the latest
model LaSalle (vintage 1940). Recently I graduated to a ten-year-old
Cadillac when the LaSalle wheezed to a noisy halt.

One fleeting annual pleasure is a short trip to the Virgin Islands
in mid-winter, where along with another couple we rent a friend’s
house and lap up some welcome sun and swimming. Folding up in
a Fiat to master the St. Thomas mountainous roads also provides an
amusing challenge. Summers have included vacations on Nantucket,
in Maine, Vermont, etc. However, most enjoyable have been the
combination business and pleasure journeys abroad.

In community life, we seem to have taken part in the usual activ-
ities such as soliciting for annual drives, PTA work, etc. My wife
is currently on the board of directors of the Community Chest and
Council of Greenwich. In summation, the years have treated us
kindly, and we look forward to Harvard in June with eager anticipa-
tion.

CECIL CALVERT HINES, JR.

HOME appress: 4001 Montpelier Rd., Manor Club, Rockville 13, Md.

OFFICE AppREss: Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co., Washington, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1909, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D.C,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1936-1937. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1937.

MaKRiED: Janet B. Stanley, December, 1947, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Cecil
Calvert, 3d, July 29, 1949; Spencer Coleman Stanley, Aug. 26, 1950; Charles
Howard Lockwood, Oct. 24, 1954 (died July 26, 1960); Marida Wright

Bartlert, Nov. 3, 1955-
[518]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Executive personnel supervisor, telephone company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Olney City Association, 1953, Sherwood P.T.A,,
1955; building chairman, 1954, vestryman, 1955-58, school superintendent,
1959-60, St. John’s Episcopal Church, Olney, Md.; president, Olney, P.T.A.,
1954; vice-president, 1957-59, president, 1959-60, director, 1961-63, Wash-
ington Personnel Association; district director, since 1959, national director,
since 1960, American Society Personnel Administration; instructor in human
relations, Montgomery College, 1958-59; instructor, American Institute of
Banking, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Washington, Manor Country
Club; Redland Hunt; Cricket Club of Washington.

PuBLICATIONS: “Handling Human Relationships in Business,” 1941; U.S. Navy
Officer Classification Manual, 1943.

AFTER graduation I returned to the Chesapeake & Potomac Tele-
phone Company in Washington, where I served in various person-
nel and public relations assignments until 1943, when I became a
lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy. Served in the Bureau of Naval Per-
sonnel, Pacific Theatre, and as flag secretary, Fleet Operations,
Japan, in the early occupation; final rank, lieutenant commander.
Returned to the United States via Suez, aboard USS Pine Island,
May, 1946.

Returned to C & P Telephone in plant personnel; 1947-51, man-
agement training engineer, A.T. & T. Co., New York; 1951-55,
successively in charge of supplies, auditing, payroll and voucher
accounting. In August, 1955, I came to my present job as coordi-
nator of personnel practices and research on our company’s execu-
tive staff.

While with A.T. & T., we lived in Morristown, New Jersey.
Upon returning to the Washington company, we bought a 200-
year-old house in Olney, Maryland. In 1954 we bought Gittings
Ha Ha Farm near Brighton in Montgomery County, having been
intrigued by the quaint name and the sprawling old house, a treasure-
trove of early American architecture and fixtures, Much as we
enjoyed our life in this lovely setting, Jan and I decided in the
severe winter of 1960 that practical considerations dictated a re-
turn to civilization. Instead of having some sixty acres to mow and
manicure, we now take pleasure in watching the club’s machines

mowing the acres of fairway which surround our wooded acre, and
the kids can proceed on their own power to the club pool, tennis
courts, number one tee, etc.

In addition to her flair for home decorating and fine cabinet
work, my wife is a versatile and imaginative artist, and now that

[st9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

the kids are all in school, will have more time for this, in additioz
to her various charitable activities and amateur theatre work.

The youngsters are accumulating a formidable display of trophies
ribbons and medals from their activities in the Pony Club, the
club swimming league and the like, our daughter Marida (Muffy)
being the undisputed diving champion in her age group. We are
in hopes that at least one of the boys will be able to make Harvard.

ROBERT WALDO HIPKISS

HOME ApprEss: Thirty Acres, Hudson, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hipkiss & Hulbert, Inc., 310 S. Water St. Kent, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1916, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Julianne Hamilton Slosson, Aug. 30, 1941, East Aurora, N.Y. cuit-
DREN: Robert James, Sept. 30, 1950; Barbara Waldo, Feb. 3, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative, specializing in hand tools.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Akron.

NOW that twenty-five years have rolled by, I realize I have spent
most of it scrambling happily to get ahead — to the exent that I am
no longer in contact with either of my roommates (Hi, Shep and
Walt) or any Classmates. Perhaps this can be remedied in the next
twenty-five. .

After graduation, I moved to East Aurora, New York — spent
two years in the wholesale pig iron, coal, and coke business but
didn’t feel fitted to this, so started anew in ’39 with Barcalo Manu-
facturing Company in Buffalo, where I progressed to manager of
their drop forged tool division. Had three years’ diversion as an
enlisted man for the Army, 1943-46.

As indicated above, I had married Julie, and we acquired a family
and built a home to last the rest of our lives — had seven acres on
which we started pines, an orchard, and garden, etc. Shortly after
we were well settled, along came an opportunity to get into my own
business, so we moved to Hudson, Ohio, in the spring of 1955, and
have again settled for a long stay with more pines, orchard, and
garden, and are visited by pheasants, rabbits, and an occasional deer.
Much of the real pleasure comes from the fact we are in the village,
with city sewer, water, and gas, and with excellent schools and

neighbors. ;
Jusinesswise, I bought out a friend who was getting ready to re-

[ 520 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tire from his successful hand tool sales agency, and when he retired
in 1957, one of my customers, Ken Hulbert, joined me, and we in-
corporated in 1958. Presently getting along fine representing Bar-
calo’s tool division; Hanson drills, taps, and dies; Kraeuter pliers;
Upson screwdrivers; Collins axes and hammers, Blue Bird tin snips;
and Wright sockets. We sell to wholesalers in Ohio, West Virginia,
Michigan, Indiana, and Kentucky.

Present aim is to enlarge and diversify our company and concur-
rently reduce my present work load to have more time with the
family while the children are growing. This I hope means more
vacations, travel, pets, gardening with perhaps a small greenhouse,
and eventually more active pursuit of long-dormant hobbies —
minerals and gem grinding, stamps and coins, and putting some of
our tools to use on a few antique cars (have a Phantom I] Rolls sitting
idle now). Luck, good health, wonderful family, and friends have
made my life a very pleasant one. I look forward to seeing you in
June.

EDWARD GEORGE HODNETT

HOME ADDRESS: 530 Maple St., Wethersfield, Conn.

OFFICE AppRrESS: Hartford Fire Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn.
BORN: Oct. 5, 1911, Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Hartford High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. .

MarriED: Carol Swickland, March 20, 1941, East Hampton, Conn.
OCCUPATION: Printer.

THE whole thing is rather dull. Why waste ink and paper? I was
able though to build my own home, plus income-producing property
in Rocky Hill, East Hampton and Old Lyme (all Connecticut)
since I left Harvard. I am now looking forward with pleasant
anticipation to building in Nassau, Bahamas, where I spent some
time and visited twice this year.

KENNETH BROOKE HODSON

HOME appress: 34 Briarcliff Rd. Mountain Lakes, N.J.

OFFICE Appress: Lever Bros. Co., 390 Park Ave, New York, N.Y,
BoRN: Aug, 17, 1915, Sheffield, England.

PREPARED AT: Montgomery School, Wynnewood, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; F.C.B.A. (Queens Univ, Kings-
ton, Ontario), 1940,

[521]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

marriep: Meta Harriet Douglas, Sept. 7, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHiLpRex
Meta Ann, Jan. 26, 1942; Kenneth Brooke, Jr., June 14, 1947; Hope, Nov
255 1948,

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Hodson, °39.

occupation: Marketing service manager, Lever Bros, Company.

ANYONE examining my “before and after” shots will be able tc
assume two facts: 1) I married a good cook; 2) I have not discovered
the elixir which will prevent baldness or gray hair. Someone with
more intuitive insight might also see some hint of a man reason-
ably comfortable with himself, his family, his immediate society, his
job and his mode of living. I guess we have our share of trials and
tribulations, but I doubt if any of them are worthy of being put
into print. .

As this is being published, my elder daughter Ann will be just
about finishing her junior year at Duke; my son Skip will be enter-
ing the freshman class in high school next fall, and my younger
daughter Hope will be entering the eighth grade. This leaves us
about nine years of educating, clothing, feeding and generally try-
ing to keep some normalcy in a family of five distinct individuals.

I sometimes wonder what life will seem like ten years from now
when these day-to-day problems and involvements are no longer
present. By herself, my wife can hardly be expected to supply me
with the required number of problems, although, God bless her,
she’ll do her damnedest.

We live in an old house in Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, an exur-
ban community of some 1,200 families. New kitchens, new roofs,
new bathrooms, new storm windows, etc., seem to follow each

other in rapid succession. I do not think I would be even mildly
surprised to come home some night to find that my good wife had
changed the location of the front door —and had accomplished
the job by herself in one day.

Although I have noticed that they are now printing newspapers
in smaller type, and are building the staircases steeper, I am all in
all in pretty good shape for a man of my advanced years. I am
up at 6:15 any morning and drive some thirty-eight miles to my
job in Lever Bros.’ glass house on Park Avenue. I must like this

job, because after eleven years I look forward to the daily compe-
tition of marketing products which must be purchased by some
4.000,000 housewives each weck to keep us in business.
I do some swimming — we have five lakes in town —a little golf
and tennis and go on camping trips with the family. We have

[ 522 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

covered most of the East completely with tents, sleeping bags, ete.
My wife Harriet and I play in at least two duplicate bridge tourna-
ments each month. She has more master points than I do, so she
must be the better player. We also play quite a bit of social bridge.

As I now look back over the past twenty-five years they have
not really disappointed me in any major way. True, I could use
a little more of almost everything except weight, but if I had
everything I could desire the next twenty-five years would not
be very interesting.

WILLIAM MAURICE HOFFMAN

HOME appreEss: 80 Forbes Hill Rd., Wollaston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 524 River St., Mattapan, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 16, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; D.MD., 1941.

MarRIED: Laura G. Rodman, April 4, 1940, Dorchester, Mass. curtpreN: Donald

_ Richard, Aug. 25, 1943; Fredda Joyce, Jan. 6, 1947; Marjorie Irene, Oct.
17, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Donald Richard Hoffman, ’6s5.

OCCUPATION: Dentist,

OFFICES HELD: President, Wollaston School P.T.A.. Furnace Brook P.T.A.;
chairman, Training Comm. of North District, Quincy Council, Boy
Scouts of America; Public Relations Comm., Quincy Council, Girl Scouts;
member, board of directors, Quincy Jewish Community Center and chair-
man, Adult Education Comm.; instructor, Operative Department, Tufts
School of Dental Medicine; instructor, Operative Staff, Stomatology De-
partment, Boston University School of Medicine; head, Operative Staff,
Pediatric Dental Unit, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston; lecturer, Dental As-
sistants Course, Beth Israel Hospital and Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts, Greater Boston and Metropolitan Dis-
trict Dental Societies, American Society for Children’s Dentistry; Harvard
Club of Quincy; Promoters of Mathematics and Science at North Quincy
High School; South Shore Concert Association.

ALTHOUGH the name of Harvard still remained, it was quite a
change from the well-equipped labs of Cambridge to the anachronis-
tic foot-pedalled engines of the Dental School. At first it didn’t
seem like the right place, but after four years I realized I had re-
ceived a dental education second to none. So I hung up my shingle
to test this training upon a wary, unwilling, and captive public.
Pearl Harbor delivered my prospective victims from a fare worse
than death as I heeded my country’s call. In the ensuing three and
one-half years, I was able to polish that training into something with

[523]

scant nse

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

human feeling and understanding, a mere oversight in the curricu-
lum. Then I returned to the scene of my initial foray into the world
to “make it up” to whomever I could.

The practice of general dentistry has been particularly reward-
ing to me in the sense of having done something for rather than to
someone. Especially is this so in the case of children, where a
pleasant relationship sets the tone for their acceptance of dental
services for the rest of their lives. Of course, the feeling of ac-
complishment prevails whenever a difficult piece of work has been
successfully completed, or a difficult patient managed to our
mutual satisfaction.

Our growing-up family continually point out to us that things
are different from the time that we were adolescents. Donald, for
example, had been doing advanced biochemistry for a whole year
before he took his first course in general chemistry at high school.
Our younger daughter, Marjorie, is doing a typed research paper
of about two thousand words in the fifth grade, without having
vet learned to type. And she is doing right well at it! Fredda, our
fifteen-ager, is perfectly normal in all aspects except for Frankie
Avalon.

Once you hand a man a fishing rod, you don’t ask him if he has
a hobby. Oddly enough, little Marjorie holds the family record
for bass, both as to size and number. Building cabinets, bookshelves,
etc., about the house has offered me some diversion, and the most
ambitious attempt was a laboratory for Donald which now goes
unused, since he is at Harvard. Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, PTA, and
many other civic enterprises have had their great moments of im-
portance and have gradually faded, except for sporadic activity.

Politically, I suppose I had always hoped for a strong Messiah
to lead us, a sort of “benevolent despot” (History 1), but as I have
observed some of the other nations of the world with their strong
leaders and their personal diplomacy, I am convinced that such a
course would noc do for us. If we could only get our better men

into politics with less sectionalism and self-interest, we would have

achieved a Utopia.

+ LESTER NATHAN HOFHEIMER

won: Dec. 16, 1915, Cedarhurst, Long Island, N.Y. parents: Lester Hofheimer,

Corinne Rodsicsere.
pervowo ar, Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

[ 524]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.
pep: Dec. 12, 1943, in India.

HOFHEIMER was a member of the freshman wrestling squad and
the Instrumental Clubs as an undergraduate. After graduating from
the Business School, he entered business in New York City, first
with the Kem Plant Food Corporation, and then with the Eagle
Pencil Company, of which he became assistant production manager.
He also was a director of the Hofheimer Foundation, a philan-
thropic organization established by his grandfather. He had in-
tended to make a career of philanthropy. He entered service on
June 9, 1942, as a private, became an air cadet in August of the
same year, and received his commission on Christmas Day, after
three months at Scott Field, Illinois. He had served six months’
flying duty in Puerto Rico before being ordered to India, where
he was killed when the four-motored plane in which he was a pas-
senger enroute from India to China crashed in a landing at dusk
at a field near Assam. He was survived by his mother and two

sisters. According to newspaper accounts, he left an estate approxi-
mating $1,000,000.

+ JAMES DOMINIC HOGUET

BORN: June 16, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Robert Louis Hoguet, ’99,
Louise Lynch.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Fordham University, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.
DIED: Jan. 11, 1937, New York, N.Y.

HOGUET was in the junior year with our Class when he was
granted a leave of absence. He was a resident of Dunster House
during his sophomore year.

PETER WILLIAM HOGUET

HOME anpress: 200 E. 66th St., New York 21, N.Y,

OFFICE Appress: Lehman Brothers, 1 William Se, New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 16, tot4, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R_I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; LLB (New York Univ.), 1947.

Marriep; Shelia Zehnener, Jan. 17, 1959, New York, N.Y. ceutpraen: Denise
Margaret, Nov. 23, toco; Mark Peter, July 13, 196s,

HarvarD naoTueRs: Robert Louis Hoguet, Jry ‘31, spay "33; Henry Louis

[525]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Hoguet, °32; Joseph Lynch Hoguet, °353 James Dominic Hoguet, °37
(deceased).

OCCUPATION: Investment banker, Lehman Brothers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Portsmouth Priory School Alumni Association, 1936-
39; law assistant, Office of District Attorney, New York County, N.Y.,
1940; ensign, U.S. Navy, 1940; Office of General Counsel, Export Control,
Washington, D.C., 1940; assistant to U.S. Minister W.W. Rieffler, Economic
Warfare Division, U.S. Embassy, London, England, 1942-46; deputy
director, Field Photo OSS-SHAEF, Europe, 1944-46; awarded Legion of
Merit and Croix de Guerre; honorably discharged as lieutenant commander,
US. Navy, January, 1946; manager, Skouras Theatres, 20 Century Fox,
International, 1946-48; International Trade Economist and Chief of U.K.,
Eire, Iceland Program Division, Marshall Plan ECA, 1948-50; government
attorney, Office of Price Stabilization, Economic Stabilization Agency,
Washington, D.C. 1950-51; investment banker, Brasilian Deltec, S.A.;
investment banker, salesman and underwriter in Consorcio Brasiliero de
Investimentos, S.A., Sao Paulo, Brazil, also Planning & Development
Manager, consultant, General Motors do Brasil, Sao Paulo, Brazil, 1951-
§3; associate attorney, Amend & Amend; president, Universal Uranium
Company, 1953-56; vice-president, economist and consultant, 1956-58,
president, 1958-61, Econometric Institute; director, Econometric Special-
ists, Econometric Institute, National Weekly, National Review, Anderson
Franklyn, Inc. Order of Lafayette, 1958-61,

MEMBER OF: Portsmouth Priory School Alumni Association; Kent Moot Court,
Columbia University Law School; Phi Delta Phi, New York University
Law School, New York County Lawyers; American Economic Associa-
tion; Society of Financial Analysts; American Bar Association; American
Finance Association; Econometric Society; American Statistical Associa-
tion; American Legion Mill Rock Post VFW; Military Order of the
World Wars; Naval Order of the U.S.; Racquet and Tennis Club of New
York; Downtown Association of New York, Downtown Athletic Club
of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Business and Economic Forecasting (Spencer, Clark & Hoguet),
Richard D. Irwin, 1961, textbook on mathematical forecasting techniques
for the United States economy, occasional contributions of articles for
North American Newspaper Alliance, Bell Syndicate, Inc., and Fortune

Magazine.

IN July, 1961, I resigned as president of the Econometric Institute
to become an associate of the investment banking firm of Lehman
Brothers at 1 William Street, New York 4, New York. I am located
in the Industrial Department, which is that part of the office which
comprises a comprehensive research organization to analyze and
make recommendations on proposed underwritings, mergers, ac-
quisitions, and other projects brought into the firm. In this connec-
tion my duties include considerable research on industry and com-
pany facts and figures and travel for proposed deals, So, if you don’t

[ 526]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have an investment banking home and want to go public or have
a private placement or other financial project, let us know. We
are in the business of looking at good ideas with good people.

Before coming to Lehman Brothers, I was president of the Econ-
ometric Institute. Among other responsibilities, I had to prepare
and personally deliver quarterly reports for industry conventions
at the Waldorf, Greenbriar and Fairmount Hotels, etc., and a fore-
cast of the economy and outlook for individual companies. While
at the Institute, I was a publisher, writer and economist, and we
published forecasts and letters on the outlook for corporate earn-
ings, corporate financing, stock prices, and detailed figures for the
position of selected industries. Some of the methods which were
used in preparing these forecasts were recently published in a text-
book entitled Business and Economic Forecasting (Richard Irwin
Publishing, Homewood, Illinois) by Spencer, Clark and Hoguet.

Previously, I was associated with my father as an attorney at
Amend & Amend, 15 William Street, New York City, where I was
principally interested in oil and mineral deals and an insurance busi-
ness.

I have had several excursions into foreign areas of the business
world. During 1949-1950, I worked for General Motors Corporation
in Brazil as a planning and development officer and wrote an eco-
nomic survey of Brazil. I also was interested in Deltec S.A. and the
Consorcio Brasiliero de Investimentos. Prior to that I held several
positions in the government and was successively chief of the
E.C.A. Marshall Plan’s United Kingdom, Eire, and Iceland programs
and a member of the Economic Stabilization Agency and the
Economic Warfare Division of the U.S. Embassy, London, Eng-
land, where I served during the early part of the war (1940-1943)
under W. W. Rieffler who was unul recently chief economist for
William McC, Martin, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve.

When in Brazil I attempted to start an investment banking career
and ambitiously learned Portuguese. The threat of inflation some-
what dampened my enthusiasm for a career in Brazil, alchough
Sado Paulo is certainly a most attractive city. In 1949 we used to get
twenty-three cruzciros to the dollar; now the rate is more than four
hundred cruzciros to the dollar. In 1950 I helped start National
Review with Bill Buckley, earlier known for his book Ged and
Man at Yale, and now perhaps better known as editor and publisher
of National Review and for his leadership in the field of conservative
political opinion. This is today one of my principal avocations, and

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

I am a member of the board of directors. The present college
campus conservative movement may be one of the most important
developments in our time. It is a tribute to the initiative and energy
of the new conservative college student who has undertaken to re-
capture “the intellectual” from the liberal, knowing his influence
on the body politic of today. Most remarkable are the stature and
character of the many conservative publications at large and small
colleges in the U.S. today. |

In 1955, I went to Mexico to look at some mercury mines and
while there met a group that was interested in developing a pos-
sible uranium deposit in Australia. I went to Sydney later in the
summer of 1955 and stayed six months in Australia, trying to de-
velop the property in the Rum Jungle area of the South Alligator
River district of the Northern Territory, about 250 miles from
Darwin, Australia.

In 1956 I met Dr. Charles F. Roos, distinguished mathematician
and economist and the founder of the Econometric Institute, and
joined his staff in that year. For the next five years I traveled con-
stantly all over the United States visiting different corporate man-
agements to discuss their outlook and present the position of various
statistical indicators and our forecasts of the U.S. economy. In
1958 Dr. Charles Roos died, and his friend, Dr. Colin Clark, joined
our group as a consultant and director of research. In the same
year I bought the Econometric Institute from the Roos Estate.

Last summer I was fortunate enough to participate in the fiftieth
anniversary proceedings of the University of Hong Kong with
Colin Clark, now director of research of the Agricultural and Eco-
nomic Research Institute. Oxford University, Oxford, England.
This meant going to Japan initially and then spending two weeks
in Hong Kong with a group from Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard,
Princeton, Columbia, UCLA and Michigan, as well as representatives
of the Japanese Planning Agency and the Universities of New South
Wales, Melbourne, Malaya, and Manila and a number of the central
banks and the reserve banks of Australia and the Philippines. At
this symposium a number of papers were given on the present posi-
tion of Red China and the whole Far East, and we are currently
writing an article for Fortune magazine on the collapse of the
Chinese economy under Communism and the need for a Western

Pacific Union to bulwark the western allies’ position in the Far
Fast. After completing our visit at Hong Kong, we spent two weeks
in Australia. On the return trip we went by Darwin, Singapore, Co-

[ 528]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lombo, Bombay and Beirut, which I can certainly recommend.
Later, through Rome and Geneva, which is the home of my father-
in-law, and then to London, Amsterdam and Paris. Back home again
in October and in time to catch up on all the buildup for the 25th
Reunion and to watch that memorable event of this year at New
Haven.

My special activities include a general interest in the activities of
the American Bar Association and the American Economic Associa-
tion and Econometric Society. I am also a member of the New York
County Lawyers, the Society of Financial Analysts, the American
Finance Association, the American Economic Association and the
American Statistical Association. I have continued my U.S. Navy
affiliations and am still a member of the U.S. Naval Reserve. I try
to maintain an exercise schedule and play tennis and golf but seem
to settle too often for the full treatment at the Racquet Club or the
Downtown Athletic Club. Otherwise, I am in the office, traveling,
or at home.

On January 17, 1959, I married Sheila J. Zehntner of Amersham,
Buckinghamshire, England. On November 23, 1959, Denise Mar-
garet was born and on July 13, 1961, Mark Peter was born. We are
living at 200 East 66th Street, New York 21, New York. I think we
are due to stay in New York, although the country or suburban life
appears to be more of a possibility as our children begin to grow up.

ROBERT KERR HOLBROOK

HOME aApprEss: 179 Barlock Ave., Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: Atomics International, Box 309, Canoga Park, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1916, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Pawling School, Pawling, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MarRIED: Anne Ralston Page, June 4, 1941, Nogales, Ariz. cuitpren: Jean
Kerr, Aug. 12, 1944; Thomas Page, Feb. 3, 1952.

occupation: Manager, General Services, Atomics International, a Division of
North American Aviation, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California.

TAKE six years in the Air Force and sixteen years with North
American Aviation, Inc.

Match this with boat racing, sports car racing, swimming, surfing
and tennis.

Sprinkle liberally with barbecues at home, teen-age problems

[529]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

dining at good restaurants, pack meetings, courses at U.C.L.A., and
vodka martinis over the rocks. .

Mix well in a bow! with California warmth and sunshine — and
you have our recipe for an active, happy, interesting and some-
times exciting life. ,

One ingredient that is lacking . . . contacts with the Class of
1937- Please call on us when you are in the area.

ROBERT CROSSETT HOLCOMBE

HOME apprEss: North River Road, Milford, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Paper Co., Hall Street, Manchester, N.H.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1916, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

MARRIED: Susanne Froelicher, Jan. 31, 1942, South Norwalk, Conn. cHILpREN;
Peter Crosset, March 17, 1943; Carolyn, Feb. 9, 1945; Joan, May 21, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Waldo Hawley Holcombe, 733; Richard Maynard Holcombe,

3
43.
occupaTION: Salesman, International Paper Company, manufacturers of cor-

rugated containers.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Pack Committee, Milford Cub Scouts, 1951-52, Mil-
ford Republican Finance Committee, 1952; member, Milford Budget Com-
mittee, 1954-57; treasurer, Souhegan Nursing Association, 1957-59.

MEMBER OF: Exchange Club of Manchester; Schussverein; Wilton Center
Tennis Club; Duxbury Yacht Club.

AFTER graduation I moved on across the river to the Business
School for two years and then out into the cold world where I
have been in packaging in one way or another most of the time
since, the last six years with the Container Division of International
Paper Company, in and out of Manchester, New Hampshire.

Packaging is a fascinating field, or I find it so, probably because
of the variety of problems encountered and the frequent opportunity
for creative work. But I suppose this is a matter of viewpoint. After
all, many people regard a package as an undesirable and probably
unnecessary expense which must be added to the ever-rising cost
of their fine product just to ship it.

The first few years after college involved a lot of moving —
Pittsfield, Massachusetts; Jersey City, New Jersey; New York City;
and Washington after the war broke out to work on packaging
problems in the Research & Development Branch of the Office of
the Quartermaster General, everything from cereal to emergency

[ 530 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rations. Then the deep, deep South, God bless it, for three years,
from private to lieutenant, winding up in Washington again as head
of the Packaging Branch, Office of the Chief of Transportation. All
of this gave us, it was “us” by then, a lasting desire to live in New
England and to stay somewhere for a while.

Last fall, after living fourteen years in the same town, and the
same house, even we wanted to move, and did —a mile and a half
away, just beyond the town dump, up-wind, fortunately. We
wanted more room for our growing children. Now Pete is away
at Middlebury, Carolyn is away at boarding school, and Joanie
leaves at 7:15 every morning to catch a school bus. We seem to
have solved the problem of “more room,” although there is some
doubt about this because the errant children have been partially re-
placed by two dogs, a cat, and a borrowed horse. I’m not sure just
where this leads — after all, there was Noah.

Life for us Country Cousins is probably very similar to that of our
city counterparts except that we seem to do things backwards. In
the winter we head farther north to the ski country, for relaxation,
and in the summer the family leaves this cool, quiet town to go
south for a seething summer of tennis, mostly in Duxbury, Massa-
chusetts. I follow along weekends. Nobody pretends that this makes
any sense, but we like it.

We have been fortunate in having an extremely congenial group
of local friends. For several years we met regularly for dinner and
to read a play. For some reason the cocktail hour got longer and
longer and we finally dropped the play-reading. Then we started
putting on a series of fortieth birthday plays for each other, a sort
of “This is Your Life” type of thing, with reluctant relatives for an
audience. These proved so successful, from all but an audience
point of view, that we recently started the fiftieth series. Liberally
sprinkled throughout has been a more or less weekly game of
sociable bridge and a lot of house-repair and painting, the four-inch
brush kind.

“Civic” efforts the last three years have mostly been in the pro-
motion of tennis. I have had a lot of fun out of the game and am
interested in spreading the gospel, as it were. Three years ago, I
ran a tennis clinic all spring for the kids in town, and the last two
summers have run a regional tournament in Duxbury for the sixteen
to eighteen age group.

Well, that’s about it. Unless the animals crowd us out, we should
continue to have some extra room. Come and see us,

[531]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JOHN PHILBROOK HOLMES

HOME ADDRESS: Old Crown Farm, 842 Sheffield Rd., Manchester, N.H.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 360 Maple St., Manchester, N.H.

BORN: April 22, 1918, Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1935.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTION: Writer — films, sociological, biographical.

OFFICES HELD: Chief marshal, Society of Christiana, director, Christian Laymen’s
Union; International Committeeman, Massachusetts Federation of Men’s

Clubs.
MEMBER OF: Washington Lodge, F. & A.M.; Harvard Club of New Hampshire;

International Mark Twain Society (honorary member); Christian Laymen’s

Union.
PUBLICATIONS: The Haunted Pound, 1953; The Waverley Willows, 1955.

JOHN HOMANS

HOME ADDRESS: 92 Spooner Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1776 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 10, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.D., 1941.
MarRiED: Sallie Philips, Aug. 30, 1950, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN: - Katharine

Amory, June 21, 1951; Margaret Jackson, Dec. 3, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

AFTER college, four years of medical school led to interning at the
Massachusetts General Hospital as the war broke out. I was so un-
wise as to join the Air Corps, which saw fit to inter me in Texas for
three long, dusty, hot years. After the war came more medical
training ending finally in 1947, when I started to practise medicine
in Boston and Brookline. This I have done with increasing pleasure
and decreasing time for hobbies ever since.

In 1950 began the new career of marriage with Sallie Philips. We
have two little girls. My hobbies are gardening, fishing, sailing a
small boat around Block Island, and chiefly hunting partridge. I
hope that I can contrive to do in more of the latter than patients as

the years go by.

LOUIS HOMONOFF

HOME ADDRESS: 63 High Rock Terr., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Spinning Wheel, 556 Bedford St,, Whitman, Mass.

BOKN: Dee. 15, 1914, Boston, Mass.

[532]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

MarrieD: May Carlin, March 10, 1946, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Mark Carlin,
July 21, 1947; Marjorie Dale, Feb. 10, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Homonoff, ’30, Li.B., "33.

occupaTION: Retailing: textiles, apparel and home decorating.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Men’s College Club, 1948-53; president, Whitman’s
Merchants Association, 1950-52; vice-president, 1959, secretary, 1960-62,
Brotherhood Temple Mishkan Teflia.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Association; Men’s College Club Invest-
ment Group.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent the next two enjoyable years
across the Charles at the Business School majoring in retailing. The
course of my life was being shaped by a remark made by my ° retail
ing professor to the effect that we’d be a nation on wheels and
suburban shopping would be the trend of the future. With job op-
portunities scarce in 1939, I chose the road of self-employment. I
rented a defunct night club on a sixty-acre tract of land on a high-
way in Whitman, Massachusetts, and converted it into a roadside
specialty shop featuring textiles, apparel, and home decorating.
Twenty-two years have elapsed. I’m still at the same stand, the only
job I’ve ever had, save for the years 1942-45 which found me work-
ing for the Air Corps in the Procurement Division, Wright Field,
Dayton, Ohio.

In 1945, on my return to Massachusetts, I met May Carlin, whose
academic education seemed to parallel my own: Simmons College,
B.S. 1940, Prince School of Retailing, 1941, M.S. 1944. Naturally, we
threw all our vital statistics into a data processing hopper and came
out married in March, 1946. We now have two children: Mark,
aged fourteen, who is a bit of a young scientist in his own right,
having won first prize in the Future Scientists of America Contest
for his work in bacteriology (it’s obvious he’s not following his
parents’ footsteps); and Marjorie, aged eleven, who is everything a
cute little girl should be.

Trying to keep income commensurate with our ever-increasing
needs occupies most of my time. I do have a little time left over for
community activities, Temple Brotherhood activities, some tennis,
skiing limited to gentle slopes, and a bit of acting with an amateur
theatrical group.

[533]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JAMES RIPLEY HOOPER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1606 Compton Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE apprEss: Case Institute of Technology, University Circle, Cleveland
6, Ohio.

BorN: March 30, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1937 (38); S.M., 1939; PH.D., 1957.

marrieD: Helen Mary Lang, June 18, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Ethel
Ranney, April 19, 1943; Katharine Amory, June 2, 1944; Anne Leighton,
April 4, 1947; James Ripley, 3d, March 15, 1949; Rosamond Lang, Aug.

22, 1952.
occupaTIon: Associate dean of instruction and associate professor of electrical
engineering, Case Institute of Technology.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1958-59, vice-chairman, 1959-60, chairman, 1960-61,
Cleveland Section, Institute of Radio Engineers; clerk, 1953-60, junior
warden, 1960-61, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church of East Cleveland.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; American Physical
Society; Insticute of Radio Engineers; Society of Sigma Xi; Appalachian
Mountain Club; American Society for Engineering Education.

DURING the winter of 1936-37, I took advantage of an oppor-
tunity to visit Egypt for several months. In consequence, I did not
graduate until 1938. The next two years were spent in graduate
study at Cruft Laboratory. I next embarked on a teaching career in
physics, successively at Williams College and Union College, for
one year each.

Returning to Cambridge in the summer of 1942, I worked at Cruft
Laboratory, both teaching and on an Nprc research project, under
the direction of Professor E. L. Chaffee. Following the war, I re-
sumed graduate study for the Ph.D. degree.

In 1950, I moved to Cleveland to join the electrical engineering
department at Case Institute of Technology. Successive assign-
ments— four years as assistant director of a classified research
project, three years as executive officer of the Department of Elec-
trical Engineering, two years as director of special programs, and
two years as associate dean’ of instruction — illustrate a growing
interest in the problems of academic administration.

Currently, I devote about one-fifth of my time to teaching physical
electronics and the balance to administrative problems. My prin-
cipal administrative concerns are with curricular problems of the
freshman year, the Advanced Placement program, the causes of
attrition, the recruitment of new faculty, and the professional de-

velopment of young faculty.
[ 534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT WILLIAM HOPSON, JR.

HOME apprEss: M. P. de Tudela 285, San Isidro, Lima, Peru, South America.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan American Grace Airways, Inc., Lima, Peru, South America,

BoRN: May 2, 1915, Melrose, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Needham High School, Needham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marRigED: Marian Elizabeth Beckett, July 2, 1942, Mexico D.F., Mexico. cum-
DREN: Elizabeth Lindsay, April 29, 1943; James Beckett, April 2, 1947; David
Albert, Sept. 13, 1952. .

occuPATION: Aircraft dispatcher, Panagra— Mutual Funds, Vance, Sanders &
Company, member of overseas selling group.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, Little League Baseball Team, 1958, member, finance

committee, First Methodist Church, Buenos Aires, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Varsity Club; First Metho-
dist Church, American Club and San Andres Golf Club, all Buenos Aires;
Cricket Club and American Society, Lima, Peru.

NEVER a dull moment. In 1940, I was transferred from New York
to Lima, Peru. My transportation was the delivery flight of one
of our new DC-3As. A few months ago, we moved from Buenos
Aires, Argentina, to Lima, Peru. This time, we traveled on our
Douglas DC-8 Jet. The second trip was more than just four times
faster, because of the increased speed of the jet, advances in com-
munications, navigational facilities, and landing aids.

The technical changes of the period have been only a part of the
changes in my life since graduation. Residence in Colombia, Ecua-
dor, Peru, Chile, and Argentina has exposed us to a variety of
geographical, social, political, and economic conditions that defeat
listing. Tropical heat, desert poverty, and fertile farmland or earth-
quakes, revolutions, and dictators, or sucres, soles, and pesos are
just a few. Even the simple Spanish word for string bean changes
with each country.

Somehow we have managed to produce a sophomore at Mount
Holyoke and, with luck, may even come up with a Cantab. It
hasn’t been all like the travel posters, but it has been interesting and
certainly keeps you young.

ROGERS BIRNIE HORGAN

HOME ADDRESS: 2513 Twentieth Rd., Arlington 1, Va.

OFFICE Appress: Office of South Asian Affairs, Dept. of State, Washington,
a D.C. . .

BORN: Oct. 9, 1915, Boston, Mass.

[535]

an TT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; AM. (Boston Univ.), 194

marrieD: Ruth Virginia Whitehead, July, 1940, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1951:
Roene Geraldene Brooks, Jan. 28, 1956, New Delhi, India.

occupaTioN: Foreign service officer; Officer-in-Charge, India~-Ceylon-Nepz
Affairs, Office of South Asian Affairs, Department of State.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member, board of directors, American Foreign Service Associa
tion, 1951-52, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: American Foreign Service Association; Lahore Gymkhana; Delh
Golf Club; Shenandoah Retreat Golf Club; Ushers’ Guild, Christ Church

Georgetown.

PLUS ¢a change .... Some twenty-eight years ago I wrote
a short appreciation of the Bhagavad Gita for a College Board ex-
amination to enter the College; two months ago I found myself
doing the same thing for a senior official of the new Administration.
Some twenty-seven years ago I spent a summer working seventy
hours a week under the New Deal; last summer I found myself in
a nearly similar situation on the New Frontier, though I am now too
dignified to turn my mind to the overtime pay I received as a Rod-
man in 1934. Twenty-six years ago I did a paper for S. E. Morison
on “Champlain as a Mapmaker”; for the past fourteen years (bar-
ring periods in the chartless bogs of Foggy Bottom), I have been
concerned with the problem of creating “maps” for Americans of
the political situation in parts of Asia and Africa, for which until
very recently we have had to use charts drawn by foreigners.
Twenty-five years ago . . . . but I need not continue in this vein,
crest la méme chose.

No Buddhist bound to the wheel of life, no Hindu believer in
karma would find the foregoing strange; nor do I, since it has al-
ways appeared to me that the College does not change those who
attend it, but only gives them an opportunity to intensify what they
already are — that being the College’s greatest strength and weak-

ness.
Between 1937 and 1947, however, I embarked on a number of
experimental journeys that turned out to have dead ends for me:
The Law School, 1937-38; the Human Engineering Laboratory,
1938-42; and (since I had 20/20 vision) the Naval Reserve, 1942-
46. Not that I regret my naval service; and in these days when
diplomacy is often merely war carried on by another means, nosing
about the South Atlantic on a jeep carrier looking for Nazi sub-
marines is not wholly unsuitable preparation for a would-be maker

of foreign policy.
{ 536 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The U.S. Foreign Service, which I entered in 1947, I have found
an absorbing occupation, not least because one’s jobs, and sometimes
the problems faced in any one job, change frequently. I have served
in Colombo, Ceylon, as the consular officer; in Addis Ababa, Ethio-
pia, as the public affairs officer; in the department, as a placement
officer for Foreign Service personnel; in Lahore, Pakistan, and New
Delhi, India, as a political reporting officer; and (since 1958) in the
department again, first as India desk officer and now for the last six
months in my present position.

On a more personal plane, the most important recent happenings
have been a return to the church of my boyhood, and the embarka-
tion on a very satisfying marriage. And as to Champlain mentioned
earlier, Roene and I have had much enjoyment crossing his wake in
the boats of friends: at Mt. Desert two years ago; and on what they
call French River these days in Ontario, where we managed to
squeeze in a short leave last August. The golf there is quite delight-
ful, as well as the fishing.

HERBERT WARREN HORNE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 767 Central St., Framingham Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 221 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: May 11, 1915, Lowell, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $.B. 1937(38); Mp. (Columbia Univ.),
1941.

MARRIED: Janet Atwell, Oct. 28, 1944, Charlottesville, Va. cHitpreN: Janet
Elizabeth, Sept. 6, 1947; Jonathan Atwell, May 21, 1949; Hannah Adams,
April 15, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Physician — fertility and gynecology; director of Fertility and
Endocrine Clinic, Boston Lying-in Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Boston Obstetrical Society; American Society for the Study of
Sterility; International Fertility Association; Uniced World Federalists,

AFTER four years as a medical student at Columbia University
College of Physicians and Surgeons, one and a half years of rotating
internship at MIB Hospital in Cooperstown, New York, was fol-
lowed by almost four years of working for Uncle Sam in an olive
green suit!! The only interesting thing about this last item was
that for the final one and a half years T was in military government
and had the unenviable job of being the ALG. doctor for the City of
Nagasaki when we first went in. It changed me from a pure isola-
tionist into an internationalise of sorts over night!!

( 537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

So since then, I’ve been devoting my time to learning more and
more about less and Jess — meaning human reproductive physiology
— which has put me in the middle of two paradoxes: a) trying to
help those unfortunate couples who do not have children and wish
they did vs those unfortunate couples who have too many children
and wish they didn’t!! and b) working furiously with the United
World Federalists for a stronger United Nations in the hope of
forestalling a holocaust of nuclear or bacteriological or psycho-
chemical agents vs building, supplying and stocking the most efh-
cient bomb shelter at my home (for the children’s sake, of course)
that I can devise in the light of my past experience and medical
knowledge. Sounds confused, doesn’t it?

Well, anyway, we are all well and happy as of this date, though
as we all agree, the future — immediate or distant —is really quite
fuzzy!!

ISIDORE PHILIP HORVITZ

HOME ADDRESS: 243 Brayton Ave., Somerset, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 376 S. Main St., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: July 3, 1916, Fall River, Mass.

PREPARED AT: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. 1937.

MarRIED: Lillian Joblon, Aug. 11, 1946, New Bedford, Mass, cHILpREN: Stephen,
Dec. 7, 1947; Sharon, Sept. 21, 1949; Cathy, Oct. 19, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Dealer — retail furniture.

OFFICES HELD: Commanding officer, Naval Reserve Division 1-13, Fall River,
1946-49; board member, Temple Beth-El, Fall River, since 1960; vice-
president, Fall River Kiwanis Club, 1962.

MEMBER OF; Kiwanis; Masons; Harvard Club of Fall River; Fall River Country
Club.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation, I went to work for my father in
the retail furniture business. I became restless after the war broke
out in Europe and signed up for the Navy V-7 program when it
became available in July, 1940. Upon commissioning in March of
1941, I requested active duty and was assigned to the USS North
Carolina, then in the final stages of construction. Until my release
to inactive duty in March of 1946, I toured the major part of the
world — mainly escorting convoys, In 1943 I assumed command of
an ex-British Flower Class Corvette, renamed the USS Restless.
I was subsequently assigned to the USS Earl V, Johnson and re-

[ 538]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mained on her until my release from active duty as lieutenant com-
mander in the Naval Reserve.

I immediately returned to the furniture business and within a
few months departed from the realm of bachelorhood. I became
interested in the postwar Naval Reserve program and activated the
Surface Division in Fall River. In the first year of national competi-
tion, Surface Division 1-13 under my command won the Forrestal
Award for being selected the number one division in the country.
I have continued active participation in the Reserve Program, hav-
ing been promoted to captain in 1960.

I am content with my daily routine of attending to business,
raising a family and serving on temple and service club committees.
I always look forward to a round of golf or a game of handball at
the YMCA. Except for an occasional best seller, my reading habits
have been mainly confined to religion and philosophy.

JOHN LOVELL HOUGHTON

HOME ADDRESS: 190 Lakeview Ave., Hamden, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Division, North Haven, Conn.

BorN: April 22, 1913, Hudson Falls, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. (Newark Coll. of
Engineering), 1942.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Tomlinson, Nov. 7, 1942, Westfield, N.J. camp: Wendy
Jean, Aug. 7, 1949.

occupation: Process planner, Production Engineering Department, Pratt &
Whitney Aircraft Division.

MEMBER OF: Registered professional engineer, Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

MY first serious, sustained brush with the workaday world came in
the mid-thirties with the International Nickel Company in Bayonne,
New Jersey. Here I learned much about the stark realities of work-
ing for a living and incidentally a little about the metals business.
After five years of trying to combine studying engineering at night
with working during the day, I decided in favor of studying full
time. This worked well enough to get me an S.B. degree and a job
with General Electric as an engineer. My leisure time seemed to be
taken up mostly with ushering at my friends’ weddings.

My first four years of marriage were spent in Marblehead, Massa-
chusetts, a very pleasant place in which to live. Shortly after the end
of the war I went into the boiler setting construction business in

[ 539 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Boston with George Allen & Son, After ten years and many scenic
miles of travel, I am now back in the aircraft gas turbine business
with Pratt & Whitney Division of United Aircraft Corporation at
North Haven, Connecticut.

Life in Connecticut is very pleasant and the pace is likely to be
faster than around Boston. About eight years ago we discovered
vacation camping and a whole new world has opened up to us.
Church activities, sundry do-it-yourself projects and helping with
homework are more than enough to take care of the leisure hours.

In matters of politics, I consider myself a liberal Republican or
more truthfully just a plain Republican. However, in this troubled
world today I have come to realize that we need good men of both
parties to bring us successfully through this most difficult period.

DAVID LEAVITT HOWE

HOME ADDRESS: 203 Mandarin Ave., Charlotte, N.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Charlotte Country Day School, Inc., 1440 Carmel Rd., Char-
lotte 7, N.C.

BORN: June 5, 1915, Winnetka, Ill.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; A.M. (Middlebury Coll.),
1950.

MarriepD: Anne Stillman Broeksmit, Dec. 21, 1946, Lake Forest, Ill. cHILpREN:
John Broeksmit, Jan. 22, 1948; David Leavitt, Jr, April 2, 1949 (died Dec.
8, 1956); Benjamin Stillman, Oct. 7, 1951; Thomas Davis, March 30, 1953;
Stephen Terry, Nov. 9, 1954; Fisher, 2d, May 25, 1956; Sarah Ludlow, Oct.
21, 1958; Maria Birch, Nov. 5, 1959; Clarrisa Leavitt, Sept. 1, 1961.

HARVARD BROTHER: Fisher Howe, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Headmaster, Charlotte Country Day School.

OFFICES HELD: Senior warden, St. Andrews Episcopal Church, Charlotte, North
Carolina.

WHIEN, years ago, I read the 25th Anniversary Report of ’o7, I
remember the old men’s humor, wisdom, assurance, and mellow
reflection. Except for their minor economic difficulties, and a few
who worried that their war may not have done the job, they were
jusc nice old men reporting at the end of their careers. It is too
carly for °37 to write its 25th Report; we are not in our declining
years. We are younger. Except that now the President of the
United States is classes behind us, not classes ahead.

You have to force a young man to look back over the past twenty-
five years, and then you confine him to a mere few thousand words.

[ 540]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

You ask us for the assurance of age. I suppose a few of us have
political assurances about gold in the water, and even, I suppose,
there are a few latterday swingers of birches. Some of us probably
still know, as did our fathers, that Harvard is for all our sons,
though perhaps even a few of us find in Veritas an association of
assurance.

We had our war, but only sometimes do we bore our young wives
with account of heroism and humor over there. (Captain, Recon-
naisance, 2nd Armored Division, Casablanca — Berlin). Rarely are
we without doubts as to our war’s efficacy.

But our careers are just getting under way, not at their affluent
apex. A private school headmaster might rise another three notches
of status in a society wherein education is truly competition for
college or with Russia.

We are-not old. I can play a fast game of volley ball with teen-
agers, as long as there are girls on the other side and I can stay back
court; it only takes me a few minutes’ rest in my office to get back
to vigorous normal. My children keep me young. There is much
to stop and look at on a mountain hike while camping, and the
children should learn to enjoy nature. I have found, too, that it is
much better for my sons to field thrown grounders than high flies.
Also, my Sunday nap develops their resources.

I teach with all the vigor and freshness that I did at Middlesex in
the late 1930's; there are occasional hints from students that I am
a generation or two off, but the older materials are really much
better for them than is all this new stuff.

The youngsters umpiring in big leagues and the youngsters
spawning prospective students don’t faze me. Umpires are always
the same, and parents now are delightful in their assurance that
phonics, grammar, and a few pointers on how to study will solve
the problems of modern youth. Reading. Now there’s a simple
matter. We all learned to read in a one-room school; why can’t the
modern school just ... but I stray.

I am not ready to report to classmates on the accomplishments
of a lifetime as were the members of ’o07 in ’32.

Nancy (Vassar) and I moved from North Shore Country Day to
the Piedmont South with our five sons in 1955. Here we sadly lose
our second son, and added a son and then three daughters. It is a
houscful from adolescence to diapers, so we are young. |

We enjoy camping excursions, athIctic events, house puttering,
minor activities of a civic nature, and church. But we are school-

[ 54t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

centered. 1 am head of a growing newish school in an area that doe
not accept private prep school as part of the norm. It is a full jo
to try to make it worthy of being and accepted as such. Our re
gional problem does not rule our lives nor our school’s growth, anc
we have learned to see it as the complexity that it is, both here anc
back home. My concerns have to do with the recognition of quality
— in my search for teachers and in our encouragement of students.

We are glad we are here, and glad we are in the school life we
chose. But let us hear no bromides about the wonderful satisfactions

from teaching that pale all else. It’s a tough profession and selling
job just like any other. And well worth it.

PARKMAN DEXTER HOWE, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 13 Mountain Rd., Concord, N.H.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1914, Clinton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; B.D. (Virginia Theological
Seminary), 1955.

marrieD: Helen H. McIntosh, June 19, 1941, Nashotah, Wis. cHitpREN: Jona-
than Kittredge, March 14, 1949, Parkman Dexter, 3d, Aug. 14, 19503

Andrew Lowry, March 22, 1955; Sarah Worthington, Sept. 1, 1956;
Barbara B., 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Emmett Howe, ’39.
OCCUPATION: Episcopal minister.

AFTER a rather painful series of encounters with the economic
world following graduation, even more violent upheavals were in
store. Marriage in the June of 1941 to my wife Helen was im-
mediately almost terminated by World War II. She assures me that
our married life has had the same qualities ever since. We have been
wanderers and sojourners on the face of the earth, never in the sense
of a trip to the Riviera, but always somewhat rootless.

This may be due, in part, to my present career as a minister of
the Episcopal Church. Chasing German submarines with some suc-
cess was followed by an experiment in farming New Hampshire’s
rocky soil — this soil still being our home base.

Finally, fifteen years after graduation, I undertook the first serious
cducational encounter of my life at Virginia Theological Seminary
at Alexandria, Virginia. The whecls were very rusty, and the going
was heavy. We landed at Alexandria with two boys and left with
three. We have since added two girls to the brood. This is a limiting

factor. Few rectories are geared co this number of progeny.

[ 542]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It took some agonizing rattling around to discover this life in the
Christian ministry and looking back the rattling around was neces-
sary. However, I find the end-product is a rebel against almost
everything that the usual Harvard graduate represents, delighted
and relieved to have a creative outlet in being a Christian. Afflicting
the comfortable and comforting the afflicted suits me right down to
the ground. My wife often longs for big city suburban life, but then
rejects it, reluctantly remembering her husband’s unfortunate pro-
clivities. We haven’t worked this one out yet but maybe we will.

As far as hobbies are concerned, I still have one foot in the soil
keeping up my interests in farming, forestry and soil conservation,
as well as water sports, gunsmithing, shooting and big game hunting
on a modest scale. I am told these are strange pursuits for a minister.
I also delight in involving my children along the same lines.

My offices held, memberships and writings are all on a minor scale
and all church-related, so they remain semi-anonymous.

RICHARD OLLERTON HOWE

HOME ApDpRESS: 49 Tyler Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc, 462 Boylston Sc.
Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: May 4, 1915, Concord, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Sadie Rutherford Hall, April 5, 1938, Danville, Va. cuitpren: Regin-

_ ald Heber, 2d, Dec. 20, 1930; Judith R. July 16, 1943; Richard Ollerton,
Jr.. March 9, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Reginald Heber Howe, 2d, ’6z.

occuPaTION: Vice-president, manager, Boston office, Batten, Barton, Durstine
& Osborn, advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD; Governor, New England Chapter, American Association of
Advertising Agencies, 1956-57; chairman, Educational Committee, Boston
Advertising Club, 1960; director, Back Bay Association, since 1961; vice-
president, executive committee, Belmont Hill School, 1960-61; vice-chaire
man, Public Relations, United Fund of Greater Boston, 1960; chairman,
Publicity Committee, Museum of Science, since 1959; commodore, Sakon-
net Yacht Club, since 1960; member, 25th Anniversary Fund Committee,
Class of 1937.

MEMBER OF: Boston Advertising Club; Sakonnet Yache Club; Sakonnet Golf
Club; American Marketing Association,

EARLY one April, Sadie and I spent a weekend in Nantucket with
Louis and Mary Ann Carr. Our innkeeper took a shine to us, expe-

( 543]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

cially after we invited her for cocktails. When the next mornin;
turned out to be unusually pleasant for such early spring, she ar
ranged to have a friend open his shop so that we could rent bike
to tour the island. As we emerged with Raleighs and Bermud:

shorts, we heard an old native say: “Jesus Christ, they’re here al-
ready!”

Signing those damned Class Agent letters, I thought our 25th

would never come — but now that it’s here, I feel like the old boy
from Nantucket.

In July, 1937, the Boston Globe hired me to clip clippings to file
in the “morgue.” After three months with shears, the newspaper
business seemed to me less glamorous than soap, so I moved to Lever
Brothers as a fifteen-dollar-a-week messenger. My route took me
through the melting-out house which smelled like it sounds. The
route also included the Rinso packing room where the soap dust was
so dense that, when showering after the day’s work, all I had to do
was rub to work up a rich lather. This small economy plus a
three-dollar raise gave Sadie and me the little encouragement we
needed to get married. With typical Virginian concern for pro-
priety, Sadie’s mother told us never to mention on how little we were
married. But with another three-dollar raise for getting married (I
thoroughly earned the raise by selecting Sadie) and Sadie’s ingenuity,
we lived very well.

Our marriage did have a slightly difficult beginning. Leaving the
reception to reach our car, I walked into a post in the dark garage,
cutting my lip and eyebrow. These injuries caused considerable
hilarity among the waitresses at breakfast in the hotel next morn-
ing, a situation which severely tested our savoir-faire.

Twelve years at Lever, mostly in marketing research and new
product work, were stimulating and great fun except for the last
one or two with the “boy wonder,” Chuck Luckman. But even the

days with Chuck were certainly interesting, finally leading up to
the firing of all but about ninety out of a staff of 800 and the moving
of the company from Cambridge to New York.

Fortunately my work at Lever had brought me in contact with
one of the finest men I’ve known, Frank Hatch, writer of such
songs as “Some Coward Closed the Old Howard,” and at that time

head of the Boston office of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc.

Hie hired me as an account executive in January, 1950. For three

years ] spent one or two days a week in our New York office work-
ing with the research department and the rest of the time in Boston

[ 544]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

doing account work. In 1956, I was made head of the Boston
office. This office is a completely staffed agency serving eighteen
accounts, such as Sheraton Hotels, Carter's, Liberty Mutual, New
England Life, two divisions of Minneapolis Honeywell, The First
National Bank of Boston and S. D. Warren Paper Company. I find
the work exciting and challenging and full of variety.

This year my eldest boy, Reg, is a senior at Harvard. He’s major-
ing in government, living in Winthrop, and playing on a very good
JV hockey team. Judy is at Sweet Briar, where she’s one of six
freshmen taking a course in biology requiring attendance at a six
A.M. television lecture five days a week. After all my protests about
her watching TV — now she has to do so at college! Rick is a
ninth-grader at Belmont Hill with plans to follow his “uncle”
Brooks Cavin-into architecture.

Our family hobby is our place in Little Compton, Rhode Island.
Brooks Cavin designed it. Sadie and I did about two-thirds of the
building ourselves. Other favorite activities are sailing, golf, pho-
tography, and helping a Dartmouth man run the Belmont Pee Wee

hockey program. I’m trying to keep all the good players from going
to Hanover.

SPENCER DOUGLAS HOWE

HOME ADDRESS: 7954 Stewart Ave., Los Angeles q5, Calif.

OFFICE ApprEss: Hughes Aircraft, Florence and Teale Streets, Culver City,
Calif. .

BORN: Oct. 9, 1914, Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1937.

MARRIED: Georgia Fowler Locke, July 15, 1939, Winchester, Mass, CHILDREN:
Georgiana, Oct. 27, 1941; Barbara, March 15, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thorndike Howe, Jr. '28.

occupation: Senior scientist, Hughes Aircraft.

MEMBER OF: Research Society of America; National Rifle Association.

I CONTINUED my education after leaving Harvard by stripping
forms off fresh concrete for 55¢ an hour on a construction job in
Beverly, Massachusetts. Quit that for a job in Florida (engineering
calculation), laid off that and went to New Hampshire (running a

transit), etc., etc., including one spell as ironworker in Florida,
where I decided that the tougher and sweatier a job is the less it

pays. Got onto an engineering job in a paper mill in Mobile,

[545 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Alabama, which was scheduled to last a year and a half. Anything
this long looked to me by now like a permanent career, so I flew to
Boston and married the girl I had been working on since 1934.
When the Mobile job played out the company moved me on to
another Kraft mill in Georgia and from there back to Boston,
where I landed in Harvard’s Radio Research Labs at the start of the
war. Here I discovered I had an unexpected knack for electro-
mechanical and magnetic devices. I have often thought that the
education Harvard paid me to get was at least as valuable as the
education for which my family paid Harvard.

Though I tried hard enough, I don’t believe my efforts shortened
the war appreciably. At the end of the war I followed my Harvard
Lab boss to Dallas, Texas. Here my work in Atlantic Refining
Company’s research lab was engrossing and challenging but un-
fortunately proved to be one of those dead end jobs. So after three
years I left, with some regrets on my part (but none on my wife’s,
since Dallas is hot and full of chiggers), and went to Los Angeles to
build guided missiles for Hughes Aircraft. Nowadays guided mis-
siles are standard practice, but at that time a missile that could seek

out and pursue a moving target was a Buck Rogers concept, and to
get one through a test flight without a malfunction was a major feat
of engineering. There are still plenty of projects which seem just
as impossible today, but the longer you look at them the less impos-

sible they get, and therein for me lies a challenge. In a word, I’m

space-happy. I can’t tell at the moment whether I am an engineer

or a physicist. My company has recently had an inflation of job
titles, just like the national inflation of the dollar, so that the title

“research physicist” means “competent engineer,” and I suppose my

title of “senior scientist” means “competent engineer who knows

some physics too.”
This is a good place to live. For the summer, a beach within ten
minutes, for the winter, snow within an hour; for the spring, the
Sierras within three hours. I pick the easy slopes now, though, since
my daughters beat me by twenty minutes to the top of Mt. Whitney
three years ago. My hobbies are guns, a better-than-average equipped
home workshop and, in common with fathers since Uk-guk the
caveman, bragging on my young. My elder daughter is a junior at
Stanford. She spent the second semester of her sophomore year on
the Stanford-in-Germany campus. In fact, she’d still be in Germany
ona job she got tutoring small fry in English, had she not decided
to return in favor of participating, as one of twelve students, in

[ 546 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Stanford’s new English Honors program. Now she and I speak a
horrible sort of Deutsch mit Englisch upgemixt which we under-
stand but which drives her mother wild. My younger daughter, a
high school junior, recently put to work the umpteenth duo of a
ten-year succession of white rats, running them through a maze
which she built herself to test their learning ability for a science
course project. Experimental data obtained indicate that Rat B is
definitely college material. She (my daughter, not the rodent) is a
dedicated journalist and an editor of her school paper. After the
manner of teen-age daughters she has long since appropriated my
desirably voluminous sweater with the minor boxing “H” on it.

Last year I went back to Massachusetts for the first time in fifteen
years to check some gadgetry at the Naval Air Base in South
Weymouth. Found myself favored with two free days, one of
which I spent wandering nostalgically up and down the Square and
round the Yard. Naturally, I had a beer at the Wursthaus, and went
down to the Indoor Athletic Building to look for Henry Lamar.
He remembered me and we spent a very pleasant hour reminiscing
— as it would be good to do with my friends of Class of 1937.

‘+ WILLIAM HARRISON HOWE, JR.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1914, Amsterdam, N.Y. parents: William Harrison Howe,
Ida Schubert.

PREPARED AT: Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1033-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; LL.B. (Albany Law School),
1940.

MarrigED: Elizabeth J. Lockwood, Aug. 16, 1941, Diamond Point, Lake George,
N.Y. cuitpren: Barbara Elizabeth, June 23, 1946; Catherine Jane, May 8,
1948; Christine Marie, July 19, 1952; Jean Clarrisa, March 23, 1957.

DIED: Nov. 28, 1958.

wipow: Mrs. William H. Howe, Jr., 192 Locust Ave., Amsterdam, N.Y.

WILLIAM HARRISON HOWE, JR., while an undergraduate, was
a member of Kirkland House football team and the lacrosse team.
After graduation he attended Albany Law School, received an LL.B.
degree in 1940, and was admitted to the practice of law in the Strate
of New York. He was associated with the law firm of Taylor &
Grammer in Amsterdam, New York, until 1947, when he opened
his own office for the general practice of law. From igst until his
death he was attorney for the Amsterdam City School District, and
he also served as legal counsel for the Cities’ Committee of the New

[ 547]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937 |

York State School Boards Association. Active in community affairs,
he was a director and president of the Amsterdam Community
Chest and a member of the executive committee and a vice-chairman
of the Montgomery County Chapter, American Red Cross. He
also served as chairman of fund-raising campaigns for both organiza-
tions. He was also a member of the executive committee of Sir
William Johnson Council, Boy Scouts of America, and a member
of the Amsterdam Rotary Club and of Artisan Lodge No. 87, F. &
A.M. His wife and four daughters survived him.

CHARLES WELLS HUBBARD, III

HOME ADDRESS: 468 Walnut St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: C. H. Sprague & Son Co., 125 High St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1913, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Nathalie Appleton, Sept. 22, 1939, Brookline, Mass. cutLpren: Nathalie,
March 20, 1941; Charles Townsend, Feb. 9, 1943; Francis Appleton, Nov.
30, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Charles Townsend Hubbard, ’6s.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Briggs Hubbard, °38.

occuPATION: Advertising manager and assistant sales manager, C. H. Sprague &
Son Company, wholesale coal and fuel oil distribution.

OFFICES HELD: Active service, ensign, June, 1941, to commander, January, 1946,
now commander, USNR Retired; New England Wholesale Coal Association,
director, since 1953, president, 1955, secretary-treasurer, since 1956; Boston
Lying-In Hospital, trustee and secretary, since 1952; elected member, Brook-
line Town Meeting, since 1953; Brookline Taxpayers Association, vice-
president, 1952, president, 1953; Brookline Advisory Committee, member,
1955-61, chairman, 1958-61; Massachusetts Association of Town Finance
Committees, president, 1960; elected member, Brookline Republican Town
Committee, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce; Advertising Club of Bos-
ton; National Defense Transportation Association; Boston Museum of Fine
Arts; Boston Museum of Science, Brookline Taxpayers Association; Brook-
line Citizens Committee; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Massachu-
setts Horticultural Society; Massachusetts Audubon Society.

IF the evidence were not so ever-present on all sides, you could not
convince me that twenty-five years have actually passed since we
became the Working Class in June of 1937. However, I find that
the early milestones are the most vivid and easiest to recall — my
first job in the coal mines of West Virginia, our marriage in 1939
and settling into the vital and absorbing job of earning a living and

[ 548]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

raising a family, then World War II and the years of separation, the
thankful reunion afterwards, and a renewed concentration on liy-
ing the type of life we enjoy.

My year as a spad-setter in the coal mines was a complete edu-
cation in itself and would have been even more interesting if I had
not been so anxious to get back to Boston to make certain the girl I
had pursued since sophomore year would marry me — which she did
not long after I transferred to my present company in Boston. By
June of 1941 our life had made me completely forget my adolescent
dream of cruising to the tropical islands of the Pacific, when I was
called to active duty in the Navy. After a year at the Jacksonville
Naval Air Station, I got my long-forgotten wish and spent the next
three years cruising amongst the Pacific’s tropical isles, where finally
as a member of CincPac’s staff I rated the title ComGarBarPac (Com-
mander Garbage Barges Pacific Fleet).

Since those days I have been quite content to stay as close to home
as possible, working in the fuel business with the same company and
involving myself in other activities in my town and state. My work
has always been interesting and worth while, even though advertis-
ing and selling coal has been pretty frustrating of recent years. My
activities in the local government and politics of Brookline can
be similarly characterized — interesting and frustrating, but worth
while. This combination has absorbed all my energies in one project
or campaign after another, but I discovered something that we all
should realize: that politics is an integral part of the life of each
one of us whether he wills or no, and further that it is an interesting
and satisfying part.

To a large extent, these activities have been so much a pattern of
living that the passage of time is not readily discernible, and it is only
the steady maturing of our three children that brings full realization
of a quarter century gone. Young Nathalie, born before the war,
is a junior at Radcliffe; Charles T., born during it, is now a freshman
living in rejuvenated Grays Hall; and Frank, now ten, is the one
around whom our present home life revolves. My Nathalie and I
are thus quite satisfied to maintain the base of family operations at
our house in Brookline, indulging our joint hobby of gardening and

saving that extra energy for family sorties and excursions which we
all can enjoy.

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

GORDON STANLEY HUGHES

HOME appress: High Street, Ipswich, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Farmers, 142 Cambridge St., Charlestown 29, Mass.

BorN: April 16, 1915, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1937.

mMarrieD: Phyllis G. Powers, April 26, 1941, Cambridge, Mass, CHILDREN;
Wiliam Melville, Aug. 13, 1943; Steven R., May 9, 1947.

HARVARD SON: William Melville Hughes, ’65.

OccUPATION: Dairy co-operative; General sales manager, United Farmers of
New England.

OFFICES HELD: President, Winthrop School Association; president, Ipswich
Civic Association; chairman, Ipswich Salvage Committee during World
War II; chairman, various committees, Milk Industry Foundation, Wash-
ington, D.C, and New England Milk Dealers Association; president,
Society of American Magicians, Boston, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Rotary; Ipswich Historical Society; John T. Heard Lodge, A-F.
& A.M., Boston Consistory; Society of American Magicians, International
Brotherhood of Magicians, Boston Sales Execs; National Sales Execs.

IN the fall of 1937 I went abroad for a year as an English teacher
in a high school in Besancon, France. During summers at college I
had gone abroad each year with Rolf Kaltenborn as a member of his
famous (?) ship’s orchestra. As a result of these experiences I
decided that I would like to join the U.S. Foreign Service, and on
my return in 1938 went to Washington to study for the exams. Met
my wife-to-be there — Phyllis G. Powers of Nashua, New Hamp-
shire-—who had come to Washington as secretary to the late
Senator Styles Bridges. The thought of life and travel in foreign
climes now somehow lost its appeal. Instead I felt I'd do better
getting a job in this country and settling down to married life —
though I hadn’t asked her yet.

Went with Sylvania Electric in 1940 as a sales correspondent and
stayed with them for eleven years, finally becoming merchandising
manager of their Fluorescent Fixture Division.

Married Phyllis in April of ’41. The ceremony was performed in
Harvard Chapel by Dean Willard Sperry. Our family consists of
two fine boys, plus a dog, cat, parakeet and some doves and many
ducks.

Our elder boy, Bill, is now a freshman at Harvard, living in Grays
34. He is a member of the Harvard Band —and what a glorious
first football season he has experienced! Steven is a freshman in

Tw ich High School and appears to be promising football material.

[ 550]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

He also raises ducks — Muscovies — why, we haven't yet figured
out, because all he does is spend his allowance to feed them — and
all they do is eat and — well, at least we have very fertile lawns.

All during the ’4o’s I was very active in church, school and civic
activities in Ipswich—even ran for office of Town Moderator
and was soundly defeated!

In 1951 left Sylvania and went with United Farmers of New
England — New England’s largest dairy marketing co-operative.
Am now general sales manager.

My hobbies are boating and magic.

JAMES FROTHINGHAM HUNNEWELL

HOME ADDRESS: 4o1 Sandy Valley Rd., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John P. Chase, Inc., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Eleanor W. McClurg, June 1, 1948; Chicago, Ill. cuitpren: James
Frothingham, Jr. Aug. 21, 1949; Ogden McClurg, May 22, 1952; Robert
Cushman, May 22, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Baldwin Hunnewell, 40; Richard Farnsworth Hun-
newell, ’44.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel; account manager, John P. Chase, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Dexter School, Austen Riggs Center, Massachusetts Me-
morial Hospitals; incorporator, Children’s Hospital Medical Center, Warren
Institution for Savings; director, Rogerson House, Sonic Research Corpora-
tion, MHC Holding Corporation; member, executive committee, St. Luke’s
Home for Convalescents,

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Prouts Neck Yacht Club, Maine; Dedham
Country and Polo Club; Harvard Club of New York; Wardroom Club.

MY first faltering steps in the business world back in 1937 seem aw-
fully long ago, and like most of us I found myself on the bottom
rung of a very tall ladder. That first job was here in Boston in an in-
surance agency. It seemed like a good opportunity, although I knew
nothing about the business. I also had an active interest in the Navy,
having acquired a commission in the Naval Reserve at college. The
Reserve outfit I soon joined was called up in October, 1940, so off 1
went for nearly six years’ service in the Navy. Half of that time was
spent in an ammunition ship, which was remarkably interesting duty
as we got a look at the Orient, South America, both coasts of the
United States several times, and Europe at the time of the Normandy
invasion. Meanwhile, I progressed from a lowly division officer to

[5st]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

the ship’s executive officer. The last year of the war was spent in
command of an attack cargo ship assigned to the amphibious forces in
the western Pacific, during which I got some close-up glimpses of the
realities of war and rising nationalism in such spots as Indonesia and
the Philippines.

With the war over, I came back to Boston and returned to the same
firm I had been with previously. Soon thereafter I got interested in
two small companies that were getting started, and also in a girl I met
on a summer cruise in Maine in 1947. We were married in Chicago
the following June and that fall bought the house in Westwood that
we still occupy. Our first son arrived the following year and our
second three years later. By 1956, like most of us, I had become in-
volved in a number of charities and institutions of various sorts, while
my business activities were taking me more actively into the world
of finance. I, therefore, decided to make a major shift by joining the
investment counsel firm I am still with. It has proved a very for-
tunate decision (at least for me), and the ensuing years have been
absorbing and challenging. We do investment counselling for a wide
variety of personal and institutional accounts.

We complicated life on the home front by the addition of a third
son in 1958, so that at this writing I venture to boast I’ve probably
provided as many piggyback rides, played as much touch football,
softball, and kindred other sports associated with small boys as most
members of this Class. It’s been great for keeping the waistline down,
and I’m happy to report that mine is less than it was when we left
college. It takes only the briefest of peeks at any mirror, however,
to dispel any illusion of continuing youth.

And so at present a busy life downtown, a strenuous family, my in-
terest in various institutions (including my Alma Mater), plus oc-

casional brief vacations seem to leave awfully little time to grow

old gracefully.

THOMAS CHAPMAN HUNT

HOME ADDRESS: 19770 Lorencita Drive, Covina, Calif.

orFice appress: Mt. San Antonio College, Walnut, Calif,

Born: Aug. 14, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1937; A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1950; Px.p. (Univ. of Southern California), 1952.
mMarnifp: Gertrude Cousens, Sept. 2, 1939, Portland, Maine. crimp: Peter, Feb.

1, 1942.

[552]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Philosophy teacher, Mt. San Antonio College, public two-year
junior college,

OFFICES HELD: President, Farwestern Philosophy of Education Society, 1957-58;
chairman, Teacher Education and Professional Standards Committee,
Southern Section, 1959-61, member, State Council, 1959-62, California
Teachers Association; member, executive committee, Philosophy of Edu-
cation Society, 1961-63; recorder, Social Foundations of Teacher Educa-
tion Committee, California Council on Teacher Education, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union; United World Federalists;
American Humanist Association; Sierra Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Occupational Status and Marriage Selection,” American Socio-
logical Review, August, 1940; “West Coast Attitudes Toward Interna-
tional Relations,” National Peace Conference Bulletin, January, 1945; “A
Critical Analysis of John Dewey’s Concept of Growth as the Aim of
Education,” doctoral dissertation, US.C. October, 1952; “Moral and
Spiritual Values in Education,” Educational Theory, October, 1953; “Man:
Seeker of the Full Life,” last lecture series, Mt. San Antonio College.

CLASSMATES, you want to know: (1) my “war record or govern-
ment service” and (2) my “social, political, or religious convictions.”
I must confess that I am of that small minority among you for whom
these two areas are separated by more than the commas on the
instruction sheet. I managed conventionally enough for two years
of graduate work (Columbia University, sociology) and another
year in public opinion research (Princeton, New Jersey). That was
1940, remember? Four years at Harvard, plus Robert Lynd and
Robert Maclver at Columbia, had prepared me to live socially, even
rationally, perhaps. World War II, indeed the very idea of war
itself, hit me as a shock, as totally anti-social and irrational. My wife
and I looked in the phone book (literally) for the “Quakers,” for
sanity. We found them, joined them, and turned to their action
arm, the American Friends Service Committee, with the question:
what can we do? The answer was eight years long: peace education
work in Upper New York, in Kansas, in northern California and,
finally, in Seattle, Washington — lots of social, political and re-
ligious convictions, no war record or government service. There
was, indeed, service in relation to war: when my wife and I went in
November, 1946, among the first civilians to the French Zone of
Germany. We lived with a German family for eighteen months in
Ludwigshafen (near Heidelberg) and carried on relief work under
the auspices of the American Friends Service Committee. Lud-
wigshafen had 101 bombing raids and was 85° destroved; mv
pacifist convictions were 100% reinforced.

Oh well, that was fifteen years ago, T decided that organizadon

[553]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

work (money-raising, arranging conferences, writing publicity)
was really not my forte; I wanted to work directly with ideas, So
I went back to school and thoroughly enjoyed it, even though it was
U.S.C, and not my alma mater. In 1950 I acquired a secondary
teaching credential (social studies) and in 1952 a Ph.D. (philosophy
of education). I taught junior high school for two years; my super-
visors decided that maybe I would make a good college teacher. I
think they were right. At least I have had an exciting seven years at
Mr. San Antonio College (a public, two-year junior college — a type
we Californians modestly recommend to the rest of the country)
teaching philosophy. This year (1961-62) I am enjoying a sabbati-
cal year, reading and writing on the “good life” in the perspective of
the “humanistic” psychology of A. Maslow, Erich Fromm, Carl
Rogers, Gordon Allport and others.
Do I sound satisfied? Vocationally, I am; and only one wife so

far, still livable. But 1 am uneasy. I find myself writing:

Dear Mr. President,

Consider my peach tree, now

Bursting with life, bees feeding;

And the gray whales, now

Courting on their long migration;

The unamerican child, now

Smiling a response to its mother.

Reflect, sir, on what is vital,

And negotiate from strength.

Vita: strength, a bomb? or Vita: life, creative encounter? We
seem bent on destroying life. Somehow those eight years of peace
work I put in didn’t quite do the job! I sense the mood of my fellow
citizens today as even more irrational than in the 1940's, But this
time I am not shocked, only deeply dismayed.

A good friend escapes soon for New Zealand with his wife and
four children; another talks of his underground shelter (in Milton
Mayer’s phrase in Progressive magazine his “tomb”) and what
weapons he will need to defend it. Fifteen years ago? We have
come full cycle. My son Peter is presently earning work credits

from Antioch College by volunteering his services to the American
Friends Service Committee to recruit college students for work
projects devoted to peace and reconciliation. Will he be more
effective than I?
[ would like to close on a happier note — after all, I'm a philoso-
pher and anice guy. But it still bugs me; the sons of Harvard citing

[ ss4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘war records or government service”! I’m reminded of Norman
Cousins, author of the provocative editorials in the Saturday Revievw,
who asks simply: “Who speaks for man?”

The one-third of me who is not a moralist spends its time hiking
in the Sierras (239 miles in thirty-one days this summer, back-
packing on the John Muir trail) and exploring the Mexican desert
(Baja) with our four-wheel-drive International. But even this one-
third is critical of American foreign policy, because it wants the
Sierra, Baja and itself to survive.

I am making progress in my individual therapy: the clue seems to
be a more honest facing of reality. Will the world (that’s us, Class-
mates, and some others) find a therapist to turn it from the suicidal

olicies of military power toward the reality-demand of world law
and world government? I nominate for therapists: Norman Cousins’
In Place of Folly, C. W. Mills’ The Causes of World War III, and
Grenville Clark’s (Harvard Fellow, 1931-50) World Peace Through
World Law.

LEMUEL BURROWS HUNTER

HOME ADDRESS: 135 Fuller Lane, Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE AppRESs: Inland Steel Co., 30 W. Monroe St., Chicago, Il.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1915, Fitchburg, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB. magna cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Miranda Belden Randall, July 10, 1943, Winnetka, Hl cHItpres:
John Burrows, May 22, 1945; Douglas Randall, Dec. 21, 1946, Lucy Phelps,
April 11, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president — administration, Inland Steel Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Hales & Hunter Company, since 1960, Civic Federation
of Chicago, Camp Reinberg Association, Chicago Theological Seminary;
vice-chairman, Major Firms Employee Campaigns, Chicago Community
Fund-Red Cross Joint Appeal; chairman, board of trustees, Winnetka
Congregational Church, since 1961; trustee, Chicago Y.W.CA,; president,
Welfare Council of Metropolitan Chicago, since 1961; member, Hlinois
Commission on Children; member, American Iron and Steel Inseieute and
its Committee on Foreign Relations.

MEMBER OF: Indian Hill Club, Winnetka; Commercial Club, Commonwealth
Club; Chicago Club; University Club; Mid-Day Club,

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I went to work for Inland Steel
Company, and I am still there. I started in the raw materials depart.
ment, and was concerned with limestone, iron ore, coal and lake
transportation until 1950. At that time I was transferred to industrial

( 555]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

relations where among other things I got acquainted with Phil
Murray, Dave McDonald and Arthur Goldberg. After three years
I was transferred again, this time to our container division, where |
learned about barrels and pails and came face to face with the neces-
sity of profit in industrial enterprise. In 1956, I was made assistant
to the president of Inland Steel Company, and in 1959 became vice-
president-administration, which position I presently hold. In this
capacity I have charge of services to our general offices and of the
new office building; of business procedures; of personnel adminis-
tration (recruiting, training, salary administration and personnel
policies); and of two subsidiaries — Inland Steel Products Company,
which makes steel buildings and steel components for houses and for
commercial and industrial buildings, and Inland Steel Container
Company, which makes steel barrels and pails for the petroleum,
chemical, food and paint industries.

I find that all this, along with family, church, charitable and civic
activities, takes up more time than there is, so that I spend very little
on social and intellectual interests. I do manage to play golf at least
once a week during the months when the weather permits. And I
hope I am learning to say “No!” to suggestions for charity board
memberships so that I can get my obligations under control and in
proper priority arrangement.

LOUIS GUY HUNTLEY

HOME ApDprRESS: 818 N-E. 21st St., Oklahoma City 5, Okla.

OFFIcE apprEss: Humble Oil & Refining Co., 1411 Classen Blvd., Oklahoma City,
Okla.

BoRN: May 14, 1916, Pittsburgh, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Edith I. Oliver, Dec. 19, 1942, Coral Gables, Fla. cuitpren: Louis Guy,
Jr, Aug. 28, 1944; Nancy Elizabeth, Dec. 12, 1946; Alice Ruth, Feb. 17,
1951 (died 1952); John Stewart, 1955.

occupation: Geologist, area logging coordinator and interpreter, Humble Oil &
Refining Company.

MEMBER OF: Society of Professional Well Log Analysts; American Association
of Petroleum Geologists; Planned Parenthood.

puBLicaTIONS: “Recent Uplift in the South Texas Gulf Coast”; “Correlation of
Capillary Pressure Data and Saturation Exponent.”

THIS has been a constant but futile fight to gain something for my
family and to secure their future in the face of the overwhelming

[ 556]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

opposition of those who prefer to be supported by me and others
who work for a living with constructive effort. I have been con-
tinually employed in private enterprise since my graduation, except
for a four-year stretch as a navigator with the Naval Air Transport
Service. I have never been employed by any of the — well hell,
we'll all be working for the government more and more as time
progresses.

WILLIAM CRAIG HUNTTING

HOME ADpREsSS: 4910 N.E. 28th Ave., Pompano Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: A. M. Kidder & Co., Inc., 2451 Atlantic Blvd., Pompano Beach,
Fla.

BORN: May 22, 1914, Watertown, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A. 1939.

MarriED: Mary Frances Vedder, Sept. 5, 1942, Falmouth, Mass. CHILDREN:
Betty Ann, May 13, 1946, William Craig, Jr. Jan. 12, 1948 (died Sept. 9,
1961); Sally Sue, Feb. 23, 1953.

occupaTION: Stockbroker, registered representative.

OFFICES HELD: Governor, Falmouth Yacht Club; organist, Marine Lodge, AF.
& A.M.; member, ship committee, Sea Explorers, Falmouth, Mass.; director,
Coral Key Association.

MEMBER OF: Iron Bottom Bay Club (charter member); Harvard Club of Miami;
Falmouth Rotary Club (resigned); Pompano Beach Power Squadron;
Marine Lodge, A-F. & A.M.; Harvard Business School Association; Com-
munity Presbyterian Church, Deerfield Beach, Fla.

EMERGING from Harvard Business School in 1939, I spent three
whirlwind years in and out of New York, trying to become a tycoon
by working for Vick Chemical, Anacin and Schenley Distillers,
respectively.

Then along came the war, so in 1942 I entered the U.S. Naval
Reserve as ensign. While becoming a sixty-day wonder at Tower
Hall in Chicago, I met my wife, courted her an hour a day for thirty
days, then married her thirty days later — under the w atchful eve of
my new skipper — Classmate Albee Goodhue, I next put in a year in
the South Pacific on a 110-foot sub chaser, then returned to Miami
for new construction. I applied for a job teaching there, and who
should be giving out the jobs but Classmate Bob Watson — so I got
the job. Then followed one and a half years in Miami until war's
end, during which Mary and I fell so in love with Florida that we
resolved to return. After the war, I did a little Naval Reserve work,
and now hold the rank of lieutenant commander (retired).

[557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

In 1946 I joined my father in a GM dealership in Falmouth,
Massachusetts, where our children were all born. Having lost my
parents in 1953 and 1956, I liquidated the business in 1958 and
moved to Florida. In my judgment, this Florida living is quite a
way of life. We live just off the Intracoastal Waterway, halfway
between Palm Beach and Miami, less than three miles from two
different ocean inlets. A sport fishing cruiser is tied up at the dock
in our back yard. Bimini is forty-six miles away and Grand Bahama
sixty-four miles. And man, if you can’t have fun with that kind of
a setup, you just can’t have fun!

My new career, started in 1958, consists of daily visits to one of
the most interesting places on earth, the stock market (board room).
There I get paid for taking orders from a fine group of intelligent
people. Sometimes they ask me for advice, which I enjoy giving.
Imagine getting paid for doing something you enjoy so much!

On September 9, 1961, we were profoundly shocked by the loss
of our only son, William Craig Huntting, Jr., thirteen, in a water-
skiing accident. This incredible event occurred less than a month
before this writing, so my perspective is probably a bit biased. To
fellow Classmates, I would say, enjoy as many family events as
possible. Thank goodness for all the family cruises and fishing trips
and, éspecially, the Bahamas last June!

Thank the Lord for our two daughters, Betty, fifteen, and Sally,
eight! We hope that they will see fit to become Florida crackers
instead of traipsing off to some ghastly place like Maine or California.
And thank the Lord for Mary, the finest person a fellow ever
married.

The instructions with this sheet ask about my convictions. In
recent years, I haven't even been arrested, let alone convicted.
Seriously, I would not harangue my Classmates with my social,
political or religious views. My role of “happy family man” keeps

me close to my surroundings. Of those whose careers keep them
closer to the high abstractions, let the spirits soar.

THOMAS BLAIR HUSBAND

NOME AND OFFICE ADURESS: Walking Hawk Ranch, Ridgway, Colo.

wows: Feb. 21, 1914, Winnerka, Il.
rei banip at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEAHS IN COLLELE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937 (47),
stamwin: Peggy B. Van Saun, Jan. 17, 1942, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1958);

[558 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Florence C. Cobb, Feb. 25, 1958. cuitpren: Michael Bates, Sept. 23, 1942
(m. Judith Kearney, June 3, 1961), Timothy Bates, May 17, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Rancher and cattleman; owner, foreman and boss.

OFFICES HELD: Supervisor of sales, Gates Rubber Company, Denver, Colo, 1957-
58.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Ouray (Colo.) Lodge No. 37, AF. &
A.M.; Lodge No. 1789, B.P.O.E., Cortez, Colo.; American Quarter Horse
Association; American National Cattlemen’s Association, Ouray County
Cattlemen’s Association.

UPON graduation in 1937, I went at once to work in the brass and
copper foundry of Phelps Dodge, at Bayway, New Jersey. After
working two years in this plant and their cable plant at Yonkers, New
York (Habirshaw Wire & Cable Division), I was transferred to the
New York offices in the sales department. While in New York, I
lived with a group of fine guys, one of whom was Bill Prout, elder
brother of Curt. We had a ball and a manservant, named Herman,
who was a jewel when sober, which was not often. Herman disap-
peared suddenly, when the War broke, and we often wondered
whether or not he was a German spy. Prout was working hard in
the Squadron in those times, and was certain that Herman knew too
much about, and took too much interest in, his Army business.

When Britain went to war, I was sent by the company to their
office in Washington, D.C., to assist that office in dealings with the
Navy Department, War Department, and the Maritime Commission,
on wire and cable, as well as pipe and tubes. I also sat in regularly
with the British Admiralty Commission, on the subject of shipboard
wires and cable, and the anti-magnetic mine cables which we called
degaussing cables.

I made several attempts to enter the Navy and the Coast Guard,
but was rebuffed, and stuck with a desk job for the duration, because
of a faulty knee joint received playing a game called football against
a lesser known institution of learning whose name, I believe, is Dart-
mouth. The leg, by the way, has bothered me ever since, and I am
happy that neither of my two boys plays that game. It just ain't
worth it.

As pointed out before, I married in 1942, right after Pearl Elarbor,
and our first son was born that fall. We lived in Washington, until
just before the war terminated, and then went to Darien, Connecticut
from whence I commuted to Washington over weekends, until per-
manently transferred to the New York offices in 1945.

I became a commuter on the old rat-race New Elaven Division of
hell. Although we had a nice home in Darien, I saw very little of it,

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

This is hectic, but fun, and we have enjoyed it immensely. So, life
goes on, and we watch our kids grow as do all the rest of you. Flos-
sie’s eldest, Tony, is married and in the Air Force. My eldest, Mike,
is also married and attending Fort Lewis A. & M. College at Durango,
Colorado. The next is my Tim, who attends Taft School; Chris
Whitney and his sister Bea are at school here in Ridgway, and live
at home on the ranch with us. Life is good and simple, but it has
many rewarding features, and we love each minute of it.

JOHN MONKS STARR HUTCHINSON

MAILING ADDRESS: 103 Vendome Rd., Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich.

+ HERBERT MILTON IRWIN, JR.

BorN: Aug. 6, 1915, Trenton, Mo. parents: Herbert Milton Irwin, Mildred
Myers.

PREPARED AT: Port Washington High School, Port Washington, Long Island,
N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1937; AM. (Univ. of
Illinois), 1938; puH.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1942.

MarriED: Sheila Stopford Saxton, Aug. 27, 1938, Indianapolis, Ind. critp: Sheila
Patricia.

piep: Lost in action, March 2, 1943, off the East Coast of the United States.

WHILE in college, Irwin managed the University Band, rowed on
Class and House crews, was a member of the ski squad and the Naval
ROTC rifle team, the Crimson and Red Book photographic boards,
and the Undergraduate Tercentenary Committee. He also served as
battalion commander of the Naval ROTC Unit and was president of
the Harvard Memorial Society.

During the summer after Commencement he, having concentrated
in organic chemistry, worked for Procter & Gamble and then joined
the faculty of the University of Illinois as an assistant in chemistry.
Hi{e took his Master’s degree at Illinois in 1938 and then returned to
Hfarvard as a graduate student to work with Professor Louis F.
Ficser on various phases of the cancer problem. While studying for
his Ph.D, he still continued his interest in the University Band. In

August, 1941, he was ordered to active duty at the Naval Academy
at Annapolis as an instructor in chemistry and physics. He was de-
tached from the Academy in September, 1942, to go to the Sub-

[ 562 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marine Chaser Training Center at Miami. He was lost in action
when the submarine chaser which he was commanding was sunk.
He was survived by his wife and daughter.

JOSEPH SEEMAN ISEMAN

HOME ApDpREss: 21 E. 87th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, 575 Madison Ave.,
New York, N.Y.

BORN: May 29, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1937; u-B. (Yale
Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Marjorie Frankenthaler, June 8, 1947, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Peter Alfred, Aug. 7, 1948; Frederick Joseph, Sept. 7, 1952; Ellen Marjorie,
June 21, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1952, vice-president, 1954-57, Educational Alliance,
Inc.; director, Scientific Materials, Inc., since 1952, Basic Books, Inc., Pub-
lishers, since 1953, Simon & Schuster, Inc., 1954-57; Goulder Company,
Inc., since 1954; trustee, Louise Wise Services (child adoption agency),
since 1958; chairman, Metropolitan Educational Television Association,
1958-61.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; New York County Lawyers Associa-
tion; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Citizens’ Union;
Sunningdale Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: A Perfect Sympathy, Harvard University Press, 1937; legal
articles and notes in Yale Law Journal and other professional publications.

SEEKING to distill a quarter-century of living into a few para-
graphs, I search in vain for a unifying theme. I should doubtless be
able to list various ways in which I have matured and developed.
But have I really changed inwardly? Is my “inner self” any ditferenc
at forty-five than at twenty? (It is clear that my outer self is quite
different.) My standards, ideals, and attitudes towards humanity
and social progress don’t seem to have changed too much from
college days. I think I feel self-confident, or uneasy, or outgoing,
or hostile, in the same ways that I felt these emotions in 1937. My
current political ideas may differ from my views in the mid-Thirties,
but they don’t feel any better founded or more precise. So far as I
can see, the principal legacy of the years has been the development
of a series of patterns of conduct, useful in guiding me through a
variety of recurring professional and other situations. This may be
what is called “experience,” but it is surely noe enough to furnish

[ 563]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

a mouf for my life. Lacking any other thread to weave through the
years, I fall back on the simple one of chronology.

I moved from college into a $15.00 per week job with a New York
commercial finance company. A year of responsible investigative
work was rewarded by an increase to $16.00. I quit and entered
Yale Law School, propelled toward New Haven by the reading of
Thurman Arnold’s Folklore of Capitalism. 1 thrived upon the law
school’s “functional approach” — which taught me, to my surprise,
that concepts such as “negligence,” “vested property rights,” or
“restraint of trade” were not immutable truths with fixed meanings,
but instead were elastic phrases to be manipulated by a lawyer to
attain his client’s wishes, or by a judge to justify a result predeter-
mined by his childhood conditioning. The school’s work load and
fierce competition wrecked my digestion, but I ended up as an
officer of the Law Journal and with good legal friends all over the
United States.

I commenced practice in New York with my present firm in
September, 1941, but stayed only two months. Private practice
could not compete with the exacting jobs which the war mobiliza-
tion had opened to fledgling lawyers. A year spent in Washington
exercising immense regulatory powers over the war aspects of the
nation’s public utilities was followed with dramatic contrast by
service in the Infantry, working up from an assistant machine
gunner to a shavetail instructor in weapons and tactics. The year
1943 found me a captain doing legal and administrative work for the
Air Transport Command — principally in the Africa-Middle East
arca. I remained abroad for a year after the war to organize and
supervise the first airline in Iran. I liked the expatriate life (the
Yanks weren’t yet being told “go home”), but during a trip back
to the United States I met “the girl” (working for Henry Luce)
and decided to remain here and practise aviation law.

I helped to do TWA’s legal work for four years, then realized
that the airline industry was concentrating itself into four or five
strong carriers and that the chance of my becoming the top lawyer
for any one of them was mathematically pretty thin. In 1950 I re-
turned to general practice with my original firm and am now a very
eeneral practitioner indeed, Since 1941 the firm has grown from

ifrecn to eighty lawyers, and wide legal vistas have opened up. I
+ cad most of my time on business negotiations of various sorts.
‘eral of the companies I represent are in the book, magazine, and
t ‘ova ion ficlds;, the others are in less glamorous lines. I also advise a

[ 564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

number of authors, performers, and artists, and several large educa-

tional foundations. This past year I have spent a great deal of energy

in attempting — over bitter opposition from the Governor of New

Jersey — to acquire the Newark VHF television channel as a public

educational and cultural station for the entire New York metro-
olitan area. I also do a good deal of work in the fields of trusts,

wills, tax planning, estate administration, and settlement of family
roblems.

Home life is very warm and happy. Our post-war babies are
moving along through elementary and junior high school, and
Marjorie is about to return to the magazine field she left fourteen
years ago. We found that we disliked commuting, and enjoy living
in a large old apartment. We think that city kids have more freedom
than suburban children to move around and to learn to handle them-
selves. We summer at Martha’s Vineyard, where a small sailboat,
daily tennis doubles, and the ocean surf relax the tensions which
accumulate during the rest of the year. I began to ski again with the
children, and we manage to get in a week in Vermont each winter.

All in all, these twenty-five years have been blessed ones. My
work has always been absorbing; contacts have been very wide and
stimulating; our marriage is a good one; all of us are healthy; experi-
ences, both at home and traveling, have been broadening and
pleasant. If this report seems rather smug and in-grown, it may be
because I don’t dare look beyond the familiar patterns of daily life
into the implications of the nuclear missile age. Like most of us, my
brain has adapted itself to functioning on at least two simultaneous
levels: making professional and personal plans which reach far into
the future, but realizing at the same time that neither we nor Harvard
may see next June. I can only hope that by our Thirtieth Reunion,
man’s social and governmental aptitudes will have caught up with
his scientific ingenuity — so that he can control the atomic monster
he has created and banish the fear which, although suppressed, now
inhabits all of us.

RICHARD WALTER ITTELSON

HOME AppREss: 724 Golfview Drive, Dayton 6, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREss: Aeronautical Systems Division, Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio.
BoRN: March 22, 1916, New York, N.Y. |

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; S.M, (Ohio State Univ.), 1948

[ 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

manrnitp: Lois Theresa Koblitz, April 14, 1941, Washington, D.C. cHttpren:
Thomas Roger, Jan. 1, 1946; John Charles, June 27, 1949; Mary Elizabeth,
May 23, 1956.

occUPATION: Engineer; chief, Technical Management Division, Research Man-
agement Office, of the Deputy for Technology.

orrices HELD: Chairman, Dayton Section, Institute of Radio Engineers; chair-
man, Pack Committee, Cub Scout Pack 223, BSA.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; Institure of Management Sciences; U.S. Power
Squadrons, Harvard Club of Dayton.

IT is nor easy, in our household, to find time to look back twenty-
five minutes, much less twenty-five years. Children’s activities swirl
around, meetings or odd jobs absorb time, and the days rush by.
Lois keeps things running on an even keel, but when she has to
spend too much time at the City Correction Farm — relax, she’s
working on a research project for the University of Dayton using
volunteer prisoners—things can get hectic. Tom has printing
presses (two) in the basement, coin collections hidden almost every-
where, and the most amazing litter of various projects in his room.
John, who shares my earlier interest in radio, fills his room with that
gear. The house resounds with their discussions and scuffles with
friends. None of this impresses Mary Elizabeth who, at five, domi-
nates the boys with ease. It’s fun to watch how she does it. She will
humanize them as time goes on.

Although both the problems and the organizations have changed
so much with time that it hardly seems at all the same, I have spent
the last rwenty years doing one thing: working as a civilian engineer
at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. First for the Signal Corps and
now for the Air Force, I have been engaged in the development of a
varicty of devices and in research on some range of problems. While
the jobs change, and more of my time is spent considering the co-
herence and balance of a program than on its many specifics, the
urgent necessity to put our best knowledge to work in military
«vsrcms continues unchanged. It’s hard to believe I’ve been at it so
he nn, we Were going to solve all the problems before this.

Csurdening and carpentry can be hobbies or chores, but Lois is
‘are they must be hobbies because I never get anything really use-

f 1 cine. Since the last Report we've added another activity: out-
(oP boating on Acton Lake, a man-made lake not too far away.
Loo vorden suffers noticeably, but we all have lots of fun.

Poere past isn’t time to look back and summarize the last twenty-

[ 566 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

five years; there are too many current and future projects coming
along.

JOHN HORA JACKSON, JR.

HOME apprEss: 60 E. 96th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Geer, DuBois & Co., 366 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y.
BORN: June 27, 1915, Scarsdale, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MARRIED: Amelia Pasquini, Nov. 4, 1939, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: John H.,
May 4, 1948; Philipp V., Oct. 9, 1949; Mark C., Nov. 14, 1953.
OCCUPATION: Advertising.

IN 1959, I became a vice-president of the advertising agency of Ben-
ton & Bowles, 666 Fifth Avenue, New York City. In 1961, I left
Benton & Bowles to join Geer, DuBois & Company, an advertising
agency, at 366 Madison Avenue, New York City.

JONATHAN JACKSON

MAILING AppREss: P.O, Box 455, Fern Park, Fla.

WILLIAM JACK JACOBSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1529 Woodbourne Ave., Baltimore 12, Md.

OFFICE ADpRESS: U.S. Army Intelligence Center, Fort Holabird, Md.
BORN: Aug. 26, 1915, Beachmont, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; A.M., 1939; CERT.
IN ADVANCED STUDIES IN ED. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1959.
MarRRIED: Marion T, McKeon, 1953, Baltimore, Md.

occupation; Lieutenant Colonel, U.S. Army Intelligence Corps; chief, Special
Operations Division, U.S. Army Intelligence Board.
MEMBER OF; Phi Delta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Short stories, Esquire Magazine, 1946-47; editor, France Quand-
méme, 1946, CIC Digest, 1947-48; Intelligence articles in quasi-official
periodicals, e.g. Armored Car Journal, etc.

MY 1946 decision to remain in the Army and with Intelligence is one

that I have never had cause to regret even long before recent head-

lines. Assignments have taken me to key spots around the world at

critical times; the work has been hard, always interesting, and (I

hope) sometimes worthwhile. Nonetheless, for the last several years

the gypsy in my soul had wearily looked forward to the jovs of

[ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

exurbia. I had even prepared myself for a post military retirement
career in educational psychology by an additional degree at Hopkins
during my last stateside tour. The retirement that loomed on the
horizon this coming Christmas is now a lost hope and the published
Report will, no doubt, have to be forwarded to me at a new overseas
address.

As to be expected, contact with Classmates or alumni, in general,
in my military milieu has been almost non-existent. I look forward
therefore with more anticipation than the average ’37er to reading
about those who spoke their aspirations so proudly and confidently
twenty-five years ago.

JOHN SUMNER RUNNELLS JAMES

HOME ADDRESS: 95 Irving St., Cambridge, Mass.

Bors: Aug. 29, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

marriep: Margaret S. Parker, March 25% 1947, Cambridge, Mass. cup: Mar-
garet A. June 10, 1949.

occupation: U.S. Government Service (retired).

HIAVING spent the better part of the last ten years in Turkey and
Italy, and having suffered a heart attack and undergone three unre-
lated operations, I decided, in 1961, to retire, at least temporarily,
and return to this country. Shortly after my return, my father died,
and I have been busy since that time with family matters.

The nature of my work has kept me out of touch with most of
my former friends and acquaintances, and I doubt that it would be a
matter of general interest. I can now look forward to living a normal,
social life, and I especially look forward to the Class Reunion.

My family life seems to revolve around a St. Bernard who grows
birger daily.

ARTHUR GREGORY JAMESON

Houty appa ss: 138 EB. 71s¢ Sct. New York 21, N.Y.

toiwy aphesss: Presbyterian Hospital, 622 W. 168th St. New York 32, N.Y.

men Starch 24, 1g15, Branford, Conn,

teivareb at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

Veta |S COLERGES IQ}J-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; 8.M. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
Peooya, tygo, Mop. (Columbia Univ.), 1950.

[ 568 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Jean Danaher, June 9, 1950, New York, N.Y. cuitpren; Robert,
June 19, 1956; Susan, Jan. 17, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Denison Jameson, ’24; Thomas Hugh Jameson, ’33,

occuPATION: Physician; assistant professor of pediatrics; director, Cardio-
vascular Laboratory, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard and three years of
graduate work in chemical engineering at M.I.T., I worked for five
years during World War II at M.I-T. and Harvard on various
NDRC projects. Four years of medical school followed. Marriage
and internship began at very nearly the same time. After seven
years of postgraduate medical training of one sort or another, I
began to do the work on which I am now engaged, cardiovascular
physiology, with a lot of clinical cardiology and diagnostic work
thrown in for good measure. An understanding wife and two
children toward whom I am strongly biased make mine a happy life.

HERBERT JAQUES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 166 Larch Row, South Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Robert B. Pitcher, General Agent, 53 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1913, Norwood, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MARRIED: Marjorie Motley, July 2, 1938, Hamilton, Mass. cHmpren: Nancy,
Sept. 24, 1940; Herbert, 3d, Jan. 30, 1943; William Lovering, Jan. 12, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Herbert Jaques, 3d, ’65.

occupATION: Brokerage manager in a general agency, John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1948-52, chairman, 1951-52, Planning Board, member,
1953-54, Board of Health, Town of Wenham, Mass.; director, Francis
Ouimet Caddie Scholarship Fund, Inc., Boston, 1960-62.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club, South Hamilton, Mass.

IT’S a little difficult to believe that our 25th Reunion is upon us,
but, when I take a look at the grey hairs in the mirror each morning,
I suppose there’s no point in kidding myself.

After my abbreviated college career, I worked for the Great
A & P Tea Company for nine months, then into the investment
banking business for seven years. In September of 1942, I enlisted
in the Air Force, and after basic training came OCS, from which I
graduated in March of 1943. I spent two and a half years fighting
“The Battle of the Pentagon”; six months with the Continental Air
Command at Bolling Field, Virginia; then eight months at Head-

[ 569 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

quarters, Far East Air Forces, Manila, from which I was returnec
to civilian life as a major in May, 1946. The following seven year:
saw me involved in the real estate and automobile sales business.

Since 1953, I have been associated with the Pitcher Agency of the
John Hancock. |

Daughter Nancy is in her first year of nurse’s training at the
Massachusetts General Hospital, after two successful years at
Wheaton College. Our elder son (known as “Pete”) is now a fresh-
man as shown above. And the youngest of the bunch, Bill, is at St.
Mark’s School in Southboro. I’m mighty proud of all of them.

Travels? Well, we try to go to a southern clime each year for a
week the latter part of each winter (how I hate ’em), such as
Bermuda or Florida (how I love ’em). Other than that, we’ve never
done any extensive traveling. Hobbies? Not too much time for

these, but I’d still list golf as number one and puttering around our
place as number two.

In summary, ’ve got my wife, my kids, my health and all my
“marbles” (I think). Who could ask for anything more?

EDWARD HAROLD HARVEY JASEN

HOME ADDRESS: 3636 16th St., N.W., Washington ro, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jonathan Woodner Co., 3636 16th St.. N.W., Washington 10,
DC.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1917, Fall River, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Stroudsburg High School, Stroudsburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

Margiep: Tina Cadeaux, June 29, 1958, Washington, D.C. cHiprEN: Lisa
Erty, Sept. 21, 1959; Mara Rose, Sept. 10, 1961.

oOccuPATION: Real estate executive; corporate secretary, Jonathan Woodner &
Company and some twenty-three other real estate corporations.

UPON graduation I started out to become a merchant prince and
entered the ranks of the junior executive training program of John
Wanamaker, New York. This palling, I became involved with the
design and ideas for various exhibits at the New York World’s Fair
of 1939-40, where my labors appeared in the Chrysler exhibit, the
focal exhibic on health, the rayon industries exhibit, and many
others. The second year of the Fair, I managed the fashion show
eslilic for the rayon industry, and in the process became one of the
few people who ever saw all the exhibits at the Fair.
Thereupon, war clouds gathered and I was one of the earliest
do oftces—-in fact, when I received “Greetings,” everyone was

[ 57° ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

singing a nauseous little hillbilly number entitled “I'll Be Back in a
Year, Little Darling, Uncle Sam Has Called and I Must Go.” I spent
five years in the Infantry (28th Division) and Air Force (as an
officer), going from place to place in the zone of the interior —
things never got so desperate that they needed the likes of me over-
seas — with my last post that of a staff officer in the Oklahoma
City Air Technical Service Command at Tinker Field. The best
honor I can show, apart from the Good Conduct Medal, is a letter of
commendation for organizing a school which taught several thousand
flying personnel who intended to remain in the peacetime Air Force
how to do paper work — after five years, I certainly was qualified
as an expert in administrative red tape.

After the war I joined an advertising-public relations firm in the
Empire State Building, won an award from the American Public
Relations Association for a public relations campaign I conducted
for (believe it or not) the American Association of Knitted Glove
and Mitten Manufacturers, worked myself to a frazzle on various
other accounts, was offered a partnership in the firm and quit, the
overload being more than flesh could bear.

I then became an employee of the Jonathan Woodner Company in
New York City, which was then building and selling single family
houses in Long Island and Westchester, and Washington, D.C., and
shortly thereafter began building apartment projects in various parts
of the country. I have been involved in one phase or another of the
construction and management of thousands of apartments in New
York, Cincinnati, Maryland, Virginia, District of Columbia, etc.
For the past five years, I have had as primary duty the job of general
manager of the Woodner Hotel in Washington, D.C., which in
addition to its hotel facilities has probably more apartments under
one roof than any other building in the world. With expansion of
Woodner real estate interests in the District, such as some downtown
office buildings and apartment houses, I am switching back now to
real estate again.

In retrospect, I have been so busy putting roofs over people’s
heads in so many places, I’ve hardly had time to do anything else.
I was advantaged in coming to Washington, however, for here I met
my wife, whom I stole away from Capitol Hill and who is the joy
of my life. And with two delightful daughters, I find parenthood a
soul-satisfying experience. Even now I have but one claim to
distinction — I’m probably the only Harvard man left in Washing-
ton who does not have a job with the government!

[571]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

FREDERICK PERRY JENKS

HOME ADDRESS: 511 Muirfield Rd., Los Angeles 5, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: Southwestern Industries, Inc., 5880 Centinela Ave., Los Angeles,
Calif.

BorN: July 27, 1916, Mf{inneapolis, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Ecole Nouvelle Paudex, Lausanne, Switzerland; East High School,
Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 7agna cum laude, 1937; s.M. (Univ.
of Notre Dame), 1939; PHD. (ibid.), 1940.

marrieD: Marion Elizabeth Boyle, July 6, 1945, Honolulu, Hawaii. curmpren:
Steven Tyler, May 14, 1947; Maureen Barbara, Oct. 17, 1948; David ©
Frederick, Sept. 16, 1952.

occupation: President, Southwestern Industries, Inc., manufacturers of instru-
ments and aircraft accessories.

MEMBER OF: Institute of the Aerospace Sciences; American Rocket Society;
American Ordnance Association; Newport Harbor Yacht Club; The
Beach Club (Los Angeles); Harvard Club of Southern California.

pusBLicaTions: A Set of Postulates for Bolyai-Lovachevski Non-Euclidean
Geometry.

SEVEN years and three degrees after beginning the study of mathe-
matics at Harvard, I left the University of Notre Dame in 1940 with
a Ph.D. and abandoned the academic life for one of adventure as a
pilot in the Army Air Force. This was challenging and enjoyable,
and I seriously planned to make it a career, but our policy of Big
Government typically produced, after the war, an organization of
about four times the required size for the job to be done, and I had
no desire to add to the confusion. I resigned my regular commission,
and Icfe the service with the rank of colonel, late in 1946.

Through the good fortune of one of my Air Force assignments, I
met a wonderful girl in 1943, and two years later we were married.
This was the finest of many happy events that my military interlude
draws credit for, and I hold those years as very pleasant memories.

I left the Air Force with my new wife and returned to her home
town of Los Angeles, where, at a conservative rate, we multiplied.
I also went to work at Lockheed in Burbank, where I organized and
‘ aded the Missile Division. Six years and three children later, I was

vcd, very much against my will, to leave the friendly environ-
t.cnt Of Lockheed to take over a small company in which I had in-
ve ted, and which had fallen on hard times.

After my departure, the missile group somehow continued to
po oer, and now constitutes an important scgment of its parent com-
Iam still protecting my investment, and my little company,

[ 572]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

while growing, is still considerably smaller than Lockheed. It’s fun,
though, and it has real character all its own. I’m not ready to trade
it in.

+ ALFRED TOWNSHEND JOHNSON

porN: April 19, 1915, Springfield, Mass. parents: Alfred LeRoy Johnson, Alice
Thayer.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1937.
pieD: Killed in action, March 19, 1945, in the Pacific area.

DURING his freshman year at Harvard Johnson was a member of
Phillips Brooks House Committee and a member of the Dramatic
Club in his sophomore year. After receiving his A.B. degree with
distinction in three and a half years, he returned to Cambridge for a
year of study in the Law School and he also attended the Yale
School of Architecture. He was a practising architect at the time
of his naval enlistment at New York City, less than a month after
Pearl Harbor.

Commissioned ensign, he was indoctrinated at Fort Schuyler,
New York, and assigned to duty as an instructor in photographic
interpretation, first at Anacostia, D.C., and later at Quonset Point,
Rhode Island. From June, 1943, until August, 1944, he was a special
naval observer in England, winning a commendation for his services
from Admiral Ramsey. He was promoted lieutenant (j.g.) in April,
1943, and became a full lieutenant in April, 1944. In August, 1944,
he was transferred to the Pacific theatre, where he continued in ac-
tion until his death. He was survived by his parents. His father,
Dr. Alfred Johnson, was formerly associate dean of the faculty of
medicine and administrative officer in the School of Dental Medicine.

ERIK AUGUSTIN JOHNSON

HOME ApprEss: 34 School St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Patterson, Teele & Dennis, 201 Devonshire St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 13, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; 11.8. (Univ. of Virginia),
1940.

MARRIED: Virginia Gately, Feb. 8, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. cHmpren; Kristen
Gately, Feb. 14, 1948; Erik Charles Augustin, April 26, 1951; Harriet
Hathaway, Nov. 9, 1952.

[573]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HARVARD BROTHER: Reginald Hathaway Johnson, Jr., 31, M.B.A., ’33.

occupation: Accounting; lawyer in tax department; adviser in legal matters
relating to taxation,

OFFICES HELD: Head, Legislation Branch, Office of Judge Advocate General,
1949-51; assistant district legal officer, Fourteenth Naval District, 1951-53;
district legal officer, Potomac River Naval Command, 1953-55; district
legal officer, First Naval District, 1955-58, 1960-61; staff legal officer, U.S.
Taiwan Defense Command, 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Dedham Tennis Club.

IN attempting to comply with the mandate to be concise, such items
as war record, government service and career history, adequately
covered in prior reports and outlined here in statistics, are omitted
except to state that my twenty years in the Navy was a most agree-
able, interesting and rewarding experience. The family enjoyed it,
too, especially 1958-60 in Taiwan, China, where as one misguided
Classmate of ours suggested we “Tie one on” (his initials will be
furnished on request). They have not so fully recovered from the
inexpensive domestic help as to make beds, clean house or wash
dishes without vociferous complaint.

It was their first experience on foreign soil, though not exactly
the Peace Corps idea considering the conveniences furnished. As
during our sojourn in Hawaii, 1951-53, warm weather permitted
year-round outdoor recreation, particularly tennis and swimming
which I try to keep up with difficulty in New England. Virginia
enjoyed attempting to indoctrinate classes of Chinese military offi-
cers in American life, history and customs, particularly in directing
the all-male group in Charley’s Aunt, which they acted with a
singular mixture of Oxford and Chinese accent.

After this exotic tour in the Jand of the slit skirt, it may seem a
drastic change to settle down to civilian life in Dedham, giving up
the military-criminal law practice for the law of taxation; and it
may be some time before the parents get used to it. The children
seem to forget rapidly, and they are way ahead in the social swim.
We did have some advantage spending the years 1955 to 1958 here,
so a few of the inhabitants recognized us on return. I even found
in one neighbor a fellow philatelist, and there are several others, not
of our distinguished working class, who enjoy a bit of ribaldry.
Recently, after a siege of laryngitis, I met even more by following

mv son in joining the Episcopalian choir.

‘Political convictions. Despite the desertion of friends and re-

\irions, T still remain conservative. Not isolationist, my greatest con-

cern has been our inability to understand the position of the United

[574]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

States in the struggle against Communism. On the one hand, those
who would desert our allies and the neutral nations because by
their actions (are ours always meritorious?) they don’t seem to
deserve our support, and on the other those who would make con-
cessions to Communists in the futile hope that they will give up
their goal of world domination on which no concession has been
made in over forty years, not to mention the rest of us who fail to
appreciate what goes on in the Middle East, Far West, Africa or
Cuba until much is lost — all need more education.

In his 25th Anniversary Report in 1920, my father wrote a brief
in support of the League of Nations which the United States never
joined. It failed for lack of support, but also our people lost an
opportunity to hear and appreciate others. In the United Nations
we have the chance again. There, and elsewhere in the world, we
should listen, read and learn to understand these other views so as
best to appreciate our position and responsibility, as well as some-
times to know what to expect.

It’s getting cold, so back to putting on storm windows.

FRANK JAMES JOHNSON, II

HOME ApDpRESS: 3601 Blanche Rd., Manhattan Beach, Calif.

OFFICE ApprEsS: Airesearch Manufacturing Co., Los Angeles 45, Calif.
BORN: March 18, 1915, St. Paul, Minn.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1937.

MarRiED: Harriet Esther Kelso, Jan. 25, 1947, Washington, D.C.
occupation: Laboratory technician, Airesearch Manufacturing Company.

DURING twenty-five years as engineer, soldier, administrator, I’ve
become increasingly aware of my indebtedness to Harvard for the
example set by men such as Merriman, Den Hartog, and Marks
(Lionel S., that is). It is becoming clear that perspective, technical
proficiency tempered with humor, and profound knowledge com-
pounded with humility are the elusive ingredients which contribute
to understanding.

MANUEL ANTONIO JOHNSON

MAILING AppRESS: Vista Alegre e Juan Delgado, Vibora, Havana, Cuba

[575 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JOHN ROBERT JOHNSTON, JR.

HOME apprEss: Killingworth, Conn. (mail: R.F.D. 2, Deep River, Conn.).

OFFICE ADpRESS: Killingworth Congregational Church, Killingworth, Conn.

BorN: Aug. 22, 1915, Havana, Cuba.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREES: S.B. IN ED. (Hyannis State Teachers Coll.
1938; B.D. (Bangor Theological Seminary), 1958.

marrieD: Mary Christine Finnegan, May 13, 1938, York, Maine, CHILDREN
Margaret Mary, Oct. 1, 1939; Patricia Frances, Jan. 4, 1941; Juanita Louise
Aug. 4, 1943; Jane Stuart, Dec. 13, 1944.

occupation: Clergyman, pastor, Killingworth Congregational Church.

OUR eldest daughter, Margaret, is a secretary at Yale. If this state-
ment does not preclude all further statements I shall continue. The
same daughter was trained at Katharine Gibbs and is no more mar-
ried than are her sisters. The second daughter, Patricia, is about to
complete her training at the New England Deaconess Hospital and
become an R.N. The third, Juanita, is a freshman at Lesley College
in Cambridge and is our nearest connection of any sort with Harvard.
Our youngest, Jane, is a senior in high school and has not yet chosen
one of the many careers suggested for her.

My plans, outlined in the Twentieth Anniversary Report, have
been fulfilled to date. I was ordained to the Christian ministry in
1958, served the Congregational Church in Mexico, Maine, for three
years and am now minister here in Killingworth, a pleasant town,
noted at least for its having been purchased from Uncas, “The Last
of the Mohicans,” in 1669, and for being the place of inspiration for
Longfellow’s “The Birds of Killingworth.”

I would say that within the past six years I have become “settled”
and that within the fellowship of the Congregational-Christian
Churches and ministers have found, and expect to continue to find,

just about every satisfaction for life. This is not, of course, a matter
of withdrawal, but more a matter of beginnings and endings, a place
to go out from and a place to which to return.

I do not get over-excited politically and think it a good thing
that Kennedy was elected. Politics and economics seem to be our
chief national religions, but as long as enough people place a some-
what higher religion first, we may survive as a nation and render
some great service to the rest of the world.

At Harvard I recall ushering President Conant to the wrong seat
at a concert at Brattle Hall and taking some note of Mein Kampf.

1 was unable to do anything about either.

[576 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the years between 1937 and 1955 I enjoyed various occupations
including bank work, shipbuilding, and dry cleaning, and for the
record, eight months’ service in the Army of the United States. A
great deal of our time and energy was expended in maintaining and
improving houses in which we lived. We have owned and sold four
houses and expect to own and sell no more. No less time and energy,
at least on the part of my wife, have been expended on the rearing
of our four daughters. These are not sold, nor, in accordance with
general custom, would one expect this to be the case.

My wife has graced the record with several years of school teach-
ing, as well as with other gifts which need not be sung for present
purposes. My travel has been pretty much confined to New Eng-
land. My hobbies are books and piano-playing.

ELLIS WILLIAM JONES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1450 San Pasqual, Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 47 Congress, Pasadena, Calif,

BORN: Oct, 30, 1915, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.pD. (Cornell Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Anne Thomas, Sept. 6, 1939, Pasadena, Calif, cHiLpREN: Louise,
July 30, 1940; Thomas, July 8, 1943; Elizabeth, May 16, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Orthopaedic surgeon.

MEMBER OF: Los Angeles Surgical Society; California, Pasadena and Los
Angeles County Medical Associations, American Academy of Orthopaedic
Surgeons; American College of Surgeons; American Rheumatism Associa-
tion; Western Orthopaedic Association (fellow); American Medical
Association; Haemophilia Society of Los Angeles; Panel Member of
Medical Expert Panels for Malpractice Cases, Los Angeles County;
Pasadena Elks Spastic Clinic; La Vina Sanatorium; Pasadena Home for
the Aged.

PuBLications: “Surgical Approaches to the Shoulder Joint,” with L. C. Abbott,
M.D., April, 1949; “Musculoskeletal Complication of Hemophilia,” Cali-

fornia Medicine, April, 1958.

BECOMING an orthopaedic surgeon took a while, four years at
Cornell for an M.D. and five years post-graduate training at the
Universities of Michigan and California. I had some financial sup-
port from my parents and some forbearance by my wife and her
parents. My father-in-law wondered aloud why that young man
couldn’t get to work now that he had an M.D. As an interne, the
salary was room and board only.

I have never wanted to do anything else. Pasadena, where I have

[577 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

practised since 1948, has been wonderful to me. I have somewhat
more than enough to do and two excellent associates, and a few
years ago we built a small office adjacent to our hospital. I am on
the medical faculty at the University of Southern California as an
assistant professor, although the faculty seats at the coliseum are
as poor as the football team has been in recent years. I have had
teaching services in several of the hospitals in the Los Angeles area
and my current chief interest is the Los Angeles Orthopaedic Hos-
pital.

On the other hand I would not think of urging our eighteen-year-
old son Tom to follow in my footsteps. I foresee a dismal long-term
furure for the free practice of medicine. Even now we are sur-
rounded by the closing ranks of social-service-political-opportunist-
do-gooders who are ably abetted by the small but definite percent-
age of profiteers and quacks in our own ranks. Since the majority
rules in our society, with apparent little regard for the minority,
it scems to me our omniscient government will perforce take over
medicine. I have also had a go at medical politics, for which I am
supremely unsuited.

I was very fortunate in World War II simultaneously to give some
service and advance my training as an orthopaedic surgeon in an
evacuation hospital in the Eto. We were close enough to the
battles to experience a hint of what was going on and far enough
away to avoid being shot at very much.

I still have the same wife and children accumulated one by one
in the usual fashion since graduation. I am most extremely proud
of all three of them but often wonder whether they really are as
satisfactory and normal as they seem to be. When the youngest,
aged fourteen, is out of the nest, Anne says she will learn and join
me in my three-year-old hobby, flying. I own a part of a Beechcraft

Ponanza and fly it around the West and Mexico at every oppor-
tunity. [hope to get an instrument ticket one day soon.
In the spring of 1962 we go to Bogota, Colombia, to volunteer
my professional services for a month in hopeful combat against the

os ly American. ” In che summer, it now appears, I will join the

club ‘“Pacher of the Bride.”

[ 578}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT SPELLMEYER JONES

HOME AppDRESS: R.F.D. 1, Box 378, Springfield, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jones & Lamson Machine Co., Springfield, Vt.

porn: Feb. 9, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B., cu7 laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Virginia Leatherbee, July 3, 1937, Bradford, Vt. CHILDREN: Patricia,
Nov. 28, 1938; Frederic Leatherbee, Nov. 17, 1941; Susan, Dec. 14, 1942;
Charles Henry, June 19, 1944.

OccUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Jones & Lamson Machine
Company, machine tool manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1950, chairman, 1955, 1956, Springfield Board of
School Directors; church school superintendent, 1950-51, deacon, 1952-56,
moderator, since 1958, First Congregational Church; chairman, Riverside
School Building Committee, 1956; vice-president, Springfield Chamber of

Commerce, 1956; member executive committee, Associated Industries of
Vermont, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Associated Industries of Vermont, Spring-
field Chamber of Commerce; American Society of Tool & Manufacturing
Engineers; Crown Point Country Club; Vermont State School Directors
Association; Mt. Mansfield Ski Club; Mt. Ascutney Ski Club; First Con-
gregational Church.

BORN in Boston—raised and educated within a twenty-mile
radius of that city, I moved to Vermont two days after college
graduation and was married there two weeks later — the two best
moves I have made — or expect to make —in my life. For two
and a half years I tried farming —dairy type—not gentleman.
Liked the work, but lack of capital or likelihood of acquiring any
made the future in that business look rather bleak. In February,
1940, I got a job as general laborer at Jones & Lamson Machine
Company, in Springfield —still Vermont. The Jones name is a
coincidence — no family connection. Have been with Jones & Lam-
son ever since in a variety of jobs including laborer, machine oper-
ator, foreman, supervisor of sub-contracts, general foreman, man-
ager of manufacturing — now vice-president and general manager.
The machine tool business is fascinating, fluctuating and often
frantic.

We've been blessed with a happy and congenial family — four
children: Patsy, now a physical therapist after graduating from
Boston University; Fred, a junior at Dartmouth (the skiing type);
Susan, a sophomore at Simmons, and Hank, a junior at Springfield
High School. We've done a lot of things together —the only
official thing, to participate in the New England Family Ski Cham-

[579]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

pionships, which we won the first six years they were held — very
low pressure and fun.

Life in a small community has many real advantages. I think the
disadvantages are mostly theoretical. I’ve been fairly active in
church affairs and find myself increasingly impressed with the need
for real Christian thought and action in our apparently hectic
world. Four children in the public schools, and ten years on the
school board, have kindled an interest in public education, to which
much time has been devoted.

In business, I find a management job in a technical company ab-
sorbing. I can’t think of any work I’d rather be doing than trying

to meet the challenge presented by the wide variety of problems
that constantly arise.

RUSSELL GORDON JONES

HOME AppRESS: 310 Afarlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Chas. T. Main, Inc., 80 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

Boan: Sept. 16, 1915, Belmont, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

marrieD: Elizabeth Walker Jones, Feb. 26, 1938, Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Nancy Robinson, Dec. 21. 1940; Alicia Bolton, May 8, 1942; Susan Walker,
Sept. 10, 1951.

occuPATION: Consulting engineering; engineer in charge — food processing;
president, Wm. B. Berry Company, Inc. manufacturers of electric cable
protection and identification devices.

orrices HELD: Senior project engineer, Chas. T, Main, Inc.; president, Wm. B.
Berry Company, Inc., since 1955; incorporator, North Avenue Savings
Bank, since 1940; scoutmaster, 1938-41; president, Hartford Flying Club,
1937-38.

mesintn oF; Good Samaritan, F. & A.M. Reading, Mass.; Harvard Varsity
Club, Back Bay Associates; Trinity Church, Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles in trade publications.

MY carcer began as a design engineer for United Aircraft. In the
next five years, marriage, test engineering, pilot training, the teach-
ing of aircraft operation and maintenance, Boy Scouting, and the
arrival of two daughters kept us busy and happy.

In 1943, patriotism raised its ugly head, and I went overseas with
the Air Pransport Command as an aircraft maintenance officer. The
Air Corps gave me a guided tour in Africa, Scotland, England, and
various parts of the Continent. One aspect of this experience, for
which Pshall always be grateful, was the opportunity of visiting with

[ 580 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

people of other lands and of seeing the famous historic places about
which I had read and studied. While in England, it was my good
fortune to be invited to follow the hounds on a fox hunt. By way
of parenthesis, let me add that I said tally-ho instead.

Returning home early in 1945, 1 joined the family firm of Wm.
B. Berry Company. My duties ranged from janitor to assistant
treasurer. We were steel fabricators, making electric cable markers
as well as protectors, and to my good fortune (as I found out later)
food processing equipment. In 1951 our third daughter was born,
and I bought full ownership in the firm.

Nine years later, with the help of a lot of luck, working seven
days a week, and the faithful service of our employees, we had
doubled our net income. Also, we had put ourselves in a different
tax bracket, outstripped our capitalization, and outgrown our plant
and our machinery. As I wrestled with these and the daily prob-
lems of running the business, an opportunity presented itself which
I found very difficult to ignore.

Chas. T. Main, Inc., one of the oldest and largest consulting
engineering firms in the country, offered me the position as head
of their food processing section. There followed a period of much
soul-searching and consultation within the family. Finally, the
die was cast: I accepted. The manufacturing facilities of Wm. B.
Berry were closed. Our people were placed in other jobs; and we
continued in business, sub-contracting our work to a group of
former employees. Our entire activity is in the cable identification
and protection field. Fortunately, this does not take a great deal of
my time. Also, since Wm. B. Berry Company’s business does not
touch the activities of Chas. T. Main, Inc., no conflict of interest
exists.

My work in the food processing field takes me all over the coun-
try. Our several hundred engineers are all specialists in their own
fields and cover the full spectrum of engineering. This, added to my
experience in this field, makes for a very pleasant and stimulating
life.

About a year ago, we gave up the dubious joys of suburbia and
moved into Boston where we are very happy. Our oldest daughter,
Nancy, is in her last year of nurse’s training at the Peter Bent Brig-
ham Hospital; our next, Alicia, is a sophomore at Boston University
School of Nursing; and Susan is at the Kingsley School in Boston.
Our cottage in New Hampshire is our focal point in the summer
and for skiing in the winter. My wife was broughe up in Elart-

[ 581 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ford, Connecticut, where her family still reside, and was a Jones
before our marriage. She and our two oldest daughters are active
in the Junior League of Boston.

THOMAS HUMPHREY JONES

HOME ADORESS: 1733 DeKalb Sc, Norristown, Pa.
OFFICE ADoRESS: 16 W’, Airy St., Norristown, Pa.
poan: May 15, 1916, Norristown, Pa.
perpareD AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B,, cum laude, 1937; LL.B., 1940.
marriep: Louise Reily Wolcott, Nov. 4, 1942, Valley Forge, Pa. cuit:
Thomas Humphrey, Jr., Oct. 9, 1943. |
oocupaTion: Lawyer; general Jaw practice.
orrices HELD: Deputy Attorney General, Pennsylvania, 1957-60; Pennsylvania
State Representative, 1950-60; chairman, Republican Committee of Norris-
town, 1951-60; director and secretary, Montgomery Hospital, Norristown,
since 1950; treasurer, Montgomery County Tuberculosis & Health Asso-
ciation, since 1959; director, Gilberton-Lawrence Fuels, Inc., since 1948,
also other business corporations, etc.
messea or: St. John’s Church (Episcopal), Norristown; American Legion;
Veterans of Foreign Wars; American, Pennsylvania and Montgomery Bar
Associations; Norristown Lions Club; Welsh Society of Philadelphia;
Plymouth Country Club; Montgomery County Society for Physically
Handicapped Children (former director).

I FEEL that the last twenty-five years of my life have been divided
into sections, like the chambered nautilus. The sections have not
always been of my own choosing, but in the main I have liked it
that way. Variety may not give power and pelf, but it admittedly
adds spice.

My most uncertain and insecure years were those between college
and World War Il. These were my years of “adjustment.” During
this period I struggled (sic) through Harvard Law School, graduat-
ing in 1940. I belatedly took my Pennsylvania bar exams in the
summer of 1941, and was formally admitted to the Pennsylvania bar
just six days before Pearl Harbor. Three wecks later I was in uni-
{urin as a Naval Aviation cadet. In October, 1942, I was commis-

soned a pilot with the rank of ensign. I finished the war as a
Yroute nant.
Daring the war I saw a substantial amount of action, all in the

Paase. bam the proud possessor of DFC’s and other similar ac-

Scements associated with aviators. In spite of the miseries of

sy t
@osahy

©, Par minded to say that my war years had many rewarding
[582 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

diversions. For example, I was privileged to see a major portion of
the immensely colorful Pacific as few are able to do in peacetime.
And to become familiar with the sky is a reward in itself.

The war also brought me two priceless human possessions — my
wife and my son. I had known Louise Wolcott (Vassar ’39) for
many years, but it took the urgency of war to make us tie the
knot. About a year later our only son, Tom, Jr., was born.

After the war I knew that my days of adjusting had passed. I
returned to my birthplace, Norristown, Pennsylvania, an old in-
dustrial town near Philadelphia, bought a house, opened a law office
with a young relative, and have lived and worked in Norristown
ever since.

In 1947 I accepted a job in Harrisburg as a Deputy Attorney
General, an interesting office I held for three years. In 1gs50 I re-
signed to run for the State Legislature on the Republican ticket. I
was elected, and later re-elected, and served a total of ten years in
Pennsylvania’s General Assembly; then a Democrat sweep of my
district in 1960 effected my ouster. (But please note, Mr. President,
I feel no bitterness; I had served long enough.) My experiences at
the state capital were not such as to fill me with unfaltering respect
for our political processes, and my opinion of human nature has
been revised downward, but I developed a sympathy for the prob-
lems of political leaders and feel that most of them are really trying
to be helpful.

My law practice has gone along all these years, side by side with
my other activities, with and without various partners and associ-
ates. I have been moderately active in my bar association, serving
on numerous committees and as committee chairman. I have also
been very active in practically all kinds of community activity.

I have no serious hobbies, although I like to travel, play golf,
garden, collect stamps, and occasionally see old friends. The two
Classmates I have seen most often are Bill Gerber and Jim Baker.
My health has been poor the last few years, and I trust I shall hold
together till after the Twenty-fifth.

JOHN QUENTIN JORDAN

HOME Appress: 14 Adams Rd., Framingham Center, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories, Bedford, Mass.
BORN: April 3, 1915, Methuen, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; A.M. 1938;
A.M. 1941.

atarriep: Jean L. Kirk, Oct. 5, 1946, Chicago, Ill. (died Jan. 14, 1955); Con-
stance L. Brine, Aug. 14, 1957, Auburndale, Mass. cHitpren: John Quentin,
Jr, Oct. 14, 1947; Kirk Edmond, April 23, 1950; Kathleen, April 20, 1952;
Elizabeth A. and Mary L. (twins), April 9, 1959.

occupation: Chief, Mathematical Analysis and Programming Section, Scientific
Data Processing Branch, Technical Service Division, Air Force Cambridge
Research Laboratories.

MemeER OF: American Meteorological Society.

I HAVE been delaying this literary effort awaiting a flash of inspira-
tion to produce a witty document. In view of the many importunate
communications being received from Cambridge it seems that I must
compose something right now, perhaps only attaining about half the
originally desired goal.

After receiving an A.M. at Harvard in 1938 I spent two years in
the Mathematics Department at Notre Dame, studying and teach-
ing part time, but returned to the Harvard Graduate School of
Education in September, 1940. There I received the A.M. in teach-
Ing in 1941.

In the fall of 1941 I became a member of the faculty of an institu-
tion, I use the term advisedly, called Admiral Billard Academy in
New London, Connecticut. Amongst my memories of Billard
are those of one young man who sat quietly eating chalk in class
and another who one day left class by a window some eight feet
off the ground rather than the door.

I was rescued from durance vile at Billard by volunteering for the
Army meteorology cadet training program in March, 1942. I was
commissioned at the University of Chicago in November and almost
immediately started a two-and-a-half-year tour of North Africa,
Corsica, southern France and Italy. I completed my military career

in October, 1945, as a captain where I had started it, at the University

of Chicago, where I commanded the meteorology research detach-
ment,

Karly in 1946 I started work for the U.S. Weather Bureau at Logan
Airport in Boston. Thus began fourteen years of shift work, round
the clock, days, nights, Saturdays, Sundays, holidays and what have
Vou,

Finally, in the spring of 1960 I broke with shift work and the

Weather Bureau by becoming assistant project supervisor for me-

tcorological techniques of the USAF 433L Weather System. In

[ 584]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

February, 1961, I became acting chief of data processing for 433L,
and in July, actual chief.

Although I found both the work and the personal associations in
433L more interesting and more intellectually stimulating than the
Weather Bureau, I left the system in September, 1961. At that time
I took the opportunity to return to the field of mathematics by ac-
cepting the position of chief of the mathematical analysis and pro-
gramming section, scientific data processing branch, technical
services division of the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories
at Hanscom Field, Bedford, Massachusetts.

I owe one great debt of gratitude to Admiral Billard Academy. My
first wife died from polio early in 1955. In 1957, through the wife of
the instructor with whom I roomed at Billard (and a Yale man at
that), 1 met Constance Brine and we were married in August. At
that time Connie was head of the home economics department at
the State College at Framingham. After a two-year retirement when
our twins were born she returned to that position this fall of 196r.
Incidentally, Connie adds another Harvard degree, Master of Public
Health, to our household, although her Ph.D. is from Cornell.

Through contacts with the faculty of Framingham State College
I was invited to give extension courses in mathematics there in the
fall of 1958 and I have been doing this regularly ever since.

NOEL LESLIE JORDAN

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Viking Drive, Englewood, Colo.

OFFICE AppRESS: Television Dept. University of Denver, Denver to, Colo.

BORN: Dec. 18, 1914, Staten Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1937; aM. (Univ. of
Denver).

MARRIED: Carol Johnson, April 12, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Leslie,
June 9, 1943; Marcia, Sept. 2, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Jordan, ’29.

occupaTion: Associate professor on university faculty, University of Denver;
teaching, mostly production of education films and TV programs,

OFFICES HELD: President, Water Board, Cherry-Moor Water District; director,

* Denver Area Council for Educational Television; member, Reorganization

Committee, Arapahoe County School; chairman of board, Western Cine
Service, Inc.

PUBLICATIONS: Educational television programs, including: “2zoth Cenrury
Revolutions,” a series; “The Cowboy’s West,” a series and perhaps forty
or fifty others; TV drama: “Outside of Time,” for ANTA Plavhouse,

[ 585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and others; commercial films on various subjects, such as asthma, tuber-
culosis, migrant labor, intercontinental ballistic missiles, racial discrimina-
tion, ete.

AS any hack writer knows, the first step in writing a piece is finding
a theme. (Efe calls it a theme when he’s taking himself seriously;
in more commercial moods it’s an “angle” or “hook.”) And, hav-
ing been hack writing off and on these past twenty-five years (some-
times on themes, more often on angles and hooks), I approached
this task with considerable confidence, even élan. That was a couple
of weeks ago. Since, despite Bentinck-Smith’s increasingly trucu-
lent letters and cards, ’'ve been doggedly searching for the elusive
theme until now, several deadlines later, I can procrastinate no
longer. It's disturbing. Twenty-five years are a sizable portion of
a man’s appointed years and at summing-up time he ought to have
something sizable to say. Something like, “. . . and at that moment
in the firelight I suddenly found the secret of life.” Or, “... I
threw the glass into the garbage pail and haven’t touched a drop
since.” Or maybe just the sacred syllable, “OM.” Something big,
something with a ring of finality. Well, hang the theme and on with
it willy-nilly.

I went to work for the National Broadcasting Company right
after graduation, groped my way into the then embryonic television
department in 1939, mossed around with scripts, props, and scenery
for a couple of years and early in 1942 marched bravely off to —
I was going to write “the war,” but actually ic turned out to be the
Air Corps. After radio operating for close to four years in various
parts of the United States and Latin America and attaining the
exalted rank of S/Sgt., I found my way back to the soaring towers
of Radio City and, as television burgeoned, made the usual pro-
gression to director and producer. I was in charge of the network's
remote programs such as parades, sports events, political conventions,

circuses, presidential inaugurations, and other fringe sectors of
Arierican entertainment, At this point, I had one wife and one

darchter of five, and we got into the bad habic of discussing LIFE.
We bean to conclude in these discussions (pointed chiefly by my
Jocchter who had the clearest mind of the three) that Lire as we

wete leading it was (a) hectic and becoming more so, (b) short and
lrcunung more so, (Cc) rewarding but becoming less so, Accord-
J the three of us researched the problem and decided (a) we
... 4 Pume to watch ourselves live, (b) we wanted space to move
tan, and (cy) when we'd got the time and space then we'd

[ 546 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

work out a suitable carEER. That career, quite fortuitously, turned
out to be with the University of Denver. This institution (I ex-
plain this for my provincial eastern brethren) is the only major pri-
vate, independent university between the Missouri River and the
Pacific Coast. And that (my p.e.b.) covers quite a hunk of terri-
tory. Time (see [a] above) has been a bit captious, but space
(see [b] above) we got! And spruce and pine and snow and sun
and day and night and fallout.

Circa 1952 a couple of friends and I formed a motion picture
laboratory which now bears the imposing title of Western Cine
Service, Inc. That was good because universities don’t pay very
large salaries, and it was bad because LirE was becoming (a) more
hectic and (b) shorter and (c) my wife was beginning to ask what
was the point of leaving New York? So I am now a member of a
board of directors that meets once a year, weather permitting, and
I guess a man should be able to be that frantic without complaint.
I am also a member of a faculty that meets nearly all the time, re-
gardless of weather, and am fooling around with closed circuit TV.
That is good because what this country needs is good five-cent edu-
cation . . . no, seriously, maybe there is some way of making the
educational process a little less stagnant (Harvard excluded, of
course) without putting frosting on it or hamming it up. Too early
to tell yet, but maybe. Daughter No. 1 is now a freshman (fresh-
woman?) at Wellesley. Daughter No. 2 is now a first-grader at
Greenwood School. This is planned parenthood. We're spacing
’em twelve years apart. Only planning to have six anyway. What
happened to that theme, that hook, that angle?

ARTHUR JOSEPH, JR.

HOME AppRESs: 1846 Keys Crescent, Cincinnati, Ohio.

OFFICE appress: Richbilt Manufacturing Co., 3277 Spring Grove Ave. Cincin-
nati, Ohio.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1914, Cincinnati, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MarRiED: Alice Pake Worms, Sept. 9, 1940, New Orleans, La. cHitpreN:
Arthur, 3d, May 21, 1942; Thomas Charles, March 13, 1944; Mary, Oct. 28,
1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Joseph, ’40.

Occupation: President, Richbilt Manufacturing Company and Tempo, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Losantaville Country Club; Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Cincinnati
Club.

[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PRIOR to my Navy days, I worked for my family in the steel busi-
ness. On my return to Cincinnati after the war, I decided to go
into business for myself and set up a sales agency selling specialty
building materials. In 1951 I purchased a wood ladder business, the
Richbilt Manufacturing Company, which had to be re-established
as the previous owners had let it run down. After rebuilding this
business, we formed a furniture division. We manufacture con-
temporary tables and chairs sold through show rooms at the princi-
pal markets. The largest part of our business is in the furniture
field. Recently we purchased Tempo, Inc., manufacturing deco-
rative pillows and gift furniture (specialty) items. These products
are sold by our furniture salesmen.

Children: Two boys, one graduating from Hun School and the
other from Country Day, Cincinnati; one girl who is in the tenth
grade at C.P.S., Cincinnati.

Vacations: Last spring we spent six weeks in Portugal, Spain and
France. We had a wonderful visit and hope to return soon again.
The preceding ten years we spent our vacations in Mexico. The
climate is wonderful and dependable and we enjoy combining re-
laxing at the beaches with sightseeing and the archeologic lure of
the country. :

Last June my wife attended her twentieth reunion at Smith Col-
lege. I am looking forward to my Twenty-fifth this coming June.

+ HENRY RACE JULIAND

BORN: Nov. 9, 1914, Greene, N.Y. PARENTS: Charles Stratton Juliand, Ethel Race.
PREPARED AT: Greene High School, Greene, N.Y. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1037.

marriEp: Nell Carneal Thompson, July 3, 1943, New York, N.Y.

pitp: June 22, 1954, New York, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs, Henry R. Juliand, 21 Stuyvesant Oval, New York, N.Y.

AFTER college Juliand joined the Hanover Bank, then called the
Central Hanover Bank & Trust Company, in New York City. He
became an assistant secretary in 1942 and assistant vice-president in
1950. During World War II, he served as an officer in the Navy,
acting as port director at invasion ports along the English Channel
coast. P]e was a member of the Harvard Club of New York. He
was survived by his wife.

[ 588 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ELY JACQUES KAHN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Scarborough, N.Y.; Truro, Mass. (summer address).
OFFICE ADDRESS: The New Yorker Magazine, 25 W. 43d St., New York 36, N.Y.
BoRN: Dec. 4, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1937.
MARRIED: Virginia C. Rice, Feb. 14, 1945, New York, N.Y. cHILpREN: Ely

Jacques, 3d, June 11, 1947; Joseph Plaut, Jan. 16, 1949; Hamilton Rice,
May 30, 1952.

OccUPATION: Writer, principally for The New Yorker.
OFFICES HELD: Member, executive council, Authors Guild and Authors League
of America; member, National Planning Board, American Veterans Com-

mittee; president of board, since 1959, trustee, Scarborough Country Day
School.

MEMBER OF: Authors League of America; P.E.N. Club; Writers Guild of
America East; Harvard Club of New York; Scarborough Fire Company;
American Veterans Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: The Army Life, GJ. Jungle, McNair: Educator of an Army,
The Voice, Who, Me?, The Peculiar War, The Merry Partners, The Big
Drink, A Reporter Here and There; numerous articles for The New
Yorker and other magazines.

THE Twenty-fifth anniversary of my graduation just misses coin-
ciding with the completion of twenty-five years’ association with
The New Yorker, whose staff I joined as a terribly inexperienced
reporter three days after Commencement. One can write for that
magazine for a generation and still feel inexperienced; I am no ex-
ception. For me, it has been a happy, if long, apprenticeship, which
I was lucky enough to be able to pursue even throughout four and
a half years of military service here and abroad, during which the
Army graciously permitted me to send pieces back to the magazine.
I also covered the Korean War, as a civilian, and have done re-
portorial articles for The New Yorker and other publications from,
among other more or less remote areas, Berlin (at the time of the
Airlift), the Soviet Union, Alaska, Japan and East Rindge, New
Hampshire, where my wife hails from. A good deal of the stuff
I have written has also appeared in books.

My wife, Virginia C, Rice, is an actress, and was a first lieutenant
in the Women’s Army Corps when we met. I was a warrant officer,
and the jokes about our disparity in rank were hugely amusing to all
save me, Jinny is a 1937 graduate of Emerson College, and since
her twenty-fifth reunion is concurrent with mine, I have no idea
which side of the Charles River we'll end up on. I understand they

[ 589 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

have quite nice reunions at Emerson and am looking forward to
learning more about them.

Since 1947, we have been living at Scarborough, New York, or
Scarborough-on-Hudson, as we call it when feeling fancy. Other
people persist in calling it Scarsdale. In 1954, after several pleasant
summers on Cape Cod, we bought an old house there, at Truro,
and now shuttle back and forth, with our three sons, between these
agreeable locations. I am able to do this fairly easily because New
Yorker writers, like most writers, are basically free-lancers (small
independent business men for tax purposes), and have no fixed office
hours. No fixed income, either, but we need not go into that here.
I have spent a quarter of a century inconclusively weighing the
advantages and disadvantages of independence against those of
financial security. No writer of my acquaintance has ever per-
suasively decided which is better. After twenty-five years, it doesn’t
matter. One has cast one’s lot, and it is too late to seek steady
employment.

Of our three sons, the younger two attend Scarborough Country
Day School, and the eldest is at Andover. We have all traveled
together to Europe once, and across the United States once, and are
still on speaking terms, most days. The middle boy is determined

to go to Dartmouth. He likes to ski. I don’t particularly, but I tag
along in the interests of family harmony.

HARRY KAHN

HOME ADDRESS: 1175 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
orice. apprEss: Bache & Co., 36 Wall St., New York, N.Y.
porn: Oct. 27, 1916, New York, N.Y.
parpanep at: Franklin School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; M.P.A., 1948.
sasxairp: Dorothy Nessler, Oct. 22, 1950, New York, N.Y. (died Oct. 1, 1956)3
Margery G. London, Jan. 21, 1960, New York, N.Y. cuitp: Jenny
Elizabeth, July 29, 1954.
occupation: General partner, Bache & Company.
orsicks Help: Treasurer, Washington Society of Security Analysts, 1955-57;
trustce, League School, Brooklyn, N.Y,, since 1960, member, Visiting Com-
muttee, Littauer School of Public Administration, 1961-62.
wets on: New York Society of Security Analysts; National Press Club and
National Democratic Club, Washington, D.C, (non-resident member);
Anteaters Club, Washington, D.C.

[ 590 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: “I Don’t Want to Lose Your Shirt,” Saturday Evening Post,
July, 1955; A Primer for Profit in the Stock Market—a Manual for the
Small Investor, Doubleday & Company, 1959, revised edition, 1960.

I HAVE enjoyed a career reasonably divided between Wall Street
and Washington. After several frustrating years on the floor of the
Exchange and convinced I was a failure there at the ancient age of
twenty-four, I served in the Treasury Department until December,
1942, when the Army was taking almost anybody.

When the war ended I was in both the Army and OSS and
moved from there to a number of interesting positions as an econo-
mist at State, ECA and the Paley Commission. I wrote the first
gloomy eyewitness economic report on Indonesia after its inde-
pendence in 1950 and generally had an exciting and stimulating
time in government service. The work was as hard as the securities
business and almost always I found the high level of intellectual
ability a challenge. During this period I took a kind of sabbatical
in reverse and spent an excellent year at Littauer.

Since 1952, stocks and bonds have been my full-time pursuit, and
the great expansion of American interest in securities has redounded
to the advantage of all of us with some training in the business; for
the disinterest in the securities business in the ’30s, and then the war,
created a scarcity of experienced professionals. After six years of
being in business for myself, | gave up my own seat on the New
York Stock Exchange in 1958 to become a general partner of Bache
& Company. Over the last two years I have been in charge of their
research and supervisory activities. These responsibilities include
administrative responsibilities which I have reluctantly decided |
somewhat enjoy. During this past decade I have also enjoyed
teaching investment analysis at American University in Washing-
ton and writing an easy reading book for the layman on the stock
market.

This is written from my New York apartment where I enjoy
the many urbanities of Manhattan with my wife and a family of
three girls (fourteen, ten and seven). As a widower I moved in
with one, and as a divorcee, my wife arrived with two. We have
time to walk, window shop, shop and buy an occasional painting.

I am trustee of the League School for Disturbed Children in
Brooklyn. This school is doing good work with schizophrenic
children and its research may lead to progress in mental health.

As I get older I spend less and less time reading about Harvard's
football fortunes, more on getting an adequate amount of exercise

[591]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

via tennis, swimming and walking. Being theatre, movie and art
gallery buffs, my wife and I enjoy an active winter critic’s life;
in summer we have a home within the new Cape Cod National
Park. I continue to read avidly and hope our current world will
go on with less change than I expect.

ROLF KALTENBORN

tome appress: Hill, N.H.; 349 Seaview Ave., Palm Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Securities Exchange Commission, Washington 25, D.C.

porn: June 12, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1937; PH.D. (Yale Univ.),

1944-

starriep: Ruth Brine, Sept. 15, 1939, New York, N.Y. cHiLpren: Kurt Hans,
Jan. 25, 1942; Karen Olga, April 18, 1943; Karl Rolf, Dec. 21, 1951; Konrad
Caspar, Dec. 21, 1953; Kristopher William, Jan. 18, 1954.

occuPATiION: Economist, Securities Exchange Commission, special study of
securities markets.

orFices HELD: Member, Harvard Board of Overseers Visiting Committee on
Germanic Languages; trustee, New Hampton School, New Hampton,
N.H., Graham Eckes School, Palm Beach, Fla. ,

Member oF: Amateur Chamber Music Players Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Various magazine articles on economic and political matters.

AS I look back over the past twenty-five years there seems to be a
regular pattern of changing jobs and residences. These include radio
and television news writing and broadcasting, teaching, lecturing,
foreign travel, crypt-analysis in the Signal Corps during World
War II and work in the investment business in areas ranging from
New Hampshire to Florida.

At the time of the last Class Report I was working as a securities
salesman (registered representative they like to call it) for Kidder,
Peabody & Company in New Hampshire. After seven good years
ic scerced time for another change. I have “left the woods for the
same reason I went there — other lives to lead,” to paraphrase Tho-
reau.

Now Iam with the Securities Exchange Commission as an eco-
nomic analyst in the one-year Special Study of the Securities Mar-
Lets, the first broad and thorough study of its kind since the late
thirties, It is stimulating work, and my education continues. Until
[ind proper housing for my considerable family in Washington I
SoNp probably commute weckends to Palm Beach, in the new
Pflirvard tradinon,

[ 592 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT DAVID KANE

HOME ADDRESS: 391 Hartshorn Drive, Short Hills, N.J.

OFFICE apprEss: North American Mills, 450 Seventh Ave., New York, N.Y.

BorN: May 24, 1916, Malden, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE! A.B., 1937.

MarRiED: Gloria Tuttelman, Nov, 27, 1947, Woonsocket, RI. cHiLpREN: Seth
Myles, Oct. 30, 1948; Ross Alan, May 30, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lewis William Kane, ’35, M.D., 39; Edward Kane, ’43;
Milton Robert Kane, ’45 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: President, North American Mills, Inc., textile manufacturers.

AFTER graduation I entered the textile manufacturing field in
Woonsocket, Rhode Island. My work took me to New York two
or three days a week, and it was very interesting meeting and going
out with Classmates in New York.

In early 1947, 1 met Gloria and we were married on November
27th of that year. Seth Myles was born in October, 1948, and Ross
Alan was born in May, 1950.

We purchased a house in Needham, Massachusetts, a delightful
suburb of Boston. Summers were spent in Humarock on Cape Cod.
Sailing and swimming were hobbies for all of us. In reminiscing, I
don’t think any of us will ever forget those delightful summers.
Gloria and I have spent a great deal of time, every winter, traveling
throughout Europe and the Caribbean. At this moment, we are
planning another trip to Norway and Sweden this spring.

As the years progressed, I was spending practically the entire
week in our New York office. In 1958, Gloria and I sold our home
in Needham and bought a home in Short Hills, New Jersey. I am
president of North American Mills and all its affiliated companies.

CLIFTON FERDINAND von KANN

HOME ApprEss: 22 Adalia Ave., Tampa, Fla.

OFFICE AppREss: Hatrs., U.S. Strike Command, MacDill AF.B., Fla.

BORN: Oct, 14, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: McBurney School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., €tt77 laude, 1937; M-B.A., 1948.

MarRiED: Sallie Emery Flint, Oct. 6, 1938, Champaign, Ill. cHitpreN: Curtis
Emery, Sept. 18, 1942; Lisa Christine, Sept. 19, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Curtis Emery von Kann, '64.

occupaATION: Brigadier general, U.S. Army; assistant chief of staff J-3 (Opera-
tions), U.S. Strike Command.

[ 593 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

orrices HELD; President, American Helicopter Society; director, National
Acronautic Association, Fidelity Savings and Loan Association; member,
executive council, U.S. Armor Association; member, Association of the
US. Army (member, Program Committee, 1960, 1961).

MEMBER oF: Army Aviation Association of America; American Military
Institute; Harvard Varsity Club; Insticute of Aerospace Sciences; Army-
Navy Country Club.

pusLicaTions: Occasional contributions to Army, Military Review, Army
Information Digest, Airman, Western Aviation and other periodicals on
aviation and aerospace.

IN contrast to the ivory hunting which is now alleged to take
place on the Charles each spring, job offers were scarce in 1937.
This hard fact led me to sign up for a year of active duty in the
Army at Fort Ethan Allen, Vermont. However, when I was offered
a regular commission in 1938, something other than economics
made me say “yes.” This happened on July 1st; fifteen days later,
I met a bewitching Army brat named Sallie Flint; within a week I
proposed, on October 6th we were married. So those days and
wecks saw many dies cast; and all to the good, I hasten to add.

My early Army career took me to Hawaii before Pearl Harbor,

a delightful way of life perhaps never to return; to Fort Sill, Okla-
homa, with its hot summer winds and freezing winter service prac-
tices, to Camp Bowie, Texas, as we prepared to go to war; and on to
North Africa, Sicily and Italy for two years of field duty which
included more than a year in command of an artillery battalion in
combat with its mixture of exhilaration, boredom, fear, and glory
(in my case, a Silver Star, a Legion of Merit, and the Italian Cross
of Military Valor).

In the pause between World War II and Korea, I seemed to be
preparing for newer and different endeavors. From Italy I went
to Washington to serve with the G-4 Division of the old War De-
partment General Staff, then a pleasant and profitable tour at the
Business School and an M.B.A. degree which finally placed me on
a par with my clever bride who long before had earned her Master’s
degree in French; back to Washington with the then new Army
Comptroller organization and a succession of jobs in organization
and management work which led to the assistant comptrollership
for VLins, then a fascinating (and frustrating) tour in the labyrinths
of the Central Intelligence Agency from 1951 to 1953.

During dus post-war phase, I had become actively aware of the
top. ty developing threat to our national security, Like many of
Poy CURLCIMPOLanies, I wrore, talked, and worried about it day and

[ 594)

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

night. This issue has continued to be my No. 1 preoccupation; and
there is much satisfaction in seeing the recent significant growth in
public awareness of the problem. For without this awareness and
the national determination which must follow, the military cannot
be an effective instrument of national policy.

Back to the narrative. From C.L.A. my tracks led to the Armed
Forces Staff College at Norfolk, Virginia, where I learned some-
thing of our sister services. Thence to Korea and Japan for various
assignments with combat units and higher headquarters, and from
the Far East to the National War College in Washington where my
military education reached its culmination just twenty years after
Commencement at Harvard.

The events which followed still leave me gasping. In July, 1957,
I was sent to parachute school and became a jumper at the tender
age of forty-one (plus). In August I became a brigadier general
and assistant division commander of the 82d Airborne Division. In
1958 I learned to fly a helicopter and received another pair of
wings; however, I managed to make enough parachute jumps to
become a senior parachutist in 1959, just as I left the Division to
return to Washington as director of Army Aviation.

In the two years that followed, I pursued what was for me a new
and fascinating business with all the time and vigor I could muster;
this led to fixed wing qualification, an instrument ticket, a twin
engine rating, and just recently a commercial ticket. But much
more than these were the wonderful friendships which Sallie and
J made over those two years with the interesting, imaginative, and
enterprising people in the aviation and aerospace community —
both the civilian and the governmental side.

But change is and must be the enduring condition in the Army.
In September, 1960, the news came of my imminent promotion to
the grade of major general (a point not missed by our ever-watchful
Gorham Brigham, who protested when the Army-Navy Journal
listed me as West Point, 1938). With it came the appointment as
the J-3 (operations officer) of the new unified Army Air Force Com-
mand which is properly called the United States Strike Command
with headquarters at MacDill Air Force Base, Florida. My job here
should give me a real opportunity to develop improved joint doc-
trine and tactics for the Army Air Force team, which I hope will
make a contribution to our national military posture.

I fear that these busy times have left me somewhat less than a
champion at golf and tennis. However, I get out when I can; and

[595]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

also bowl and fish a bit. Reading is undoubtedly my main free-time
activity, and that seems woefully backlogged. Of course, the family
has been and is my greatest source of happiness, pride, and satisfac-
tion. Sallie has been just wonderful about the inordinate amount
of time we have spent in Washington, which may be relatively
civilized but which is not the Hausfrau’s Heaven — may I yet take
her to Paris where she can use her French! Curt is doing well in
the Class of 1964 and getting far better grades than you-know-who.
Lisa, like all daughters, is pure joy to her old man, even though
to her he may seem paleolithic.

So the years have been good although very active ones. They
have offered many stimulations and the opportunity to cope in a
small way with the most serious and complex problems our coun-
try has yet faced. In this institutional framework, one never really
knows how much he has contributed or accomplished; I only hope
I have done a little.

BERNARD ISAAC KAPLAN

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Rochester Rd., Newton, Mass.

orice aporess: Kaplan & Kaplan, 84 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

poas: Jan. 16, 1916, Boston, Mass.

parparep AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Miagna cum laude, 1937; LL.B., 1940.

stammiepD: Helen F. Miller, June 25, 1944, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Laura Jane,
Aug. §, 1948; Michael Miller, June 24, 1954.

ocevupation: Lawyer, partner in law firm, Kaplan & Kaplan.

ones wet: District chairman, Greater Boston Combined Jewish Appeal,
1448-50; director, Hebrew Home for Aged, 1957-59; lecturer, Boston
University, since 1957; counsel, Special Legislative Commission on Railroad
Transportation in’ Massachusetts, 1958-59; Assistant Attorney General,

Commonwealth of Massachusetts, since 1960.
sip stem or: American and Boston Bar Associations; American Arbitration

Awociation, National Panel of Arbitrators; Masons.

WE reached the conclusion that English A should have required as
a theme: “My Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report.” This would
have helped some of us meet the deadline. But on the other hand,
why be an “eager beaver” and miss Bill Bentinck-Smith’s priceless
retninsde rs?
Curcer. My senior tutor advised me to teach economics, so I be-
case a lawyer. Fortunately, antitrust law in which I am active in-

[ 596 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

volves both law and economics. In undergraduate economics I was
involved with the theoretical concepts of monopoly, duopoly, and
oligopoly. Professor Chamberlain’s “Theory of Monopolistic Com-
petition” and the problems of industrial organization and control
were the focal points. As a lawyer I deal with the same problems
but on a more practical level. For me, the practical and theoretical
first met while I was an attorney with the Antitrust Division of the

U.S. Department of Justice. I did my bit to prove that the United

Shoe Machinery Corporation was an unlawful monopoly. Since then
antitrust work has always been a part of my practice. Last year I
was appointed a special assistant attorney general to handle pending
antitrust claims for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in a new
state program. Soon afterwards the great electrical price-fixing con-
spiracy burst into the headlines and the floodgates of antitrust ac-
tivity were opened. I consider the resulting increased awareness of
this cornerstone of our economic system a healthy and a long-over-
due development. Informed businessmen and laymen should pay
more attention to our antitrust policy, its application and effect. I
believe the absence of an adequate course on antitrust law and theory
in the curriculum of most business schools is a serious omission. With
this in mind, I developed a course in antitrust and trade regulation
which I have been teaching to business students at Boston University
for the past four years. |

My activity as a lawyer also includes the less esoteric fields of law.

Here again, there is a serious gap in education. Our students are
taught little or nothing about our legal system. I believe it is just as
important for educated citizens to know something about the basis
for the rules of law under which they live, and about the means of
resolving disputes, as it is for them to know about chemical reactions
and mathematics. Happily, encouraging steps are now being taken
to close the gap.

Family: A Radcliffe wife and two children — thirteen-year-old
Laura has many interests, and seven-year-old Mike lives and breathes
the Civil War. College for Laura and Mike? A reasonable certainty.
Which colleges? One can only hope and wait.

Travel: Home base is still only four miles from Harvard Square.
My children buy presents for me at the Coop. The women in the
family have both been to Europe. I've visited the Pacific Islands and
Japan as a motion picture tycoon for the Signal Corps. I assume that
Mike will visit the moon.

Hobbies: The most lasting has been modeling in clay. No exhibi-

[597 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

tions yet, and don't hold your breath, but a lot of pleasure for me.
The most transitory has been exercising to keep fit.

Community Activities: The normal social and charitable. For a
time I was very active in the Combined Jewish Appeal. I consider
the establishment of the State of Israel as one of the great constructive
events of the twentieth century. Helping to raise funds for the Pro-
gram for Harvard College gave me real satisfaction.

Politics: 1 believe that political activity is a responsibility of “the
community of educated men.” I became tired of having others make
so many decisions that affect me and my family without consulting
me, so last year I was elected a ward committeeman, the lowest rung
of the ladder, but just where strength is needed.

Vacation; We have discovered the joys of camping outdoors.
“We” refers to Mike and me; Helen and Laura are tolerant, but “
hope they will agree to a cross-country trip soon.

Reflections on Harvard: Some things I would have done differently
— more courses off the beaten path, more extracurricular activities.
Mainly, it was an education which served as a foundation, which is
just what I want my children to have.

SOLOMON ISADORE KAPLAN

HOME ADDRESS: §73 Washington St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 150 Lincoln St., Boston, Mass.

porn: June t, t915, Newport, N.H.

parPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

Manan: Beatrice Kantor, Aug. 5, 1939, Randolph, Mass. cHiLpreN: Ina Jane,
June 5, 1940 Gam. Michael Anthony Smith, June 27, 1960).

Hamvany BROTHER: Robert Kaplan, ’34, L1.B., 37.

ocet pation: Vice-president and general manager, H. Scheft Company, chain
of retail shoe stores and departments.

orntcrs meio: Vice-president and director, Fillee Shoe Corporation, Linotype
Supply Company, Inc.

ata xinem OF: 210 Associates; Business Men’s Council, CJP.

UNDER a leave of absence, financially-forced, I read about the Har-
sard Tercentenary celebration, in 1936, in the hills of New Hamp-
-‘are, [stayed there during registration that fall and then returned
laure to help out in the family enterprise during what would have
Loony gunior year. That winter was about all I could stand and
te ageb ina family shoe store the following spring, Four months
o.+, 1 was named manager of a second store opened by my em-

[ 598 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ployer. Highly successful, it closed three months after opening. Fall
of 1936 sent me to work at the same trade under the aegis of a distant
relative in Brockton, Massachusetts. The company I am presently
associated with inherited me, along with the inventory and fixtures
of this business, when it was sold in the spring of 1937, just a few
short months before graduation of my Class.

In the twenty-five years since, I have held successive posts of de-
partment manager, district manager, buyer, merchandiser, and gen-
eral manager. In January of 1954, I was elected a vice-president of
the H. Scheft Company, with locations in the principal cities of New
England, New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio. My relationship with
the owners of this business has been a source of great pride and
pleasure over the years.

For depriving me of a diploma, fate further compensated me in
1937, when I met Beatrice Kantor of New York City. We were mar-
ried two years later, took up residence in Brockton, Massachusetts,
in 1942, and have been here since. The Navy turned me down in
1943 — color blind; the Army likewise later the same year — mi-
graine.

My main hobby has been work, with time out for an occasional
game of golf or fishing. My real pleasures have come from growing
with our small family. This was climaxed on June 27, 1960, when I
became the “Father of the Bride,” and Beatrice and I acquired a
twenty-five-year-old son.

Politically, I have been termed an independent and liberal. Here
is the record: Roosevelt three times; Truman, Stevenson twice; Ken-
nedy. The fact that all were or are of the same political party is
strictly deliberate. I believe strongly in the Democratic Party ideol-
ogy and suspect the same feeling will exist in 1987.

GEORGE WHITTEN KAUFFMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 393 Brookside Drive, Columbus 9, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 263 N. Front St., Columbus 16, Ohio.

BORN: May 28, 1915, Columbus, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1937.

MarriED: Jean Leckie, June 20, 1941, Columbus, Ohio. cHitoreN: Sally Point,
March 28, 1943; Nancy Whitten, July 10, 1945; Jean Stuart, July 5, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President, The Kauffman-Lattimer Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, The Kauffman-Lattimer Company, since 1936, The

Kauffman-Lattimer Company, Inc., Parkersburg, West Virginia, 19¢0-1,

[ 599 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

trades and a master of none —a cracking fourtcen handicap on the
links. But I enjoy them all.

As a lifelong conservative midwestern Republican Episcopalian,
I like Barry Goldwater, look with a jaundiced eye on the National
Council of Churches and am sincerely concerned that the Canta-
brigians in Washington may yet turn us over to a one-world social-
ist order that would turn John Harvard over in his grave. In Frank-
lin County, Ohio, we stll believe in the freedoms the Constitution
promised us, including the right of every man to provide for him-
self, if only government will let him do it. There must be a few
other Harvards who believe that the Constitution is still the most

important document in man’s struggle for freedom since the Magna
Carta.

CLARENCE BARRON KEENE

HOME aDoRESS: 10 Cedar Crest Lane, Scituate, Mass.

OFFIce appress: Boston Envelope Co. Dedham, Mass.

porn: Sept. 8, 1908, Cambridge, Mass.

parpareD AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1937.

maagiep: Margaret Giles Connolly, June 27, 1936, Winchendon, Mass. CHILD:
Katrina Bradlee, June 1, 1950.

occupation: Assistant sales manager, supervision of Greater Boston sales area,
Boston Envelope Company, manufacturer of envelopes.

orvczs HELD: Councilman, Borough of Cambridge Springs, Pa., 1945-46; presi-
dent, Cambridge Springs-Edinboro, Pa. Rotary Club, 1947; secretary,
Scituate Country Club, Inc., since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Scituate Country Club, Inc.; Mail Selling Club of Boston.

SO I take my pen in hand — shades of old school days with a dead-
line to meet! The same tendency to procrastinate lingers on, but
then the decision is made to start the job.

I began my business career with Carnation Company as a student
employee in production immediately after graduation and spent
over cleven years in various phases of plant operations. When I
decided to make a change in 1948, I had reached the position of
nanscer of Pennsylvania plants. As I look back, it was quite an
co perience to have lived in eight different states; in some for as little
as six weeks and in one for as long as five years. What an

crtment of houscs we occupied! The ultimate was a near man-
-oyanthe heart of lowa through one of their colder winters with-
oot central heating. Imagine, if you can, a single stove to warm

[ 602 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ten rooms on two floors with the temperature at the thirty-two-
degree mark — below zero, that is. We learned what the natives
meant by bundling through the winter. Ours included two Irish
setters under the covers as foot warmers.

In 1948 a long-desired opportunity to buy into a small business
was realized, and we journeyed back to Winchester, Massachusetts,
to give our all to an automobile agency. As it turned out, the timing
was wrong — Chrylsler had a long strike period, and we had no cars
to sell—so we gave our all. Shortly after this I joined the Boston
Envelope Company and have since learned that sales is my true
forte. Progression has been rapid, and I have found my niche
finally.

The Lord did not bless us with a family but Greece did. Trina
arrived in 1955, speaking fluent Greek at the age of five, but we did
not have a word for it. However, within a few months she under-
stood us perfectly but I am not too certain that we shall ever
catch up again. Boy, oh boy, the projects she dreams up! We just
finished painting the inside of a big box solid black with yellow
eyes overall, and I am told that this will provide a puppet stage for
re-enactment of “The Pit and the Pendulum.”

All in all, quite a few things have changed over this quarter-
century span, but I try to keep rooted with a few beliefs — first,
that the Republicans will again lead us back to normalcy, and second
that I shall still break eighty each time I start a round of golf. But
then —I wonder —

GEORGE DAVID KELLER

HOME ApprRESS: 314 Rices Mill Rd., Wyncote, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Brooks Instrument Co., Hatfield, Pa.

BORN: June 5, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG., cum laude, 1937.

MarrieD: Mary Solis-Cohen, April 6, 1941, Philadelphia, Pa, cHitpren: Julie
A., Jan. 12, 1943; Polly E., Nov. 5, 1945; Adam M., May 9, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Michels Keller, ’32.

occupation: Director and chief engineer, Brooks Instrument Company, indus-
trial instrument manufacturing.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Society of Mechanical
Engineers; Instrument Society of America; Pennsylvania Society of Pro-
fessional Engineers; American Civil Liberties Union.

THE only connection between the kind of work I did before and

[ 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

during the war and the present is that it all made use of m
engineering training. Large company association right after college
and working as a civilian for the Army Ordnance during the war
have convinced me of the benefits and satisfactions obtainable in a
small company. In 1945, I settled into the industrial instrument in-
dustry where I have remained through three different connections.
What it proves I don’t know, but this relatively new, expanding
industry which runs into many hundred “megabucks” annually has
only attracted one or two others of the Class of ’37. In any event,
I now find myself directing the engineering and product develop-
ment of a rapidly growing, aggressive company, and I must say
I enjoy it.

Community life has contributed substantially to my postgraduate
education in many fields. In addition to learning about P.T.A.’s,
United Fund drives, etc., I now know —after serving briefly on
the board of a small reorganized community hospital —that the
function of a hospital board of directors is to raise money, not to
run the institution.

But certainly, most satisfying of all has been my family, even
including various adolescent struggles, high school traumas and
college admission harassment. One daughter has managed to break
through the Swarthmore College barriers, the second has another
year before her battle for admission is joined, and by the time my
son is ready, I shall either be an expert or have lost interest. We
have all enjoyed living in the house I designed myself and have
quite forgotten the problems involved in getting it built.

RANSOM PINGREE KELLEY

Home ADDRESS: P.O. Box 128, West Southport, Maine.

woas: March 3, 1913, Lexington, Mass.

rer panto at: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

SEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

staan: Elclen Pfunt, Dec. 11, 1935, Melrose, Mass. (divorced 1942); Erla
trawne, Sept. 26, 1942, Bowdoinham, Maine, ciitoreN: Jean, May 17,
1437; Erle Ransom, April 24, 1945; Alan Pingrec, Dec. 9, 1950.

oe Cparios: Captain, owner and operator of a passenger boat.

oan inap: Member, Fish and Game Advisory Committee, six years; producer
member, Maine Milk Commission, four years; director, Marine Division,
Caval Defense, since 1959, commander, Kennebec River Power Squadron;
depary sheriff, Lincoln County, member, Volunteer Fire Department,
Southport, Maine.

coaeraoor: Arnold Trail Sportsman's Club, first presiding member, Portland

[ 604 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Yacht Club and Boothbay Harbor and others; U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary,
Civil Air Patrol; North East Surf Patrol Club; Masons; Shrine, Elks;

Lions International.

AFTER transferring from Harvard to the University of Massachu-
setts, where I specialized in agriculture, I bought farms in central
Maine. I built a home in Fairfield, where I was growing up to 150
acres of potatoes, 200 acres of corn for canning. The registered
name of Kennebec Farms became well known in the Ayrshire world.
I operated a dairy herd of close to 200 head of registered cattle,
shipping Grade A milk to the Portland, Maine, market. I imported a
herd of Whitefaces, and they seemed to like the State of Maine, after
coming on from the West. They paid no attention to fences and
tried to tour the whole state. On a nearby farm, we had a large flock
of hens, eventually working into the hatching-egg business. During
the late 1930’s and early 1940’s, I acquired additional farms on Merry-
meeting Bay. Here I grew additional acreages of sweet corn, and
worked into extensive acreages of snap beans for canning.

In the early fifties, I discontinued my relatively large-scale farm-
ing operation because the problems of finding, and hiring, and trying
to make work, harvest crews of 1,500 people were becoming burden-
some, and the changing economic pattern was making farming
Jess and less inviting. In twenty years, I saw tremendous changes
take place in agriculture and I am sorry to see farming fading out in
Maine.

I have always had an affinity for salt water and have had boats
about all my life. After retiring from the farming business, I started
selling boats in the Boothbay region. This eventually worked into
the ownership of the Magnus, a passenger vessel that, during the
tourist season, I operate three trips a day from Boothbay Harbor to
Pemaquid Beach by way of Christmas Cove. In the fall, I use the
boat as a mother ship, taking people on sea duck hunting trips off
shore, and goose and black duck along the coast and river.

Along the way, a pair of Labradors took me over, and have shown
me a lot of fun, both hunting and running them in trials — New
England and Canada.

Maine living is to my liking — good neighbors and much to do.

[ 605 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HOWARD KELLOGG

HOME ADDRESS: 6:0 Williamson Rd., Bryn Mawr, Pa.

orFice aporess: Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, 2107 Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust
Bldg. Philadelphia 9, Pa.

porn: Sept. 11, 1915, Keokuk, Iowa.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Frances Saunders Perkins, Dec. 28, 1946, Bryn Mawr, Pa. cHILpREN:
Jane, Nov. 5, 1947; Elizabeth Perkins, May 28, 1949; Mary, Jan. 18, 1951;
Thomas Howard, Feb. 10, 1953, David Waters, June 1, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Waters Kellogg, ’34 (deceased).

occtpaTion: Lawyer; partner, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius.

orrices HELD: Director and assistant secretary, The Church Foundation
(Episcopal Diocese of Pennsylvania); president, College Work Commis-
sion, 1954-56, Episcopal Community Services, Diocese of Pennsylvania,
president, Gladwyne Civic Association, 1952-53, Family Service of the
Main Line Neighborhood, 1957-59; director, W. B. Saunders Co., 1956-58;
secretary of vestry, Church of the Redeemer, Bryn Mawr, 1958-61.

MeMBeR OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia (secretary, 1949-53, member execu-
uve committee, 1957-59); Harvard Law School Association of Philadelphia
(secretary-treasurer, 1947); The Church Club of Philadelphia (president,
1958-59); Appalachian Mountain Club; Harvard Engineering Society;
Midday Club; Milldam Club; Rittenhouse Club; The Juristic Society.

LOOKING back on it, a desire for security and prolongation of
the 1937 status quo must have led me to continue the pursuit of
education at Harvard. This resulted, as a matter of course, in a
law degree, and only later in some doubt as to the wisdom of having
sclected the best law school and taken with it the pleasure of con-
tinucd college associations and patterns, As a dialectic saying goes,
however, I came up smelling like a rose, with an offer of employ-
ment by an outstanding firm (which soon thereafter stopped hiring
people out of mid-class rank, even at Harvard). With this firm I
labored for a year or two prewar and to it I duly returned after
the hostilities, during which I went no farther than Camp Barkeley,
Texas.

Well, the aura of the rose has continued in every department I
can think of, ¢g., 2 most satisfactory wife and in-laws, five chil-
doen of assorted sex who continually amaze their parents with quali-
rey that scem to defy genetics, the finest town I know to live and
ca in, plenty of work (often too much) for a fine clientele in

rocront Tap ow ith good guys, enough outside work to satisfy an

[ 606 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

uneasy conscience, a lovely place, a marvelous appetite and a high
level of health and vigor.

My principal preoccupations are planning, replanning, discussing,
anticipating and enjoying vacations, particularly when they in-
volve mountaineering or skiing. I can call to mind no banes of
any consequence, disappointments, crosses to bear, betrayals, hard-
ships or deprivations. Only, I’ve never particularly enjoyed work-
ing. Which makes it very clear that if I didn’t have work to do, I
would indeed be a bum.

JOHN STEPHENSON KELLY

HOME Appress: 4 Burnham PI., Fair Lawn, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Variety Store Merchandiser, 419 Park Ave., S.. New York 16,
N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1914, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 7agua cum laude, 1937.

MarrieD: Li Feng, October, 1939, San Francisco, Calif. (deceased); Nancy
Elliott, 1941, Hohokus, N.J. cuitpren: Nora, 1945; David Angus, 1952.

occuPATION: Managing editor, Variety Store Merchandiser, business magazine.

THE vicissitudes of my career can’t be of interest to anyone else,
and I am bored with them. So let’s try the vicissitudes of what
Harvard has done for me. (The preposition is deliberate. I can-
not fairly judge what she did to me.) She allowed me, while in at-
tendance, to explore and extend a fair range of interests, without
doing much actively to abet the pursuit. Since graduation, the mere
fact of having gone to Harvard has been self-neutralizing, impressing
some (superficially) and repelling others (superficially). The knowl-
edge and, above all, the knowledge of knowledge (its uses, its ac-
cumulations and expenditures, its availability, its growth, its patholo-
gies) acquired at Harvard have been enriching ingredients of my
life ever since (Up the academic ideal!), The experience of knowl-
edge could have been gained elsewhere; I believe —an act of faith
— that for me Harvard was the most propitious of all possible in-
stitutions. The enrichment has often been useful, practically, in edit-
ing and writing and in fuller communication with my fellow beings.
But I hold higher its value in enlarging the possibilities of life (please
allow me that convenient, if fulsome, generalization; the Secretary
said “be brief”). Though the effects have often been painful, there
is no question of renunciation. Let us spare analysis, Q.E.D., more

[ 607 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

or less: there has been greater significance in life, and presumably in
me, for my having gone to college and to Harvard in particular. I
have nothing noteworthy to show in utilitarian or social achieve-
ments but I can be classified as a testimony to the academic ideal
(out of parentheses at last). Some of us have found success of its
kind, and a few of us may have found a dream. Most of us have gone
our ways. And though we may have fallen off from the brighter
hopes she held out for us, Harvard has not fallen off. And it is a high
and heartening thing that in a time of much recrimination and ex-
pediency and unhappy necessity, she has maintained independence
and integrity. For if Harvard falls off from these, my value is dim-
inished, too.

VERNER EARL KELLY

HOME ADDRESS: 221 E. qsth St, Savannah, Ga.
oFFicé appress: Union Bag-Camp Paper Corp., Savannah, Ga.
porn: July 3, 1915, Longview, Texas.
PREPARED AT: Longview High School, Longview, Texas.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. 1937.
sargiep: Margaret Orne, Nov. 11, 1939, Boothbay Harbor, Maine. cHILpREN:
Virginia Lee, Feb. 15, 1942 (mm. Henry Lawton Tison, Jr., Dec. 12, 1959);
Thomas Orne, July 9, 1943; Margaret Sarah, Jan. 18, 1953; Richard Mc-
Cullough, Jan. 29, 1956 (died July 13, 1959). GRANDCHILD: Catherine
Arabella Tison, Dec. 29, 1960.
HARVARD BROTHER: LeGrande D. Kelly, Jr., M.B.A., ’29.
occuPATION: Paper manufacturing and converting; manager of bag factories,
orFices HELD: President, Savannah Golf Club, 1953-54, Rotary Club of Savannah,
1958-59; board member, 1951-57, chairman of board, 1954-57, Savannah
Public Library; president, Patrons’ Association, Savannah Country Day
School, 1960-61, general chairman, Savannah United Community Appeal,
1961-62, assoc. general chairman, 1959-60; vice-president, Coastal Empire
Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1961, board member, 1953-62; vice-presi-
dent, Savannah Little Theatre, 1958-60, board member, 1955-61; vice-
president, Greenbrier Children’s Center, 1958-61, board member, 1955-61;
vice-president, Savannah Chamber of Commerce, 1958-61, board member,
1957-62, board member, Savannah Y.M.C.A,, 1953-62; Savannah Youth
Museum, 1956-57; Savannah Symphony Socicty, 1959-62; Oglethorpe Life
Insurance Company, 1955-60; Atlantic Savings & Trust Company, 1959-62;
Savannah Country Day School, 1960-61.
memuia or: Savannah Golf Club; Mary Calder Golf Club, Oglethorpe Club;
Coullion Club; Century Club; Savannah Symphony Society; Georgia His-
torical Society, Historic Savannah Foundation; Telfair Academy of Arts
& Sciences, Madeira Club, Boothbay Harbor (Maine) Yache Club.

renticariose: “Fore Lore of Yore — Early Golf History from Scotland to
Sasannah,” Madeira Club, s%c.

[ 608 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT is difficult to be optimistic about the future in a world hanging
on the edge of self-destruction. Nevertheless most of us learn to
live in the ever-present shadow of this danger and ignore its
presence sufficiently to remain on an even keel and proceed with
our day-to-day responsibilities and our pursuit of happiness and
our plans for the future, as if the shadow might somehow fade
away. On this basis, Margie and I are continuing to find our lives
busy, interesting and enjoyable.
After graduation I spent two years at the Business School, then
a year and a half in New York City looking in vain for good life
insurance prospects. I sold one sizeable policy to a friend who
must have known something I didn’t. He died within the year, the
insurance company paid off, and Margie and I (we were married
in November, 1939) moved to Hudson Falls, New York, where I
went to work for Union Bag & Paper Corporation. After two fine
years in a beautiful Adirondacks setting, we were transferred (in
1942) to Savannah, Georgia, in a beautiful marsh grass setting where
we have been ever since. Our company (now Union Bag-Camp)
has enjoyed steady growth along with the paper industry and
through several mergers and acquisitions until recently, when the
F.T.C. waved a clammy, restraining hand at us. As a part of my
job I find myself traveling a lot more, particularly to St. Louis,
Richmond and New Hope, Pennsylvania, where we have bag
plants. On the local front, a number of civic affiliations are demand-
ing enough to give me the feeling of not being able to give effective
attention to any one of them. At the moment, as general chairman
of our 1961-62 United Community Appeal, I am working hard
in the hope of seeing our goal of $890,000 raised.

Golf continues to be the major recreation for both Margie and
me. We play rather regularly, and I struggle to hold a two handi-
cap while she is getting down in the 80’s more and more frequently.
We still spend our summer vacations in Boothbay Harbor, Maine,
where boating competes with golf for our time.

Our elder daughter Ginny took a year off before starting college
to get married and have a baby. She and her husband and our vear-
old red-headed granddaughter are now attending Clemson College.

In July, 1959, our three-and-one-half-year-old son Richard was
drowned. Time is finally beginning to ease the pain and sadness
of this tragedy for us. Our eighteen-year-old son Tom finishes at
Savannah Country Day School this year and is trying to decide
what college he likes. Our eight-year-old daughter Margaret is

[ 609 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

trying to decide whether she wants to be a piano player or a ballet
dancer.

Looking back over the last twenty-five years, it is not easy to
conclude that my life has had any special impact or to pick out
any events which would seem especially significant to others. By
and large it has been a series of happenings, some frustrating, some
productive, most of which seemed more important at the time
than now and all of which add up to a generally good life. Let’s
hope that we're all here to report on our Fiftieth!

STANTON COIT KELTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1120 Bristol Rd. Churchville, Bucks County, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rohm & Haas Co., Bristol, Pa.
Born: Nov. 13, 1915, Wollaston, Mass.
prePareD AT: Radnor High School, Wayne, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; PH.D. (Univ. of Illinois), 1941.
Marrigep: Sue Hudson, Dec. 27, 1940, Paris, Texas. cCHILpREN; Katherine
Stewart, April 8, 1942; Scanton Coit, 3d, April 14, 1945; Alice Clark, Sept.
15, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: George Twiss Kelton, ’43, LL.B., 48.
occuPaTION: Area manager; supervision and management of production opera-
tions, Rohm & Haas Company, manufacturers of chemicals and _ plastics.
OFFICES HELD: Chem Club, 1955-57: secretary, chairman; School Board, 1951-58:
treasurer, president, president joint board; Philadelphia-Wilmington Color
Group, 1950-56: president; Church, 1957-59: deacon, chairman of Sunday
School Construction Commitee; Family Service Association of Bucks
County, 1959-61: board of directors, Governor’s Committee on Voca-
tional Education, 1959; Boy Scouts of America, 1958-60: Troop Com-
mittee, Section chairman, Bucks County Capital Funds Campaign; Cham-
ber of Commerce, 1954-56: Education Committee chairman, Scholarship
Fund, Science Math Seminar Coordinator; Bucks County Technical School
Advisory Board, 1955-56.
memnea of: Alpha Chi Sigma Society of Sigma Xi; Phi Lambda Upsilon;
American Chemical Society, American Ceramic Society; Inter-Society
Color Council, Optical Society of America; American Society for Quality
Control, U.S. National Committee on the Color of Signal Lights, S.A.E.
Committee on Plastics in Automotive Lighting.
rusications: US. Patent: Synthesis of Acrylic Monomers, 1942; “Enediols
from Duril and Isoduril,” Journal of American Chemical Society, 1941;
“Colorants for Acrylics,” Proceedings of Perkin Centennial, 1956, “Color
in Acrylic Resins,” Modern Plastics Magazine, 1958.

AFTER graduation and a summer job, I entered the University of
Ltineis Graduate School. The transition from New England to
the midwest landscape, customs, and attitudes was full of surprises.

[ 610 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It was made much easier, however, by having an introduction to

the other graduate students and a place to live through member-

ship in Alpha Chi Sigma, the professional chemical fraternity I had

joined at Harvard. The four years there leading to the Ph.D.

degree in 1941 were most enjoyable, but I must confess they were

ones of hard work. My career since then has been entirely with
the Rohm & Haas Company, manufacturers of chemicals and plas-
tics, in Philadelphia and Bristol, Pennsylvania, and lately in Houston,
Texas. I started as a research chemist, but in a few years became
involved in product and process development supporting the manu-
facture of acrylic plastics. During the Fifties I was supervisor of
the Technical Service Laboratories assisting the Bristol factory in
manufacturing, quality, and sales problems. My principal scien-
tific interests have been in the technologies of color, glass, acrylic
polymerization, and in administration of technical personnel. Early
in 1961 I accepted an opportunity to train for production manage-
ment and have since been studying factory operations at the com-
pany’s major plants. Currently, but temporarily, | am area man-
ager in Houston of an integrated complex of four continuous units
making basic petrochemicals. Twenty years with the same company
is a long time, but through it all I have been most fortunate in al-
ways having a multitude of challenging, worth-while assignments
and the finest associates imaginable.

On the personal side, also, I have been fortunate. While still
at the University of Illinois, I was married to Sue Hudson, a gradu-
ate student in library science. We lived in Bristol, Pennsylvania,
during the War and until 1950, then moved to a small farm and a
very old farmhouse at Churchville in the central section of Bucks
County, Pennsylvania; we have been remodeling, enlarging, re-
building, maintaining, and improving ever since. We hope to return
to it after our sojourn in Texas. The children have grown up
enough to make us middle-aged in time but not in spirit. Kay
graduated from George School and is now in her sophomore year
at Vassar; Stanton is a junior at George School; and Alice is in
sixth grade in the Houston Public Schools. Our interests are typical
of suburban families caught by the realities of living in a rapidly
developing area. The schools, church, and community have been
“bursting their seams” for twelve years, involving us in many prob-
lems and activities, At the mid-point of life, we look forward to

getting the children educated, enjoying our home, and serving on
fewer committees.

[ Orr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

F. CORNING KENLY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Sea St., Manchester, Mass.

orice aporess: New England Mutual Life Insurance Co. 501 Boylston St.,
Boston, Mass.

poun: Feb. 1, 1915, Lake Forest, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: $.B., 1937.

maraiep: Miriam Little, May 21, 1941, Concord, Mass. cHILpreN: Miriam
Barrett, May 25, 1944; David Farwell, Jan. 16, 1946; F. Corning, 3d, May
20, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Granger Farwell Kenly, ’4r.

occupation: Second vice-president (investments), New England Mutual Life
Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Essex County Club (member, board of governors); Manchester
Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

AS it was in the beginning, I graduated from Harvard on a hot day
in June, 1937, with nothing more pressing in mind than to show up
more or less sober at Bill Bentinck-Smith’s wedding. Looking back
on it now, and I do from time to time with something of a shock, it
secms quite incredible that my plans for the future were so nebulous.
Anyway, after returning from a carefree summer in Europe I
found myself walking the sidewalks of Chicago looking for a job
and for the first time realized there was a depression going on. I re-
member my elation when I accepted a job as a trainee at the Harris
Trust and Savings Bank for ninety dollars a month. I felt sure that
this proved the value of my Harvard education and my concentration
in the ficld of economics, money and banking. Upon closer scrutiny,
it turned out that I was a bank messenger whose only distinction was
the armed guard that followed me on my beat around Chicago. I
pretended I wasa banker but the illusion was shattered one day when
1 was identified walking down La Salle Street burdened with mail
sacks on my way to the post office. After a year, however, the bank
recognized my splendid qualities by raising my salary to a full hun-
dred dollars a month, and although it was hard to resist, I decided to
resign from my first job. I want to emphasize that I really resigned
because there were 2 couple of subsequent jobs where it was a mat-
ter of interpretation as to how the commercial umbilical cord was
severed.

After leaving the Efarris Trust, f joined Household Finance Cor-
perdon as administrative assistant to the financial vice-president, and
niyo morale recovered. TP joined forces with several other bachelors
whe moved with the sun from a city apartment in the winter to a

[412]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

country house in the summer. Chicago was unbelievably hospitable.
Our main social problem was to decide what invitations to accept.
By pooling our subsistence salaries we lived quite elegantly. Most of
us found our standard of living cruelly curtailed when we jumped
from multiple bachelorhood to married bliss.

The next few years moved at a rapid pace. In 1939 I became aware,
as did so many others, of the onrush of war, and joined the Naval
Reserve. In 1940 I received my commission as an ensign. Simulta-
neously | was working on another project. This one was a girl named
Mimi Little who lived in Concord, Massachusetts, which was at that
time, and I guess still is, 1,000 miles from Chicago. Somehow we
overcame the hazardous logistics of such a long-distance courtship
and were married on May 21, 1941. As a wedding gift, my Uncle
Sam ordered me to active duty four days later. After about three
weeks training, I found myself aboard a Navy transport on my way
to Panama, and my bride unceremoniously returned to her parents in
Concord — for a refund, so to speak.

However, there were still six months of the peace-time Navy left
before Pear] Harbor changed things. Mimi was able to join me in
Panama, where we started life with an enormous cockroach for a pet
and a footlocker for a bureau. After war was declared, Mimi got a
job with Army Intelligence. Since I was in Navy Intelligence, we
spent the next year keeping secrets from each other and the common
enemy.

In January of 1943, I was transferred to Washington to the Bu-
reau of Aeronautics and subsequently was assigned as a lieutenant
commander and planning officer to Trans-Pacific Squadron 4 of the
Naval Air Transport Command. Our job was to keep the Navy’s
heavy transport planes maintained and on schedule, flying heavy car-
goes of personnel and equipment to the South Pacific and frequently
heavy cargoes of casualties back again. Mimi was able to join me in
San Francisco, and our two elder children, Bari and David, can qual-
ify as native Californians,

By the time the whistle blew in 1946, I had spent five years on ac-
tive duty. Although my assignments were interesting, and I hope
useful, they had been neither salty nor hazardous. The most griev-
ous blow the war dealt me was the loss of my elder brother, Farwell,
who was injured on amphibious landing duty with the Coast Guard
and died in a South Pacific base hospital. Even now, fifteen years
later, I miss him more than I can say.

With the war over, the logistics of getting settled again in civilian

[ 613 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

life became a little confused. We had expected to remain on the
west coast, where I had grown up as a boy. But somehow a fifteen-
day visit to New England has stretched to fifteen years! In 1948 I
joined the investment staff of the New England Mutual Life In-
surance Company in Boston, and am currently second vice-president
in charge of industrial investments. In this capacity I am responsible
for a portfolio of about $500 million, invested primarily in privately
negotiated long-term corporate loans, widely diversified industrially
and geographically. The job has great variety and requires con-
siderable travel to investigate such assorted projects as sugar planta-
tions in Hawaii, paper mills in Louisiana, aluminum plants in British
Columbia, oil production in Texas, supermarkets in Illinois, news-
papers in North Carolina, and tombstones in Vermont.

We live in Manchester, Massachusetts, a small and delightful resi-
dential and summer resort of about 3,500 on the coast thirty miles
north of Boston. We have participated in quite a number of com-
munity interests. I have served on various school planning and build-
ing committees and for three years as chairman of the school com-
mittee, to which I was elected by an absolute majority of four
votes, verified by a recount! At present I am a member of the fi-
nance committee, which is making only slightly discernible progress
in holding down the tax rate.

Only yesterday we were experts on boarding schools. Now we are
becoming authorities on colleges and have one of the most compre-
hensive libraries of college catalogues in the country. Bari graduates
from St. Timothy’s in Baltimore this year; David is at the Forman
School in Connecticut, which leaves Kim, who is nine, the only child
home. Although we believe in public education, we seem to sup-

port private education in massive doses. Need I say more!

We have had a number of good vacations and trips together. Two
perfect summers we spent in Montana at Spike Van Cleve’s Lazy K
Bar Ranch and on a packtrip in the Boulder River Mountains. I love
the remoteness of the mountains and lakes and have enjoyed these

riding, fishing and camping trips more than anything else we have
done together as a family.

Philosophically, I share many of the dilemmas of our generation.

I am grateful for a lovely wife, nice children, and a good home. But

my material achievements have exceeded my spiritual ones. The in-

cessant distractions of working for the future tend to crowd out the
fundamental satisfactions of living in the present. I am increasingly
aware of how little of man’s knowledge I have been able to grasp.

[ 614]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS REBER KENNEY

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Lockwood Rd., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 319 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

porn: March 25, tots, Shrewsbury, Mass.

PREPARED AT: \Vorcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.B, 1937; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1942.

marriep: Doris L. Kimball, June 13, 1936, New London, Conn. cxivpren:
Thomas Francis, zd, Feb. 8, 1938; Peter Clark, Dec. 20, 1939; Linda Ann,
Oct. 4 1941; Susan Barbara, May 14, 1943; Nancy Lee, Dec. 10, 1948;
Jacqueline Louise, May 29, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD; Assistant clinical instructor in surgery, 1951-58, clinical instructor
in surgery, 1958-61, Boston University School of Medicine; member,
board of directors, Boston University School of Medicine Alumni Associa-
tion, 1956-58; senior clinical instructor in surgery, Tufts Universiry School
of Medicine, 1957-61; district commissioner, district chairman, board of
directors, Norumbega Council of Boy Scouts of America, 1953-60; director
and member, Beneficiaries Committee, Rogerson House, 1958; associate
visiting surgeon, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, assistant visiting sur-
geon, St. Elizabeth's Hospital; staff member, Brooks, Newton-Wellesley,
Sancta Maria, Metropolitan Stare Hospitals, etc.

MEMBER OF: Industrial Medical Association (active member); Massachusetts
Medical Society (fellow); American Medical Association (fellow); Ameri-
can College of Surgeons (fellow); Boston Surgical Society; American
Board of Surgery; M.M.H. Medical & Surgical Society; Alethean Club;
Algonquin Club; Brae Burn Country Club.

pusuicaTions: “The Management of Postoperative Complications in Thyroid
Surgery,” H.M. Clute, F.R. Kenney & B.E. Hamilton, Surgery:16; Nov-
ember, 1944; “The Surgical Aspects of Gall Stones,’ H.M. Clure & F.R.
Kenney, New England Journal of Medicine 231: 783, December, 1944;
“Primary Anastomosis in Carcinoma of the Colon,” H.M. Clute & F-.R.
Kenney, New England Journal of Medicine 223: 799-803, December, 1945;
“Gangrene of the Hand following Treatment for Pruritus of Hepatotoxic
Origin,” F.R. Kenney, New England Journal of Medicine 235: 35-39,
July, 1946, “Thiouracil & Surgery of the Thyroid Gland,” T.J. Anglem
& F.R. Kenney, American Journal of Surgery 78: 210-212, August, 1949;
“Primary Plasma Cell Tumors of the Upper Air Passages & Oral Cavity,”
A.P. Stout & F.R. Kenney, Cancer 2: 261-278, March, 1949; “Thiouracil
Treatment of Thyrotoxicosis,” R.H. Williams, H.M. Clute, T.J. Anglem
& F.R. Kenney, Journal of Clinical Endocrinology 6: 23-51, 1946.

AS the various Anniversary Reports roll around, I continue to be
amazed by the erudition, literacy, wit, humor, sparkle, and charm
that my Classmates display. What interesting lives they have led!
How widely traveled they are and how many languages they speak
— all accomplished with the savoir-faire that the world expects from
a Harvard man. Would that I were one of them, free to lunch at

[ 615 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Purcell’s and there discuss pending deals to improve both one’s own
ersonal fortunes and those of Fair Harvard. Would that my frail
enfeebled fingers might hold a pick for the Mandolin Club of Edward
Streeter, 14. (I play no instrument.) Would that memory would
flood my report with happy thoughts of gay, carefree swimming par-
ties at Westmorly. (Warmed by the same fire burning at poolside
for the same E.S., ’14.) Alas, I barely swam (or swum?) the re-
quired twenty-five yards in the University pool, helped I am sure
to this success only by an outgoing tide. Would that my name would
evoke thoughts cast back and not cast off. Perhaps a brilliant touch-
down run. Alack, I played no football. Perchance, the man who
rolled a bowling ball down the inclined aisle in the New Lecture
Hall one famous day in history, ’33. Egad! I but made up 1/3ooth
of the astonished, then delighted audience! Or even the boy who
forgot (?) to remove his hat upon entering that Hallowed Hall.
What a magnificent cry and swirl of the great, long pointer and its
intended decapitatory result. History was being made as well as
learned there. Did I wear the hat? No. _
That delightful enigma, Philosophy A. The section meetings in
the small, brightly lighted torture chambers. The air tense but
stale. The hands grasping the battered arms of the battered chair,
the desperate attempt to concentrate, answer the question and then
slow, inexorable paralysis — the drooping lids, then head down and
shoulders down, and finally the total anesthesia of sleep. There were
those who could stay awake in section meetings even directly after
lunch. I was not one. Came then the final compounding of confusion
as my instructor remarked following the final examination, “Kenney,
I never could figure out whether you were the brightest student in
my class or the dumbest!” Alack and alas, the “C” confirmed the
latter. That brilliant course of the Chemical Maestro Fieser! Long
hours of toil to produce a gram or two of white crystalline substance
of great purity. While all around me, even those of mediocre in-
tellect, produced their gram or two, well may you ask, “What did I
produce?” (Besides six children, starting with the Class Baby, a mere
6’ 3” now serving The Beard his required six months.) You know it
well. A bare pinch of brownish dust, bravely labeled, but always
returned marked impure, inadequate, “D.” And yet, above my
Brigadoon memory rising for a single short period, only to sink
back into the fog of increasing arteriosclerotic failure, there swims
the figure representing the “small success,” the minor victory, the
triumph of man over “Twelve Plays of Shakespeare,” the Bible,

[ 616 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Homer, too! All this most of you have experienced and sur-
vived. So have I! All this and more, for few indeed had as their
field of concentration, German. Few indeed with the foresight to
select this field slightly in advance of the Nazi Party and finish four
years of labor in a happy field before it was to be trampled under
the Toralitarian Boot. In the words of Robert Stolz, Auch du,
asirst mich einmal betriigen, auch du, auch du—auch du, wirst
mich einmal erliigen.

Regrettably, for by now I am carried away in a cloudy prose, I
perceive Bentinck-Smith’s Panic Button Card and buckle to the task:

(1) Graduation from Harvard.

(2) Worked a year for Remington-Rand System Division. Great
fun and very educational.

(3) Four years at Boston University School of Medicine and five
more years extra training with preceptors, hospitals, etc., etc., and,
finally, return to Boston to establish private practice of surgery for
mysclf, alone, at 319 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Since this return from New York’s Presbyterian and Bellevue
Hospitals, I have gradually accumulated associations, appointments,
club and society memberships as noted above. In a lighter vein,
interests include photography, travel (all over the United States
and three times to Europe with pictures all the way), golf, and
most recently curling and skiing.

WILLIAM EDMUND KENNEY

HOME aporess: 533 Highland Ave., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1030 President Ave., Fall River, Mass.

Born: Aug. 6, 1915, Brighton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H. __

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. tm laude, 1937; Mv. (Yale Univ.),
1941.

Marriep: Marjorie Emma Mortimer, Sept. 30, 1944, New Haven, Conn. CHIL-
preN: William George, Dec. 29, 1950; David Paul, Aug. 6, 1952.

occuPpaTiIoN: Orthopedic surgeon, Truesdale Hospital, Fall River; medical
director, Cerebral Palsy Rehabilitation Center and Services, Fall River.

oFFices HELD: Instructor of orthopedic surgery, 1943-46, clinical instructor of
orthopedic surgery, 1946-47, Yale Medical School; associate orthopedic
surgeon, St. Francis Hospital, Hartford, 1946-47; orthopedic surgeon,
Newington Home & Hospital for Crippled Children, 1946-47, Truesdale
Hospital, since 1947; medical director, Cerebral Palsy Rehabilitation Center

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and Services, since 1948; vestryman, Church of the Ascension, 1950-6c
president, medical staff, 1954-56, trustee, 1954-56, Truesdale Hospital
director, Y.M.C.A., 1954-58; vice-president, United Fund of Greater Fal
River, 1959; director, Truesdale Clinic, Inc., 1958-61.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Bristol South Medical Society
Fall River Medical Society; Boston Orthopedic Club; American Academy
of Orthopedic Surgeons.

PUBLICATIONS: Medical text: Orthopedics for the General Practitioner; ten
articles in scientific literature; six scientific exhibits.

AFTER leaving Harvard in June of 1937, I joined forces with three
other rebels and entered Yale Medical School that September. We
were received cordially enough, considering our backgrounds, and
we proceeded to obtain a perfectly magnificent medical education.
After Yale, I sallied out to Washington University in St. Louis to
see for myself how much more progressive they are in the Midwest
than we are here in the East. Although they are, of course, not
more progressive, yet the inevitable corollary follows that the
revered professors of the Fast do not know any more than their
western counterparts ...a sad pill to swallow! New Haven
beckoned once more, and I returned to do resident training in
orthopedic surgery in my old stamping ground. After several years
of the university life which I loved, I decided to make a break into

rivate practice, since it was obvious I could not support both wife
and hoped-for children on a university salary.

I opened my office in the Truesdale Clinic, as orthopedic surgeon
at Truesdale Hospital in Fall River, Massachusetts, in December,
1947. Since that time I have never known an idle hour.

My wife and now our two boys have been happy, content and

busy in our adopted city which has treated us with incredible kind-
ness and warmth. Professionally, no one could ask for more. Ten
articles in the scientific literature and one textbook have been pub-
lished. Six scientific exhibits have been presented on a national
basis concerning my research into cerebral palsy. I have had the
rather unusual pleasure of being one of the main driving forces
in the creation and development of the Cerebral Palsy Rehabilitation
Center and Services which treats and ministers to those suffering
from a condition which handicaps humans in more ways than any
other affliction.

To my community I have attempted to repay its kindness by
serving on the board of directors of the Y.M.C.A., as vice-presi-
dent of the United Fund, as president of the medical staff and as
trustce of the Truesdale Hospital, as medical director of the Cer-

[ 618 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ebral Palsy Rehabilitation Center and Services, and also as vestry-
man of the Church of the Ascension, with all the committee activi-
ties and responsibilities these positions entail.

Busy? Yes! But not too busy to enjoy quiet times with my wife
and two boys going to our country home in Moosup, Connecticut,
for relaxation in one hundred acres of woods, visiting Nantucket
Island for an all too short vacation in the summer and paying our
respects each spring to Fort Lauderdale in Florida. ‘Twenty-five
years away from Harvard sound like so long—and yet is just
yesterday.

GEBHARD WILLIAM KENY

HOME ADDRESS: 2070 Wilson Rd., Columbus 4, Ohio.

oFFice appress: Columbus Plastic Products, Inc., 1625 W. Mound St., Columbus
23, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1915, Columbus, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

Marrizb: Julianne E. Tynan, May 1, 1942, Columbus, Ohio, cHiLpren: Elisabeth
Ann, April 25, 1944; Thomas Gebhard, Aug. 12, 1946; Sarah Tynan, Aug.
2, 1950; James McClellan and Timothy Charles (twins), Dec. 14, 1955;
Gebhard William, Jr. March 22, 1959.

occuPATION: President, Columbus Plastic Products, Inc. .

oFFices HELD: Currently, director, Ohio National Bank and Jaeger Machine
Company, Columbus, Ohio; trustee, Children’s Hospital, Columbus Acad-
emy, Ohio Expenditure Council, International School of America; member,
German Village Commission of Columbus.

MEMBER oF: Columbus Club; Scioto Country Club; Columbus Athletic Club;
Harvard Club of Central Ohio; Navy League; Society of the Plastics
Industry; Society of Plastics Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles and reports in trade papers and magazines.

DESPITE dreams of carefree post-graduate ethnological studies,
etc., in Tahiti or the Fijis (field of concentration: Sociology), I took
a 1937 summer job in the cost accounting department of a manu-
facturing firm in Columbus. After this sobering experience, back
to Cambridge to complete one year at the Graduate School of Busi-
ness Administration, rooming and occasionally skiing or sailing with
Walt Hardy, also ’37. Expecting to return to the Business School
for the second year, I obtained a job with a struggling plastics mold-
ing company in southern Ohio. When this firm ceased struggling,
I did not return to Harvard, but late in 1938 started a small plastics
fabricating shop in Columbus with two used presses and five em-

[ 619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ployees. Attempting to get this outfit organized and trying to keep
it going and growing, if possible, make up much of the story of my
life.

After molding parts for other manufacturers, we gradually began
developing and merchandising a line of plastic housewares (Lustro-
Ware) which now numbers over 300 different products. Currently
staggering under the onus of a payroll for 600 unionized employees
(not to mention those loans and mortgages), Columbus Plastic
Products peddles its Lustro-Wares throughout the United States,
Canada, and a number of other countries. During the war we pro-
duced such plastic parts as rocket igniters, machete and bayonet
grips, and various aircraft parts, all of which by way of the oc-
cupational deferment device kept me for the most part in Columbus
and safe from harm.

Familywise, Judy and I have added three exemptions to the three
existing and duly reported at the time of the Fifteenth Annual Re-
port, making a good round half dozen housewares-sort-of-number
(it did take one set of twin boys to do it, though). We all still live
out in the country and have a great time together romping with our
black Labrador retriever. Aside from those of family, business,
and community, my interests lie in such things as gardening, tennis,
wine collecting, pheasant hunting, traveling, ice skating and fishing,
and attending Twenty-fifth Reunions.

CHARLES WILLIAM KESSLER

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Canterbury Rd., Lynnfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hutchinson-Kessler Insurance Co., 4o1 Security Trust Bldg.,
Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1916, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Priscilla Crane, June 19, 1937, Salem, Mass. cuitp: Charles Crane,
Sept. 24, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Charles Crane Kessler, *6q.

OccUPATION: Partner, Hutchinson-Kessler Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Lynnfield School Committee, 1950-59; president,
Greater Lynn Community Council, 1951-52, Greater Lynn Community
Chest, 1954-55, Greater Lynn Chamber of Commerce, 1961; trustee,
Warren Five Cents Savings Bank, Peabody, Mass., 1951-62; director, Essex
Trust Company, Lynn, 1955-62, Greater Lynn United Fund & Council,
1959-62, vice-president, Family & Children’s Service Agency of Lynn,
1960-61,

MEMBER: Lynn Rotary Club.

[ 620 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

POLLY and I were married the Saturday before graduation in
1937- We shall be marking twenty-five years of marriage as well
as the Twenty-fifth Reunion. I find it impossible to think of
myself as being old enough to celebrate such a long-term anni-
versary, yet it all adds up.

For three years after college I got a very practical education
by working at real estate management. I learned more about
human nature in this period than I have in all the time since. Uncle
Sam called in the fall of 1940 and kept me occupied until 1946. My
last active duty assignment was the command of a medium artillery
battalion in Europe. In 1960, after having commanded a Reserve
artillery group for ten years, and after twenty-three years’ total
service, 1 turned in my soldier suit. It’s a younger man’s game.

Since 1946 I have been in the insurance business, first as a ficld
man for an insurance company, then in the agency business, I
have been a partner in an agency in Lynn since 1953. We are a
long way from being the biggest, but we are as good as the best.
I hope that everyone is as happy at work as I am and gets as much
fun out of it.

It is my firm belief that man has responsibilities to the communi-
ties where he lives and works to do what he can to improve them.
Much of my time therefore has been spent on the School Board in
my home town and in service activities where my business is. I
have found that one does not get rich in such pursuits except in
satisfaction, the one coin of the realm which does not depreciate.

Our only child is a very active boy who has kept us busy in the
last five years chasing him around from one athletic event to another.
We still find some time to ski in the winter, to work on the planta-
tion in the spring, and to sail in the summer.

Living only twenty minutes from Harvard Yard has had ad-
vantages. Ir has made possible a continuing contact with the Col-
lege and with many members of the Class. Thus the changes
(physical and other) to the College and to Classmates are not so
abrupt and startling to me as they may be to many who have been
absent from the scene for long periods.

DANIEL FRENCH KEYES

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 554 E. 82d St., New York 28, N.Y,
BorN: March 6, 1914, Concord, Mass,
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

[ 621 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. 1937.

marriep: Barbara W. Richardson, Sept. 21, 1946, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN:
Peter E., Feb. 10, 1949; Grace B., Nov. 19, 1952; Deborah B., June 26, 1954;
Margaret W., Sept. 8, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Mulliken Keyes, '28.

OCCUPATION: Actor.

TO the people in my business, the 1930’s is a “costume period.”
It is a sobering experience to hear one’s heyday spoken of in the
same nostalgic terms as the “Gay Nineties” —a startling reminder
of the time that has passed since “the working class” planked down
rental fee for cap and gown. So be it. What has evolved for this
member since the day of the bi-swing back and the wide lapel?

First, there was a bout with the retail trades in Portland, Maine.
My inabiliry along these lines was evident from the start, and to the
relief of all I was able to make a graceful exit by volunteering for
the draft in 1941. Five years later | was pondering my next step,
having wound up my military duties as a company commander
with the 29th Division in Europe. I figured that manufacturing
was my game, but it took only a year and a half to prove I was
wrong again.

After a good deal of soul-searching and with unfailing support
from the distaff side, I packed up for New York and the “Theatre.”
Fifteen years later | am pretty well satisfied that it was the right
thing to do. Not an unqualified success, mind you — there are pain-
ful periods of unemployment, and there never seems to be quite
enough legal tender to divide up among the six of us, but I under-
stand these failings are not unknown in other fields. Offsetting these
are many satisfying aspects, but mainly I am working at something
1 enjoy in the company of many exciting, creative people. My
Broadway credits have not been notable for their success. I’m afraid
that such titles as Only in America, Christine, and First Love are
familiar only to the most avid theatregoer.

Perhaps my most rewarding experience was a run of about a year
in a well reccived off-Broadway revival of Our Town. Besides the
stage there is television. This has shifted for the most part to the
west coast in the past few years. In my opinion this has been un-
forcunate not only for the New York actor’s pocketbook but for
tle medium itself. We are waiting, I hope not in vain, for the re-
turn of more “live television” to New York.

During the summer, when not touring the “straw hat circuit,”

1 join my family in a small village near Wiscassct, Maine — a wonder-

[ 622 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ful place to regain one’s perspective and to recover from the fumes
and furor of New York.

There are two current trends which I hold in great disfavor.
One is the desire for early retirement, and the other is an obsession
with financial security. Since neither of these is known to exist in
the theatre, I look to the future with enthusiasm.

JAMES NORTON KIDDER

HOME ADpRESS: 18 Brooks St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Priscilla of Boston, Inc., 36 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1915, Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Priscilla Eastman Comins, Aug. 1, 1940, Wollaston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Robert Todd, Sept. 11, 1946; Richard Stone, Oct. 11, 1948; Betsy, March
26, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Priscilla of Boston, Inc., dress manufacturer.

MEMBER OF: Winchester Country Club (director); 8th Air Force Association;
Company of Military Collectors and Historians; Miniature Figure Collectors
of America; Military Historical Society.

A SPAN of twenty-five years might most wisely be treated with
verbal conciseness and informality. My business career has en-
compassed four employers: The First Boston Corporation (most
briefly); the Employers’ Group Insurance Companies as an under-
writer and public relations neophyte over a ten-year period (includ-
ing an absence of almost four years navigating various planes fur-
nished by the Army Air Force); two years to the day with E. J.
Brach, a Chicago jelly bean colossus; and finally, I trust, since July
1, 1950, with my wife, Priscilla, organizer of, and stylist for, Priscilla
of Boston, Inc., manufacturer of wedding finery. Other business
arrows in the same quiver: The Brides’ Shop, Inc., established in
1946 (by the same Priscilla) and The Snooty Fox, whelped in 1960,
as a retail venture into women’s sportswear, as opposed to bridal
wear.

As fascinating as dress manufacturing is, it can only be compared
to a twice-a-year excursion to Las Vegas — with limited capital.
Enough said — except to add, our daughter Betsy is the only nine-
year-old I know of who has given her name to a dress label. “Miss
Betsy” is a 1960 division of Priscilla of Boston aimed at the fashion
conscious bride with a champagne taste, and a sauterne pocketbook

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

— whom we trust will be increasingly present over the next twenty-
five years. Fortunately, our two sons have retained all rights to
their names since Boston manufacturing, a Seventh Avenue show-
room, plus the two retail shops leave little enough time. A final
corporate venture, Veils by Priscilla, ensures all Priscilla weddings
in better stores from coast to coast.

Our children are normal, not having been exposed to the “rag
business,” as yet. Characteristically, they are most different. Prej-
udicially, I feel they will adapt themselves successfully to an ever-
changing world. While my wife claims they have many of my
traits, I fervently hope they have more of hers. Twenty-two years
of marriage, and twelve years of business partnership have only
deepened my respect and admiration for a “fabulous” girl.

My spare time can be safely divided into three categories: golf,
the collecting of military. miniatures, and the late, late show. My
golf, as several Classmates can testify, is deteriorating; my miniature
collection is increasing, and my enthusiasm for television is waning,
since I detest girdle manufacturers with apparently unlimited ad-
vertising budgets.

Politically, I regret the results of several elections, beginning with
1932. Socially, I am against the twenty-five-hour week — especially
in May, when Priscilla of Boston must deliver for June weddings.
Religiously, I do have convictions, although my church attendance
is haphazard.

And in summation —I can only hope the next twenty-five years
will be equally as happy and interesting.

PAUL KILLIAM JR.

HOME AppreEss: Bayberry Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6 E. 39th St., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1916, Great Barrington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Joan P. Richards, March 30, 1946, New York, N.Y. cuitpren:; Tim-
othy, Nov. 20, 1948; Patricia (“Tillie”), Nov. 26, 1949; Theodore, April 26,
1951; Thomas, May 12, 1955.

occuPATION: Producer, Films and Television.

OFFICES HELD: President, Killiam Shows, Inc., Film Pathways, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; New Canaan Field Club,

[ 624 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

POST CARD

September 22, 1961
Dear Class Book Edirors:

Have in hand your notice calling for class biographies. It must
be a tough job to get all these biographies collected and I certainly
propose to do mine right away. You men in Cambridge are to be
commended for your efficiency — here it is September and you are
on the job. I am proud to be a member of such a well-organized
class.

Loyally,
PK

P.S. I notice in the model the formal entries at the top seem to cover
the basic biographical facts, so 1 suppose what you want is stuff
more on the human side — something like, “Although I’m in tele-
vision, I hardly ever watch it.” Snappy, eh? PK

POST CARD

October 16, 1961
Dear Editors:

I have your follow-up notice about the biography, and must say
you are prematurely concerned. I work on these extracurricular
things on a planned basis and have now scheduled the biography
for next month. Besides, I’m still not sure how much to include
from the report of five years ago — like after college becoming a
lawyer, and then getting into radio as News and Special Events
Supervisor at WOR-Mutual. My wife says don’t get into these old
dead areas but write something upbeat and new. Well, we'll see
— the minute I get started.

Confidently,
PK

POST CARD

November 18, 1961
Dear Editors:

Have your new reminder card hinting at procrastination and
am sorry you felt the need to squander class funds needlessly. As
I wrote before, my biography is very much in work — or, at least
will be soon. Matter of fact, you'd probably have it now if I hadn't
become involved in the production of more programs in our tele-

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

BEN DREW KIMPEL

HOME apprEss: P.O, Box 1508, Fayetteville, Ark.

oFFice appress: University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, Ark,

BoRN: Nov. 6, 1915, Fort Smith, Ark.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., #agna cunt laude, 1937; A.M., 1939;
pH.p. (Univ. of North Carolina), 1942.

UN MARRIED.

occupation: Professor of English and Comparative Literature, University of
Arkansas.

AFTER getting my Doctor’s degree, I went into the Army. Started
aS a private and spent most of the war as a staff sergeant. Got a
direct commission at the very end and got out a second lieutenant,
but at least out. I stayed overseas (in Vienna) four years with the
State Department, then went back to teaching, and for the past
ten years have been at the University of Arkansas, where I am
now a full professor of English and Comparative Literature. I’ve
been out of the U.S. since last June, on leave, and shall return to
Fayetteville on January 29th.

I suppose I consider myself moderately successful. I like my
work; can’t think of anything I'd rather do, and seem to be good
enough at it. Last year I received the first University Alumni
Award for teaching. I have all the money I need or want, and all
the friends I have time to keep up with. I am considered trust-
worthy, loyal, helpful, and friendly, and I usually answer letters.
I have not wife, child, dog, canary, or TV set, and am not planning
to buy any of them, so I assume I am not too bored. My only
hobby (aside from eating, drinking, talking, and reading, all of
which I do with gusto) is travel. I have done a good deal of it, in
most parts of the world. I keep busy, and try to be harmless.

+ JOHNSTON KINGSLEY

bows: Oct. 2, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: Rolfe Kingsley, Gertrude
Johnston.

verpaueny at: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

VEAWS EN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B., 1937.

mannitp: Priscilla Smith, Feb. 8, toq1, New York, N.Y. ctttroren: Nathaniel,
Feb. 2, 1948, Johnston and Joan (twins), June 7, 1951; Susan, Feb. 2, 1955.

bin: Sept 2, 1959, Middicboro, Mass.

witow: Mrs, Johnston Kingsley, 32 Irving St., Hingham, Mass,

[ 628 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHNSTON KINGSLEY was a resident of Lowell House while
in college, and during his freshman year was a member of the crew
squad and track team and winner of a Harvard Prize scholarship.
After graduation he was employed as a metallurgist with the Crucible
Steel Corporation in Harrison, New Jersey, until 1946 when he
entered the printing business with the firm of Lincoln and Smith
Press, Inc., in Boston. Since 1949 he had been a sales engineer for
the United-Carr Fastener Corporation in Cambridge. He was a
member of the Harvard Club of Hingham, the Red Feather organiza-
tion and the Hingham Republican Town Committee. He was
survived by his wife and children.

JESS KIRK

HOME ADDRESS: 910 Hazard Ave., Las Vegas, Nev.

OFFICE apprEss: Sands Hotel, Las Vegas, Nev.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1915, Shelbyville, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Shelbyville High School, Shelbyville, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1940.

marrieD: Eldora Darche, August, 1937, Nashua, N.H. (divorced 1958); Helen
Drury, Oct. 28, 1958, Las Vegas, Nev. cHLpreN: Jessica, March 2, 1939;
Frank, June 8, 1943.

occupation: Maitre d’Hotel, The Sands, Las Vegas, Nev.

I WORKED for a short time as an organic chemist but found this
too dull and confining for my extrovert temperament. Although it
was not what I had intended, it is possibly fitting and proper that
having worked as a waiter in the Harvard Union during my fresh-
man year I have made the catering industry my career. I have
worked for the last sixteen years for Jack Entratter (formerly of
the Copacabana in New York and now president of The Sands)
and have enjoyed a most satisfactory association. All the famous and
interesting people in the world pass through our doors, and I have
most of the advantages of world travel in my daily work. Thus
inspired, I take off a month each year to visit some other country.
I have seen and enjoyed most of the world and certainly look for-
ward to vacations.

The greatest advantage in my profession is that working evenings
I have free seven days a week in sunny Nevada for golf, archery,
fishing, or winter sports on nearby Mount Charleston. It is almost
as though I do not work at all. After a day of sport, I go to The
Sands and visit with nice people for two shows (the best in the

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

world, incidentally) and go home. I do not live an ambitious life,
but an extremely pleasant one.

PETER HOBART KNAPP

HOME apprEss: 77 Raymond St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Boston University School of Medicine, 80 E. Concord St.,
Boston 18, Mass.

Born: June 30, 1916, Syracuse, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Middletown, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB. C2077 laude, 1937; M.D. 1941.

sarnieD: Shelby Owen, Jan. 17, 1942, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1955); Jean
Wechsler, June 15, 1956, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Penelope, Feb. 18, 1943;
Peter Hazard, Aug. 30, 1944; Martin Sedgwick, Aug. 13, 1946; Andrew
Gannett, June, 1957; Rebecca Sedgwick and Caroline Hazard (twins),
November, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Hazard Knapp, 736.

OCCUPATION: Physician; research professor of psychiatry, Boston University
Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: Successive academic positions, Division of Psychiatry, to present
position of research professor, Boston University School of Medicine;
Mental Health Career Investigator, 1954-59; chairman, Hofheimer Award
Committee, American Psychiatric Association, 1961-62; member of faculty,
Education Committee and chairman, Research Committee, Boston Psycho-
analytic Association; president, Massachusetts Society for Research in
Psychiatry, 1958Go, consultant, Veterans Administration Central Office,
1958-61.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha; American Psychiatric Association (fellow);
Massachusetts Medical Society; Boston Psychoanalytic Society; American
Psychoanalytic Association; American Psychosomatic Society; American
Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow); Group for Ad-
vancement of Psychiatry; Badminton & Tennis Club; Cambridge Tennis
Club.

puslications: Approximately twenty papers in the area of psychiatric and
psychoanalytic research and psychosomatic medicine.

CALL me Blandings. A dream house, as one friend remarked, is
an appropriate dwelling for a psychoanalyst; but you might expect
a psychoanalyst to have more sense than to build one. Actually, it
was only half a one— a long, glassy addition to a little cottage in
Cambridge. But it met all the specifications. When they excavated,
instead of hitting ledge they hit water. For a while we considered
changing the whole idea and giving the neighborhood its first
covered swimming pool. Then after the water was re-routed, there
was the lose sewer, the outsized gas pipe, the stain that got on the
wrong woodwork, and the other endless, endless surprises, all

[ 630]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

correctible, at a price, But as usual, it ended blandly. Looking out
at our deck and our courtyard, we are happy. We wonder what
it will be like when the glass begins to fly but only at rare moments.
After all, it’s the megaton age, Glass is probably no worse than
Georgian brick. And on the other hand, without being an ostrich,
it’s possible to feel that it really won’t begin to fly, or at least that
there are better things you can do to prevent it than burrowing
underground. As you can see, I’m an optimist.

I went to medical school planning to become that type of pro-
fessional optimist known as a psychiatrist. In days when I still
didn’t understand what I was saying, I used to call it a compromise
between being a politician and a philosopher. Luckily for me, it
was right. Ever since the decision crystallized out in my second
year in medical school, I have not wavered an inch in my career
choice; and I’ve never regretted it.

As a medical intern at the Boston City Hospital, I found that
people have such an urge to talk about themselves that they will
do it in the middle of an open ward. Or even in the Army — which
I was persuaded to join by my Uncle. It didn’t help me to see much
of the world. I was alerted for service in the Far East when the
Japanese war ended; never got away from the East Coast. In fact,
I had traveled more during college when I went around the world
as one of the crew of a Dollar Liner; and I was to see more of it in
a couple of brief trips to Europe later. All 1 did then was stop being
a major and go back to being a minor —a resident in neurology
and psychiatry at Harvard and then a staff member in the young
and vigorous psychiatric department at the Boston University
School of Medicine.

There I gradually concentrated my energies on research, helped
by a government grant as a career investigator, which means not a
private eye but someone who makes a career out of investigation.
My specialty within a specialty was psychoanalysis. Long before
the dream house, I had been fascinated by “The Interpretation of
Dreams” and had felt that the Freudian revolution was as profound
as, if less dramatic than, the Einsteinian. Armed with a couch and
a tape recorder, I have been trying to understand something syste-
matic about emotions, the way they interact with bodily ills and
the way we learn with luck and good management to master them.

A domestic upheaval along the way left me with a deep sympathy
for others who'd: been’ past the same bend in the road, for their
sadness and their new joy, and for a special schizoid split which

[ 631 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

I’m sure is not unique to my cosmos. That comes from children
who are in two batches of three each. The older ones — including
a daughter who just transferred to Radcliffe and a son who hopes
he’s on the verge of coming to Harvard — are so quick-witted and
well informed that they make me feel like the old dodderer they
think I am. To the younger three, I am still a giant and mostly a
hero. Andrew, now four, is full of vim and vigor, having recovered
from what was a nasty shock two years ago, namely the birth of
twin sisters. At the time he remarked, “Two babies are yots and
yots” —summing up a good deal for himself and for us and for
mankind. We were glad that the twins were girls and that they
were not identical. Never having known anything different, they
didn’t care for a while. Recently, there have been hints of trouble
as they have tried to carve out a sense of belonging and belong-
ings. Caroline, sitting in her mother’s lap the other day and straight-
arming her sister who was trying to climb up too, uttered another
fairly effective epitome. She said, “No both.”
Out in front of our glass house on the back of a garage is a
small combination office-studio. Before and after an eight-hour
day, I see a few early morning and late afternoon patients. In the
middle of the day, when I’m not practising, my wife paints there.
So far we have not done both at once. I gave up smoking six
years ago out of sheer cowardice. Once the agony was over and
Satan no longer came back to my elbow holding a Pall Mall, I
managed to forget the addictive weed to the point where I began
to be convinced that nobody smoked. But then I still, once in a
while, dreamed that I was smoking, usually three or four cigarettes
at once. Anything that stubborn ought to be studied; so I’ve just
written a couple of papers on the topic to see if they won't settle
the matter. I keep my waistline down by a good deal of tennis
and am pleased to report that since the last writing my backhand
has actually improved.

Politically, I suppose you would call me a Stevensonian Demo-
crat. I like to think that I’m devoted to a liberalism devoid of clap-
trap and the type of arrogance that it sometimes cultivates. My
“religious” convictions, in part, are: We live within limits handed
on to us by our total inheritance; we endure only by the abstract
or concrete contributions that we in turn hand on; we spend most
of our time denying both these propositions; but if we keep them
in focus long enough to acquire some wisdom, we can live with
more pleasure than pain and hand on more good than bad. In my

[ 632 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Dunster House days at an evening colloquium of the history and
literature department, I was assigned the task of debating against
an intellect more sharpened than mine, who was preaching a fiery
brand of ethic derived from that most highly sharpened intellect,
Pascal in his Pensées. My response was a potpourri of enthusiastic
humanitarianism. I remember being told tolerantly by one of the
tutors to stick to it until I found something better. Actually, I
never have. So you see, I remain an optimist.

PHILIP KNAPP

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Serpentine Rd., Tenafly, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 635 VV. 165th St., New York 32, N.Y.

Born: Feb, 12, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Execer Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1941.

marrieD: Mildred Victor, Dec. 19, 1942, New York, N.Y. cumoren: Philip, Jr.,
Sept. 30, 1943; John Arnold, 2d, June 21, 1948; Susan Elaine, Dec, 31, 1951.

occuPATION: Ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of ophthalmology, Columbia University;
director, Children’s Eye Clinic, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.

MEMBER OF: Various local and national medical and ophthalmological societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers on ocular motility.

MY good fortune in graduating from Harvard College and Columbia
University’s College of Physicians and Surgeons appeared to end
abruptly when my number was chosen first in the draft. However,
my occupation and a temporary physical ailment enabled me to
complete a two years’ internship at Bellevue Hospital. By that
time, our military might was in the ascendency, so my thirty-month
hitch in the Navy was spent in seeing the world, with emphasis on
the western Pacific. On getting back to civilian life, I decided to
follow in the family tradition of being an eye doctor. After four
years of training at the State University of Iowa, and a six months’
traveling fellowship, I joined the staff of the Eye Institute of the
Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in June, 1951. The past ten
years have been busily and pleasantly spent in private practice, teach-
ing a little, and trying to learn something about ocular motility so
that “cross-eyed” children might get a better break in facing life.
If all this sounds as though I am preoccupied with being an eyeball
mechanic, I confess it is true.

On the lighter side, I find time to be a weekend golfer, to enjoy an
occasional game of bridge, or to spend a Saturday afternoon in the

[ 633 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

fresh air at the “Big A.” On the family side, I find myself chiefly
relegated to the roles of disbursing officer or assistant chauffeur.

All in all, I consider myself fortunate indeed and look forward
to the next twenty-five years.

JESSE KNIGHT, JR.

Home aporess: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.

OFFICE aporess: East Woods School, Oyster Bay, N.Y.

BORN: June 19, 1914, New York, N.Y.

parpanep at: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

marniep: Kathryn C. Whittemore, June 11, 1941, Port Washington, N.Y.

CHILDREN: Jesse Winthrop, Nov. 11, 1947; Katherine J., Sept. 10, 1955.
HARVARD BROTHER: Townsend Jones Knight, ’49.

OccuPATION: Science teacher, private elementary school.
MEMBER OF: Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; St. Nicholas Society.

JAMES TIFFANY KNOWLES

NomME appaEss: 57 School St. South Dartmouth, Mass.

orrice aporess: Almy & Co, Inc. 280 Union St.. New Bedford, Mass.

Boas: Sept. 20, 1914, Taunton, Mass.

parpanro at: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B., 1937.

ssanmiep: Susan Hubert, June 17, 1939, New Britain, Conn, cHitp: Christina
HL, Nov. 14, 1943.

occupation: Insurance broker, treasurer, Almy & Company, Inc.

orreas eto: President, Animal Rescue League of New Bedford, since 1958.

Mywuner oF: New Bedford Yacht Club; Harvard Club of New Bedford.

AFTER graduating from Harvard I spent the summer of 1937
looking over Europe, the high spot of which was meeting a young
lady who later became the Mrs. On return went to live in New
York City, working for a textile outfit. New York was a bad
p ace to live in, and the textile business was terrible. Was married
in 1g3g to the above-mentioned girl. In 1941 I moved to New
Bedford, Massachusetts, taking up a job in another textile firm.
Bariness was sail bad bute the area better in which to live. In 1942,
ax there was a war on, P joined the Navy and became a sixty-day
en or out of Princeton. The years 1943, 1944, 1945 and part of
boat cawome in the Pacific Ocean at the expense of Uncle Sam.
Sow paetof evervthing worth seeing in that area of hostilities. In
tot tada darned good ame on the whole. The war being over in

[ 634)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1946, back I came to New Bedford, took up where I left off in 1942.
The textile business stayed so-so until 1954 when the firm I
was with folded up and silently faded away, leaving yours truly
out on a limb.

The path of the least resistance seemed to be the insurance busi-
ness. At least there is no inventory to worry about. Therefore,
another refugee from the textile business and I opened up an
insurance office and have been at it ever since. Looks as though
this will be it until Social Security sets in.

All in all, life has not been too bad since 1937. I have an attractive,
pleasing wife and daughter, eat three good meals per day and sleep
well at night, which is about all one needs.

MYER KOSLOW

HOME ADDRESS: 71 Louise Rd., Chestnut Hill, Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tee Vee Supply Co., 3211 Washington St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

BORN: Dec, 8, 1915, Bristol, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB., 1937.

MarriED: Lillian Witten, July 2, 1944, Boston, Mass. cHmpreN: Mollee-Gail,
Nov. 6, 1946; Francine Amy, April 26, 1951.

occupPATION: Salesman, Tee Vee Supply Company, electronic parts distributor.

MEMBER OF: King Solomon Lodge, Knights of Pythias; Zerubbabel Lodge,
Masons.

AFTER receiving my Bachelor’s degree, I spent the following year
doing graduate work in chemistry at Boston University Graduate
School. I then left to manage a foreign language newspaper dis-
tributing business which had been my late father's. I acquired a
partner in 1941, and we added various and sundry periodicals to the
items handled. In 1958 I decided I had had enough of this type
of business, sold out my interest, and went to work for a distributor
of electronic parts. At the present time I am employed there as a
salesman, calling on the trade, and selling various components.

During this period I married Lillian in 1944, and have two
daughters. The elder one, Mollee-Gail, is fifteen years old, and my
younger one, Francine Amy, is now ten years old. As with all
parents, we have had our usual trials and tribulations in trying
to bring up a family.

Other than a very occasional round of golf and some salt-water
fishing, my spare time is taken up with my family. I do, however,

[ 635]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

find time to be quite active in the Knights of Pythias, and not as
active as I should be in the Masons.

Poliucally, I have always considered myself an Independent, al-
though over the years I think I have leaned on the Democratic
side, In matters of religion, I adhere to the faith of my parents,
which was orthodox Judaism. However, since times have changed
over the years, and since I shall shortly be moving to a new area,
I expect to spend the rest of my days as a member of a conservative
temple.

GILBERT MILTON KOTZEN

nome appress; 194 Grant Ave., Newton Center, Mass.

orice, ApprESS; Kotzen Furniture Co. 454 Main St, Malden, Mass.

boas: Aug. 2, 1915, Malden, Mass.

paspantp AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 171 laude, 1937.

siannipp: Afarcia Brown, Jan, 5, 1941, Malden, Mass. cHitpren: Linda Sue,
March 18, 1943; Stepheny Beth, May 6, 1947.

occupatios: Merchant, retail furniture.

ovvices HELD: President, Malden Family Society, 1952-53, Malden Chamber of
Commerce, 1954-55; major, Chemical Corps, World War II.

méevinen oF: Temple Tiferet Israel, Malden; Temple Shalom, Newton; Ki-
wanis, Malden Family Society; Malden Chamber of Commerce; Newton
Squash and Tennis Club, Pinebrook Country Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago I was faced with what seemed to me
then a very painful decision. I had prepared for a career in medi-
cine and the ume for applying to medical schools was approaching,
when I came to realize that what I had considered a passive lack
of enthusiasm on my father’s part for a medical career for me was
really active objection. Apparently I had miscalculated how im-
pertant it was to him to have his only son carry on the furniture
business he had started. He was sixty-five years old at the time and
had been looking forward to the day when I would take over.
Stil the choice was Icft to me. Although he made it clear which
decrion he hoped I would make, he also made it clear that he would
net stand in my way if IT insisted on pursuing the opposite course.

As Tremember it now, [ resolved the conflict with the fantasy that

bweuld po into business, amass a fortune in three or four years and
tien, wealthy and independent, return to the study of medicine.

sornchow things didn't work out quite that way. For one thing
Pio tat scem to be ternbly unhappy in the furniture business. For

[ 634 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

another I soon fell in love and got married and became too occu-
pied in daily routine to worry too much about the fact that my
fantasy plans were not materializing. Then came the war and three
and a half years in the Army, practically all of it overseas awa
from my wife and my first daughter, who was born while I was in
Europe. By the time the war was over, I had developed the attitude
that all that really mattered was to live in peace and to be close to
my wife and daughter.

Our second daughter came along in 1947 and, perhaps as a reaction
to wartime separation, the four of us have made an almost insepa-
rable group ever since. Except for a trip to Europe in 1955, which
Marcia and I took without the girls, we have been together on
practically all our other vacations and trips. We are quite : proud of
the fact that our daughters (now eighteen and fourteen) still enjoy
our company enough to want to travel with us. Last summer we
had a wonderful cross-country trip together and the previous sum-
mer a very exciting European trip, highlighted by visits with some
of my wartime friends in England, France and Italy. We took up
skiing about six years ago and have managed to spend some time
together at North Conway each winter since. Marcia and I both
love golf, but the girls haven’t started to join us in this yet.

I suppose all parents are proud of their children, but Marcia and
I probably carry this to an unbecoming extreme. Our elder
daughter is a beautiful blonde and the younger a beautiful brunette.
It has been very exciting to watch their fascinating and distinct
personalities unfold and develop over the years. Linda is a sopho-
more at Simmons and thinks now that she would like to teach
English, and Stepheny is in the ninth grade at Beaver Country Day
School and long ago made up her mind to become an actress.

All things considered, these have been twenty-five very happy
years for me. There have been times when I have felt that I made
a tragic mistake when I forsook my medical aspirations; but I am
certain that I would have had the same misgivings, at times, had I
made the opposite decision. I have enjoyed the furniture business
and have found it more challenging than I expected it would be.
At times I have found it almost exciting. But I cannot help but
feel that the satisfactions are not as deep as they might have been
in a more creative field. In recent years I have felt the need for
more mental stimulation than my business afforded. I went looking
for it by taking one or two courses each semester at Boston Uni-
versity, C.L.A. Last year I enrolled as a part-time graduate student

[637]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

in the B.U. Psychology Department. If I keep with it I will get m
A.M. degree next year. I am becoming quite intrigued with th
field and perhaps Ill spend more time at it if I can convince on

of my daughters to take over the business instead of going int
teaching or acting.

JACOB HENRY KUHN

HOME ADDRESS: 928 Aberdeen Drive, Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wolverine Plastics, Inc., 495 Redman Rd., Milan, Mich.

porn: Dec. 4, 1913, South Bethlehem, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Newark High School, Newark, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

maarieD: Kathleen W. Davis, Sept. 10, 1937, Newark, Ohio. CHILDREN: Har-
rington Davis, May 9, 1944; Sandra Ibbetson, Feb, 22, 1946; Terence Rein-
bold, Dec. 15, 1949; Jay Meredith, Nov. 16, 1954.

occupation: Vice-president — Engineering, Wolverine Plastics, Inc., custom
injection molding of plastic materials.

orFices HELD: Chairman, Detroit Section, Society of the Plastics Industry,
1953-58, member, board of directors, 1955-59, president, 1957-58, Detroit
Section, Society of Plastics Engineers, chairman, various regional technical
conferences, 1955-60, co-chairman, National Annual Technical Confer-
ence, 1959, Society of Plastics Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Society of Plastics Industry, Society of Plastics Engineers, Inc.;
Beta Theta Pi.

pusLicaTions: “Engineering Nylon Gears,” Modern Plastics Magazine, 1953.

THE years since graduation have revolved almost completely
around my own family and my business life in the plastics industry.
I worked in Massachusetts after graduation until 1947, and then
returned to the Middle West where I have been living in Michigan.
My family enjoys Ann Arbor and I have the opportunity to observe
College life today as against Cambridge in the thirties. Quite a
difference,

As vice-president — engineering —in a custom plastics molding
company, | spend my time working on new ideas and designs
every day. It still is interesting and quite self-rewarding in the
sense of achicvement obtained from making new uses of new ma-
terials in ways that have never been done before. However, the
Lusiness is too demanding of my time, and as a result many other
interests have been discarded.

At home, my wife and I try to cope with the enjoyable bedlam
cared by four children attending three different schools, transporta-
tion, POTLA., Boy Scouts, dancing classes, and all the other attributes

[ 638 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of modern living. We attend the Presbyterian Church, vote Re-
publican, travel some, entertain not too frequently, and have given
up country club life for lack of time. All in all, we live quietly as
far as the outside world is concerned. As yet we have not put a
fallout shelter in the basement.

EMANUEL LABES

HOME apprEss: Bet Herut, Kfar Vitkin P.O., Israel.

BORN: Dec. 13, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

MarRIED: Shushanna Fink, December, 1946, Bet Herut, Israel. cumpren: Miriam,
March 12, 1948; Ari, Aug. 24, 1949; Channa, July 7, 1952; Avraham, Sept.
18, 1956; Tamar, Aug. 28, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Farmer, member of cooperative settlement.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Bet Herut,; member, Emek Hepher (Vale of Hepher)
Regional Council; secretary, Haikar Haoved (overseas department of the
Moshav Movement).

PUBLICATIONS: Co-editor, The Settler, a quarterly published by Haikar Haoved,
Handbook of the Moshav, published by Haikar Haoved and the Youth
and Hechalutz Department, World Zionist Organization, Jerusalem, 1959.

MY history has been not a career one, but rather a following of my
inclinations, and with no specific goal to beckon me toward more
affluence and higher social standing usually associated with posi-
tion and money. Having been smitten with Zionism, I packed off
for Palestine, in the fall of 1937, where I spent a year with Dr.
Nelson Glueck in archaeological research, and took part in ex-
cavating Ezion Gever, King Solomon’s seaport on the Red Sea. In
a year’s time, I decided to leave off dealing with the past and start
living in the present and future. I cancelled my plans to study
archaeology at the Hebrew University and, instead, started digging
the earth in the good old primitive manner with the ‘“‘turriya,” the
most sadistic — but most efficient — of hand tools ever thought up
by scheming man, because as a combination spade-shovel, it re-
moves twice as much earth in one operation at three times as much
effort.

Bet Herut being a moshav, that is a cooperative village where
each family has its own property (house, farm, and whatever else
one can own, including a car, if one can afford that heavily --taxed
commodity here), but where there is no class distinction adhering to
financial status or occupation, | naturally have worked at ev erything

[ 639 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

— in the orange groves, the fish ponds, driving the village truck, and
just about everything else. Perhaps I should make myself clearer,
Bet Herut is a village, consisting mostly of settlers from the United
States, where the farm is collective, and each man works in one of
the branches for an equal wage, which varies only with the size of
the family, but at the same time there is a small private farm ad-
joining each house, where the profit (or loss) is the member’s own
affair. (Upon rereading this I am under the impression that I have
only succeeded in making myself unclearer.)

In the course of these years, during World War II, I served in the
Jewish Brigade Group of the British Army. (I met my future wife
at the end of my service, while stationed in Belgium, after she had
gone through the usual horrors accorded Jews by the Nazis and
somehow managed to stay alive. I served in the Israeli Army in the
War of Independence and in the Sinai Campaign and am still in the
reserves as a major. For the past six years, I have headed the Over-
scas Department of the Moshav Movement, which means that I have
been in contact with groups and individuals all over the world, who
wish to come to Israel and settle in a moshav. As of January, 1962,
I am relinquishing this post, because I would rather have a career as
a farmer than an official. :

Has it all been worthwhile? I think it has. Firstly, during my
time, Emek Hepher (the valley in which I live) has become an in-
tensely cultivated area, in place of a bleak swampland, but, even
more important, Israel has come into being in my time, and with
my own modest participation.

Living in a place and period when great historical changes take
place can also be very trying and from a very unexpected quarter.
One’s relationships with fellow-beings can be very tense and undergo
great strains, but suddenly, as a situation develops, and one wonders
whether it wouldn’t have been better to be a hermit or a resident
of New York City (where associations are, I understand, often so
shallow as to be meaningless), some damned fool will stick his neck
out and demonstrate that not everyone is small, side-blinded like a
horse, and interested mainly in his own skin.

So here is Labes, a side product of Harvard (but to my mind a
natural one, in this case, because Harvard with its liberalism and
emphasis on learning in the broad, rather than utilitarian, sense
has helped form this anomaly), patriarch of a family, occupying a
house, big by the suburban middle-class USA standards (put up

room by room, as the children came, and unweighted with mort-

[ 640 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gages), living in this lush valley, and working more with his hands
than his mind and, in spite of everything, liking it.

JOHN LADD

HOME ADDRESS: 420 Hope St., Providence 6, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Philosophy, Brown University, Providence 12, RI,

BORN: June 24, 1917, Middletown, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1937; A.M. 1941;
A.M. (Univ. of Virginia), 1941; PH.D. (Harvard Univ.), 1948; a.m. ad eun,
(Brown Univ.), 1957.

MarRiED: Hylda Higginson, Jan. 23, 1943, Ivy, Va. (divorced 1959). CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Nichola, January, 1944 (died April, 1944); Mary Madeleine,
June 27, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Taylor Ladd, ’38.

occupation; Associate professor of philosophy, Brown University.

OFFICES HELD: Rockefeller Fellow, 1948-49; Guggenheim Fellow, 1958-59; head
Resident Fellow, Brown University, 1952-55, secretary, American Society
for Political and Legal Philosophy, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Association; Southern Society for Phi-
losophy and Psychology; American Society for Political and Legal
Philosophy; Brown Faculty Club; The Review Club of Providence;
Signet Society.

PUBLICATIONS: The Structure of a Moral Code: a philosophical analysis of
ethical discourse applied to the ethics of the Navaho Indians, Harvard
University Press, 1957; articles in Journal of Philosophy, Philosophical
Review, Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, NOMOS, etc.

FOLLOWING graduation I returned to the Harvard Graduate
School to study philosophy. In college I had concentrated in the
history and literature of the Renaissance but had realized by the
time of graduation that I was more interested in truth and falsity
of ideas than in their history. Except for the time spent in the
Navy during the war, I have devoted all my principal efforts dur-
ing the last twenty-five years to the study and teaching of phi-
losophy.

These years were occupied as follows: 1937-39 at the Harvard
Graduate School; 1939-41 I was a teaching assistant at the Uni-
versity of Virginia where I also picked up a second A.M. and met
the girl I was later to marry (and divorce). In September, 1941, I
signed up for the Navy, then worked in a wire factory while wait-
ing, and in January, 1942, I entered the USNR Midshipman School
on the USS Prairie State. After that I became a “ninetv-day won-
der” and was sent to Mine Warfare School. I was then attached to

[ 641 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

the USS Cardinal, a minesweeper at the school. After two years of
sweeping the York River, during which the only excitement was
blowing up two German mines off Virginia Beach, I was thoroughly
bored and put in for submarine service. Upon graduation from
Submarine School, I was sent to Australia and was eventually
attached to the USS Pargo, on which I completed two fairly
exciting and successful war patrols in the South China Sea. My sub-
marine career was abruptly ended when I fell off a British sub-
marine I was visiting onto my head and into the water — at a remote
refucling spot in northern Australia. Considering all the circum-
stances, including the fact that the nearest doctor was 600 miles
away and the pharmacist’s mate gave me an overshot of morphine,
I was lucky to have survived. I spent the next eight months in
various naval hospitals and was released from active service in
October, 1945.
Thereupon, I returned to Harvard under the G.I. Bill and com-
pleted my Ph.D. in 1948. The subject was the role of reason in
the ethics of John Dewey and Ralph Barton Perry. At about the
time I received my doctorate, I heard that the German universities
were in desperate need of scholars from the outside world to fill the
vacuum created by Nazism and its defeat. Having been to school
in Germany before college, I could speak a little German, and I
found that this was too great a challenge to resist. So I contrived
to have myself invited as Gastdozent at the University of Gottingen
and obtained the necessary permission from the military authori-
tics. The Rockefeller Foundation generously financed the expedi-
tion, and I spent a very exciting year teaching and lecturing in
Germany, in one form or another, on the philosophical foundations
of democracy. After my return from Germany, I was instructor
at Harvard, 1949-50. In 1950 I came to Brown University, where
I have been ever since, except for a year’s sabbatical leave during
1953-59, Which I spent as a Guggenheim Fellow at Oxford, and for
the spring term 1961, which I spent as visiting professor at Harvard
(living in my old house, Eliot House, and teaching courses I took
long ago). T teach courses in ethics, Kant, Spinoza, modern ana-
Is tical philosophy, as well as introductory courses in philosophy at
al three levels: freshman, upper-class and graduate. A few words
atcat my philosophical interests and development may be of in-
tere t. Ever since my youthful encounter with Nazism, I have been
roercsted in the philosophical problems of ethics, especially as they
‘ae ta political arrangements, and in particular the issues raised

[ 642 ]

Pe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by the fact of fundamental differences of point of view concerning
what is right and wrong. It was this interest that motivated my
return to Germany after I had my Ph.D. and led me to do some
anthropological research. For in the winter of 1951-52 I made
an anthropological field trip to the Southwest to investigate the
ethical views of the Navaho Indians, (The results of this investiga-
tion were presented in my book, The Structure of a Moral Code.)
I have also been consulted by the New Mexico Health Department
and a Japanese group, both of whom are interested in the same kind
of problem — namely, the exact description of alien ideologies.
William James used to divide philosophers into the tough-minded
and the tender-minded. I like to think of my philosophical work
as being tough-minded. Today the tough-minded philosophers are
analytical philosophers who regard the true function of philosophy
to be the “logical clarification of thought.” They employ the tools
of logic and linguistic analysis for this purpose. (The last genera-
tion of analytical philosophers were generally logical positivists.)
Now analytical philosophy is usually attacked by laymen and ro-
mantic philosophers for being concerned only with trivia and for
its logic-chopping. I believe, and in my work I have in a modest
way tried to prove, that analytic philosophy has a great deal to
contribute by way of clarification of the practical problems con-
fronting society, and in particular in the last few years I have been
trying to apply logic and linguistic analysis to deepen our understand-
ing of the basic ethical issues that divide one society from another.

JOHN FREDERIC LA FARGE

HOME ApprEss: 405 E. sqth St.. New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE appreEss: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, 383 Madison Ave, New
York, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1915, Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B 1937.

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTION: Advertising; copy supervisor, Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Coffee House.

UPON graduation, I spent a year traveling, and finally studying
painting with Jon Corbiero and others at the Art Students League.
Then, in the fall of 1938, I joined N. W. Ayer & Son, in Philadelphia,
where I began to learn something about advertising. But the

[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ominous world of 1940 led me to join the Navy, in which I served
mostly in the Atlantic Theatre. Out in 1945, I went to work in New
York for Young & Rubicam, advertising agency. At this same time,
I began professional portrait sculpture. As is not unusual in the
fluctuating advertising business, I worked for various agencies, and
handled all sorts of accounts, up to the present. Sculpture continues
to be my major interest outside of work; and provides a sense of ac-
complishment, sometimes difficult to comprehend for oneself in
business.

Being a confirmed, but not quite conformed, bachelor has its
compensations, and travel is one of them. These years have been
rewarding in frequent and extensive periods abroad and elsewhere,
which have contributed much to a better understanding (I hope)
of the peoples, customs, and cultures among which we live. I find
this helps to maintain some sort of balance and sense of humor in
these confused times. I have also found opportunity to pursue more
personal interests, notably sailing, skiing, the theatre —as well as
the convivial, if frequently hectic, world of the usual New Yorker.
Otherwise, there is not much of an interesting nature to report.

JOHN WILLIAM LAGSDIN

HOME ADORESS: 2810 108th Ave. S.E., Bellevue, Wash.

orricy, apparss: Alexander Hamilton Institute, 235 E. 42d St., New York 17,
NY.

&m~: June 20, 1911, Cambridge, Mass.

rarganep at: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLPGE: 19}5-1937-

atannixp: Shirley Evelyn Smith, Aug. z, 1941, Hyannis, Mass. cHitpren: Nancy
Andrea, Aug. 5, 1942 (mm. John William Katibah, Aug. 30, 1960); Susan
Jane, Aug. 26, 1945. GRANDCHILDREN: one.

cuctpatioN: Division manager, Alexander Hamilton Institute of New York;
direct activitics of Institute representatives in the Northwest.

stestnsa of: Rotary Club; Harvard Club of San Francisco; Lutheran Layman’s
League, Professional Photographers Association of America.

AS [recall events of the past twenty-five years, there emerges a
vaue parallel ta my thoughts about an eighty-foot fir tree recently
fenced on my property. There were many years of growth reflected
my thactultree. But now, cut up into two-fooe lengths, it adds up
toa bountiful woodpile but there is nothing particularly impressive
aloutit In 19g37, Henry Ford was still in Dearborn when I reasoned
bey wav mite employment with the Ford Motor Company, as “one

[ 644]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the youngest zone managers.” It was a significant business ex-
perience, for I learned early to analyze business operations and to
have a high regard for broad management capabilities. Three years
later, I joined Harvard-men Bradford and Fabian Bachrach as a
studio manager for Bachrach, Inc., portrait photographers. These
years, until the war, were particularly pleasant, for I coupled
business with a deep interest in photography.

In the snafu of the war years, it was inevitable that the Navy
would try, first, to make me a radar specialist, then an aerographer.
Eventually, someone somewhere concluded that I could make some
genuine contributions in the area of public relations and photog-
raphy. My one achievement, the directing and production of a
motion picture with a moving theme based on the lives of past na-
tional heroes, was relegated to the deep six when the war came to
an end.

I joined the postwar exodus from the East, spent a few years in
photography in Hollywood, a few more years as a studio owner in
San Francisco, and then, in the early fifties, I completed a cycle of
experience by going back into business as an individual management
analyst to small businesses.

I joined the staff of the Alexander Hamilton Institute in 1958,
and I now direct the activities of our representatives in the North-
west. Management development work is stimulating and the end
results are most satisfying.

Hobby-wise, I do not wander too far afield. My 4 x 5 camera
allows me to do serious work in photography. My travels are often
recorded in Kodachrome. And I still have the courage to throw
my bad pictures away.

Notwithstanding the Iowa-flavored connotation of the word “to-
getherness,” it is still a good word to describe my family life. My
wife Shirley, my younger daughter Susan, and I, plus a dog and
cat, seem to do a fairly good job of making our house a home.
There is some TV, music, and reading almost every day, but espe-
cially on weekends we look forward to having friends drop in at
any time and having the teen-agers take over whenever they wish.
Our Sunday mornings inevitably begin early. The high school and
college students who meet with me every Sunday morning at the
Pilgrim Lutheran Church present a constant challenge. They keep
me cramming to justify whatever leadership I may provide in reason-
ing and believing along with them as they strengthen the founda-
tions of their faith.

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Although most of our time on the west coast has been spent close
to our favorite city, San Francisco, we are beginning to appreciate
more fully the Puget Sound area. After a year and a half in Bellevue,
Washington, we find ourselves ideally located to take advantage of
“short vacations” and jaunts into the scenic areas of the Northwest
and Canada.

Susan, now fifteen and a junior in High School, enjoys the
coupling of wide open spaces for horsemanship with top-level city
school facilities, where her activities in drama bring forth many a
parental beam. Our elder daughter, Nancy Andrea, married to
Airman John William Katibah and living adjacent to the Hamilton
Air Force Base in California, has enabled Shirley and me to assume
joyfully the title of grandparents to a blond, junior-size prototype
of an All-American fullback who is blessed with an abundance of
good health and vigor. The Good Lord willing, we shall be boast-
ing again and even more before the springtime has passed.

I suppose that the tempo of our living is best reflected in the fact
that a quiet walk in the late evening under the great trees with my
shepherd dog, Tammy, ends many a day.

TIMOTHY ANDRE LAMPHIER

HOME ADDRESS: 60 Singletree Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 The Fenway, Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 30, 1915, Watertown, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937, 1938-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1937 (39); M.D. (Boston
Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Joan Blake, June 28, 1947, Wellesley Hills, Mass. cHILDREN: Lindsay
Jean, March 1, 1950; Harry Blake, Nov. 9, 1954; John Murray, April 28,
1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: James André Lamphier, ’29.

occUPATION: General surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Director of the Boston Industrial Medical Center since 1960;
president, Medical Investigation and Research Associates, Inc.; member,
board of directors, Hundred Club of Boston, Catholic Alumnae Sodality
of Boston, formerly, chief of surgery, Otis General Hospital, Central
Hospital, Somerville; member of commission to study applicants from
foreign medical schools for registration, to practise medicine in Massachu-

setts, advisor to Governor Foster Furcolo on establishment of medical
school in state of Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: Boston Orthopedic Society, Boston Italian Surgical Society, Rome,
Italy; Italian Society of Orthopedics and Trauma; Philippine College of
Surgery, Manila, Philippines (fellow); Royal Society of Medicine, Eng-

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

land (fellow); American College of Gastroenterology (fellow); Society
of Surgeons, Paris, France (foreign corresponding member); Deutsche
Gesellschaft fiir Chirurgie, Berlin, Germany; Madrid Academy of
Surgery, Spain; associate member, Netherlands Surgical Society, the Hague,
Netherlands; Massachusetts Medical Society, The American Fracture
Association; affiliate member, American Proctologic Society; American
Medical Association (fellow); American Association of Neoplastic Dis-
eases; American Medical Writers Association; National Gastroenterolog-
ical Society (fellow); Military Surgeons Association; Boston Taxi Indus-
trial Scholarship Fund (trustee); member, Della Socicta Tuscana-Umbria
di Chirurgia, Florence, Italy; member, Rassegna Internazionale di Clinica
e Terapia, Napoli, Italy; Swiss Society of Surgery; Argentine Surgical
Society, Buenos Aires, Argentina (titular member); Greck Surgical Soci-
ety, Athens, Greece; New England Industrial Medical Association; Inter-
national Anesthesia Research Society; Brazilian College of Surgeons, Sao
Paulo; Austrian Orthopedic Society; Pan-American Medical Association;
Society of Academic Achievement (charter member); American College
of Sports Medicine; Harvard Club of Boston; Charles River Country
Club; Seigniory Club, Montebello, Canada; Boston Madison Square Garden
Club; Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company; Boston Christmas
Festival Committee, Society of Catholics, Protestants and Jews.

puBLICATIONS: Many articles including: “Splenectomy,” Surgery, March, 1961;
“Meckel’s diverticulum —an analytical review,” submitted to Aznerican
Surgeon, June, 1961; “An appraisal of a combined antibiotic spray in
topical treatment of surgical wounds,” Journal of International College of
Surgeons, February, 1961; “The role of intravenous Mcthacarbamol in the
treatment of muscle spasm,” Journal of Abdominal Surgery; “Paraduo-
denal hernia,” New York State Journal of Medicine, October, 1961;
“Inguinal hernia — an evaluation of hernial repair,” Journal of International
College of Surgeons, April, 1961; “The problem of decompression illness
in che construction of the new East Boston Tunnel,” to be published in
the Journal of Industrial Medicine.

HAVING concentrated in economics, I joined Sears, Roebuck as
an executive trainee following graduation. Finding little satisfaction
in this endeavor, after a year and a half, I returned to Harvard to
complete premedical studies, and in 1943 received an M.D. from
Boston University Medical School and completed my National
Board Examinations.

Following a short period of internship in general surgery at the
Boston City Hospital, I entered the Army as a first lieutenant and
was assigned to a special battalion organized primarily for the treat-
ment of gas casualties. Fortunately our special talents were never
required in this direction, and I found myself doing everything from
brain surgery to psychiatry in the European theatre. Upon return

to the United States I was assigned to the Cushing General Hospital
in Framingham.

[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Upon discharge I completed two years of residency in surgery
at Boston City Hospital and followed it with two years as a fellow
in surgery at Boston’s Lahey Clinic. In May, 1950, I opened my
own Office for the practice of surgery on Bay State Road in Boston.
During the first few years I was associated with clinics in the towns
of Wellesley, Natick and Framingham. Finally I moved my head-
quarters to my present office at 30 the Fenway, Boston 15.

In 1952 I became a diplomate of the American Board of Surgery
and a fellow of the American College of Surgeons. In 1953, I was
elected a fellow of the International College of Surgeons, and in 1959
I became a member of the Founders Group of the American Board
of Abdominal Surgery. I am an impartial examiner for the Massa-
chusetts State Compensation Board, the City of Boston Retirement
Board and the Massachusetts Industrial Accident Board, as well as
examiner for the Federal Aviation Agency and consultant in surgery,
Boston and Maine Railroad. In 1960 I was appointed editor of the
Journal of Abdominal Surgery.

Life has been full and satisfying in many ways. I married a charm-
ing girl, Joan Blake of Wellesley Hills. We have three children —
a girl, Lindsay, attends Beaver Country Day School; our son Blake,
aged seven, is at the Park School; and our second son, John Murray,
will be a nursery school candidate next season.

In 1952 I was appointed club surgeon for the Boston Red Sox,
and for the next four years had the happy privilege of combining
business with pleasure during the annual spring training season in
Sarasota, Florida.

Although I prefer to do general surgery in the true sense of the
word, I have found myself most recently doing a great deal of
industrial and orthopedic surgery. The Boston Industrial Medical
Center, a clinic of which I am the director as well as chief of surgery,
occupies most of my time. I spend each morning operating, and the
afternoons are spent treating my patients at the office. I have had
some ninety papers published, and hope to have completed an even
hundred by the time we convene for the 25th.

I spend a considerable amount of my remaining time in clinical
research, and thus have little of that precious commodity left for
social or political organizations. During the summer I usually man-
age two rounds of golf a week, with scores ranging from the high

70’s to the high go’s, testifying to my inconsistency.

Having had John Fitzgerald Kennedy as an occasional patient in
the days when he was a Congressman and Senator from Massachu-

[ 648 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

setts, I did get involved in the most recent national
Politically, I am considered as a Democrat but one with: Campaion
leanings. 1 adhere to the Roman Catholic faith in m na cPenden
ligion. ers of re
In the area of recreation m
Guild, and are thus afforded a
better plays during the season.

Working seven days a week in the practice of surgery has b
my norm during the past twelve years. I would like to fee] that the
furure will provide much more time for me to spend with my famil
enjoying the company of my children as they grow up, and ever
partaking of the pleasures of some leisurely travel with my wife. |

In summing up my philosophy I should like to quote from a re-
mark attributed to James Thurber, who, in summing up his own
feelings about his work, said: “I write the way a surgeon operates
because it is a livelihood, because I have a great urge to do it, be.

cause many interesting challenges are set up, and because I have the
hope it may do some good.”

y wife and I belong to the Theatre
opportunity to take in some of the

ERNEST KARL LANDSTEINER

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Adams Point Rd., Barrington, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 154 Waterman St., Providence, R.I.

porn: April 8, 1917, Vienna, Austria.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., cum laude, 1937 (38); M.D., 1941.

MARRIED: Joanne Carpenter, July 8, 1940, Nantucket, Mass. cHILpREN: Kristin
Carpenter, Dec. 21, 1946; Karl Carpenter, Dec. 19, 1949.
OccuPATION: Physician; genito-urinary surgeon.
OFFICES HELD: Chief surgeon, Dept. of Urology, Rhode Island Hospital, his-
torian, New England Section, American Urological Association.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Urological Association;
New England Surgical Society; Rhode Island Medical Society; New
England Section, American Urological Association; Harvard Club of
Boston; Aesculapian Club; Barrington Yacht Club. .

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to New England Journal of Medicine
and Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics.

I AM still practising urology in Providence, where I am chief
surgeon in the Department of Urology at the Rhode Island Hos-
pital. Here I take part in teaching, some research and the everyday
problems of an active practice. As a member of the hospital's
Medical Education Committee and executive committee, I derive

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

great satisfaction from taking an active part in the development of
this hospital.

Joanne, the children and I live in Barrington, a very charming
suburb of Providence, on Narragansett Bay. Here, with a house
on the shore, we enjoy swimming and boating, not to mention an
occasional hurricane. When we travel, which is not frequently, it
is usually in New England, to attend either the New England Surg-
ical Society meeting or the New England Urological Society meet-
ing, of which I am the historian. Cruising around Martha’s Vineyard
in our Pillbox has been our summer vacation for the past several
years. The children appear to be growing up fast, and we shall soon,
I hope, be trying our luck at getting them into college.

WILLIAM HENRY LANE

MAILING ADDRESS: Holman St., Lunenburg, Mass,

+ HENRY CHARLES LARNER

puRN: Feb, 6, 1915, Albany, N.Y. parents: Samuel Hotchkiss Larner, Sarah
Shoor.

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Benjamin Larner, "go.

DIED: Jan. 27, 1944, Bari, Italy.

AS an undergraduate Larner was editorial chairman of the Crimson
and a member of the Political Union. After graduation he joined
the publicity department of Paramount Pictures, Inc., in New York
City. He enlisted in the Field Service in June, 1942, and saw action
in Libya before the opening of the Italian Campaign. He died from
wounds received when a mortar shell exploded outside a Regi-
mental Air Post which he was visiting while on duty as a corporal
in the American Field Service. He had just returned to his am-
bulance two hours before, after recuperating from an attack of
malaria. He was survived by his father and brother.

An article, ‘“(Cambridge-on-Nile,” was written by Larner and
Vincent Y. Bowditch, ’39, and appeared in the Harvard Alumni
Pulletin of January 30, 1943. In his will Larner left $1000 to
Harvard.

[ 650 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KENNETH GEORGE LARRABEE

HOME ADDRESS: North Elm Street, Yarmouth, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20-22 Main St., Yarmouth, Maine.

porN: Oct. 22, 1912, Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

maariep: Ann Webber Kimball, Oct. 22, 1941, Winchester, Mass, CHILDREN:
Kenneth Allen, July 15, 1942; Ann Jo, Feb. 9, 1948.

OocUPATION: President and treasurer, The Fo’c’stle Inc. (retail store), The
Fo'e'stle Press, Inc. (newspaper and printing).

oFFices HELD: Local Finance Chairman, County Finance, State Finance; active
in numerous local recreational, political and business groups.

MEMBER OF: Casco Lodge No. 36, A. & F.M.; Republican Committee; Men’s
Club; Chamber of Commerce; Westcustogo Rod & Gun Club; Maine Fish
& Game Club.

PUBLICATIONS: 520 issues of The Shopping Notes, weekly digest of local events;
several leaflets on political issues of state interest.

NOT much. After thirteen years spent in training and manage-
ment of retail stores for a major national chain, I left to open my
own small store in Maine.

Two years later, and just as we started rolling merrily, we started
a store flier for advertising purposes in the absence of newspaper
effectiveness. This quickly developed into a paper, itself, with
numerous other merchants requesting its use on their behalf. The
following ten years have been spent in allowing this new business
to find a profitable level, and in trying to keep the store alive on a
nonexistent capital which was shunted from one corporation to
the other many times. The past year has, finally, pretty well
established this level, and we are now engaged in returning the
sacrificed retail business to a profitable level, purchasing badly
needed equipment for the printing business, and trying to find a
few dollars left on which to live and, incidentally, to build a house
sometime in the vague future.

Son is in sophomore year at Williams (after a Harvard — fine
thing — turndown). Daughter is in junior high school in Yarmouth.

My greatest concern at the moment is one of education —in
Maine and nationally. This was occasioned by a study I made of
educational television when its adoption was recently under con-
sideration in Maine. At that time, and since, I have become con-
vinced that we are, at the national level, completely neglecting an
essential facet of education — that of understanding of our rela-
tions with other peoples, of their problems, and of their aspirations.

[ 651 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Perhaps it can be more succinct, if I say that when we were in
school, it was accepted that we should have subjects — such as
sciences — which were relatively new to public schools in order
to prepare properly for college and later life. I believe that the
comparable problem today lies in the broad aspect of human rela-
tions — that the naiveté which was displayed by a Smith graduate
in Nigeria, to take a spectacular example, is the result of a young
life much too closely sheltered from world realities. Education of
this type is a natural for the new communications facilities such as
television which can bring “on the spot” educational features from
any part of the world to the classroom. Enough for the theory —
the next problem is to force government and educators to use these
new media for this purpose.

Religion? My only religion is that a man must have faith in a
supernatural power. His faith may be placed in a tree, in a God,
or in many gods. But, if he is to be rational, he must, finally, in his
reasoning, reach a point of inevitability. I happen to be a Christian!

For reasons of business and personal interest, I have seen more than
the average of political activity. And I have come to a number of
conclusions.

Politics is the most dedicated and the most valuable of all careers,
with no exception. This is because the politician is, consciously or
not, decisively influencing the course of humanity. His successes
and his tragedies are of vital importance to each of us. The hyp-
ocrites and the demagogues in politics often serve a more useful
purpose than the more commonplace conformist, for, while they
may be despicable and creators of dissension, they serve to create
public interest in the problem.

Our “rightists” and our “leftists” are both far afield. We are,
constitutionally, a republic — but with the democratic overtones of
our Efouse of Representatives. It is this combination which has
permitted us to endure and to gain strength. The present rush to

democracy is as evil to our system as would be a trend to monarchy.
Our minoritics must retain a proper voice, or we shall go the way
of past civilizations. But, thank God for those “rightists’” and
“leftists,” for their meanderings are the only way we may determine
our center, and the only source of philosophical progress.

A newly cleeted future statesman is an idealist; when elected for
acccond time, he is a cynic; and, ten years later, he is a realist.

‘The greatest enemy of the Republican party is the Republican
poorly.

[652]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The more I learn of politics, the more “liberal” I become. Ten
years ago, five years ago, I editorially flayed government participa-
tion in education. Today I can understand that it is, in practice,
inevitable for reasons of reasonable equality of opportunity, for

resentation of programs of national and international importance,
etc. I still fight it, but I find myself fighting specific aspects instead
of the principle.

Well, you've spent several dollars trying to get this— and you
finally succeeded. I hope it has all been worth while.

JOHN WOODWARD LAVERACK

HOME ApDpREss: 60 Brush Hill Rd., Sherborn, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: The Dampney Co., 50 Business St., Hyde Park 36, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 18, 1915, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Solebury School, New Hope, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Janet Sabine, Jan. 26, 1946, Groton, Mass. CHILDREN: John Woodward,
Jr., Dec. 14, 1946; Anne, Feb. 11, 1949; Samuel Lawrence, April 24, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Laverack, "qo.

occuPATION: President, The Dampney Company, manufacturers of protective
coatings.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. Andrew's Episcopal Church, 1950-53; chairman,
Sherborn Advisory (Finance Committee), 1951-56, assessor, Town of
Sherborn, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Schussverein.

WHILE some people may have to travel half-way around the
world to attend their Twenty-fifth Reunion, I am one of the ones
who have never got more than twenty miles away from Harvard
Square. Thus, I have maintained a slight liaison with our common
bond, and I have been only too well aware of the imminent arrival
of this Reunion. Even so, I find it a little disconcerting to have it
become a reality. I don’t think I really feel very different, and
although I can’t dispute the fact that twenty-five years have gone
by I would sort of like to deny it.

My life since we graduated has really been divided into two parts,
first the unsettled and then the settled, which has been the longer
of the two. During the first part I was a bachelor, had three dif-
ferent jobs, and spent two years in the Middle East during the war.
In the second part I got married, bought a home, helped produce
three children, and have led a pretty stable sort of existence.

We live in the country, in the Town of Sherborn, just west of

[ 653 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Boston. Here we bought an old New England house and forty
acres of land some fifteen years ago. This home and this community
have been the nerve center of our lives. It is here that our children
have grown up. My younger son still attends the Sherborn public
school, but my elder son is now at the Brooks School in North
Andover, and my daughter commutes daily to the Winsor School
in Boston. We have all very much enjoyed our exurban lives in
this town. Both my wife and I have been fairly active in the affairs
of the church and of the town, and I have held a couple of public
offices.

For recreation, we enjoy most of the seasonal sports. We pla
tennis and swim, ski and skate, in season. In addition, I like to play
golf and make regular forays into Brookline, where I am a member
of The Country Club. I have played in a good many four-ball
tournaments over the years, but I am more of an enthusiast than an
expert. We have been fortunate to have had a nice summer home
(compliments of my in-laws) on Squam Lake in New Hampshire.
There we can add boating and fishing to these other recreational
activities.

In business, I have been the president of a very small manufacturing
company, the Dampney Company, located in the Hyde Park sec-
tion of Boston. We are in what has been described as the chemical
protective coatings subdivision of the paint industry. In other
words, we try to stop metal from rusting. I have been successful in
maintaining a reasonably comfortable standard of living. However,
I have not as yet succeeded in making it as prosperous an enterprise
as I should like to see it. At any rate, it’s only our Twenty-fifth.
We are looking forward to next June. As of now, I expect that

all five of us will be in attendance.

EDWARD WILLIAMS LAWRENCE

HOME abpress: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

orice Appress: Hemphill, Noyes & Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

bowN: July 12, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

perpartp at: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

miasuino: Rosalind Harwood Rogers, Aug. 18, 1939, Fall River, Mass. CHILDREN:
Rosalind Rogers, March 4, 1941; Christopher Harwood, Oct. 8, 1942.

bakvaky BRotneRS: Charles Henry Lawrence, '36; David Bissell Lawrence, "40;
(seorge Hugh Lawrence, '44, M.D., °46.

[ 654 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Investment banking; co-manager, New England area, Hemphill,
Noyes & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, treasurer and member of investment committee, Society
of St. Margaret.

MEMBER OF: Boston Securities Traders Association; National Securities Traders
Association,

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I entered the investment bank-
ing business, becoming associated with Minot Kendall & Company
in Boston. It was not an auspicious beginning as my first day of
work signaled the start of the 1937-38 recession. For a year the
market did nothing but go down. Making a living in the business
in the late 1930’s was very difficult, and not many of my con-
temporaries stuck it out.

In 1944, when Uncle Sam was scraping the bottom of the barrel,
the Army requested my services. In 1945 I was commissioned a
second lieutenant in the Tank Corps and served a year in Germany.

I was not altogether happy about being away from my family,
but the experience was interesting.

When I resumed civilian status in 1946 I took a vacation and
then rejoined Minot Kendall & Company with the interesting title
of vice-president and director. The salary was not commensurate
with the title. In 1951 1 made the one job change in my business
career, moving across the street to Hemphill, Noyes & Company,
members of the New York Stock Exchange. The move proved
to be extremely worthwhile, as Minot Kendall is no longer in busi-
ness, and Hemphill, Noyes is very much alive. I am now co-man-
ager of their New England operation. My main concern is in
curbing excessive enthusiasm for “hot” new issues.

In 1951 we purchased a small New England farm house in Dover,
Massachusetts, which was very much in need of repair but was
supposed to have “possibilities.” The location was appealing. We
have spent ten years exploring and developing these possibilities.
The results have been very gratifying.

My hobbies are still gardening and sailing. My wife, however,
has the green thumb and now does most of the work in the garden.
For the last several summers we have cruised New England waters
on various charters. During the hurricane season I am just as happy
not owning my own boat.

As for the future, I face it humbly but without fear. I believe
that God — and not the hydrogen bomb — is the most potent single

[ 655 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

force in the world today. I do not believe that man is seriously
contemplating mass suicide. I am not building a fallout shelter.

WILLIAM LAWRENCE

HOME ADDRESS: 384 Longmeadow St., Longmeadow 6, Mass.

oFFice Appress: Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1915, Lawrence, Mass.

prepared AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1940.

marrieD: Phyllis Motley, Aug. 23, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHiLprREN: Margaret M.,
May 13, 1941; Sally A. Sept. 16, 1943; William, Jr., March 15, 1945; Phyllis,
Feb. 28, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Kane Cobb Lawrence, 38.

occupation: Associate counsel, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Wellesley Town Meeting Member, 1949-52; chairman, Boy Scout
Troop Committee, 1956-58; vestryman, three terms, Building Committee
chairman and member of Standing Committee of Dioceses, Episcopal
Church; trustee and former clerk, Springfield Hospital; director, Spring-
field Adult Education Forums.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Springfield (former president); Longmeadow’s
Men's Club (officer committee); American and State and local Bar Asso-
ciations; Association of Life Insurance Counsel.

PUBLICATIONS: One insurance law paper on the requirement of physical impact
in accidental death benefits, ALIC, December, 1960.

MY career in the law has been varied although undistinguished, and
there has always been the interest and challenge of something more
to learn and a job to be done better. There has also been a variety
of activities in the community, and particularly in the Episcopal
Church, with some details above. There is much less tennis and
skiing than there used to be, and a growing interest in the less
strenuous sports of boating and cruising.

Looking back, marriage followed close on the heels of bar exams,
and the pleasures and responsibilities of a growing family followed
promptly after. We started in a Cambridge apartment. I engaged
in private law practice in Boston, first with the Palmer, Dodge firm
and after the war for fours years with Foley, Hoag & Eliot. During
three war years I was a civilian lawyer in Washington, primarily
in“ Nhen Property” work in the Department of Justice. After the
war we embarked upon a suburban life in Wellesley, making new
fricnds, becoming active in the community, and with a pond out
felind where the youngsters roamed,

ALour ten years ago there was a move to my present association

[ 656 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Springfield, Massachusetts. The work here has included life in-
surance policy contract matters and related beneficiary and claims
problems, federal income and estate taxation involving life insurance
and specialty use in business, combined with obtaining a CLU degree
and some speaking engagements to the field force around the
country on these subjects. For the past four years I have been in-
volved primarily with the legal aspects of insurance company in-
vestments, particularly in so-called “private placements.”

Several recent vacations have been spent in family cruising on
chartered sailing auxiliaries at Cape Cod or in Maine, intended to be
repeated this year. In 1960 there was a grand tour of the West by
automobile, topped off with a stay at a ranch in the Tetons; this
trip being inspired by the fondness of our girls for horses and the
chance to combine it with a company-paid appearance at an Agents’
Convention at Banff.

My eldest daughter is now at Sarah Lawrence College, following
in her mother’s footsteps. The second girl is a high school senior
hoping to enter Pine Manor or Simmons next year and later to be-
come a nurse. My son is at Groton School and might be Harvard
1967. The youngest girl we shall very much enjoy having at home
for a few more years.

MAURICE LAZARUS

HOME AppRESS: 144 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Filene’s, 424 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 27, 1915, Columbus, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: AB., 1937.

MarriED: Nancy Stix, June 7, 1942, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHiLpREN: Carol, Feb. 27,
1947; Jill, May 28, 1950.

occupPATION: Retail business; president, Filene’s.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boston Chapter, Red Cross, Beaver Country Day School,
Beth Israel Hospital, Old Sturbridge Village, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital,
Combined Jewish Philanthropies, Tufts Institute for Civic Education;
vice-president, United Fund; regional vice-president, American Jewish
Committee; director, United Community Services; member of corporation,
New England Medical Center, Northeastern University, Metropolitan
Arts Center; member, Visiting Committee, Radcliffe Archives and Busch-
Reisinger Museum and German Department, .

MEMBER OF: Belmont Country Club; Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York.

TWENTY-FIVE years — and the wheel has come full circle. I'm
[ 657 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

back in Cambridge. I gaze across the Yard each day, just before ]
descend into the MTA on my way to Filene’s.

After graduation I spent four years in Cincinnati learning the
retail business, and trying to convince my Smith girl to marry me.
I was successful in the latter endeavor, just in time to take off for
the Army. We saw America first. One year moving from coast
to coast and camp to camp. Then, off to the Pacific for three: New
Guinea, Australia and the Philippines.

After the war we settled in Houston, Texas, where our two
daughters were born — blondes with Texas drawls. We watched
that part of the country double its size in the postwar boom, and
we left before we believed all of the tales that were doubling in
size, too.

Just three years ago we moved back here permanently. We had
always spent our summers on Cape Cod, so it didn’t take us long to
feel at home again in Massachusetts. A variety of community in-
terests, along with two adolescent daughters, and a full-time job
keep me pretty busy. But when I can shake loose I do a little sail-
ing, golfing and, especially, painting (post-depressionist).

Though I live, now, just a few blocks from the Yard, the distance,

I admit, seems greater, when measured by the exchange of a green
book-bag for a brief case.

ROBERT CABEEN LEA, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 232 Atlee Rd., Wayne, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Norris, Hart, Hepburn, Ross & Putnam, 2000 Two Penn Center
Plaza, Philadelphia 2, Pa.
BORN: Nov. 21, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1937; LL.B. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1940.
MARRIED: Nancy Howard Kellogg, May 31, 1941, Queen Anne, Md, CHILDREN:
Robert Cabeen, 3d, March 23, 1942; Branton Kellogg, May 28, 1944.
HARVARD SON; Robert Cabeen Lea, 3d, ’64.
occuPATION: Lawyer.
orrices HELD: Former president, Harvard Club of Philadelphia, Alumni Society
}.piscopal Academy.
meMutn oF: Philadelphia Club, Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Mill Dam Club;
University Barge Club; American, Pennsylvania and Philadelphia Bar
Associauons,; Appalachian Mountain Club.

INSTEAD of the revolution in my thinking which took place be-
[ 658 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tween graduation and our Twentieth, I find that in the ensuing five

ears I have intensified my interest in Christianity and capitalism,
both in their classical forms as mentioned in our last Report. I read
extensively in these two subjects and carry on correspondence with
others, both in public and private life, and sometimes with members
of the Harvard faculty.

The whole history of the twentieth century, it seems to me,
simply reeks with evidence that we shall continue the drift away
from Christian belief and capitalist practice at the peril of finding
public and private morality destroyed and productive efficiency
greatly impaired. We are living on foundations we could not our-
selves re-create. However, I do not adhere to Christianity because
it creates a good society, but because it is true, and I do not adhere
to capitalism and the free market economy solely because it is
efficient, but because it is basically moral and right.

I think everyone has observed the revival of classical Christian
and political thought. The question is whether it will bear fruit in
adequate Jeadership in time to halt secularism and socialism. I hope
to see the day when Harvard will take the lead in attempting to
save the bourgeois Christian society to which it belongs. It dis-
turbs me to find some of the more articulate members of the faculty
repeating the clichés of the nineteen-thirties in a period when our
society needs not so much reform but rescue, loyalty and devotion.

My interest in outdoor sports continues and, if anything, has
intensified. The small-scale farming, tennis, skiing and mountain
climbing continue as before.

In 1958, Nancy and I and the elder boy climbed the Grossglock-
ner, highest in the Austrian Alps. This was our first experience with
guide, ropes, crampons, etc., and we plan to go again for snow
climbing. However, nothing of any technical difficulty is contem-
plated. Iwo new sports have been added (or revivals of old
interests), sailing and rowing. As of this week the sailing advances
from a Penguin to a seventeen-foot day sailer which will be used
on the Chesapeake and on Squam Lake, New Hampshire.

Single sculling was revived to teach my son rowing before he
went to boarding school, and it really took with both of us. I row
now every day after work, April through October, and take my
shell with me on vacation, thus totalling about 500 miles a summer.
I plan to make an attempt. to join Harvard’s Thirty-Minute Club
next June by rowing four miles in thirty minutes, something I’m
not sure I could have done as an undergraduate. R.C.L., 3d, was

[ 659 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

captain of the Middlesex crew and has had considerable success
single sculling in this country and Canada; he also rowed in Europe
in a double scull last summer. He is too small by Harvard crew
standards, which seems to make him the more ambitious to advance
in sculling. He and I both hope to see Harvard make better use
of its sculling facilities and to get some intercollegiate competition
started in small boats.

ARTHUR LESTER LEADER

HOME ADDRESS: 356 Littleworth Lane, Sea Cliff, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 W. 6oth St., New York, N.Y.

Born: Sept. 2, 1915, Hartford, Conn.

prepareD AT: Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1937(38); A.M. (Indiana
Univ.) 1940.

marrieD: Marcia Appelbaum, Sept. 1, 1940, Hartford, Conn, CHILpREN;:
Jonathan Karl, March 27, 1952; Mara Elise, Aug. 8, 1957.

occuPaTION: Executive position in a private social agency — director of Special
Services, Jewish Family Service of New York City.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Executive Board, American Association of Psychiatric
Social Workers, for two years in the 1950's; member, Editorial Board,
Social Work, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Social Workers.

puBLicaTioNs: Over a dozen articles in social work journals dealing with many
aspects of the field —too numerous to list.

I DON’T know whether or not I am the only class anomaly, but
I still strangely belong to the Class of 1937 although I actually
graduated in 1938. There was at that time, as most of us though
dimly can recall, a thing called a depression and I had to stay out
of college one year to earn enough money to continue financing
my education. It could be said, though it probably isn’t accurate,
that this had some influence in my becoming a social worker.

Since receiving a Master’s degree in Social Work I have worked
consistently in many cities, programs and levels of responsibility. I
was fortunate enough during the war to serve in a similar capacity
for psychiatric combat casualties.

For twelve years our family enjoyed a rich professional and
social life in Topeka, Kansas, where I was for nine years Chief
Social Worker at the Winter V.A. Hospital affiiaced with the
Menninger Foundation — where my wife was employed asa psychi-
atric social worker.

[ 660 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since 1958, my professional life has been even fuller as well as
busier back east, and life as an executive of one of the largest family

service agencies in the country is hectic, exhausting, exciting and
yet thoroughly enjoyable.

At work my energies are devoted in many ways to strengthen-
ing family life. At home, despite problems of commuting twenty-
five miles to Long Island, I try to be consistent by spending as much
time as possible in play, recreational and educational activities with
our two alert, lively fun-loving children and their equally alert,
lively fun-loving but much more tired mother. We are located in
a new contemporary home in the woods right near Long Island
Sound and spend much time in water sports, fishing, and beachcomb-
ing as well as gardening, wood-chopping, woodworking, etc. There
is, of course, not enough time to keep up with the professional litera-

ture, and it is getting so that I can hardly get past the daily news-
paper and The New Yorker.

I have always been a New Deal Liberal and pro-union despite
the fact that at this point I am a negotiator with our own union.
Naturally, I am for medical care under the Social Security System.
We see, for example, just in our one agency thousands of aged
each year who could benefit substantially from such a program.

FREDERICK JOHN LEARY, JR.

HOME apprEss: Piping Rock Road, Locust Valley, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Bankers Trust Co., 16 Wall St, New York, N.Y.
BoRN: Dec. 12, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Jane Austen Badger, July 29, 1944, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:

Charles Badger, Sept. 2, 1945; Frederick John, 3d, Jan. 27, 1949; Kevin
Champlin, June 10, 1955.

occUPATION: Banking, vice-president — Western Division head, Bankers Trust
_ Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and trustee, Miss Stoddart’s School, Locust Valley.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Creek Club, Locust Valley.

AFTER majoring in money and banking, it took over eight years
vefore I pursued the subject for the purpose of earning a living.
When we graduated, the commercial banking business had just ex-
yerienced a “shake-up,” and those in it were not so encouraging.
Sonsequently, many looked for greener pastures, and it was not
intil December, 1945, that I saw the light. In the meantime, I

[ 661 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

worked in a sales capacity for the Linde Air Products Company.
As background for this, immediately following graduation, I took
a course in chemistry at Harvard Summer School. The work in-
volved extensive travel in the eastern states, during part of which
time I lived in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.

In February, 1942, my naval career commenced, and part of it
was spent in the Bureau of Aeronautics oxygen program, where |
was able to utilize my experience with the Linde Company. Luck
was on my side, as, while in Washington, I met Jane Badger, a
Navy junior. I had never met her dad, Admiral Oscar Badger, who
was at sea, but through a pleasant exchange of correspondence, he
gave his consent, and we were married in July, 1944.

Following the war, banking still had its lure; so we decided to
try our luck at it instead of returning to the chemical field. I was
a bit “leery” about starting a new career at the advanced age of
thirty-two, but was told there were still some years ahead. I joined
the credit department of Bankers Trust Company in December,
1945, and four years later was assigned to the Far West district.
Contrary to the popular conception of the conservative, glass-eyed
banker, it is most fascinating, with plenty of room for new ideas.
(We can always use a good man.) The western area of the country
has expanded tremendously, and this, together with two to three
months of travel a year, makes the work most interesting. There is
still plenty of pioneering to be done as evidenced from an Alaskan
trip made in 1959.

Fight years ago, we moved from Garden City and built a house
in Locust Valley. Long Island has expanded tremendously, and
much of the old countryside has given way to the typical devel-
opment. Our area still retains some of the country atmosphere and
affords very pleasant living for three growing boys— good golf,
swimming, sailing, tennis, fishing, etc., within a few minutes (pardon

plug), A few years ago our skating club built two outdoor rinks,
and this has indeed activated the community in the winter and af-
fords good training for future hockey stars.

My political philosophy has not changed a great deal. I still con-
tinue to be conservative and wish more people felt the same way.
Ir «ccms we have too many people who demand all they can get
tv giving as little as possible and find comfort in a political philos-
‘ ey which helps them accomplish just that. The pendulum still
Corinucs to swing toward more centralization in almost everything

we hy, Parkinsen's law operates increasingly, It will take a long

[ O42 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

while to change this trend, but maybe, some day, common sense
will again be given more consideration. Perhaps it would be bet-
ter to defer expanding this theme until next June, when so many
resolves probably will be made.

LAVAL JOHN LEBOEUF

HOME ApprEss: Hillcrest Farm, Dudley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 241 Main St., Webster, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 17, 1915, Webster, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; LLB. 1940.

MARRIED: Janine Ann Bussiere, Dec. 17, 1946, Nice, France.

occUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Town Counsel, Webster, Mass., 1950-52; chairman, Dudley
Republican Town Committee, since 1958; member, Massachusetts Repub-
lican State Committee, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Elks; Lions; American Legion;
Veterans of Foreign Wars, Nipmuc Water Ski Club.

AT last responsive to the many imaginative requests received, I am
compelled to look back twenty-five years — an exercise in introspec-
tion undertaken with tremendous reluctance. I suppose if I were
writing about anyone else, I would be guided by the constants in
the pattern and design and I am forced to conclude that twenty-five
years spell me out as a horribly dull conformist. My father was a
country lawyer and that is what I am and what (1 am forced to con-
clude) I want to be. I practise law in the same office, with the same
desk, the same books, even the same clients.

Like everyone else, I went to war, came back, went to war again,
and returned to the same books and clients. Like everyone else, I
look back upon the war years as a disrupting but not entirely un-
pleasant interlude. Military intelligence fascinated me, rich as it
was in its exposure to new and exciting experiences.

Politics has likewise fascinated and frustrated me. I missed one
judgeship and refused another — par for the unpredictable game of
politics.

Regretfully do I admit that I have no children, but happily that
I am godfather to many. I am also pleased to report that my French
wife is still attractive, at least to me, ageless, and stubbornly refuses
to grow older and graduate from the sports car stage. Except for
occasional visits to my in-laws in Cannes, life goes on its quiet,

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

rural pace, with not too much achieved but certainly with few dis.
appointments.

HARVEY J. LEBOW

MAILING ADDRESS: Lebow Products Corp., 15 Union St., Lawrence, Mass.

HORACE WEST LEE

HOME ADDRESS: Pleasant Street, North Pembroke, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jordan Marsh Co., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 26, 1914, Waltham, Mass.

prepareD aT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

marRiED: Katharine Gillerte, June 22, 1946, North Pembroke, Mass. CHILDREN:
Emily Ada, Jan. 6, 1948; Donald Gillette, April 14, 1950.

occupaTioN: Fur buyer, Boston department store. -

OFFICES HELD: Captain, Medical Administrative Corps, World War II, director,
Financial Council, N.R.M.A. New York City.

WELL, I didn’t graduate, so from the time I left Harvard shortly
after entering I traveled a year across the U.S., self-supporting by
writing short stories, articles, and newspaper stories to several pub-
lications, now mostly all defunct. Joined the U.S. Marines to see
the world but only lasted nine weeks. Tried my hand at real work
in a family business but gave up after seven years of doing very
little, constructively speaking. Spent four years in the U.S. Army,
in the Medical Corps, saw and participated in initial landings at
Leyte, Philippine Islands, and Okinawa, Ryukyu Retto.

Worked two years in New York City importing Scotch woolens
and cashmere as secretary of a small importing concern with offices
at 1410 Broadway, across from the opera house. Saw several operas
while there. Thence to Boston to apply my rather limp talents to
storaging, merchandising and buying fur, also spelled m-i-n-k. This
has been going on for fourteen years. Make frequent trips to New
York City, commute daily twenty-seven miles, and tend to enjoy
the work ferociously. |

Have a happy twelve-room country house — two cars (1961 Buick
and 1958 Pontiac for wife), two children rapidly becoming teen-

are monsters, several acres of unspectacular scenery, and very little
tine to enjoy it all. Suffer from sinus headache and melancholy for
the old times, before the expressway cut up our pastoral retreat.

[ 664 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hobbies indulged in have been music (piano), gardening, fishing,
and reclaiming a private brook. Also the usual flirtations with

stamp collecting, cross-country hiking, swimming and stereo.
Amen, brothers.

PAUL HARTMANN LEE

HOME apprEss: 5 Berkeley Pl., Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Trak Electronics Co., Inc., Wilton, Conn.

BorN: April 1, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

marriED: Dorothy Winifred Carlson, 1942, Boston, Mass.,; Anne Louise Ken-
nedy, 1950, Fairfax, Va., Beatrice Marcy Sweeney, 1961, Norwalk, Conn.
CHILDREN: Karen Eleanor, May 23, 1949; David Rutherford, May 24, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Joseph Lee, ’40.

OccUPATION: Electronic equipment development and manufacture; vice-presi-
dent in charge of research.

+ ROBERT THORNTON LEE, JR.

BORN: June 21, 1915, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Thornton Lee, ’o9, Eleanor
Hubbard.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

DIED: June 20, 1943, Del Rio, Texas.

ROBERT THORNTON LEE, JR., left Harvard in the spring of
our freshman year. After a short time with Filene’s in Boston, he
joined the Berwind Coal Company in Berwind, West Virginia,
where he remained for a year learning the coal business. He was
then transferred to Duluth, Minnesota, and later to Superior, Wis-
consin, where the company maintained large coal docks and a bri-
quet plant. In March, 1936, he was transferred to the Minneapolis
office of the company and remained there until his enlistment in the
Air Force in September, 1941. After preliminary training as an
aviation cadet and advanced training in Texas, he was commissioned
a second lieutenant and made an instructor. In March, 1943, he was
commissioned first lieutenant and detailed as an instructor to the
Bombardment School in Del Rio, Texas. He died as a result of an
airplane accident. He was survived by his parents.

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ROBERT SNOW LEGGAT

HOME ADRESS: §7 Huckins Ave., Squantum, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 29 Foster St., Quincy, Mass.

porn: Aug. 7, 1913, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS [N COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

starriep: Eunice J. AfcKernon, Sept. 6, 1941, South Hartford, N.Y. cuizpren:
Robert Snow, Jr., Oct. 16, 1946; Bruce C., Oct. 5, 1950.

occupation: Life insurance agent, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; sale
and service of life insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Cub master, Pack 9, Quincy Council, Boy Scouts of America;
member, board of deacons, 1958-59, chairman, 1959, First Church of
Squantum, Congregational.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy; National Association of Life Under-
writers, Boston Chapter.

LIKE all the rest of the Working Class, it seems incredible that it
was twenty-five years ago that I left Harvard to find that the re-
cession of ’37 had made my plans of a future with the USS. Steel
Company disappear into thin air. For more months than I care to
remember, all efforts at obtaining labor were futile. I did have a
pleasant sojourn as a research statistician for a recess commission
of the State legislature. Then a couple of short statistical research
jobs for the local Tax Payers Association and the Chamber of Com-
merce, followed by an appointment as executive secretary of the
Quincy Safety Council. This last was most enjoyable and chal-
lenging but not particularly lucrative-—so when an appointment
to the Graduate School of Traffic Engineering at (pardon the ex-
pression) Yale was nullified by the technicality of my not being
able to return to a definite traffic engineering position, I decided
that the security of an agency with the Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company afforded me my long-sought opportunity to become a
confirmed member of the Working Class.

This was in June, 1939. Life was sweet for a couple of years. |
hecame interested in planning estates and I met a dream crazy
cnough to marry me. Then came the war and a naval commission
with duty on DE’s escorting troops to the European-Africa theatre.
Service as a task group communications officer was pleasant, but
I didn't lose a ship, sink a sub, nor take a swim in the middle of the
Acanric, so T received no decorations. After the war, I returned to
ray avency with the Metropolitan Life full of all the standard cle-
tents for immediate success. In a year T had passed two examina-

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tions for chartered life underwriter as a result of courses at Boston
University, and I was promoted to supervision.

Years of “blood, sweat, and tears” and it was obvious that I had
been dealing with some small men in big positions and further ag-
gravation would be to no avail. So I sold my property in Hyannis-
port on Cape Cod and returned to Quincy in the same Capacity as
I had left it three years earlier — an agent. And so a circle was com-
pleted; only now in place of enthusiasm and ambition I had cyni-
cism and resignation. The social workers would say I became a mem-
ber of the “disguised unemployed” and still am. In an effort to ac-
quire some assets that might get me off the treadmill and at the same
time enable me to render the best possible service to the insuring
public, I resumed my studies for my chartered life underwriter des-
ignation. With luck, by the time of our Great Show I shall have
passed my last examination and be equipped to try for the brass
ring on another merry-go-round or a more comfortable seat on the
same old carousel, and life will be less futile and acquire more pur-
pose. For I shall possess the highest professional designation in the
field of life underwriting — C.L.U.

In rereading this mess, I am afraid I have given the impression that
my twenty-five years have been nothing but dull drudgery keep-
ing one step ahead of the sheriff. This is not true. I have been able
to make a comfortable living; raise two fine healthy sons who aspire
to Harvard degrees; acquire some real estate; serve as chairman of
the Board of Deacons of my church; serve as a Boy Scout leader;
do a little traveling; and have some fun with the family. Yes, in
many ways I am the wealthiest of men, for I have had all this and
excellent health.

RICHARD LEWIS LEHMAN

HOME appreEss: 40 E. Tenth St., New York 3, N.Y.

OFFICE ApprEss: Hanfield, Hillyer & Bell, Inc., 5 W. Eighth St., New York 11,
N.Y.

BORN: March 1, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarrigpD: Elizabeth Bramnick, Sept. 26, 1946, Philadelphia, Pa. cxmp; Ethel,
Sept. 19, 1949.

occuPATION: Real estate broker.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, local chapter, United World Federalists, 1949-513
member, membership committee, New York Realty Board, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; New York Realty Board.

[ 667 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

THE past twenty-five years have passed — as the hymn’s thousand
years — as a day. All has occurred as planned, but rarely by myself.
] started in the real estate business by merest chance; loved it, and
have been in it ever since 1938. The name of the firm has changed
four times but the location, the occupation and the personnel are
the same.

Although I have said that I’ve been doing the same thing for
twenty-three years, this overlooks a good slice of my life spent in
the Army. Of the four years, over three and a half were spent in
Australia, the Islands and the Philippines. Despite my having a
very arbitrary boss, my years of overseas duty were, for the most,

uite endurable.

After 1945, life resumed its old ways, but in 1946 I married Betty,
and our daughter Ethel was born three years later. Unfortunately,
she has been an only child, but appears to keep all as busy watching
her budding talents as a half dozen descendants might.

My hobbies are just about what they were at college — only less
time to indulge them: golf and reading. Twice a week I shuffle a
pinochle deck with an old Army battalion mate who lives on the
same block. I rarely seem to win. At golf, I do a bit better. I’ve
had only one long vacation since graduation — to Europe for three
months in 1937. But the government saw to it, at a later date, that
I should know all the continents but Antarctica.

I have loved my business for the contact with all people of all
types it has given me. I have loved my daughter for the crystal-
ball view of the future she has given me. I have loved my country
for those things that she has been and can be again. And Harvard has
been not the last or least of those I have loved.

GEORGE DAVID LEONARD

HOME ADDRESS: 2682 S.W. Talbot Rd., Portland 1, Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 918 Equitable Bldg., Portland 4, Oregon.

BoRN: Dec. 14, 1914, Minneapolis, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Washburn High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1937.

MaraieD: Betty Taft Lindeman, July 28, 1938, Bennington, Vt. CHILDREN:
David, May 1, 1941; Joan, Dec. 2, 1946, Patricia, Sept, 19, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Attorney, private practice.

meMBeR OF: Multnomah Athletic Club; Portland City Club; American and
Oregon Bar Associations.

[ 668 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOOKING over my shoulder twenty-five years back reminds me
that my wife has been with me for all but the first. Three children
were eventually added to the family, and we have been learning
from them ever since. The years before the war were taken up
with law school and a brief initiation into private practice in Min-
neapolis. |

The war found me in an anti-aircraft unit in the Pacific, and four
years later I came away from this experience considerably impressed
by the high cost of misdirected ammunition.

After returning to private practice, the West finally drew us to
its natural beauty and friendly environment in 1950. Five years’
service in the District and City Attorneys’ offices here in Portland
introduced me to a whole new world that most of us only read
about in the newspapers. Now back in private practice, I find our
two daughters are edging up to college, while our eldest, Dave, is
at Swarthmore.

My hobbies are my family, trying to keep up with what is be-
coming of this world and exploring the magnificent country out
here. Last year we finally found a piece of land in Central Oregon
which, with a cabin built last summer, gives us a headquarters for
recreation in mountains, forests and lakes. We’ve made two trips
to Mexico recently and find it a fascinating place. We hope to re-
turn in time.

I don’t know whether the haunting global crises will permit such
an idyllic existence to continue during the next twenty-five years.

I hope it will. My wife labels me a pessimist but on the last point
I’m optimistic.

JOHN HAMPTON LESLIE

HOME AppREss: 744 Tower Rd., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Signode Steel Strapping Co., 2600 N. Western Ave., Chicago
47, Il.

BORN: June 28, 1914, Evanston, IIl.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Virginia H. Andersen, Aug. 5, 1950, Glen Ridge, N.J. CHILDREN:
James Woodworth, July 23, 1952; Victoria Hall, Dec. 3, 1954.

occupation: Manufacturing executive; president and director, Signode Steel
Strapping Company.

OFFices HELD: Chief engineer, South-Wind Division, Stewart Warner Corpora-
tion, 1941-46, vice-president, Engineering and Research, 1946-49, president,
since 1949, member, board of directors, Signode Steel Strapping Company;

[ 669 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

member, board of directors, Detroit & Canada Tunnel Corporation
American National Bank & Trust Company of Chicago, Union Specia
Machine Company, Chicago Association of Commerce & Industry, Hos-
pital Planning Council of Metropolitan Chicago, Infant Welfare Society
of Chicago, Skokie Valley Community Hospital; trustee, Village of
Winnetka, 1955-59.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Glen View Club; Mid-America Club,

HAVING married late and now the father of a daughter, seven,
and son, nine, the instruction on the Class Questionnaire to list any
grandchildren I might have was unexpected and brings into focus
all too clearly the number of years that have slipped by.

Except for the war, which was spent designing heating and anti-
icing equipment for airplanes, I have worked for one company,
initially in engineering and research. This was more fun than work,
and it is with some regret that I now find myself involved in other
aspects of the business doing more work and having less fun.

I count as one of my blessings the circumstance that I work for
a company with a successful profit-sharing plan. This form of busi-
ness partnership between labor and management that seems to per-
vade many manufacturing organizations and so has added much to
the satisfaction of business life.

I have had one adventure in public service which began inno-
cently enough when, with a feeling of civic duty, I agreed to
stand for election as a trustee of the Village of Winnetka. Shortly

after my election, the issue arose as to whether the village should
sell the municipally-owned electric power plant to a public utility.
The trustees believed it should and the advocates of public power
thought it should not. The battle was joined, and one election and
two referendums later the proponents of free enterprise lost. It was
a good fight.

My favorite diversion is flying. Leading a sedentary life, to me
setting out on an island-hopping trip through the Caribbean or the
Bahamas or a tour of Mexico or Alaska is real adventure. My under-
standing wife and, sometimes, unsuspecting friends accompany me
on these trips, keeping up my courage by complimentary observa-
tions about my skill while reminding me to lower the landing gear.

Family vacations have been spent on a ranch in Wyoming riding,
fishing and enjoying the spectacular scenery. Under pressure from
the children I have taken up baseball, ice-skating and, perhaps,

sliing again, but it does not appear that I shall be any more success-
ful than before. Hfowever, we do have one athlete in the family.

[ 670 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our daughter, Vicki, takes after her mother and generally wins the
foot race at class day picnics.

The great pleasures and rewards of a family are hard to write
about, but as the years go by they increasingly provide the meaning
for one’s life. After twenty-five years I have forgotten exactly
what my plans and hopes on graduation were, but they could not
have contemplated any more luck and good fortune than has come
my way.

STANLEY MELVIN LEVENSON

HOME ADDRESS: 140 Apawamis Ave., Rye, N.Y.

OFFICE ADprEss: Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, N.Y.

BorN: May 25, 1916, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; M.D. cum laude,
1941.

MarriED: Eleanor Belloff, Jan. 12, 1942, Concord, N.H. cumpren: Toby D.,
March 3, 1943; Laurie P., Jan. 28, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Irving Casper Levenson, ’34, LL.B., ’38.

occuPATION: Professor of surgery, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, visit-
ing surgeon, Bronx Municipal Center.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Dept. of Radiobiology, Army Medical Nutrition Labora-
tory, Chicago, 1947-52; associate editor, Nutrition Reviews, 1952-56; chair-
man, Subcommittee on Burns and Radiation Injury, Committee on Thera-
peutic Nutrition, National Research Council Food & Nutrition Board,
1949-50; member, Subcommittee on Trauma, Liver Commission, Armed
Forces Epidemiological Board, 1952-55; chief, Dept. of Surgical Metabolism,
1953-58, associate director, Dept. of Germfree Research, 1956-58, chief,
Dept. of Surgical Metabolism and Physiology, 1958-61, director, Dept. of
Germfree Research, 1958-61, Division of Basic Surgical Research, 1961,
Walter Reed Army Institute of Research; director, Surgical Metabolic
Research Laboratory, Georgetown University School of Medicine, Wash-
ington, D.C., 1958-61; member, National Research Council Committee on
Trauma, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery; American Board of Nutrition; Ameri-
can Society for Clinical Investigation; Surgical Biology Club; American
Association for the Advancement of Science; New York Academy of
Sciences; Massachusetts Medical Society; American Institute of Nutrition;
American Society of Clinical Nutrition; American Medical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: About one hundred publications in various scientific journals.

MY interest in medical research led me to the Harvard Medical
School, where I was able to continue my investigative work with
Dr. George Hitchings, who had been my tutor at college. During
my senior year, the exigencies of war resulted in my working with

[ 671 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Dr. Cecil Drinker on the development of a high-altitude mask for
our Armed Services. We heard, with mixed emotions, that Jimmy
Doolittle and his men used our mask on the Tokyo raid.

After a surgical internship at the Beth Israel Hospital in Bos-
ton, I went to ’ the Boston City Hospital to work with Dr. Charles
Lund on an osrp-sponsored burn study. My introduction to burns
came quickly; six days after I arrived we admitted 132 victims of
the Coconut Grove fire. The horrors of that Saturday night and
of the weeks that followed set the stage for our burn studies for the
next three years.

Then back to my surgical residency program, along with re-
search activities as a medical fellow at the Thorndike Memorial
Laboratory. In 1947, I went to the Army Medical Nutrition Labo-
ratory in Chicago to organize a Department of Radiobiology, and
in 1949, I went to the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond to
lead an Army Research Unit, studying the metabolic and nutritional
problems of severely injured patients. In 1952, I went to Korea to
study wounds, renal failure, and infections among the wounded
U.N. troops. Then to the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research
in Washington, D.C., for eight years, where I continued my full-
time investigative work, studying various surgical, physiologic and
metabolic problems. This was interrupted briefly in 1954 when I
returned to Korea to study hemorrhagic fever.

In 1957, while still at Walter Reed, I assumed direction of a unique
new laboratory, the Department of Germfree Research. There
various animals may be raised, bred, and studied in a germfree en-
vironment, or in an environment purposely contaminated in a con-
trolled fashion with one or more known microbes. By this means,
the effect of specific microbes on fundamental metabolic, immuno-
logic, and physiologic responses may be determined and the in-
terrclationships among various microorganisms and their hosts es-
tablished. In September of 1961, under uNnEsco sponsorship, I went
to Russia, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Belgium, Italy, and West Ger-
many to discuss the techniques and potentials of germfree research.

A surprising trip.

I left Walter Reed in the fall of 1961, to join the Department of
Surgery at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York,
ro fill a long desire to be back in active undergraduate medical
teaching, It is an exciting experience, despite the headaches and
frustrations of getting new laboratorics, including a germfree one,
and research wards started.

[ 672 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For a few weeks during each of the last five summers, I have been
camp physician at a children’s camp in West Virginia — a welcome
respite from the hospital practice of medicine.

I met my wife Eleanor during my medical school days. She was
a surgical nurse at the Beth Israel Hospital. We have two daughters,
Toby, a sophomore at Pembroke, and Laurie, a junior at Rye High
School, and a female poodle.

JACOB LEVINE

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 40 Jamaicaway, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

LEVINE has been carried as a “Lost” man on our records since 1943.

HAROLD LEVITIN

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Knollwood Drive, New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hillhouse High School, Sherman Parkway, New Haven, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1912, New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: James Hillhouse High School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MarriED: Lois Goldberg, April 6, 1941, New Haven, Conn. cHi_pren: Marjorie
Sue, Aug. 29, 1943; Alan Jay, May 2, 1946.

occuPATION: Educator; mathematics instructor, Hillhouse High School; director
of youth activities, B’nai Jacob Synagogue.

OFFICES HELD: Corresponding secretary, Teachers’ Committee on Human Rela-
tions, 1956-58; chairman of youth activities, B’nai Jacob Synagogue, 1956-
60; chairman, Camp Ramah Scholarship Committee, 1958.

MEMBER OF: New England Association of Mathematics Teachers; Association
of High School Teachers; National Association of Mathematics Teachers;
former member, American Camping Association and Association of Private
Camps.

FOR me, writing a class biography is one hell of a job; however,
since I have been prodded by letters and cards from Cambridge,
write I will!

Relating my successes and omitting my failures makes this indi-
vidual history a short one. After graduation, my main endeavors
(although I have been sidetracked a few times) have been in the
recreational and educational fields — school teaching, camp direct-
ing, and directing youth activities in institutions. From 1946 to
1960, I was co-owner and co-director of Camp Chippewa, Enfield,
New Hampshire. Camp supplemented my Harvard education by

[ 673 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

giving me practical courses in business practices, human relations and
salesmanship.

My present school teaching chores take place at Hillhouse High
School (enrollment approximately 2,000) in the mathematics de-
partment, where I enjoy teaching college preparatory courses
(especially accelerated math). With five teaching classes which
include four different preparations daily, supervising duties, clerical
details, twenty-seven minutes, from bell to bell, for lunch, and
an extracurricular activity as adviser of the largest club in school
(Human Relations Club — approximately 200 members), I find
time passes quickly during school hours.

To supplement my study of the innovations in the teaching of
mathematics, I am attending Fairfield University Graduate School
once weekly for a course in analysis, under a grant by the National
Science Foundation. On a part-time basis I am directing the youth
activities at B’nai Jacob Synagogue (a new edifice in a new, lovely
location, Woodbridge, Connecticut).

Roller skating, bowling, socials and meetings of groups find me
involved with refreshing youngsters on a daily basis. Presently, I
am serving on the Religious School Committee, and the Camp Ramah
Scholarship Committee at the synagogue.

Great things are happening in the New Haven educational sys-
tern. Being set into motion is a plan to regroup the grades in individual
schools: kindergarten through fourth grade, fifth grade through
eighth grade, and ninth through twelfth grades. A new building
program includes a third new high school. I was appointed to serve
on the building committee of the new high school. The new
buildings and a proposed change in the teaching methods in the
public schools will bring about many upheavals in the near future
— which will undoubtedly affect my future.

In between educational and recreational pursuits, from 1942 to
1946, My career veered into the office of the Inspector of Naval
Materials, New Haven, where I started as an inspector of engineer-
ing materials, then changed to a materials expediter, and then fin-
ished working with contract terminations. At the end of the war,
camp and educational pursuits beckoned, and I returned to them.

Fimbellishing, garnishing and spicing my existence are my family
of four: Lois; wife, long-suffering (fifteen years of camp life and
twenty-two years of married life), understanding and still beauti-

ful. Married April 6, 1941. Marjorie, vivacious daughter, born
Aucust 29, 1943, freshman at Smith College. Loves everything at

[ 674]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Smith! Won D.A.R. award twice, and outstanding junior girl award
(the Elmira award) while a student at high school. Alan; number
one son, born May 2, 1946, sophomore in high school, exceptional
athlete, musically and scientifically inclined. Greatest interest in
meteorology and sports. Presently limping around recovering from
a torn knee cartilage. Tabby; cocker spaniel, date of birth either
October, 1952, or October, 1953. As much a member of the family
as any of us. Does not go to school.

Perhaps in the next twenty-five years, when the soth Anniversary
Report is published, I shall be in a position to write of my active
participation in Class and Harvard functions. Amen!

LAURENCE HERTZEL LEVY

HOME ADDRESS: 302 Oak Lane, Richmond, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Modern Woodwork, Inc., 600 E. Cary St., Richmond, Va.

BorN: March 12, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; M.B.A., 1939-

MarRiED: Nancy Ruth Galeski, July 3, 1945, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: John
Bruce, July 15, 1947; Allen Walter, Aug. 10, 1951; Raymond Laurence,
July 22, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Modern Woodwork, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Business School Section, Harvard Club of
Virginia, 1960; member, Board of Managers, Jefferson-Lakeside Country
Club, 1956-59, Beth Ahabah, 1955-58; member, Virginia Committee, Na-
tional Jewish Hospital, 1961; regional director, A.D.L., since 1957; director,
Modern Woodwork, since 1949, Modern School Equipment, since 1960,
Virginia Capital Corporation, since 1960, Richmond Clay Products, since
1961, The Avalon Hill Company, since 1961; assistant manager, partner,
General Investors, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Virginia; Jefferson-Lakeside Country Club;
Downtown Club; Richmond First Club.

DEAN JAMES LEWIS

HOME ApDpDRESS: 50 Bedlow Ave., Newport, RI.

OFFICE AppRESS: Lewis & O’Brien, 42 Spring St., Newport, R.I.

BORN: June 3, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rogers High School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. C117 latede, 1937; LL.B. 1943.

MarRIED: Lillian Chamales, June 25, 1944, Chicago, Ill. cumtpren: Helene C.,

March 10, 1947; James D., Oct. 20, 1948; Theodore T., April 12, 1950;
Katherine C., Nov. 16, 1955.

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occupation: Attorney-at-Law (private practice).

orrices HELD: Director, Newport County Chamber of Commerce, 1949-5),
Mary Street YMCA, 1949-50, Armed Services YMCA, 1950-54; president,
board of trustees, St. Spyridon’s Church, 1949-50; mayor, City of Newport,
1950-§3; Campaign chairman, first vice-president, Community Chest, t9s0;
member, New High School Commission, 1950-58; chairman, Newport Re-
publican Ciry Committee, 1955-61; Newport County chairman, National
Foundation (March of Dimes), 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Rhode Island Republican State Central Committee; Order of
Ahepa; Lion’s Club; St. Paul’s Lodge, F. & A.M.; Rhode Island Bar Asso.
ciation; Rogers High School Alumni Association; Newport Lodge, No,
104, B.P.O.E.: Newport Post No. 7, American Legion; Conover-Leary
Post, V.F.W.; North End Club; Excelsior Lodge, 1.0.0.F.; Wm. T.
Bull Memorial Sportsmen’s Club; Newport Junior Chamber of Commerce,
1950-52; Harvard Club of Rhode Island.

EVERY cloud has a silver lining, and in the early days of World
War II, while I was being shuffled around by Uncle Sam’s Navy,
as a “ninety-day wonder,” I had the good fortune to meet my wife,
the former Lillian Chamales of Wilmette, Ilinois. She has been a
most constructive influence while bringing forth two sons and two
daughters — the source of many joys and exasperations.

Although accepted at Harvard Law School upon college gradua-
tion in 1937, I decided stubbornly to fight my way in the practical
world, with jobs in private industry and in state government for
three years, before entering law school in 1940. Like countless
others, I experienced the shock and confusion of law school inter-
ruption, when I entered the Navy in early 1942. The next three and
one-half years were spent with motor torpedo boats on the east
coast, Panama and the South Pacific during the Solomon Islands
campaign. It was my good fortune to meet many excellent young
Americans during my wartime naval service, including President
Jack Kennedy, who played such an important role in this program.
During the past fifteen years, I have been cheered and comforted
frequently at reunions with many of my Navy colleagues.

My legal career started in 1947, when I hung up my shingle here
in Newport, Rhode Island, where I also dabbled in politics with
varying degrees of success. This is a true cosmopolitan city and the
Opportunities are great in spite of its small size (pop. 45,000). Here
one meets people of local, state, national, and international reputa-
tion.

After espousing the cause of Dwight D. Eisenhower in the prima
rics of the tgs2 election, I served as chairman of the Rhode Island
delegation to the Republican National Convention in Chicago and

[ 676 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

saw my man prevail. I enjoyed the Republican national conventions
in 1956 and 1960 almost as well, but there was a real thrill in the
triumph of 1952 — so much so, in fact, that I dared to compete for
and to be selected as the Republican nominee for governor of Rhode
Island in 1954. There I met my Waterloo, when I was defeated by
a well-oiled Democratic machine and the well-entrenched experi-
enced “pro” who was then the incumbent governor. Campaigning
and electioneering, I found, are fascinating even to the vanquished.
Since then, I have remained active at the state level in Republican
politics and have enjoyed it, just as anyone of us enjoys the hunt
and the chase. Democrats have monopolized Rhode Island politics
for thirty years.

Hobbies. Family vacations, Little League activities and school
PTA programs have taken up most of my spare time during the past
ten years and it has been fun, even though I am not a golf and
bridge man. Like most lawyers, I have given much time also to civic
activities and projects of a worthwhile and community nature.

In matters of religion, I have remained active as a church layman in
the affairs of my parish (Eastern Orthodox) and of the Greek com-
munity in general at the local, state and regional levels.

The practice of law is an excellent calling. It has given me much
insight and an insatiable curiosity toward many matters, It stimu-
lates one’s imagination and observations to the point where additional
investigation leads to a lively personal interest in the subject at hand.
There is no time or place for boredom, as I find myself concerned
with people and what they do, their problems, likes and dislikes.
As many have said before, and many will say again, I wouldn’t trade
it for the world.

MALCOLM EARL LEWIS

HOME ApprEss: R.D. 3, Reading, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y.

BORN: April 14, 1916, West Windsor, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. C47 laude, 1937.

MarRIED: Margaret Provandie, Oct. 2, 1937, Melrose, Mass. cHILpreN: Pamela
P,, June 22, 1939; Margaret R., Aug. 19, 1945.

occuPATION: Management consultant.

MEMBER OF: Various associations, mostly in the field of management.

EXCEPT for a couple of years with a major oil company in New
York, immediately after the war and a two-year excursion into the

[ 677 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

textile business, | have worked at management consulting, first with
a large firm in New York and Boston, then for the past several
years as an individual or working with a relatively small group in
Pennsylvania and New York.

The circumstances that led to the acquiring of a historic but
somewhat inaccessible Pennsylvania Dutch farmhouse are not easy
to explain to the man on the street, even if he should show interest.
Nor is it easy to reason how and why the barn, which was empty
and prissy clean when we arrived seven years ago, began with one
horse and went to five, none of them docile. The ram, Custer,
stands among ewes, one of which is addicted to a breach birth each
season over which I] have learned to preside. Clair Booth Goose
arrived one Easter disguised as a chicken and now dominates the
barnyard. A Great Dane was smuggled in while I was in San Fran-
cisco on the basis that we were holding it for a friend in Boston who
is crazy about them. This was three years ago, and I have not been
able to sit in my large chair by the fireplace since.

Current headquarters are in Rockefeller Plaza, which would make
a Pennsylvania residence seem impractical, except that travel is the
essence of consulting and much of the present practice is with air-
lines, oil companies, and the like.

What really grows one up is the children. Our eldest is Pam,
whose rather diverse education has taken her from the University
of Montpellier in the south of France to the University of Kansas,
where she is now teaching and studying for her A.M. and has be-
come very grown up herself in most respects. Margaret, our sixteen-
year-old, takes after her mother in being an excellent horsewoman
and very fond of the social activities that gladden the feminine
heart. So our existence is partly urban, partly rural, somewhat con-
fused, rather exhausting at times, and sufficiently eventful to make
the time pass all too quickly.

+ THOMAS LOTHROP LEWIS

Boan: May 30, 1914, Boston, Mass. pasents: Frederic Thomas Lewis, ’97, Ethel
Stickney.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

Manatep (divorced), CHILDREN: Linda Helen, May 19, 1943; Neilsen Valdemar,

Jan. 3, 1947
binp: Nov. 42, 1947, Newton, Mass.

[678 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEWIS spent but one year with our Class. In 1941 he volunteered
for Army service and three years later received a disability discharge,
after spending some time in Army hospitals. During his Army
career he served as a chief clerk in the Adjutant General’s head-
quarters of the First Engineer Special Brigade of the Seventh Army
in Sicily, having gone there from North Africa on “invasion day.”

RICHARD LEWISORN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1192 Park Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Venus Pen & Pencil Corp., 50 W. 44th St, New York 36,
N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937 (38).

MARRIED: Ruth Frankenthaler, Oct. 16, 1939, New York, N.Y. cHrLprEN:
Richard, 3d, May 25, 1942; Aileen H., Dec. 13, 1943; Clifford, June 6, 1950.

occuPaTION: President, Venus Pen & Pencil Corporation, manufacturers and
distributors of writing instruments.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1950, president, Lead Pencil Manufacturers As-
sociation; executive member, 9th Assembly District Republican Organiza-
tion, New York City, since 1959; member, New York State Council on
Youth, since 1960; trustee, Home for Aged, since 1961, Manhattanville
Community Centers, Inc. since 1961 (both New York City), member,
Public Relations Committee, Young Presidents’ Organization, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Century Country Club, Westchester; Royal Auto-
mobile Club, London; American Society of Mechanical Engineers; local
Republican Clubs.

I SHALL not repeat the biographical sketch which has previously
appeared in various Class Reports. Rather, I shall try to mention
the few highlights that stand out over the past quarter century:

(1) 1937. The first day on the job. Salary thirteen dollars per
week, and, believe it or not, I was able to save a little.

(2) 1939. Wedding day.

(3) 1940. Being injected in a completely uninitiated state into
major labor negotiations in the midst of a strike. This
experience has proved invaluable, both in the operation
of the business itself, gaining the respect of business
associates, and as a basis for various forms of negotiat-
ing which I have been called upon to do.

(4) 1941. Pearl Harbor. Subsequent energetic attempts to enter
various arms of the service, with repeated rejections duc

[ 679]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

to certain physical defects which apparently bothered
Uncle Sam as well as me.

(5) 1942. Birth of first child— our elder boy, now a sophomore
at the University of North Carolina—six feet two
inches, 195 pounds, and fast.

(6) 1943. Birth of second child—our daughter, now a freshman
at Hollins College, Roanoke, Virginia.

(7) 1949. Elected president of Venus Pen & Pencil Corporation,
after sudden death of previous president, Joseph S.
Reckford (’24).

(8) 1950. Birth of younger son — last remaining candidate of the
family for admission to Harvard.

(9) 1952. Elected president of Lead Pencil Manufacturers Asso-
ciation.

(10) 1953. Acquisition of Linton Pencil Company; and moving of
major manufacturing operation to Tennessee.

(11) 1958. One of original sponsors of now Congressman John V.
Lindsay’s entry into primary, and subsequent election.

(12) 1959. Elected leader of oth Assembly (“Silk Stocking”) Dis-
trict, New York County.

(13) 1960. Appointed by Governor Rockefeller to New. York
State Youth Commission, now known as New York
State Council on Youth.

All of which proves that the old treadmill is still functioning. Just
about the greatest pleasure has been derived from the occasional
meeting with the Class and other representatives getting ready for
the forthcoming Reunion.

I travel abroad a great deal, primarily on business (natch). We
have establishments in England, France, Canada and Mexico; in ad-
dition to California and Tennessee.

Hobbies other than politics continue to be golf, hunting and
fishing. I keep promising myself to devote more time to these than
heretofore, and would appreciate any suggestions as to how to im-
plement this promise.

JACOB JOHN LICHMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 353 New Sc., Macon, Ga.

orice appaess: Directorate of Historical Services, Continental Air Command,
Robins AFB, Ga.

poss: Nov. 52, 1912, Keene, N.H.

[ 680 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Keene High School, Keene, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937;

A.M., 1939.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Federal Civil Service; director of Historical Services, Continental
Air Command, Robins AFB.

MEMBER OF: Social Friends Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Air Force Association,

‘puBuicaTions: Article on Air Force Rest Centers in Flying, June 1944; “conac:
The First Decade,” in Air Reservist, December, 1958.

MINE is certainly no spectacular success story to tell. Indeed, on
second thought, I am not even sure that it is a story at all.

A few months after war broke out at Pearl Harbor, I was ushered,
with a big assist from Selective Service, into the Army Air Forces.
My magna cum laude in history seemed best to equip me, initially
at least, for an assignment in the parachute packing section. It was
soon apparent that like any good Harvard man I was destined for
bigger things, and I was transferred into intelligence. After in-
telligence came assignments in base inspection, special services, and
historical. My work in writing the histories of Harding Field, Baton
Rouge, Louisiana, brought me to the attention of Headquarters,
Second Air Force, in Colorado Springs, and I was invited to join the
Second Air Force’s historical staff. After separation in December,
1945, I returned to the same job in the same office, in the same head-
quarters in a civilian capacity. In October, 1947, I took charge of
the historical division in Headquarters, Tactical Air Command, at
Langley AFB, Virginia. In March, 1949, I accepted an offer to
direct the historical program in the Continental Air Command,
newly-formed at Mitchel Air Force Base, New York. The Com-
mand Headquarters, and I with it, were moved in April, 1961, to
Robins Air Force Base, Georgia, seventeen miles south of Macon.

My interest in the piano remains as keen as ever, although my
professional career ended in 1947. (My last stand was at the Broad-
moor Hotel in Colorado Springs.) Last year I auditioned some orig-
inal compositions for Warren Brown of Leeds Music Publishers,
who, sad to relate, seemed more impressed with my versatility at
the keyboard than with my compositions. Nonetheless, he sug-
gested that I give a repeat performance for Leonard Altman, head
of the piano department at Leeds. Perhaps by the time the next
Class Report is published, I may be able to give an account of the
outcome.

[ 681 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PHILIP ALFRED LIEF

HOME ADDRESS: 54 Marion Ave., Mount Vernon, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mfount Sinai Hospital, New York, N.Y.

BorN: May 12, 1917, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. (New York Univ.), 1941.

marrieD: Lila Ehrich, March 27, 1955. CHILDREN: William Elihu, March 323,
1956; Louise Joy, Oct. 15, 1957; Gerald Arthur, April 25, 1961.

occupaTION: Associate attending anesthesiologist, Mount Sinai Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Anesthesiology (diplomate); Royal Society
of Medicine (fellow); New York Academy of Medicine (fellow); Ameri-
can Society for Pharmacology and Therapeutics, American Society of
Anesthesiologists; International Anesthesia Research Society; American
College of Chest Physicians (fellow).

UNITED STATES Army Active Service: July 8, 1942 — February
9, 1946. Anesthetist, 3d Auxiliary Surgical Group, First Army.
Battles and Campaigns — Ardennes, Normandy, Northern Europe,
Rhineland. Citations — American Service Medal, Croix de Guerre
avec Palme, Distinguished Unit Badge, Meritorious Service Placque,
World War II Victory Medal.

Established the Division of Anesthesiology, University of Col-
orado Medical Center, Denver, Colorado.

WILLIAM VINCENT LINDE

HOME aporess: Underhill Center, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 86 St. Paul St., Burlington, Vt.

BorN: Feb. 3, 1916, Westport, Conn,

PREPARED AT: LeRosey School, Rolle, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES:S.B., cum laude, 1937; B.ARCH., 1939.

marriep: Elizabeth Everts, March, 1941, Chestnut Hill, Mass. (divorced 1951);
Irene Cornell, Feb. 28, 1952, New York, N.Y, cuitoren: W. Carey, May
14, 1942; Elizabeth, Dec. 9, 1944; R. Philip, Nov. 18, 1953; Robert C., May
31, 1955; Ann, June 28, 1961.

occupation: Architect; partner.

oFFices HELD: Member, Underhill Democratic Town Committee, Chittenden
County Democratic Committee.

member oF: Vermont Association of Architects, Massachusetts Society of
Architects; American Institute of Architects; Harvard Club of Vermont;
Ethan Allen Club.

LIFE since the Twentieth Anniversary Report in tg57 has changed
very little. My office has moved from Essex Junction to Burlington,
Vermont. I have acquired another partner, Charles J. Hubbard, ’45,

[ 682 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and a new daughter, Ann. After five years in Vermont, my practice
has become reasonably well established. This, I understand from
the natives, is pretty good going for a “suntanner.” As in every-
thing else, however, there is a price to pay, as I seem to find less
time to indulge in fishing, hunting, skiing and the many other
wonderful recreational facilities that lie at our doorstep and for
which, among other things, we moved to Vermont.

I cannot help but observe that we were in college during the ad-
ministration of a Harvard man in the White House, and we prepare
for our Twenty-fifth with another. Personally, the fact that they
are both Democrats is gratifying. Since moving to Vermont I have
become more active in politics. I find it very good for the soul to
try to practise some of the things that I have been preaching in the
general area of the citizen’s political responsibilities. The fact that
we might actually bring Vermont into the community of states
enjoying the two-party system makes it all the more interesting.
(Deep South, please note!)

Needless to say, the biggest thing in my life, as I am sure it is
with most of us, is my family. What with five children ranging in
age from twenty down to less than one year, we are daily faced
with a broad variety of crises. By the time we have our Fiftieth
my kids may finally be through college.

DAVID RODMAN LINDSAY

HOME appreEss: ror Hickory Hill Rd., P.O. Box 36, Tappan, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESs: American Salesman, Inc., 355 Lexington Ave, New York 17,
N.Y.

BORN: May 31, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cu7e laude, 1937.

MarRiED: Alice Nelson, March 23, 1951, New York, N.Y. curworen: Eric, July
27, 1944 (stepson); Peter, July 8, 1952; Ann, Oct. 9, 1954; Sarah Maude,
March 19, 1958.

occuPATION: Editor and publisher, Tbe American Salesman, monthly profes-
sional magazine for salesmen.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Career Guidance Committee, Sales & Marketing

Executives, member, Education Committee, Sales Executives Club of New
York.

MEMBER OF: Nyack Boat Club, Nyack, N.Y.

PuBLicaTions: Articles in many magazines, including: The American Salesman,
This Week, Holiday, Popular Science, Pageant, Coronet, Collier's; Public
Affairs Pamphlet on Civil Service; paper books on boats.

[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

WITHOUT any definite goal in mind, I found myself, after
getting a degree in economics, working for Newsweek. I’ve been in
the magazine business ever since, not counting four years out for
some mild naval adventures (destroyers), for a year of graduate
study in philosophy at Columbia, for ghost-writing a book for a
corporate vice-president, and for a short experiment in combining
business with pleasure by business-managing a fancy yacht yard.
I've worked in New York, Des Moines and Washington (where I]
met an earlier Harvard President) on the staffs of Newsweek, Look,
PA, Consumer Reports, Pageant. Several years were also spent
free-lancing, an uncertain but challenging and satisfying way of
life I never intended to abandon but drifted out of when I became
a consultant to The American Salesman.

As a bachelor, I managed to do a lot of sailing, first in picturesque
Friendship sloop, later in a large, very tender modified Chesapeake
Bay sailing canoe. For years my wife was unenthusiastic about
sailing, which was fortunate economically speaking. Now she’s
becoming converted and we have a small sailboat we drag several
thousand miles a year behind us on a trailer.

When I was free-lancing, I once did a series on education and
visited several colleges and universities, coming away impressed
with many and possessing a considerably less parochial view of
education than I'd had before.

My life has really been a close-to-typical chronicle of middle-class
America. Jobs. Marriage. Children. Suburban life, including long
commute, various stints as chairman of local Citizens Committee
for Public Schools, local World Federalists Chapter, canvass chair-
man of Unitarian Church, political worker (Stevensonian Demo-
crat), and even a few years as Cub Scout leader. My wife was
formerly an artist and potter, but with so many children found
herself pretty well stuck with housekeeping. We're in the do-it-
yourself ranks, having built two garages and done a great deal of
work on our present house.

Six years ago we took up vacation camping, managing to take
off four or five weeks a summer for several years for long treks to
Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, a place with which we fell in
love. There we now own a couple of beautiful beaches and some
really wild land. But even in the last six years this nineteenth-
century corner has been infected with civilization in the form of the
internal combustion engine, TV, etc. (When we first visited, the

[ 684]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

farmers on our road used horses for both farming and trans-
ortation.)

If the Lindsays are typical, we're also standard mavericks. We
don’t do a lot of the things considered standard in this country, but
we've discovered that there are millions of others who don’t either.
Once we had two TV sets, still have one, but neither Alice nor
J have ever seen most of the name shows. Instead we have a house-
ful of magazines and a growing supply of paperbacks, which must
be par since the stock market analysts say publishing is a hot in-
dustry. We believe in public education, but we have a boy in a
New England boarding school (with a headmaster from Harvard,
of course). We make more money now than ever, but we're con-
tinually broke and more so than ever.

All of us, kids included, have in our minds long lists of projects
we'd like to get to if we could find the time (and possibly the
money). Among them: For Alice, illustrating children’s books
and again making pottery; for Eric, going to Africa, buying and
fixing up an old MG; for Peter, building a boat bigger than our
present fourteen-foot cat; for me, writing innumerable partly out-
lined articles, stories, books. It almost seems as if we've hardly had
time to get started on life. I feel definitely that it’s far too soon for
the Twenty-fifth Reunion; I'll be ready and have, I hope, much
more interesting things to say a couple of decades from now.

ARTHUR JOSEPH LINENTHAL

HOME ADDRESS: 206 Gerry Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1265 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: July 19, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cl laude, 1937; MD. cum laude,
1941.

MaRRIED: Eleanor Tabor, March 7, 1946 (divorced 1952); Violet Beye Lert,

. May 27, 1955. CHILDREN: Edward Tabor, Nov. 6, 1947; Barbara Lett, Dec.

16, 1953; Richard Alan, June 15, 1956.

OccuPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha; American Medical Association; Massachusetts
Medical Society.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Medical School in 1941 I served

as a medical house officer at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston from

September, 1941, to September, 1942, and then as assistant resident
in medicine at the Massachusetts General Hospital from October,

[ 685 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

1942, to January, 1944. Then from February, 1944, to June, 1946,
1 worked as clinical fellow in the MGH unit of the extensive
government wartime malaria program. Our work involved the
testing of new, potentially valuable anti-malarial drugs in conscien-
tious objectors who had volunteered for these studies.

During this period I was on the staff of the MGH (assistant in
medicine, 1944-46) and started teaching Harvard Medical School
students (assistant in medicine, HMS, 1944-46). Oddly enough,
although my main field of interest was internal medicine, my work
on anti-malarial drugs led to some interesting pediatric experience
because of my association with Dr. Allan M. Butler (HMS 1926),
chief of the Children’s Medical Service at the MGH, who directed
the malaria unit. Dr. Butler felt that an internist could treat older
children who are really only little adults. For one month a year,
from 1945 to 1959, 1 made daily ward rounds with the house staff
on the Children’s Medical Service at the MGH (assistant to Chil-
dren’s Medical Service, 1946-49; associate physician to Children’s
Medical Service, 1950-59; consulting pediatrician, Massachusetts
Eye and Ear Infirmary, 1950-59).

In July, 1946, after the malaria unit closed, I returned to the
Beth Israel Hospital, which still continues to be the focus of my
professional life — the practice of internal medicine, teaching, and
research, At the hospital, 1 have been associate in medicine from
1946 to 1955, associate visiting physician from 1956 to 1958, and
visiting physician since 1959. I was certified by the American
Board of Internal Medicine in 1954. For a number of years, until his
death in 1954, I was fortunate to be able to practise medicine in
association with my father, Dr. Harry Linenthal (Harvard 1900,
Harvard Medical School 1904, physician-in-chief at Beth Israel Hos-
pital from 1928 to 1946). The example of his superb character, his
uncompromising standards, and his paramount interest in the wel-
fare of his patients will always be with me.

My HMS teaching responsibilities have increased over the years:
instructor in pharmacology, 1946-49; instructor in medicine, 1946-

54; clinical associate in medicine, 1954-60; tutor in medical science,
1960-61, and assistant clinical professor of medicine since 1960. In
addition, from 1948 to 1960, I was instructor in medicine at Tufts
College School of Medicine. Since 1946 I have been an associate
in medical research at Beth Isracl. My research interests have been
in the physiology and pharmacology of cardiac impulse formation
and conduction, and in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias. Since

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1953 I have worked closely with Paul M. Zoll (Harvard 1932,
Harvard Medical School 1936) in studies of the effects of electric
currents on the heart. There have been numerous publications in
professional journals.

Another extremely satisfying activity, stimulated by my own
hearing loss but quite unrelated to my medical work, has been my
association for about ten years with the Boston Guild for the Hard
of Hearing. The purpose of this organization, a Red Feather agency
and a chapter of the American Hearing Society, is to help in the
rehabilitatiorf of people with impaired hearing. Voluntary health
agencies of this sort need the active interest of lay and professional
community members. I have served on an Advisory Committee,
on the Board of Directors, and now for three years as president.

Vi says that I spend fifty percent of my time in practice, fifty
percent in teaching, and fifty percent in research! Certainly the
time left for her and the children is never enough. However, I only
wish that all families could be as happy as we are and all marriages
as wonderful as ours.

MICHAEL LINENTHAL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS; 1412 Jackson St., San Francisco, Calif.
BORN: Aug. 17, 1916, Roxbury, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933--1937- DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B. 1944-
UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: Mark Linenthal, Jr., ’43, A.M. 47.
OCCUPATION: Artist.

OFFICES HELD: President, Woodstock Playhouse, Inc., 1946-52; treasurer, Boston
Repertory Association, 1947-48, v vice-chairman, Poets’ Theater, Cambridge,
1957-59:

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; Actors’ Workshop, San Francisco.

EXCEPT for the study and practice of law for a brief stint after the

war, my life has been principally devoted to the Arts. In the theatre,

my functions have ranged from the managerial and fiscal to the
purely interpretive and creative. After managing the Woodstock

Playhouse, organizing and administering the Boston Repertory As-

sociation, writing three plays, acting and directing in my own

theatre and elsewhere, a previously non-professional interest in the
visual arts came to occupy my full time and, surprisingly, has come
to earn me my livelihood. As painter, I have had several shows and,

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

most recently, I have developed a technique for creating what I can
best describe as a contemporary counterpart of stained glass.

My travels have taken me several times to the European con-
tinent and to England. I lived in England from 1954 through 1956,
awaiting production of two of my plays. On my return, I lived in
Cambridge and then, in 1959, decided to transplant roots in San
Francisco, a city with a plenitude of hills and a plethora of preten-
sions but easy to live in and work.

My father and mother, who celebrated the fiftieth anniversaries
of their Harvard and Radcliffe classes, respectively, in 1957 and
1961, are about to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of their marriage
in a few days in Cambridge, whither I shall be bound in a few hours
to join them. My family of the younger generation consists of two
nieces and four nephews, not to mention my enchanting, insane
and utterly spoiled weimaraner, Bruno, who dominates my life and
has, in his short life, become one of San Francisco’s first citizens and
is unquestionably its most colorful and well-bred.

I am less afraid of the possible ravages of nuclear weapons than
I am of our national addiction to easy answers to forgotten questions.
Without memory there is no hope, and the redundancy of sales-

manship and the senumentality of tradesmen suggests to me no
substitutes.

HENRY BAILEY LITTLE, I

MAILING ADDRESS: 415 Douglass St., San Francisco 14, Calif.

ROBERT ANDREWS LITTLE

HOME appress: Pepper Ridge Road, Pepper Pike, Cleveland 24, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 11900 Shaker Bivd., Cleveland 20, Ohio.
Born: Sept. 9, 1915, Brookline, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1937; B-ARCH., 1939.
Masago: Ann Halle, Dec. 27, 1940, Cleveland, Ohio. cHitpren: Sam Robertson,
Oct. 16, 1942; Revere, April 12, 1944.
HARVARD 50N: Sam Robertson Little, ’64.
Hamvanp BroTHERs: Edward Revere Little, '34, Richard Warren Licrle, 53.
occupation: Architect, partner in firm, Robert A. Little & George F. Dalton &
Associates,
orricys HELD: Trustee, Cleveland Museum of Natural History, 1947-52, Cleve-
land Institute of Music, 1953-55; president, Ten Thirty Gallery, 1947-$15

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard Graduate School of Design Association, 1955-57 (two terms);
vice-president, Cleveland Chapter, American Institute of Architects, 1947-
50; director, Harvard Alumni Association, 1957-59; Teaching and/or
Lecturing on Design: Harvard University, University of Pennsylvania,
University of Michigan, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Western Re-
serve University, Smith Graduate School of Architecture, Howard Uni-
versity, Notre Dame University, Boston Architectural Club, Stuart School
of Design, Moscow Institute of Architecture; American Society of Plan-
ning Officials, American Institute of Planners; member, Mayor's Advisory
Committee on Fine Arts, Cleveland.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects, Cleveland Chapter, National
Council Architectural Registration Boards; American Institute of Planners;
National Planning Association; Architect’s Society of Ohio, Harvard
Alumni Association, Harvard Graduate School of Design Association;
Midday Club; Chamber of Commerce.

PUBLICATIONS: Architectural work published in: Life Magazine, Architectural
Forum, Progressive Architecture, Architectural Record, House & Home,
House @& Garden, Better Homes & Gardens, Die Welt (Germany),
Nuestra Arquitectura (South America), various books and newspapers.

WHEN I was eleven, my mind was filled with dreams of castles in
the air, morning sun streaming through leaded glass, firelight cast
up at beautiful faces in the dusk. Whatever I could not find in
reality, I imagined; and whatever I imagined, I tried to draw. Never
were the drawings as beautiful as the dream, but the constant striv-
ing for the dream became, in itself, the richest treasure of life. Based
not on knowledge, but a childish faith, I decided to be an architect.
Through school and most of college, the dreams were temporarily
replaced by the manic realities of line-backing on the football field,
the long stretch of rowing, and the irresponsible ridiculousness of
the girls, the music, the dancing, and the wine. Instinctively, I
adopted the philosophy that moderation was dull, and that the only
way to live, or think, or work, or play was with one hundred per
cent, full-throttle intensity.

About 1935, prodded by lack of money and the approaching war,
I realized that I had to make a choice between athletics, the gay
life, and architecture. I put them in the reverse order and concen-
trated intensively on architecture, getting through the four-year
graduate course at Harvard in one and one-half years. While there, I
was exposed to the old idea of copy-book Renaissance palaces, and
the new idea of Bauhaus boxes, and the glorious machine. Neither
idea satisfied me. One night, while a famous Finnish hospital architect
was describing the plight of a long-term T.B. patient, a philosophy
crystallized for me—all design must be based not on precedent,

[ 689 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

from their mother. I was really right about that girl in the green
convertible.

So much for the main theme. A few detailed passages and inci-
dents stand out, too, like the night I fell asleep on the roof of the
milk-wagon; painting countless trivial water colors and three un-
finished oils; about two hundred lectures, from Los Angeles to
Toronto to Moscow; three days in a helicopter with Margaret
Bourke-White; the week that Life photographed our house and used
up goo flash bulbs; racing our seven-foot sailboat, La Dolce Vita;
learning and forgetting how to fly; studying astronomy and devising
a model to show the vastness of space; drawing a crude time chart
of history; buying a seven-foot clock face from a Connecticut
church; driving the last good-looking American car, a 1956 Thun-
derbird, building fieldstone walls; playing sentimental songs on
the gutbucket and finding my fingers raw the next morning; call-
ing on Eleanor Roosevelt; doing graphic design for the Peace Corps;
fighting for a Cleveland City Plan and being misunderstood; teaching
at Harvard, Penn, and a dozen others, and learning more than you
teach; tennis until your feet give out; black poodle whelping in one
bathtub, ten frogs in another; Ho trains, feeling like a hick in New
York City; not minding; the mediocrity of committees; cooking
gourmet dinners, especially snails; chess by mail with a guy in
Arizona; a perfect secretary who copes with all the details of life
and allows me to concentrate on the essentials, like writing biog-
raphies, gadzooks!

COLIN LIVESEY

HOME ADDRESS: 278 Waverly Rd., North Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston University, 688 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1916, Heywood, Lancashire, England.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREES: B.S. (McGill Univ.), 1939; Ep.m. (Boston
Univ.), 1956.

MarrieD: Marjorie E. Ward, June 20, 1943, Lawrence, Mass. (divorced 1961).
CHILDREN: Barbara Joan, Jan. 24, 1946; Deborah Ann, June 24, 1952.

OccUPATION: Assistant professor of science, Boston University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Bruce School Parent Teachers Organization, 1954-56.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Team Approach to General Education,” with Vernon A.
Anthony, Peyton E. Richter and Charles H. Russell, Junior College
Journal, February and March, 1956,

HAVING received a Bachelor’s degree in chemistry, I started to
[ 692 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pursue a career in that field first with the Boston Consolidated Gas
Company. This was interrupted by the war and I served in the
U.S. Navy for nearly four years, terminating my service as a lieu-
tenant senior grade attached to an epidemiology unit in Chicago.
After the war, I was associated with Lever Brothers Company as a
research chemist until the company decided to move to New York.
Unable to bear the thought of having to live in the New York area,
I severed my relationship with Lever Brothers and industry in gen-
eral and decided I wanted to teach.

I became associated with Boston University in 1952 and have been
teaching there since that time. My only regret is that I didn’t enter
the teaching profession earlier. I have enjoyed my work in this
ficld tremendously. I have recently finished my course work to-
ward a Ph.D. in philosophy of education and am hoping to complete
the remaining requirements as soon as possible.

As far as hobbies are concerned, I have been climbing Mt. Wash-
ington nearly every year since the end of the war. I finally got my
family interested in 1956 and now they won’t let a single season go
by without our making at least one trip up Washington over those
delightful trails.

My political convictions haven’t changed over the years. I have
always considered myself a liberal and an independent and have
never been a member of any political party but have always tried
to choose those men who, I felt, were best qualified to serve the
people.

I recently became an attendant of the Unitarian Church in my
home town after having been brought up in a different denomina-
tion from childhood. This change represented more of an imple-
mentation of my convictions than a major change in them.

My time is currently taken up almost entirely by my two daugh-
ters who make sure that life is never boring.

ALEXANDER KIPLING LIVINGSTON

HOME appress: 460 Langley Ave., West Hempstead, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Animation Equipment Corp., New Rochelle, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1913, Johannesburg, South Africa.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MARRIED: Noreen Harnett, Aug. 6, 1938, Chicago, Ill. cHmpren: Dennis
Ronald, Aug. 17, 1939; Craig Harnett, Sept. 28, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Emerson Livingston, °39.

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occupation: Manufacturer, professional motion picture equipment, chairman
of the board and executive vice-president.

OFFICES HELD: Member, West Hempstead School Board, 1952-55.

MEMBER OF: Civil War Round Table of New York; Society of Motion Picture
& T.V. Engineers; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-editor, Big Business Methods for the Small Business, Harper’s,

1952.
I OFTEN feel that it took much longer for me to “find myself,”
if indeed I have, because I didn’t complete my last year and a half
at Harvard. My first ten years in the business world were spent in
the advertising specialties and plastic business. Lack of good train-
ing, a business that grew too fast, and not thinking perceptively
made many successful ventures disappear as fast as they happened.
During the war period I worked on government contracts since I
was rejected for military service due to a quiescent illness.

In 1952 I started over in a new field, manufacturing and selling
professional motion picture equipment. On the credit side it has
brought satisfaction and international recognition of our product;
on the debit side, the trials and tribulations that only a small busi-
ness has. One of the most gratifying experiences has been the
friends I have found in places around the world from Helsinki to
Sydney; London to Teheran. My first trip to Europe coincided
with the flight of Sputnik. Subsequent trips occurred with the
Little Rock incident, President Kennedy’s inauguration and other
events that received world-wide publicity. Having been in as many
as seven countries at these various times, I came away with the
conviction that each of these events, while important, must be kept
in perspective. In Europe one feels the stability of civilized people
through many beautiful old structures that remain today in their
cities. It would seem that this contributes to their feeling of ties
with past generations, and this may account for their more reasoned
assessment of current events.

As to my family —our elder son, Dennis, will graduate with a
fine arts degree in 1962 and will continue his studies, we hope,
abroad. Our younger son, Craig, will begin his college career in
1962. Our airedale, Thor, has no ambition, no training, but has the
abiliry to captivate — maybe he is talented after all. Noreen, my
wife, has kept her sense of humor and remained chic and vital
through all the vicissitudes of family life.

[ 694 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* DAVID BENJAMIN LIVINGSTONE

BoRN: Feb. 6, 1915, Toronto, Ont., Canada, parents: Joseph Livingstone, Leah
Lipkin.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

piep: Dec. 27, 1943, Arlington, Va.

DAVID BENJAMIN LIVINGSTONE left Harvard during his
freshman year to join his father in the shoe firm of Joseph Living-
stone Company. In 1942 he entered the armed forces and was
assigned to the Signal Corps. He served at Fort Devens, Massachu-
setts, Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, and Camp Crowder, Mis-
sissippi, and was then transferred as a corporal to Washington,
D.C., where he was stationed in the 17th Signal Battalion at the

time of his death. He was survived by his parents, a sister and three
brothers.

HENRY LLOYD

HOME ADDRESS: 418 Bogert Ave., Ridgewood, N.J.

OFFICE AppREss: Merchants Refrigerating Co., 850 Third Ave. New York 22,
N.Y.

BORN: June 7, 1915, Lexington, Ky.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933—1937- DEGREES: S.B.. 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

MARRIED: Victoria Stearns, Oct. 26, 1940, Arlington, Mass. cHipren: Henry, 3d,
May 6, 1942; Margaret, Jan. 27, 1946; David Stearns, Oct. 16, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Merchants Refrigerating Company, public refrigerated
warehousing; responsible for accounting functions, insurance and pension
administration, participate in banking relations.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Ramapo Valley Cooperative, Inc.; member, executive
committee, Mercantile Section, New York Board of Trade; former member
and president, San Jose, California, chapter, National Office Management
Association; various positions in Community Chest and Red Cross drives;
lay church offices and Sunday School teacher.

MEMBER OF: Toastmasters Club of San Jose; Rotary Club, San Jose; Sierra Club.

IN recent years, when some newly-made casual acquaintance hap-
pens to ask, “Where are you from?” I’m flabbergasted. He shouldn't
be lied to but he shouldn’t be forcibly bored to death either. How
can one give the following information in ten words or less? Born
and raised in Kentucky, two years at Exeter, New Hampshire, four
years at Harvard College, two years Harvard Business School, two
years in Boston area (mostly working for the public accounting

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

firm of Lybrand, Ross Brothers & Montgomery), over four years
in the Navy Supply Corps (from ensign to lieutenant commander)
with duty in Boston; Seattle, Washington; Pasco, Washington; at
sea in the southwest Pacific; and, finally, Washington, D.C.; then
thirteen years in California (mostly in San Jose working for an
independent cold storage warehouse which in 1958 was bought by
a larger eastern firm), and since ’58, working for the larger firm
(lately as treasurer) in New York and living in Ridgewood, New
Jersey. I agree with you. From now on I'll just say, “Ridgewood,
New Jersey,” and let it go at that.

Vic’s still a jewel. Maybe she didn’t know what she was getting
into when she married me in 1940, but she has put up with my screw-
ball ways and raised three children wonderfully well under some-
times trying circumstances. To my prejudiced eyes she still looks
as good as she did when we first met. She is continuing her paint-
ing and is now doing oil portraits for a few people locally. This is
her second year as scenery designer for the Ridgewood High School
parents’ annual fund-raising musical extravaganza.

Hank is nineteen, a happy, nice-looking boy who is two inches
taller than his dad. He couldn’t wait to get back to California, left
college after one year and this fall became a teller-trainee in a San
Jose bank. He says— and I hope — he’s going to try college again
later on.

Peg’s grandmother calls her a “long-stemmed American Beauty.”
Peg is a Ridgewood High School junior who two years ago gave
up successful participation on the local “Y” swim club to allow
time for such things as membership in Red Cross “Nightingales,”
assorted social and high school activities and some studying.

Dave, an eighth-grader, recently moved into the lower levels of
the thirteen-fourteen age group in “Y” swimming, so will probably
bring home fewer medals this winter than he did last. Right now
he’s working on his school science project involving mounting and >
identifying the small animal bones extracted from ‘owl pellets”
(don’t jump to conclusions; ask your local Audubon Club) which
we have found in the area.

Office work, an occasional business trip, fighting crab grass or rak-
ing Icaves or shovelling snow (depending on the season), teaching
a high school age Sunday School class, Naval Reserve meetings and
incidental business and family affairs seem to keep me occupied. We
have spent at least a few nights at East Orleans on Cape Cod as part
of our summer vacations since coming cast. I still have (barely) a

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Naval Reserve standing; so for personal as well as humanitarian
reasons, I hope neither of the two K’s feels called upon to start
shooting. .

Hope to see classmates at the 25th Reunion in June.

PERCIVAL HALL LOMBARD

HOME AppREsS: 11 Monument St., Concord, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MARRIED: Eugenia Frothingham, June 22, 1937, Boston, Mass.; Sybil Moss,
Sept. 2, 1949, Providence, R.I. cumpren: Eugenia, March 15, 1939; Langdon
Frothingham, Sept. 16, 1940, Natalie B., Oct. 10, 1944; Peter N., April
18, 1950; Mary S., Dee. 31, 1952.

JOHN MARSHALL LOVEJOY

HOME AppREss: Country Club Estates, Covington, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wray Williams Display Co., 534 Canal St, New Orleans, La.

BoRN: Oct. 29, 1913, California, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB., 1937.

MARRIED: Ethel Belaine Williams, Jan. 13, 1946, Memphis, Tenn. CHILDREN:
Victoria Belaine (stepdaughter); John Marshall, Jr. May 18, 1947; Betty
Broking, July 10, 1951; Patricia Woods, March 16, 1955; William Warren,
June 1, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Broking Lovejoy, ’34.

OCCUPATION: Owner and manager, Wray Williams Display Company, store
fixtures and supply business.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Louisiana; Sales-Marketing Executives Club of
New Orleans, Covington Country Club.

SINCE leaving college, my path seems to have led in the direction
of retail and wholesale distribution. For fourteen years, with the
exception of four years spent in the Navy as lieutenant (j.g.) and
lieutenant, I had a pretty comprehensive stint in the department store
field. In 1951, I organized my own store fixture and supply busi-
ness. Since then, with the help of the booming South, the trend
toward shopping center after shopping center, and possibly some
help from economics major Lovejoy, the business has grown in a
very satisfactory manner. So much for the economic side of my
life.

During the latter part of my years in the Navy, a strange thing
[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occurred. I actually met a beautiful southern girl who had attended
Harvard (summer school). So naturally we were married. In the
ensuing years, our family, like the shopping centers, has increased
one after another, after another, after another, after another. Now
that we have five fine children, I certainly hope the shopping cen-
ters keep on increasing.

RICHARD SEARS LOVERING, JR.

HOME abprEss: 3630 N. Upland St. Arlington, Va.

oFFicE appress: U.S. Joint Publications Research Service, 1636 Connecticut
Ave. N.W., Washington, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1915, Manchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Errol Mary Frances Cropper, June 7, 1944, Auckland, New Zealand.
CHILDREN: Mary Lark, April 24, 1946; Ann, June 26, 1949; Richard Sears,
3d, July 31, 1954.

occupation: Deputy chief, U.S, Joint Publications Research Service.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C., Army-Navy Country Club;
Pentagon Officers Athletic Center.

THE United States Government has employed me for twenty-
two years. I strongly believe that interested Harvard undergradu-
ates who may be destined for later government service should try
to be earmarked early by getting concerned government agencies
to guide them in certain calculated training as a head start towards
their chosen careers. This would not jeopardize their “broad”
college education.

My only nongovernmental job was in Elkin, western North Caro-
lina, a grand experience at Chatham Manufacturing Company (tex-
tiles) for over two years following Commencement, 1937. I saw
“parental” management practised according to a quite ideal owner-
management-labor formula fostered by the late Representative
Thurmond Chatham as by his forebears there.

Quite suddenly, under the provisions of the 1939-40 Thomason
Act, I was among the one hundred that year who gained permanent
commissions in the Regular Army without going to West Point.
Serving first in December, 1939, as executive officer of a 75 mm
pack howitzer battery in the qth Field Artillery, I subsequently rode
a horse approximately 3,000 miles (sic) as we proved our mule-
skinner capability to operate with light artillery in mountains and
rough terrain. Magnificent old-army, peacetime leadership for-

[ 698 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ever impressed me. Also a joy to participate in was the last U.S.
Army course in horsemanship at Fort Sill, One day the Air Force
(Army’s then) at Pope Field, Fort Bragg, borrowed our four
howitzers to see if they would drop by parachute without breaking,
this, insofar as I know, was the first such airborne activity. In
1941 we “invaded” North Carolina from the sea for six weeks under
the first joint Army-Navy-Air Force single command, trying out
new Higgins Company landing craft that then were modified and
unexpectedly soon used in Pacific landing operations. After three
more years and several campaigns (Guadalcanal, New Georgia,
Bougainville), my last active duty assignment was Asst. AC/S G-3
(Operations) Headquarters XIV Corps (25th, 37th, 43rd and
Americal Divisions).

As a foot soldier on January 30, 1944, when we were assaulting
some Japanese positions long-fixed near Torokina River, Bougain-
ville Island, I received wounds from an enemy hand grenade, lost
a leg, and in return was given a Silver Star Medal and transporta-
tion to New Zealand. The latter was the most fortunate of all,
because of my ensuing marriage to Errol Mary Frances Cropper of
Auckland in St. Andrew’s Church, Epsom. A claim to fame may
be that by hook or crook I managed to get wartime passage with
me on a troopship for Errol, a civilian New Zealander, and we pro-_ .
ceeded to U.S.A. together in August, 1944 (as soon as the 39th
General Hospital, Yale’s unit in N.Z., had disallowed my planned
assignment — then pending leg repair —as “limited-duty” aide to
the commanding officer of the Pacific Air Forces, Lieutenant Gen-
eral Millard F, Harmon, who was lost a few weeks later in flight over
the central Pacific).

[In 1942 Commander Arnold E. True of the USS Hanzmnann, by
unusual coincidence, had contacted me in Oceania to say that with
his ship at Midway had gone the home address of William Bacon
Lovering (Harvard ’37). True then sent on a letter notifying
Bill’s father of his death and describing his now well-known per-
formance in Battles Coral Sea and Midway. We try to keep track
of DE-39, the USS Lovering, named for Bill.]

Retired from the military service as a major, I changed hats in
1947 and became a civil servant. It has been nearly always interest-
ing, in fact sometimes fairly fascinating. I am deputy chief of the
US JPRS (United States Joint Publications Research Service,
Washington, D.C.), a federal government agency established to
fulfill centrally the translation and foreign-language research needs

[ S99 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

of all the various government departments. To provide this com-
mon service JPRS uses many subject/language experts on a contract
basis, foreign nationals as well as United States citizens, most of
whom supplement regular professional salaries by part-time work
under JPRS contract whenever their special knowledge and ex-
pertise are called for. (Refer interested people with potential, no
matter where they live, to US JPRS, 1636 Connecticut Avenue,
NW, Washington, D.C.; telephone DUpont 7-4240. We contract
distant individuals for mail assignments if they can prove themselves
even better equipped than those in this area to serve in given special-
ties on occasion of need.)
With our three children we have been once around the world,
in Cypress 1955-57, and twice returned to New Zealand, where
my mother-in-law has nominated me for ambassador (a motion un-
seconded by anyone so far). Most of the time we are at home
“farming” a Virginia acre half-an-hour drive from the desk in
town, instead of on the once-planned real farm further out — yet.
Summer vacations are apt to be in the family beachhouse on Paw-
leys Island near Georgetown, South Carolina. Last summer both
Ann and Richard, 3rd, won medals swimming on the well-coached
Army-Navy Country Club team here. At the moment of writing,
our eldest, Lark, is researching at the Library of Congress. Some
of my own spare time is taken up with gardening, and in the winter
“cabinet-making” with indigenous New Zealand hardwoods, squash
racquets at the Pentagon Officers Athletic Center, etc. We are
taking more and more advantage of countless opportunities of
family interest here in D.C., and Washington of course is a con-
venient crossroads for seeing out-of-town, overseas, and service
friends passing through. We like it. There have been few dull
moments, and I’m aware that we have been blessed with good health
and very much more. Wherever the five members of the family
are, it seems they are seldom failing to “find themselves.” At the
same time, I hope, they are recognizing that one cannot go too
far on personal judgment alone. We go to St. Peter’s Church in Arl-
ington, Virginia, and perhaps the intangible values are becoming
more really important to each of us as things become a little less so.
Personally, I hike at least to think that I am never harassed by the
sort Of problems that are passing ones. Who can afford, however,
not to fret about major national problems facing us, such as how to

avoid the grandchildren having to pay later for what we as a nation
need, and vote for, and do now?

[ 700 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

All in all, I am thoroughly thankful. One daughter, Lark, has
graduated from Potomac School and is now at Madeira; another,
Ann, is at Potomac; and Richard Sears Lovering, 3d, goes to James
Madison close by, probably orienting toward Brooks and Harvard
in due course. Victuri te salutamus.

* WILLIAM BACON LOVERING

BoRN: Aug. 3, 1913, Nahant, Mass. parents: Joseph Swain Lovering, ’03, Eliza-
beth Bacon.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

pigD: Killed in action, June 6, 1942, off Midway Island.

LOVERING won his freshman numerals in hockey and played on
the junior varsity hockey team for three years. For several years
after graduation he was with the Insurance Company of North
America. He enlisted in the Naval Reserve at New York City as
an apprentice seaman on August 2, 1940, and received his training
on the USS New York. He was appointed a midshipman, USNR,
on November 22 and then attended the Naval Reserve Midship-
men’s School on the USS Illinois at New York. He received his
commission as ensign on February 28, served briefly at the Mare
Island Navy Yard, California, and reported for active duty on the
USS Hammann, a destroyer, on March 31. He was aboard the
Hammann during the Salamaua and Tulagi raids, and during the
Battle of the Coral Sea. During the Battle of the Coral Sea the
Hammann removed 478 men from the burning carrier Lexington and
rescued a number of aviators from enemy territory in the Solomons.
Lovering was killed in action while serving as communications
officer aboard the Hammann, when she was torpedoed and sunk
while attempting to fight the fires raging on the carrier Yorktown,
during the battle of Midway. Lovering was on or near the bridge
when the first explosions shook the ship and he was able to float
clear, but another explosion, after the ship had foundered, is believed
to have killed him and other survivors in the water. He was survived
by his father. |
A destroyer escort, USS Lovering (DE39), was named for Lover-
ing by order of the President, and was launched at the Boston Navy
Yard in June, 1943, and served with honor in the Pacific area dur-
ing the latter part of the war,
A group of Lovering’s classmates at Milton Academy established

[ 7o1 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

in his memory the William Bacon Lovering Medal, which is an-
nually given to that member of the graduating class, chosen by his
classmates, “who through a high sense of duty and responsibility
has helped most to perpetuate in Milton Academy the memory of a
gallant gentleman and officer... ”

SAMUEL LEBOWICH LOWE, JR.

HOME abprEss: 36 Birch Hill Rd. Newtonville 60, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: % Rifkin Theatres, 39 Church St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1937.

marrieD: Gene Anne Fleck, 1943, Pittsburgh, Pa. (divorced 1949); Mary Kay
Brown, July 13, 1951, Boston, Mass. cuitpreN: Candace Sheridan, Aug. 27,
1954, Samuel Jonathan, Oct. 13, 1955; Steven Hollander, May 21, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Lebowich Lowe, ’39.

OCCUPATION: Executive — usually of theatre or concession supply corporations,
etc.

OFFICES HELD: Past director, Kiwanis Club of Boston, Inc.; past member of
executive committee, past president of local association, Deerfield Academy
Alumni Association; member, 1957, 1960, chairman, 1958, 1959, Boston
Committee, and chief of services, 25th Reunion and member executive
committee, 1961, Harvard Class of 1937.

MEMBER OF: Pocassett Golf Club; University Club; Kiwanis Club of Boston;
Harvard Club of Boston; Variety Club of Boston; Noddle’s Island Lodge,
AF. & A.M.; several museum societies.

PusLications: Columnist, The Exhibitor, theatre wade magazine.

IN 1937 after graduation, or rather just before graduating, I took
off for Europe with a small jazz combo of Harvardians. Upon
return at summer’s end, I entered the theatre business, first becom-
ing the general manager of a small circuit and then learning the
facts of life. In 1939, seeing the possibilities of concession sales in
theatres and other places of amusement, I opened a wholesale com-
pany to teach concession operation to New England theatre owners
and others, while supplying them the popcorn, candy, soft drinks,
equipment, etc., which comprise such sales. After really working
night and day, the future was far from bright when World War II
and its problems occurred. Naturally, 1 was early chosen from
“the goldfish bowl,” and my brother Phil, Harvard ’39, joined the
firm to take my place and struggle until he too was called. When
eventually we returned from service to our business (meanwhile
kept moving by the part-time interest of a devoted father), it was

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

something worth “coming home to.” Our ideas had borne fruit,
and our volume had created reasonable profits. Another separate
operation, with an operating partner, was begun and built up in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Life was pleasant and financially reward-
ing, if demanding and time-consuming, when suddenly the bottom
dropped out of the theatre business and out of our local business
with it. After various diversifications, we sold out in New England
on a very satisfactory basis.

Life on the homefront also changed radically. From a 1941 Na-
tional Guard private in the Medical Corps to a 1945 captain, per-
sonnel staff officer in the Air Force seems merely a moment now,
but at that time, it seemed an eternity. Along the way I was
originally commissioned and functioned as a personnel consultant
(psychologist) and acquired a wife. To say that I also learned the
Air Corps way, the AG way, the National Guard way, the regular
Army way and the right way is no lie. Politics rather than efficiency
prevailed, and so did my wife. Finally the war ended and civilian
life beckoned. Returning to Boston, we settled down or at least
I did! Divorce came in 1949. No children. Eventually remarriage,
with a vengeance, to Mary Kay Brown in 1951. Then three beauti-
ful children who naturally look like their mother, keep the old man
busy, happy and eternally young.

At the present, I find myself committed and devoted to an en-
tirely new life. Despite ever-increasing demands by a growing and
affectionate family, my business interests in outdoor theatres, con-
cessions and concession supplies still leave me time. In what direc-
tion this extra time will eventually be devoted is life’s present chal-
lenge. Meanwhile my interest in marine antiques and in both my
secondary and college institutions keeps me active and productive.
A world-wide correspondence and contact with dealers, collectors,
museums and others augments my collections and results in sales
of ship models, scrimshaw and other marine memorabilia. Only
the future will answer the problems of one who is happiest when
busiest, even if this means greater activity than is usual.

WALTER RAY LUCAS, JR.

HOME appRESs: White Horse Road, Berwyn, Pa.

BoRN: Feb. 4, 1916, Norfolk, Va.

PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193371937. DEGREE: A.B., Clam Lrude, 1937,

[ 703 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

marrieD: Donella Azzi, July 25, 1946, Florence, Italy; Trelsie Coffin, Nov. 9,
1951, Philadelphia, Pa.

occupation: Retired.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Radnor Hunt Tennis Club.

RETIRED, after eighteen years in the advertising business. We
live a country sort of life. My work, if you can call it that, is in the

ficld of economics, specifically, the study of money and its chang-
ing value.

Looking back over the past twenty-five years, I would say that
our greatest mistake is the caliber of the people we send to Wash-

ington. Rectifying it could be our most important job in the next
twenty-five.

JEFFREY WALTER LUFTMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 198 E. Garden Rd., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Bear, Stearns & Co., 1 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: March 31, 1916, Malden, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LLB. (New York Univ.),
1941; AM, (ibid.), 1951.

MarRieD: Leonore Perlstein, Aug. 9, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Michael
Eric, Jan. 22, 1946; Alice Jane, April 23, 1958.

occupation: Investment banking, associate, equity financing of new businesses.

OFFices HELD: Member, Contest Board, New York Region, Sports Car Club
of America; vice-president, Madison Avenue Sports Car Driving and
Chowder Society.

Member oF: Sheldrake Yacht Club; Sports Car Club of America; Phi Delta
Kappa.

‘

HAVING run the gamut from law to leather wholesaling to com-
munity relations to direct mail advertising — all at appropriately
long enough intervals and lucrative enough increments not to be
called a drifter (except by those who really know me) —I have
left my partnership in General Fulfillment Services for a more
specific fulfillment. And appropriately, this change comes con-
currently with the attainment of the twenty-five-year milestone —
a time for summing up and reappraisal. I have done both and have
decided that with a little daring and a little luck I can make the

next twenty-five years more exciting than the first twenty-five. So
I have gone into the investment banking business.

1 have associated myself with an imaginative firm whose range
of activities crosses the whole spectrum of business life. The effects

{ 704]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of America’s role in the Common Market, capital for the un-
developed areas of the world, public participation in new businesses
blend to form a heady brew which almost makes me forget about
race cars. Which reminds me that I should report that this year’s
racing season was one compounded of small trophies and large
bills. T'welve-cylinder Ferraris don’t run well on eight cylinders,
fleet Fiat-Abarths must eventually be slowed — and this is difficult
with no brakes.

MUNRO LONGYEAR LYETH

HOME ADpRESS: 556 S. Elizabeth St., Denver, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cherry Creek National Bank, E. First Avenue and St. Paul Sr.,
Denver, Colo.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cu77 laude, 1937; LL.B. 1940.

MaRRIED: Josephine C. Good, June 28, 1939, Moline, Ill, (divorced 1961).
CHILDREN: Munro Longyear, Jr, May 28, 1943; Judith Good, April 17,
1950,

HARVARD BROTHER: John Mortimer Richardson Lyeth, Jr., ’36.

occupation: Banking and investments.

OFFICES HELD: Associate, Spence, Windels, Walser, Hotchkiss & Angell, New
York City, 1940-41; assistant trust officer, trust officer, U.S. National Bank
of Denver, 1946-52; president, 1952-58, vice-chairman, chairman, executive
committee, 1958-61, Cherry Creek Bank; chairman of the board, Cherry
Creek National Bank of Denver, since 1961; treasurer and director, Cyclo
Manufacturing Company, Denver, since 1953; member, board of trustees,
Denver Symphony Society, since 1954; trustee, Graland Country Day

‘ School, since 1954; director, Central City Opera House Association, since
1961, Lake Eldora Corporation, Denver, since 1961; Longyear Realty
Corporation, Marquette, Mich,, since 1962.

MEMBER OF; Newcomen Society; Denver Club; Denver Country Club; Garden
of the Gods Club, Colorado Springs; Everglades Club and Bath and
Tennis Club, Palm Beach, Florida; Arlberg Club; Rocky Mountain Har-
vard Club; Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER Law School and a brief stint with a law firm in Wall Street,
I was called to active duty in the Navy in June of 1941, getting
out in December, 1945. I saw service in all theatres in a transport,
a tanker, and destroyers, mostly the latter. I collected a lot of
ribbons (just for being in different places), a lot of battle stars
(just for being in them) and did have one brief bit of “reflected”
glory when I served as operations officer for Arleigh Burke's De-
stroyer Squadron 23 when it was winning its Presidential Unit Cita-

[ 705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

tion in the Solomons in late 1943. So now I am a retired commander,
USNR who never got to wear his “scrambled eggs” or command
his own destroyer.

Disheartened by the prospect of New York living (either in an
apartment or the four-hour commuting bit) I sought a happier
place in which to live and work and bring up children. Denver
seemed a logical choice, so I managed to get a job in the trust depart-
ment of the U.S. National Bank, bought a house and settled down.

After six years, I resigned to form a venture capital partnership
whose first venture turned out to be the Cherry Creek Bank, now
the Cherry Creek National Bank. This was a fascinating, challeng-
ing and rewarding experience. The “venture capital” bit died on
the vine because of concentration on the bank, but I did manage to
get mixed up in oil (to my sorrow!) and various manufacturing
and real estate deals (some good, some so-so, some bad). Other
side activities have included a great deal of estate and trust work.
So much for business.

Executive director for the Colorado Citizens for Eisenhower in
1952, and tours of duty with the Symphony, Red Rocks Festival
Committee, Central City Opera Association, and Graland Country
Day School are the extent of my charitable and civic activities.

I like bridge, golf, shooting, watching football and hockey, read-
ing, music, good company and interesting people. Oh—1I forgot
fishing, photography and Jaguars. On the personal side, my son is
a freshman at Colorado College and my daughter is in Aspen with
her mother who moved there last summer after our divorce. I am
rattling around in the old homestead at 556 South Elizabeth com-
plete with pool. The freedom of bachelorhood, though it has its
compensations, is highly overrated. In essence it is a lonely existence.
The motivations that have driven me for twenty-five years have
apparently run out of gas, and all my previous conceptions about
what makes life worthwhile are undergoing radical changes. Per-
haps by the time the Fiftieth Report is due, I can be more profound
on the subject.

HENRY LYMAN

HoMe appress: R.F.D, 1, Canton, Mass,

orFice, Appress: The Sale Water Sportsman, Inc., 157 Federal St., Boston 10,
Mass,

Bors: Oct. 30, 1915, Boston, Mass,

[ 706 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Marjorie Borum Black, June 27, 1953, Norfolk, Va.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Peirson Lyman, ’36, A.M. 39, PH.D. "42.

occuPATION: Publisher, The Sale Water Sportsman, national monthly magazine.

OFFICES HELD: Currently, vice-president, New England Aquarium Corporation;
director, Harvard Alumni Bulletin, New England Outdoor Writers’ As-
sociation; trustee, Foundation for Reproductive Research, Thompson
Academy, Boston; director, adviser or committee chairman of various con-
servation and marine outfits from time to time.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Boston; Signet Society;
Honorary Tar Heels of North Carolina; Outdoor Writers’ Association of
America; honorary or actual member of many sportsmen’s, conservation
or marine groups from Maine to Hawaii.

PUBLICATIONS: Bluefishing, 1950, rev. 1955; The Complete Book of Striped Bass
Fishing, with Frank Woolner, 1954; The Complete Book of Weakfishing,
with Frank Woolner, 1959; many articles and pamphlets in the marine
angling field.

MY life seems to have settled down into a non-military pattern
at long last I am glad to say, although settled is probably the wrong
word in view of the facts that I spend much of my time in travel
and that people seem to be having trouble getting along with other
people at the international level. After my tour of duty in the
Korean War, the U.S, Navy released me from active duty with the
rank of commander and has now officially retired me, probably
because I still prefer sail to steam or atoms.

My wife and I settled— again the wrong word, since we are
looking for a new roof over our heads as this is written — in Cam-
bridge within a short walk of Harvard Square. My official business
is publishing The Salt Water Sportsman, now a national monthly
magazine covering all aspects of marine angling in the U.S. and
waters nearby. This means I can go fishing almost anywhere and
call it work. Fortunately, Margie enjoys traveling, and we have
managed to visit every coastal state of the fifty with the exception
of Alaska. Mexico, coastal Canada and various non-Castroan tropic
isles are also included in our itinerary.

My unofficial business, with a couple of exceptions, deals with
the same field of marine fisheries. Apparently, because there is a
gaping void in the area, I am now considered more or less of an
expert in development of ocean sport fisheries. As a result, I am
often called upon in an advisory capacity by private and govern-
mental agencies at all levels to speak my piece.

It still mystifies me why billions of dollars are spent for the

[ 707 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

doubtful distinction of catapulting some swaddled astronaut into
neck-deep cosmic dust on the moon while almost nothing is spent
for development of seventy percent of the earth’s surface — the
oceans. These are still the oldest frontiers in the world and can
become the major source of food, fresh water, raw materials and
energy for those who live on the land masses.

I find myself dabbling in politics to implement the above thesis,
but I keep an eye on the land-based population explosion through
my connections with the Foundation for Reproductive Research —
the outfit which, by Dr. John Rock’s work, came up with THE
pill. I also keep an eye on education through Thompson Academy
and through Bill Bentinck-Smith and his confreres at Bulletin
luncheons. I still like to sail, but I have few opportunities to indulge
because the season for this pleasant pastime is the same as that for
my busiest time of year. Autumns, as in the past, will find me in
the New England uplands chivying ruffed grouse and woodcock.

It is a good life, but I wish that people, whom I find much the
same throughout the world, would persuade their governments
that they really are not so very unique after all.

JOHN LOWELL LYMAN

HOME ApprEss: Greenwood Farm, Sherborn, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Brickley, Sears and Cole, 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

- YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; LL.B., 1940.

marriep: Cynthia Forbes, May 30, 1941, Wellesley, Mass. cHtcpren: Cynthia
F., Oct. §, 1942; John Lowell, Jr., June 2, 1944; Griselda, Sept. 30, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ronald Theodore Lyman, Jr., ’28.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner, Brickley, Sears and Cole.

oFFices HELD: Member, Board of Selectmen, Sherborn, Massachusetts, 1954-60;

Town Counsel, Sherborn, since 1961; director, Roxbury Neighborhood
House; trustee, Boston Athenaeum.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Norfolk, Boston Bar Associations; Somerset Club;
Nantucket Yacht Club, Boone and Crockett Club; Labrador Retriever
Club; Colonial Retriever Club, Rolls-Royce Owners Club.

UPON graduation from Harvard Law School, I joined the Busi-
nessmen’s Training Camp and in 1940 the 186 F.A. of the Brooklyn
National Guard, which was sent to Ft. Ethan Allen. I married a
marvelous girl, and the regiment gave us the traditional ride on a
white caisson drawn by a white mule with the band in front. As

[ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

part of V Corps Artillery we landed with First U.S. Infantry Di-
vision on Omaha Beach. Thereafter we were at Falaise, Paris, with
our 155 mm howitzers on Orly Field; thence into the Bulge, where
my job changed from battery commander to liaison officer. Finally
186th crossed the Rhine and moved across Germany with gth
Armored Division, stopping at Pilsen.

In 1946 we moved to Sherborn, Massachusetts, well in the coun-
try. The family, including three retrievers and Pedro, the parrot,
thrive here. I joined the law firm of Brickley, Sears & Cole, trial
attorneys, in 1946 and have been mostly defending in court ever
since. Win some, lose some, and of course many are lost already,
the problem being “how much,” especially in insurance work.

In 1953 we went to Nantucket for the weekend and have been
there since, not only in the summer but also throughout the year
on weekends. Pursuits there are boating, fishing and beaching.
Cynthia and I enjoy traveling, the last time as a result of the pur-
chase of a 1930 Rolls-Royce drophead. Rolls Owners Club had a
charter flight to London where one hundred Rolls of all vintages
driven by English owners met the contingent. Cynthia is an ac-
complished sculptress; small Cynthia works for an insurance broker,
John Jr. graduates from Dublin School this spring, and Griselda is
at Beaver Country Day.

RANSOM VAN BRUNT LYNCH

HOME apprEss: 17 Elm St., Exeter, N.H.

OFFICE AppRESS: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

BORN: April 25, 1915, Alameda, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., mlagna cum laude, 1937; A.M. 1947.

MarRiED: La Ru Barker, April 17, 1943, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Laurence
Barker, May 10, 1945; Alexandra, Oct. 28, 1946; Jean, May 2, 1949; Maria,
June 4, 1952; James Ransom, Jan, 14, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of mathematics, Phillips Exeter Academy.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor of mathematics and statistics, Phillips Exeter Academy,
since 1939; examiner in mathematics, College Entrance Examination Board,
since 1955; visiting lecturer in mathematics, Princeton University, 1958-59;
visiting lecturer in education, Harvard Graduate School of Fducation,
1956; writer, School Mathematics Scudy Group, 1959, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Mathematical Association of America; National Council of
Teachers of Mathematics.

PUBLICATIONS: Calculus, A First Course (a textbook).

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

I HAVE been a teacher of mathematics for all these twenty-five
years (a five-year interruption in the early ’4o’s is irrelevant),
Frankly, it doesn’t make a really gripping story in the telling, but I
have found it exciting and dull, rewarding and frustrating, in prob-
ably just about the same ratio as any satisfying job. Certainly, it
has consumed most of my waking hours, seven days a week, fifty-
two weeks a year. The recent years, when the mathematics curricu-
Jum in this country has begun to emerge from the 17th century,
have been especially exciting for those of us who teach this sub-
ject, and it has been my good luck to be associated with two of the
major reform groups: the Mathematics Department of Phillips
Exeter Academy and the School Mathematics Study Group.

The poker players in the Class will note that La Ru and I hold
a full house. It’s a good hand, but I shall need to hold even better
hands six years from now, when we expect to have three of them
in college. At the moment, four are in the local public schools
and one is away at Putney.

My other diversions continue to be gardening and cooking. As
life closes in, and I have less and less time to spend in the garden,
I have had a lot of fun with Bonsai, dwarfed trees in oriental style.
I still find plenty of time for the kitchen, but I prefer to let my
cooking speak for itself. Come see us.

IRVING LYONS

HOME AppreEss: 56 Walnut Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

oFFice Appress: A. Lyons & Co., 520 Washington St., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1915, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M-.B.A. 1939.

Marriep: Ruth Diana Albaum, Dec. 6, 1942, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN: M.
Richard, Nov. 1, 1943; Nancy Sue, June 26, 1951.

occupaTion: Owner, general manager, A. Lyons & Company, converter of
shoe manufacturers’ goods.

OFFices HELD: Financial secretary, board of directors, Temple Emanu-El,
Marblehead, Mass.; vice-president, financial secretary, board of directors,
New England Shoe Foremen and Superintendents Association, member,
board of directors, Shoe and Leather Lodge, B'nai B'rith, and J.CF.,
Lynn, Mass. ‘

MeMsare or: Harvard Club of the North Shore; Caleb Butler Lodge, AF. &
A.M., Ayer, Mass.; American Jewish Committee; 210 Associates; Boston
Boot and Shoe Club.

AFTER graduating from the college, I went to the Harvard Busi-

[710]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ness School to prepare for a career in the business world. When
I graduated from the Business School in 1939, I went to work as
purchasing agent for the Saco-Moc Shoe Corporation in Portland,
Maine. I was inducted in the service on February 13, 1941, as a
twenty-one-dollar-a-month buck private. When I left the service,
five years later, I was a first lieutenant in the Medical Administra-
tive Corps.

The happiest part of my service was meeting and subsequently
marrying my wife, Ruth, on December 6, 1942. My son Dickie is
a real Army baby, for he was born at Fitzsimons General Hospital,
Denver, Colorado. My daughter Nancy was born after we had re-
turned to civilian life.

After I left the service, I returned to my pre-war job, but left
Portland to join my father as a partner in his business in 1948. In
1950, I took over sole ownership of the family enterprise, A. Lyons
& Company. Since assuming control, I have devoted my efforts to
increasing our sales volume and broadening the base of our opera-
tions as converters of material to shoe manufacturers and allied
trades. We now sell to accounts throughout the country. This
necessitates a good deal of traveling on my part, both throughout
the New England states, and with my various agents in other parts of
the country.

My first and lasting joy, of course, is my family. My wife and I
enjoy doing things together whenever we can, whether it be a vaca-
tion, the symphony, the opera (she’s a real buff), the theatre, or
just plain enjoying each other’s company. As for the children, Dick,
who is now eighteen, goes to private school in Cambridge. He ts
quite grown up. But my little one, Nancy, now ten, manages to
keep us stirred up most of the time, what with being the youngest
and thoroughly spoiled, both by parents and grandparents. She is
constantly embarking on new projects, averaging about one new one
a week. Right now it is photography, complete with camera, film,
slides, projector, et al. Her mother and I are quite relieved when she
goes off to school.

My principal hobby is watching baseball, football, basketball and
hockey. However, I do do a bit of gardening, and laid my own
flagstone walk, between times! Otherwise I do some reading, play a
little bridge, etc. My chief recreation is golf. But like so many
others, I am one of those weekend golfers — and then on only occa-
sional weekends. I just don’t seem to have the time to play regu-

arly,

[701]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

I am a founding member of the local Reform Congregation. Both
my wife and I have been very active in this group, which was
founded only eight years ago. I have served as an officer and board
member, while my wife is presently president of the sisterhood.

Politically, I like to think of myself as an independent, with lean-
ings toward the Democrats. I have never been really active in
politics, preferring to sit on the sidelines and to exercise my voting

rivileges whenever possible.

Truthfully, in spite of the many problems and responsibilities
that come with military service, managing your own business,
getting married, and raising a family, I must confess that the past
twenty-five years have been, for the most part, happy and produc-
tive. I sincerely hope that the next twenty-five years will be equally
SO.

IRVING D. LYONS

HOME ADpRESS: 315 Auburn Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Grabell-Lyons, Inc., 740 Windsor St., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: July 3, 1915, Sherborn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

Marriep: Gertrude Siagel, July 30, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHitLpReN: Leonard 5,
July 24, 1942; Mitchell R., Sept. 29, 1946.

occupation: Wholesale distribution, television and appliances; vice-president
and treasurer, Grabell-Lyons, Inc.

THE 25th Anniversary Report, it seems to me, should be somewhat
different from the previous ones. To have been preserved long
enough to reach this blessed season makes it milestone enough.
Twenty-five years is surely worth more than a few paragraphs,
even in an uneventful life. To attempt to evaluate what has trans-
pired is almost like holding a post-mortem after an exam . . . it’s
devastating. So I’ll try a short recap instead.

For about four years after leaving college, I worked for the
Goodall Company (Palm Beach suits), selling on the road. I
switched to the television and appliance wholesale distributing field
and have stayed with it all these years, except for the war period.

As I look back on my war experience, it is as though it were a
dream. But, it was real enough at the time. Communications officer,
Admiral Blandy’s flagship, the Estes, Amphibious Group One —
Leyte, Iwo Jima, Okinawa — battle stars, but, thank God, no battle

[712]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

scars. You don’t have to be a Harvardman to pray that all conflict
will disappear from the face of the earth.

In 1945 I returned to the distributing business, this time in Hart-
ford, Connecticut, and finally, in 1952, went into business as Grabell-
Lyons, Inc. I’m pleased to report that we’ve made reasonable
progress in a challenging industry. At this writing, we distribute
Motorola, Gibson and Eureka products in northern Connecticut
and western Massachusetts. It’s a business in which there is reputed
to be fifty-two critical weeks a year. In all honesty, I can’t say
I’m ecstatic about the kind of work I’m involved in; yet there is no
other endeavor that is any more appealing to me. On my off days,
I'm consoled by the thought that the sale of products is what
keeps the factories going and the economy humming.

Religiously, I practise conservative Judaism. Politically, I’m an
Independent — although I find myself voting Democrat in most
elections. In both areas I must confess to a desultory approach.

My home life has been my greatest source of happiness these
past twenty-two years. I’ve been blessed with a wife who is in-
credibly nice to come home to, and two sons of whom we are
very proud. Len is nineteen and, thanks to the Admissions Office
at Harvard, is now a sophomore at the University of Rochester.
Mitch, fifteen and a high school sophomore, is coming up strong.

My greatest wish is that my boys will be able to make their contri-
butions in a world that is at peace.

LAWRENCE WILLIAM LYONS, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 161 Franklin St., South Braintree, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: District Court of East Norfolk, Quincy, Mass.

BORN: April 11, 1914, Quincy, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B., 1951.

MARRIED: Edith Jeanette MacKay, Oct. 23, 1937, Quincy, Mass. CHILDREN:

Lawrence William, 3d, April 13, 1939; Janet Edith, Feb. 14, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Daniel Lyons, 738, M.B.a., ‘40; John Bartholomew

Lyons, ’38, A.M., ’39; Gerald Joseph Lyons, ’42; Maurice Albert Lyons, ’42.
occupation: Lawyer; Assistant Clerk of District Court of East Norfolk.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Thayer Academy 25th Reunion, 1958; secretary, 1959,
’ 1960, member, executive committee, 1961, Harvard Club of Quincy;
marshal, Harvard Alumni Exercises, June, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy; American Legion, Braintree; Quincy
Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Truth About Frank Arrant Fraud.”

[713]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

IT would appear that “quiet desperation” has been the underlying
theme of twenty-five years in my life since leaving the Yard on a
beautiful day in June of 1937. However, much has transpired
since then to punctuate the even tenor of my ways. To begin with,
the great depression was at our heels, and obtaining a rewarding job
was most perplexing at the time. Eventually I tried my hand in
the business of oil refining, after which I turned to shipbuilding as
the menace of World War II approached. En route I had digressed
sufficiently to get married and eventually acquire a couple of
youngsters.

Inexorably, as I knew it would, the war finally engulfed all, and
it surprised me not to find myself in the none too pacific Pacific,
where aboard the Essex the kamikaze pilots changed the mood from
“quiet desperation” to “great desperation.” At strange places such
as Iwo Jima, Okinawa and Kyushu a lifetime seemed to be telescoped
into a few months, as the Rising Sun set very reluctantly.

The atomic bomb having brought the military festivities to a
thunderous climax, much to my astonishment, I pursued again my
sedentary ways in civilian life, being employed ultimately in the
court business where I still rusticate.

My family, obviously, has been my overriding interest throughout
the years. My indispensable wife, Edie, acted in the capacity of both
parents during the war and has been employed for some time as
a secretary in the probation end of the business of dispensing justice.
Time appears to have enhanced her charms.

Our son Larry as a child evidenced an avid interest in mathe-
matics, and we were most proud to see him receive his degree in
said subject from M.LT. in June, 1961, as well as a commission in
the U.S. Navy Reserve. I imagine that the fact that he forsook
Harvard borders on treason, but I firmly believe in self-determina-
tion even as to children and their careers. Our daughter, Janet,
graduated in September, 1961, from Boston Children’s Hospital
School of Nursing and plans to go on to college for her degree in
nursing, at which she is most happy.

In the late ’g0’s ambition drove me back to academic pursuits,
with the result that I studied law evenings at Boston University,
receiving my LL.B, degree in 1951, after which I passed the bar. My
club activities have fallen into a pattern of college, military and
professional groups. I have been quite active in the Harvard Club

of Quincy where each year we manage to scrape up a generous
scholarship for some deserving boy.

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

On the subject of hobby, Cape Cod has captivated my fancy
and attention. Our cottage at Barnstable Harbor is merely a mile
from the tip of Sandy Neck, where we migrate every weekend via
our small boat. It is an area still undeveloped and still endowed
with its pristine beauty, an excellent escape from the fast pace of
current living conditions. There is much to be said for the new
National Park along the Great Beach and Nauset.

On the question of politics, I lean toward the present administra-
tion, feeling strongly that whenever there is need for a capable
president, one can certainly be located at Harvard.

In closing, I have confidence that the administration will deal
expeditiously with the precarious foreign problem and that for
many generations to come, Harvard alumni will enjoy their 25th
Reunions.

ARTHUR GORDON McALEER

HOME ApprREsS: 85 Osborne P]., Southport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Canada Dry Corp., 100 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Nancy Stevens, Sept. 2, 1939, Bolton Landing, N.Y. cumpren: Nancy,
March 21, 1941; Carol, July 29, 1942; Arthur Gordon, Jr., Aug. 29, 1944;
Stevens, March 21, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Edmond McAleer, ’33, A.M. "34; Robert Horace
McAleer, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Manager of engineering department, Canada Dry Corporation.

IT is pleasant to anticipate the arrival of our Twenty-fifth Reunion
and to sit down and summarize the years since graduation. These
years have sped by with increasing speed, following an immutable
law of the acceleration of time according to which each year
seems shorter than its predecessor.

In brief, my career in the Outside World began as a draftsman
for a financial paper, drawing pretty graphs of stock market prices.
(Would that I had had the sense, and dollars, to buy then!) I did
have the good judgment to acquire a wife during this period and
still congratulate mysclf on my good fortune in this regard.

The shadow of war stimulated affairs in the world of engineering
during 1940, and I was working for the Navy Department when
Pearl Harbor landed us in the middle of the fray. I later moved
over to Sikorsky Aircraft in their experimental engineering depart-

[715]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ment, working on helicopters, and eventually left the company to
accept a commission in the Navy. I was a late arrival in the Navy
and ended my active career as a lieutenant (j.g.), having seen some-
thing of the Atlantic and the Pacific, as communications officer in
armed guard duty in the Atlantic, and attached to a Service Squad-
ron in the Pacific.

My first postwar job was as construction engineer for Walter
M. Cory, New York. After a year with that firm I joined Canada
Dry Corporation and I am still with that outfit, presently in the posi-
tion of manager of the engineering department. My duties include
responsibility for the design, construction and maintenance of build-
ings and construction facilities. This work keeps me busy traveling
all over the U.S. and Canada, with occasional trips farther afield.
The work is very rewarding as a myriad of interesting problems is
always in the offing.

I still manage to get occasional exercise, tennis in the summer
(mostly mixed doubles now) and skiing in New Hampshire in the
winter. Our children are beginning to surpass us in these sports now,
but we hope that they will bear with us as long as we are able to
raise a racquet or ride a ski tow.

As a commuter from Southport to New York, I spend much
time on the train and manage to get in a solid amount of reading
in many different fields. As long as the New Haven Railroad keeps
running I shall be happy with this living arrangement, the week-
ends in Connecticut are well worth the traveling time on the
train! My wife is occupied with such affairs as church, school and
health drives, mercifully protecting me from such doings; in short,
life is good in Connecticut.

I view the future with some solid satisfaction as my family ap-
proaches maturity. I feel that the international situation will simmer
along, that we shall muddle through, avoiding the holocaust which
seems to threaten.

CHESTER WALLACE MacARTHUR

HOME apprEss: 4606 De Russey Pkwy., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Continental Can Co., 1625 I St. N.W., Washington 6, D.C.
BorN: Aug. 31, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

[716]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Arline Simmen, Aug. 9, 1941, Pelham Manor, N.Y. CHILpren: C.
Bruce, Jan. 14, 1944; Brian Henry, July 25, 1949.

occuPATION: Washington representative-manager, Washington Office, Conti-
nental Can Company.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Washington; Kenwood Golf and Country
Club; National Institute of Packaging, Handling and Logistics Engineers.

THIS is one time when it would be nice to have the talents of a
paragrapher, epigrammatist, or professional composer of telegrams,
Not being one who can get the whole story across in ten words or
less, and mindful that the good committee encourages conciseness
wherever possible, I am going to refrain from presenting an eye-
witness report of the first year of the New Frontier, creeping so-
cialism, etc.

The first twenty years since June of ’37 are pretty well chron-
icled in the Class Reports, but for those who have tuned in late,
it goes roughly as follows:

After a year at the Harvard Business School, I went to work as
a timekeeper for Continental Can Company in Baltimore. Now,
twenty-four years later (the gold watch comes next year) I am still
with Continental, and unmindful of Horace Greeley’s recommenda-
tion, have migrated southward about forty miles to Washington,
D.C. Between times, I have managed to see some of our great
country, and a bit of the world. My traveling costumes for the
latter excursion were special shades of brown, like olive drab for
a cold (—29°) winter in South Dakota, and suntans for Hawaii
and Okinawa.

Measured by the usual Washington tenure, our six years here
just about qualify us for membership in the Oldest Inhabitants
Club. Looking back, they have been six rather fine years, which
permitted me to get better acquainted with my family, a pleasure
I commend to all, but one difficult to achieve, if you work and
live, as we did for nine years, in Manhattan and vicinity. However,
I have not as yet subscribed to the old cliché about New York
being a nice place to visit, but not to live in.

The MacArthur menage, slightly below the Class of 37 average
in all categories, consists of one wife, two boy children, one dog,
one house, two cars, and one one-car garage. My bride has
majored, and I have dabbled, in P.T.A., Cub Scouts, Little League,
and getting out the votes. Our number one (in order of appearance)
son has been very active in Scouting; achieved Eagle rank, and al-
though now away at college, is an assistant scoutmaster in absentia.

(717 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Number two son, having mastered duckpin bowling, has switched
to tenpins, and will be ready for Andy Varipapas one day soon.
His greatest talent, which ] am counting on to take care of me in
the declining years, is his acquaintance with money on a first name
basis. If this power can be harnessed, we are all set.

Had anyone asked six years ago what I would be doing as the
Washington representative of Continental Can, my answer, what-
ever, would have been brief and meaningless. I can now discourse
on this subject for hours, but won’t, other than to say that no two
days are alike, and if variety is really the spice of life, mine is
highly seasoned. :

WOODS McCAHILL

HOME apprEss: Menands Road, Albany 4, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: General Electric Co., 1 River Rd., Schenectady, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1915, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937} LL.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Batcheller, June 21, 1941, Albany, N.Y. cxmpren: Michael,
Jan. 9, 1943; Martha, Dec. 14, 1946, Woods, Sept. 28, 1950; Philip, Nov. 1,
1952.

HARVARD SON: Michael McCahill, ’65.

oocuPATION: Department counsel, General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1950, president, 1955-58, Albany Boys’ Club;
trustee, Albany Medical College, since 1958; alumni trustee, Hotchkiss

School, since 1960; vice-president, Harvard Association of Eastern New
York, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American and New York State Bar Associations; University Club,

New York; Harvard Club of New York; Fort Orange Club and Schuyler
Meadows Club, Albany; Mohawk Club, Schenectady.

AFTER graduation from law school, which I thoroughly enjoyed,
I was associated with a firm in Cleveland. After the war I returned
to the same firm for just a few months until we moved to Albany
and I started work in the legal department of General Electric in
Schenectady.

The work in a corporate legal department is surprisingly varied
and interesting, and while it entails virtually no trial experiences,
it covers almost every area of the law —even a smattering of do-
mestic relations. I’ve worked chiefly in the commercial field and
as a result have done a great deal of contract negotiation involving
our large apparatus, such as turbines, and lately a good deal of anti-

[718]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trust work, all of which involves a fair amount of traveling —a
little of which goes a long way.

During the war I was in the Navy, first on the Army-Navy
Munitions Board in Washington, a spell at Harvard at the Com-
munications School and, finally, two years in the Pacific on a carrier,
fortunately not in communications work.

In the past few years I have been active in Harvard Schools and
Scholarship work, which has been interesting and rewarding. Sim-
ilarly, I have enjoyed being a trustee of my old school, Hotchkiss,
particularly as our oldest was there during part of my term. The
Boys’ Club activities have been well worth whatever time I have
spent. I just wish I could do more,

I am an ardent golfer in the summer and a somewhat less active
squash player in the winter. Like most other amateur photographers,
I have a pretty good opinion of my abilities and a few good pictures
to show for my efforts. I have had one venture in politics, in 1956,
when I was chairman of the Citizens for Eisenhower Committee
in Albany. This was a great deal of fun and, much to our surprise,
we carried Albany County, which is predominantly Democratic,
by a substantial margin.

We have traveled quite a bit in this country during vacations and
have been talking about a trip to Europe for some time without
getting there; maybe this will be the year.

COLIN HOYT MacDIARMID

HOME AppREsS: 1037 Hillcrest Ave., Highland Park, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bankers Life Insurance Co. of Nebraska, 8350 N. Lincoln Ave.
Skokie, Ill.

BORN: May 16, 1915, Malden, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; A.M., 1939.

MARRIED: Frances Virginia Wynkoop, March 16, 1946, Washington, D.C.
CHILDREN: Colin Cartwright, May 9, 1948; Janet Virginia, May 16, 1951.

occuPATION: Life insurance underwriting, specializing in business insurance
and estate programs.

OFFICES HELD: President, local P.T.A.; executive officer, Army Reserve Unit.

MEMBER OF: Local Masonic Lodge; Highland Park Presbyterian Church's
Men’s Service Board.

WEEK after week has slipped by, and time and again I’ve been
reminded by pleasant requests (to my “nearest female relative” or
to me!) that an accounting was expected. So here it is at last, with

[719]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

my apologies and admiration, too, for those who have waited so long
for so little reward. (May I suggest that I would probably have
responded readily enough to a given deadline, whereas I have lately,
quite perversely, begun to wonder what you'd say or do next to stir
me to acting as requested.)

As for the “give and take” since 1937, I've found myself busier
and happier as time goes on. After private tutoring and high school
teaching for two years, I went off to World War II, survived, and
stayed on active duty for almost sixteen years of interesting in-
telligence assignments, study, friendships, and extensive travel that
brought me to Headquarters, Fifth U.S. Army in Chicago, and my
present home. For some four years after leaving active duty, I was
the midwestern regional director for the National Industrial Con-
ference Board of New York. And now I am much interested in my
new work with Bankers Life of Nebraska. :

The next twenty-five years will, I expect, have for all of us even
more excitement, enjoyment, and satisfaction than the first. I hope
that I can be more and more useful in school, church, and Army
Reserve programs, in which I have been active, and that I can get
to see much more of Minnesota’s and Canada’s North Woods before
business, military, or other necessity sends me to a new territory,
“cold” or other war assignment, or intergalactic space. For my
son seems determined to make a fisherman out of me, and my
daughter and wife are such good sports and good campers we're
all ready to do some real bush-whacking.

I am pleased that both my son and daughter plan to study medicine,
that my wife — heretofore a Byrd Democrat — and I have so well
reconciled our northern and southern backgrounds and traditions
that we have come close to full agreement on all except this: Will
it be Harvard and Radcliffe, or the University of Virginia and
Duke? Or will it be Northwestern, or Lake Forest, or West-
minster? So, unless the Army calls me back and has me somewhere
out of reach, all four of us will be back in June.

RICHARD LANCASTER McELDOWNEY

HOME appress: 19 Ridgewood Terr., Northampton, Mass.

orfice appress: United Elastic Corp., Payson Avenue, Easthampton, Mass.
BORN: Oct. 14, 1915, Boston, Mass.

pueparto aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937- DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

[720]

<

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Virginia Davis Conant, June 3, 1939, Newtonville, Mass. cHitpren:
Roland Conant, Nov. 14, 1940; Anne Gilman, Aug. 14, 1943; Linda Wrighe
and Marcia Ramsay (twins), Feb. 19, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to controller, United Elastic Corporation, elastic fabric
manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Girl Scout Camp Committee, Ox Bow Council, since
1960; vestryman, St. John’s Episcopal Church, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Worthington Golf Club; Harvard Club of Boston (1937-57).

IT has been a rather unproductive twenty-five years if one con-
sidered only my participation outside local affairs, but I have been
busy at the community level. After a try at banking, soap manu-
facturing and wool, I am still “plugging” away at financial reports,
but this time girdle material is my source of income. We at United
Elastic are jokingly referred to as the “Greatest Meat Packers in
the World.”

Virginia and I have four children. The eldest, Roland, is now
at Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pennsylvania. Our
daughters, Anne, Linda and Marcia (twins), are in local high schools.
Of course, the family has other interests besides studying. We
travel, and vacation mostly in Vermont, Maine and New Hamp-
shire. I still play golf as much as possible, but I am not improving
with age. When winter arrives, we all skate and ski. Here in
western Massachusetts, the cold weather lasts four months and
winter sports are much in favor. I have always enjoyed dancing,
so Virginia and I belong to a group which meets periodically for
an evening of waltzing and fox trots.

As I stated earlier, we keep busy supporting community projects.
Jinny spends many hours each week in hospital and church work.
I am active on the vestry at church and in various fund-raising
campaigns throughout the city. We feel that participation in civic
affairs is most rewarding.

THOMAS MORN MacFARLANE, JR.

HOME aAppress: Peverly Hill Rd., Portsmouth, N.H.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1037. DEGREES: A.B. 1937(38); p.o. (Philadelphia Coll.
of Osteopathy), 1943.

MarRIED: Aileen Carpenter, Feb. 2, togo, North Easton, Mass. camtpren:
Thomas Donald, Feb. 26, 1942; Jean Margaret, April 29, 1945; Ann Alison,
July 9, 1948.

occuPATION: Ostcopathic physician.

[720]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MEMBER OF: American Osteopathic Association; New Hampshire Osteopathic
Association, New England Academy of Applied Osteopathy; Osteopathic
College of Anaesthesiology; Kiwanis Club, Harvard Club of Boston;
Harvard Club of New Hampshire.

WILLIAM THOMAS McGANN

HOME ADDRESS: 346 Pine St., Middletown, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Remington Rand, Division of Sperry Rand Corp., Johnson
Street, Middletown, Conn.

BORN: July 8, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marrieD: Alice Louise Adams, April 26, 1946, Westfield, N.J. cuitpren: Karen
Louise, April 28, 1951; Deborah Jean, Oct. 21, 1956.

occupation: Chief chemist, Supplies Division, Remington Rand.

MEMBER OF: Technical Association of the Graphic Arts; Litho Club of New
York.

IN retrospect, I feel that the world was ill-prepared for our crossing
the proverbial threshold in 1937. Certainly an interview at that
time was seldom colored with discussions of air-conditioned work
areas, fringe benefits, formidable retirement policies, and the like.
The overriding consideration was to find an industry willing to
provide an opportunity for unleashing my boundless energies. As
it turned out, these energies were almost spent in the search. Finally,
opportunity presented itself in the form of a position as assistant
chemist with Remington Rand in Bridgeport, Connecticut.

This early period was not all grim, however. In the summer of
1937, I played in a band at a camp in Connecticut. This proved to
be an experience with rewards far exceeding my expectations as I
met Alice Adams, a girl of captivating charm and beauty, with
whom I have shared hearth and home for the past fifteen years.

To return to the early post-graduate years in Bridgeport, I have
no strong recollections other than a pleasant camaraderie with an
assorted group of upstanding young men at the Bridgeport “Y.”
Particularly, 1 recall riding around evenings with my roommate
listening to radio reports on the adventures of Adolf. This saga
proved to be a far more personal thing as it developed. As the
saying goes, I never won a thing in my life — until the famous fish-
bowl sweepstakes. The prize in this case was an extended tour,
beginning with a rather modest train trip to Fort Devens. After
what seemed an interminable period of evaluation of my potential,

[722]

al

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I] was despatched across camp to the station hospital where I was
to find a temporary niche as wardmaster in the psychiatric ward.
After a year, during which I’m sure I became one of the world’s
foremost amateur psychiatrists, 1 moved on to OCS at Edgewood
Arsenal. The ninety days at Edgewood persuaded me that I had
made a grave omission in neglecting to include ROTC as part of
my curriculum. Instead of being a watcher, I was now one of the
watched! But inevitably graduation thrust us complete with shiny
gold bars on the unsuspecting Army of the United States.

In rapid succession, brief stops in California, Texas, Oklahoma,
and Mississippi led inexorably to the Port of New York and a
reasonably comfortable cruise to England. This was in sharp con-
trast to the later trip across the Channel in an LCT which consumed
the record time of three days, thanks to a hurricane, two burned-
out diesels, and some rather inept piloting. Eventually, the tour
ended where it began — at Devens and out.

Alice and I were married in April, 1946, and after four moves in
rapid succession finally settled in Trumbull, Connecticut. In 1951
Karen arrived to grace our home and life. A short time later it was
moving time again, this time to Middletown, Connecticut, where
we can still be found by any enterprising classmate. In 1956 we
were again blessed, this time by the arrival of Debbie, and the four
of us have enjoyed an animated and richly satisfying life together.

I am fortunate to be numbered among those whose work con-
tinues as a pleasant challenge. The field of graphic arts has, I believe,
been subject to more rapid and revolutionary changes over the past
ten years than anything else this side of the military. I consider my-
self privileged to be a part of it. Politically, 1 am a Republican who
can become easily incensed by reflecting on the failure of our na-
tional leaders during the forties to recognize the difference between
an ally and a co-belligerent.

My outside interests are few but sufficient, consisting chiefly
of the Air Force Reserve and, more recently, the inevitable
PTA. While I still delude myself that I could have been a far more
fearsome pitcher than what little there is of my record would indi-
cate, I have resigned myself to being a golfer and bowler of very
modest talents.

[723]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MILTON MACHINIST

HOME ADDRESS: 505 North River Rd., Manchester, N.H.

oFFIce appress: A. Machinist, Inc. 54 Hanover St., Manchester, N.H.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1916, Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Manchester Central High School, Manchester, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. C47 laude, 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

MarrieD: Sylvia Pincus, Jan. 12, 1941, Philadelphia, Pa. cumpren: Peter Bruce,
Sept. 3, 1944; Linda Beth, June 10, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Burton Machinist, "40.

occupation: President, A. Machinist, Inc., department store.

OFFICES HELD: President, Manchester Jewish Community Center, 1949, Man-
chester Downtown Association, since 1958; trustee, Amoskeag Savings
Bank, Manchester, since 1954; vice-president, Manchester Community
Chest, since 1960, Kiwanis Club; director, Mayor's Committee on Civic
Progress, Manchester, National Jewish Welfare Board, Red Cross, Tax-
payers’ Association; trustee, Manchester Boys’ Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New Hampshire; Manchester
Chamber of Commerce, Manchester Country Club; Manchester Kiwanis
Club; Masonic Lodge (Washington Lodge).

LOOKING back is an aging process. But, like the results achieved
in preparing good wine, I find the present mellow years are of satis-
fying savor. The immediate period after college was taken up at the
Harvard Business School with several of our classmates. The pace
of study was swifter here. The sweet musing of undergraduate days
quickly gave way to serious consideration of the practical and
complex problems of business, In retrospect, the two-year course
has well proven itself for me.

My first testing ground following graduation was in Hartford,
Connecticut, at the G. Fox & Company department store. Soon I
learned that the lofry decisions I was able to make as a student in
the analysis of problems at the “B” School were not to be my lot
for several years to come. Nearly three happy years at Fox’s, and
then I felt ready to return to the family department store, where I
hoped to contribute my now modestly admitted talents to the
development of that enterprise. Not for long. I met soon after
the girl of my life, and we were married. This happened in January,
1941. Shortly there began a new chapter —I was a reserve officer,
and was called to “emergency” military duty for one year, which
Hitler and all the other “dirty Fascists” contrived to extend to
nearly five years.

The war years were exciting ones — sometimes hazardous, but, in
all, thoroughly rewarding. First, assignment as a Quartermaster

[724]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

officer for the Air Force at Westover Field, then assistant staff
supply officer at Headquarters, Eighth Air Force in England, finally
duty on the Operations Division of the Air Staff in the Pentagon.
In each new job I found some new satisfaction. The kind of cam-
araderie that kept so many of us emboldened through those years
will always hold a warm place in my “innards.”

World War II over! It was a reassuring journey “home to the
hills’ of New Hampshire. Two wonderful children — our son,
Peter, and daughter, Linda— were born into a promising world,
and my wife and I truly felt at peace again.

Building the business from then on became the really important
goal— you know —a wife and two kids to support! From the
outset a sense of family pride motivated a great deal of activiry —
physical store expansion, a redirection of the merchandising pro-
gram, and in general, creating a favorable public image for a family-
owned store. I found myself catapulted into the throes of local
civic and political activities, and actively identified with many chari-
table and community service organizations. Redevelopment plan-
ning of the central city, urban renewal, and participation in a study
of local school building needs have taken much of my spare time,
and probably too much of normal business and family hours. The
passing years have demonstrated strongly the essentiality of such
involvement.

The challenge, too, presented to conventional retailers like our-
selves by the spirited surge of discount self-service type businesses
alerted me to many problems in our own business. Positively, such
a new threat has awakened us to our own weaknesses, which we
have attempted over the years to correct. I now feel more reassured
that our business will hold a niche in the community.

But, not all has been business, thank goodness. My wife and I
were fortunate the last few years to have made several exciting
trips abroad, our first in 1955, when I was able to point out to her
the locale of my service during World War II; and then in 1958
we undertook an extended trip to the Middle East, particularly to
the new state of Isracl. The number of achievements we discovered
there impressed us as nearly miraculous in their scope. The follow-
ing year was the fulfillment of a dream for which we had long
planned. We took our two fine children on a “grand tour” of
Europe. Sceing all the wonders and history of these familiar areas
through their cyes was like a new experience for us. I recommend

[725]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

it to any of our classmates who can swing it (believe me, it does
take some financial planning! ).

For now our era of travel will have to pause; our son is about
to enter college, and our daughter prep school. Watching them
grow is one of the real joys of the twenty-five years since college.
Looking back over the years, the warmth of my many friendships
with Classmates and other Harvard men has been a real source of
satisfaction. I pray we are all preserved to write again of ourselves
and friends for our Fiftieth Reunion. |

DAVID BLANDING MacINTOSH

HOME ADpRESS: 295 Whitwell St., Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Armstrong Cork Co., South Braintree, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 8, 1914, Quincy, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.; Thayer Academy, Braintree,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Helen T. Batson, Sept. 13, 1941, Quincy, Mass. CHILDREN: David
Blanding, Jr, July 10, 1943; Nancy Elizabeth, March 9, 1945; Robert
Bruce, Jan. 22, 1957.

occuPATION: Plant purchasing agent, Armstong Cork Company, manufacturers
of industrial rubber and flooring products.

OFFICES HELD: President, P.T.A., Cranch School, Quincy, Mass., 1952-53;
chairman, Explorer Post No. 4, Quincy, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy; Harvard Varsity Club; Boston Rubber
Group.

PuBLIcATIONS: House Report No. 1712, “Report of the Special Commission on
Taxation and Public Expenditures,” Part XII, Administration of Fiscal
Affairs, Chapter V, Bureau of Purchases.

UPON graduation I eschewed a teaching and coaching opportunity
at Santa Barbara prep school in California to accept a minor job
on mosquito control work for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
mainly because I wanted to remain in “God’s country,” the Boston
area. After a brief stint at this work, I was employed as a research
assistant by the joint 1937 Massachusetts Special Commission on
Taxation and Public Expenditures.

In late 1938, I left the employ of the Commonwealth and went
to work for the Hood Rubber Company of Watertown, Massa-
chusetts, first in the production department and then in the produc-
tion planning department, where I remained until 1941. From 1941
until 1946 I worked for the Bethlehem Steel Company, Boston Yard,

[ 726]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on ship repair and conversion work in the production, planning and
estimating departments.

In 1946 I became associated with the Armstrong Cork Company,
South Braintree, Massachusetts. The work involved initiating the
purchase of all raw materials and directing the activity of all pri-
mary operations under the supervision of the production planning
manager. In June, 1957, I became the plant purchasing agent, being
responsible for the purchase of all materials bought for the operation
of the plant, reporting directly to the plant manager.

Locally, I still enjoy active participation in municipal and state
elections. Temporarily, I have retired from P.T.A. and Scouting
work but expect to be active again in these areas when my four-
year-old son enters grammar school next year. With the two oldest
children in college next fall, it appears that my “New Frontier” will
be a lean one for the next few years.

ARNETT McKENNAN

HOME ADDRESS: 245 E. 81st St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Netherland-America Foundation, 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York 20, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1914, Denver, Colo.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937-

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: William McKennan, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Public relations man (as writer, art director, executive, etc.).

RIGHT after graduation, I moved to New York and into a job in
advertising with the J. Walter Thompson Company. The idea was
to use such creative abilities as I had been told I possessed while at
Harvard (where I had “majored” in Hasty Pudding and Lampoon,
as much as in English and Fine Arts). Advertising seemed a business
that offered a regular paycheck in return for some knowledge and
experience in art, acting, writing, and a consuming interest in people.
I was soon routed into the public relations area of the business; have
stayed in that field ever since, and am glad of it.

Early in 1941, I was drafted as a willing but unlikely Army private
Nearly five years later I emerged as a major, quite tired and with a
dandy case of malaria. I had worked very hard, had been very
lucky, and had learned a lot about some people, places, and things,
the memories of which I cherish highly.

[727]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

I returned to New York and the Thompson Company. In the
*50's, | moved about some professionally, but still find the public rela-
tions business stimulating, challenging, and rewarding,

Although I am a bachelor, I hope I’m not the crotchety, misan-
thropic, fusty old prototype. Luckily (or perhaps I sought it out),
much of my work has thrown me with young people — some very
young and some much in need.

Since I never do go in much for regrets, about the only one I
can think of, at the moment, is that there are so many of you all
that I’ve not seen for so long. Perhaps we can catch up a little this

June.

HERBERT McKENNIS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1421 VW. Laburnum Ave., Richmond 27, Va.

OFFICE AppRESS: Dept. of Pharmacology, Medical College of Virginia, Rich-
mond, Va.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: S.B, 1937(38); PHD. (Cornell Univ.),
1945.

MarrieD: Evelyn Porter Sanborn, June 20, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Quentin, March 3, 1939; Claudia, July 7, 1940; Jeffrey, Oct. 29, 1942.

occupation: Professor of pharmacology, Medical College of Virginia.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Program Committee, Virginia Section, 1960-61, Radio
and Television Committee, 1956-58; chairman, Education and Manpower
Committee, 1961~62, Executive Committee, 1961-62, American Chemical
Society; honorary member, Medical Faculty, University of Chile, Santiago,
Chile.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Biological Chemists; American Society for
Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, American Chemical So-
ciety; Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science; Sigma Xi; Phi Lambda Upsilon;
International Oceanographic Foundation; Chemists’ Club; Sociedad de
Biologia de Santiago, Chile (honorary member); New York Academy of
Sciences, Virginia Academy of Science, Society of Military Engineers,

Meadowbrook Country Club, Harvard Club of Virginia; Johns Hopkins
Club of New York.

pusLications: Various scientific articles (approximately sixty) in the Journal
of Biological Chemistry, Journal of the American Chemical Society,
Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Analytical
Chemistry, Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology, etc.

SINCE fair warning has been issued that the compilers of this book
have on hand an inexhaustible supply of duplicate forms, reminders,
and pleading postal cards, I am persuaded to tell what sometimes

[ 728 |

fen werner eae

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

seems inconsequential to me — perhaps because it is a little late to
start painting an objective picture of the past.

In September, 1961, I completed an eight-year period in the De-
partment of Pharmacology at the Medical College of Virginia,
where I continue to teach and do research which depends primarily
upon the application of chemical techniques and thinking to bio-
logical problems. Included in this latter category has been an excur-
sion into the problem of finding out what happens to nicotine which,
happily for the southern farmers, is absorbed daily from cigarette
smoke. At the moment, it appears that so many things happen to
make nicotine relatively inactive that it will be a long time before
all of the events are known.

Before embarking on the above, as a previous Report has indi-
cated, I spent approximately four years with the Department of the
Navy. Alternative points of view are that the Navy spent four
years of me — or that I spent four years of the Navy. At any rate,
it was interesting as head of basic sciences research at the Naval
Civil Engineering Laboratory (present name) in Port Hueneme,
California. The problems here were both animate and inanimate and
included such things as how to stop marine borers from eating
wood and how to stop vehicles of the Marine Corps from bogging
down in the sand for lack of roads. It is good to be able to report
that some success was achieved in the latter category. Although
the roads that we built could not be said to be completely indestruct-
ible, by a fortunate set of circumstances and without stealing any
ideas from ball point pen manufacturers, a way was developed for
producing a road under water.

My job experiences prior to the above were divided between
academic institutions, in biochemical posts, and commercial enter-
prises dependent upon chemical research and chemical technology.
Hence, chemistry in one way or another has been the common
thread in the cloth of my existence since leaving Cambridge in 1938.

Despite the opportunity for some reflection and study, it has not
been possible to decide with certainty whether scientific problems
are more easily soluble than social and political ones. The advantage,
however, in the former group is that frames of reference have been
so set up that “solutions” appear to be more easily obtainable.

[729]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

KENNETH WARD MacKENZIE

HOME ADDRESS: 14595 Abington Rd., Detroit 27, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American-Standard Industrial Division, Detroit 12, Mich.

BoRN: Dec. 14, 1910, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Annapolis Royal Academy, Annapolis, N.S., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1939. DEGREE: S.B. 1936(39).

MarRIED: Mary Jo Armentrout, 1940, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHiLpreN: Kenneth Ward,
Jr., July 30, 1941; Raymond King and George Douglas (twins), Feb. 21,
1945; Robert Eugene, June 5, 1946; Mary Joyce, March 16, 1948; Rosalee
Maureen, June 27, 1949; Gordon Joseph, Oct. 15, 1950; Aileen Lillian,
March 28, 1952; Martha Ann, March 28, 1954; Kareen Marie, Aug. 14, 1955.

occuPATION: Engineer in manufacturing; assistant director of research, Ameri-
can-Standard Industrial Division.

OFFICES HELD: Supervisor, High Frequency Measurements Lab, 1940-43, electri-
cal design engineer, 1943-44, Westinghouse Electric Corporation; radar
design engineer, 1944-46, precipitator head, Engineering Dept., 1946-49,
manager, precipitator sales, 1949-55, Raytheon Manufacturing Company;
assistant director of research, American-Standard Industrial Division,
since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Institute of Electrical
Engineers; American Society of Heating and Refrigeration Engineers;
American Society for Testing Materials; Air Pollution Control Associa-
tion; American Society of Mechanical Engineers (Tech, Comm. member
only); Boy Scouts of America (Scout leader, seven years).

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers presented before branches of the above so-
cieties; many patents on electrical equipment in conjunction with my work.

THE time since my graduation has passed so quickly that it seems
hard to account for. After leaving college I planned to enter the
field of communication engineering and at the same time see the
world. With this in mind, I decided to join a communication com-
pany servicing South and Central America. Being cautious (an
engineering trait), I made inquiries of those who had previously
done this work and found that the job was far from healthy and
that previous employees usually ended up on the disabled list —
some permanently. This cooled my enthusiasm somewhat and I
accepted an offer to join the Westinghouse Electric Corporation
as a graduate student 1938-39.

After finishing my graduate course training, I settled down to
normal design work. At Pittsburgh, I met my wife-to-be and have
through her kind devotion been encouraged on through the many
years that followed. We just celebrated our twenty-first wedding
anniversary. During the war years, I devoted my time to working
on design and research of many highly confidential engineering

[ 730]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

projects while at the same time teaching (nights and spare time
days) Air Corps students physics and mathematics. This was a
busy time wherein the labor period was regularly twelve hours and
often sixteen hours a day. Combined with the above, I gave courses
for graduate students on industrial electronics.

With the ending of the war, I went back to the design of com-
mercial products again and have done much work in the field of
electrostatic precipitation and air pollution control equipment de-
sign. This has been my major field for the past fifteen years and I
have found it increasingly interesting. While doing this, I have
managed to get in a trip abroad to see European methods and have
also done extensive traveling in Canada and Mexico, as well as
all parts of the United States. My desire to see the world has been
pretty well taken care of in spite of the fact that I didn’t take the
romantic first job offer.

Whenever possible, members of my family have accompanied me
on these trips which we all enjoy. Family activities — sailing, swim-
ming, camping, tennis, Scout work, etc.—still keep us all oc-
cupied in our spare time. My big problem now is keeping up with
my family. In conclusion, ours has been a happy life these last
twenty-five years, and my hope is that the next twenty-five will be
equally happy and rewarding.

RICHARD CHARLTON MacKENZIE

HOME AppREsS: 5 W. 21st St., New York 10, N.Y.
BORN: June 20, 1916, Lowell, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933—1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Editor.

WITH the exception of two foot-loose years in Europe, I have been
a trade-book editor in New York for the past twenty years. Life
has been largely uneventful — no wars, no wives, no children. At
intervals, I repair to Cape Cod to knit up the raveling of New York
life. There, one can investigate the apparently blameless lives of
shore birds, garden in a mild fashion and read all those books that
were assigned by the English Department in the years 1933-1937.

{731 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

DAVID HOLMES McKILLOP

HOME ADDRESS: 1604 32d St, N.W., Washington 7, D.C.; 36 Ave. du Vert
Chasseur, Uccle, Brussels, Belgium.

OFFICE AppRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C., American Embassy,
Brussels, Belgium.

porN: Feb. 2, 1916, Globe, Ariz.

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; A-M., 1939-

MaRrRIED: Stratton Griswold (née Nicolson), Nov. 24, 1956, Old Lyme, Conn.
cHiLpREN: Dwight Sloane Griswold, June 21, 1949 (stepson); Edith Stratton
Griswold, Feb. 21, 1952 (stepdaughter); Peter Dudley, Aug. 10, 1957;
David Holmes, Jr., July 14, 1958; Alice Llewellyn, Sept. 28, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: Archibald Campbell McKillop, x.s., °37.

occuPaTION: Foreign Service Officer, Department of State; currently, coun-
selor of Embassy, Brussels.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; various foreign clubs.

INDOLENT by nature, herewith my life in capsule since 1937, for
me a not unheady brew: four stay-at-home years of graduate study
and a bit of teaching, twenty-one years of globe-trotting in the
Foreign Service at Zurich, Berlin, Stockholm, Hamburg, Basra,
Washington, Hong Kong (never kicked a gong), Fort McNair
(National War College), United Nations, Tunis, Brussels. As to
the future and the nuclear age notwithstanding, I am looking for-
ward to a frisky Fiftieth and an eccentric old age. Only trust the

“exigencies of the Service” will permit me to attend the Twenty-

fifth, where, like Rip Van Winkle, having been away a long time,

I hope to recognize at least five people.

Oh, yes, I nearly forgot, I have enjoyed five past years of matri-
mony, and we have five not totally unlikeable lirtle monsters,

JAMES ARTHUR McLAUGHLIN

HOME appress: 16 Chandler Drive, Marshfield, Mass.

orFice appress: Marshfield Junior High School, Marshfield, Mass.

BORN: Sept, 19, 1914, Dorchester, Mass.

Preparep at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; ED.M, (Boston Univ.), 1956.

Maragiep: Dolores Liberty Dubinsky, May 22, 1953, Quantico, Va. CHILD:
George David, Feb. 15, 1956.

OCCUPATION; Principal, Marshfield Junior High School,

MembBER oF: Old Colony Harvard Club; Boston Latin School Association;
Marine Corps Reserve Officers Association, National Association of
Secondary-School Principals, Massachusetts Junior High School Principals’

[ 732 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Association; Massachusetts Teachers Association; Southeastern Massachu-
setts Junior High School Principals’ Association; Marshfield Teachers
Club.

LOOKING back over the past quarter of a century, I have the
feeling that life has rewarded me fairly in keeping with what I
have put into it. I have had no lucky breaks; I have faced no
disasters. I am better off spiritually than financially; I prefer to have
itso. My daily measures of satisfaction make life worth living, en-
courage me to put much greater effort into the future.

When I left Harvard, I planned to teach French and German.
This plan, though it never materialized, led me into the field of
education from the byroads of insurance, sales and advertising.

My chosen career began as a high school teacher and baseball
coach at Templeton, Massachusetts.

While serving as an instructor and counselor at the Fisher School
of Business Management for Men at Boston, my interests shifted to
guidance, and I began my graduate studies in this field at the School
of Education, Boston University.

As a member of the faculty of Gorton Junior High School, War-
wick, Rhode Island, I limited my activities entirely to guidance,
began further graduate study in the field of administration at Boston
University and Rhode Island College, and managed to find one night
a week to teach in the Evening Division (now University College)
of Northeastern University.

My present position in the Marshfield Junior High School is
both challenging and rewarding; yet I am fortunate enough to derive
the added measures of satisfaction that go with teaching in my
seventh consecutive year at Northeastern.

At this point I have not accounted for six of the most stimulaung
years of my life. During World War II, I served as a communica-
tions officer with the Second Assault Signal Company, Second
Marine Division, from Saipan to Nagasaki. In the course of the
Korean Conflict, I was assigned to the training of officer candidates
at Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Virginia. Life in the Corps
was demanding, intense; its imprint and its values are indelible.

Since my wife, Dolores, tells me constantly that I don’t devore
enough time to my family, I shall try to make up for this failing with
a few words here. We are blessed with one son, David, now five,
who doesn’t always act like a blessing. We even suspect that he
doesn’t always apply himself properly to his academic work in the
kindergarten. His printed D's are still pretty ragged; it’s a good

( 733]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

thing that his name contains only two of them. When we tell him

that he may not qualify for college, he shows no signs of frustration

or worry. We spend most of our family life disagreeing about how

to handle his upbringing.
And then there must be time for hobbies. What are they? I used
to consider gardening and woodworking hobbies. Having just

moved into a new home, I find that there is landscaping to be done
and a family room to be finished.

With regard to politics, I prefer the eclectic approach. I feel
that our democratic system will always discover the leaders to meet

the challenges of the times — social, political, scientific, technologi-
cal, military — and win.

JOHN MacLEAN MacLAURIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1763 Prospect Ave., Santa Barbara, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1110 State St., Santa Barbara, Calif.

BORN: Jan, 29, 1916, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cuz laude, 1937.

marriep: Alma Wick, March 23, 1940, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1959);
Leonie Giesberts, 1960. cHLpREN: John Duncan, Oct. 23, 1941; Barbara
Wick, Oct. 27, 1943; Donald Giesberts, March 2, 1961.

occupation: Importer, with wife as partner, of European merchandise.

ON the strength of my honors thesis I obtained a position with
Pan American Airways immediately after graduation. As I recall
now, this paid about $65 per month. In any case it was not
enough to keep one alive in New York City; and so I took a job
with an English exporter of paper products. After ten months in
London learning the business, I returned to New York to act as their
buying agent in this country and establish an export department
for an American paper company. My career with the latter lasted
until 1956, at which time I had the title of president. The company
was sold in that year, and I put up with the new management for
one year as vice-president-in-charge-of-manufacturing and then left.
At about the same time I separated from my wife.

There was a hiatus of two and one-half years of military service
which was undistinguished to the point of being boring. I ended
up in Puerto Rico writing orientation material for the local Spanish-
speaking recruits. After 1956 I indulged myself in the profession of
a “paper consultant,” offering my services and knowledge primarily

{ 734]

Sd

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Latin America. It was a living, but not much more. I started a
company in Cuba, which Castro now owns. I started a company in
Venezuela, which my ostensible partners now own. But during
these years I did a lot of traveling in Latin America, generally at
someone else’s expense, so that it was not a total loss.

In Caracas I met the most wonderful imaginable woman and
brought her back to the States with me as my wife. We spent two
years in New York City, while I worked as sales manager of a
former client and then finally had to admit that the climate had us
licked.

We came to California as a couple of latter-day pioneers, settling
first, and as we supposed, temporarily, in Santa Barbara. Since then
we have been to Europe twice and to Mexico once. We expect to
make such trips as frequently as possible in the future. But with
such understandable exceptions, which our present occupation as
importers of European goods makes necessary, I do not suppose
that we shall ever leave here. Between the two of us we have seen
most countries of the world and cannot think of a better place to be.

We have a new son, aged seven months, who is at least a potential
Harvard man. If business is good enough so that we can afford
it, but not so good as to tie us down immoderately, we shall be in
Cambridge next June for my 25th.

JOHN WILLIAM MacLEOD
MAILING ADDRESS: 79 Wilson Ave., Weymouth 88, Mass.

NO change in family statistics. New title — Electrical Supervisor.

HENRY MASON McNIFF

HOME ADDRESS: 970 Centinella Ave., Santa Monica, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: North American Aviation, Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1915, Salem, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MarRIED: Virginia Joy Sweinhart, July 25, 1950, Santa Monica, Calif. crm:
David Paul, Jan. 18, 1955.

OccuPATION: Engineering specifications, proposals, operations analysis, man-
agement techniques and general writing in such projects as B-70, F-108,
X-15, TFX, Corporal, Mercury and general areas similar to above.

PuBLicaTions: “Integration Total Aspects of Weapon Systems”; “Manage-
ment Techniques For Military Contracts”; “Economic Aspects of Rand D.”

[735]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

AFTER some tutorial work and unlucrative creative writing, World

War II occupied the years 1942 to 1945, of which three years over-
seas in England, North Africa, Italy and way stations. Chief con-

tribution as a cryptanalyst for Signal Intelligence, U.S. Army.
California beckoned and have been here since and consider myself
a native.

Marriage and domestic life have been the great satisfaction of the
years since. The other great satisfaction is to be able to contribute
to the future by applying a small talent for word usage in a
challenging field. Bridging the gap between scientific efforts and
the inherent inability to express the content of these efforts in
presentable and understandable layman text has filled a need for
me and I hope for the projects concerned.

MALCOLM BODWELL McTERNEN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 6126 Oak Point Ct., Peoria, Iil.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Luria Bros. & Co., P.O. Box, 541, Peoria, Ill.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1913, Andover, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Marie Elizabeth Patterson, Sept. 12, 1945, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:

Malcolm Bodwell, 3d, Dec. 10, 1946; Warren Alymer, Nov. 25, 19475
Laurine Elizabeth, Feb. 13, 1951.

occuPATION: District manager, scrap iron and steel broker.
MEMBER OF: Country Club of Peoria; University Club.

AFTER graduating in 1937, went to work for Joseph T. Ryerson
& Sons, Inc., Jersey City, New Jersey, in the warehouse steel busi-
ness. Entered Navy, in May, 1942, discharged as lieutenant in 1946,
and returned to work with J. T. Ryerson. In 1951, joined Luria
Bros. & Co., Inc., scrap iron and steel brokers, and traveled in New
Jersey-Pennsylvania area. During this time, we lived in East Orange,
New Jersey, and later in Westfield, New Jersey. In 1957, started
moving West, basing my activities from Cleveland, Ohio. Lived in
Bainbridge, Ohio, outside Cleveland and later in Hudson, Ohio,.a
small college town near Akron, and formerly the home of Western
Reserve University, now, Western Reserve Academy.

In 1959, we moved to Peoria, Illinois. With the two boys in high
school, and our daughter away all day in school, my wife has gone
back to school herself, and has just completed her requirements for
a Master’s degree in education. She is currently teaching kinder-

[736]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

garten in Germantown, Illinois, a suburb of Peoria, in the morning
and another class in Peoria, in the afternoon. These duties, plus
Sunday school class, once a week, pretty well prevent her from inter
fering with my housework. My own current interests are Latin I anc
Algebra I, which, when balanced with the right amount of Bisodo!
aren't as bad as I used to think they were.

HENRY JAMES McTIGHE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Blue Hill, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Post Office, Surry, Maine.

BORN: June 16, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Fern Silliman, July 27, 1942, Las Vegas, Nev. cHipreN: Allannah,

May 16, 1951; Kevin, July 4, 1952; Moira, Jan. 13, 1954; Esmé, May 13,
1958.

occuPATION: R.F.D. carrier, U.S. Post Office Department.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1952, chairman, since 1955, Blue Hill School
Committee, chairman, Blue Hill Democratic Committee, 1956-61; secre-
tary, Hancock County Democratic Committee.

SINCE 1937 I have served time in newspaper work, retail clothing,
chain store mechandising, advertising copy and a seven-year stretch
in the Air Force. Retired, disabled, 1947, major. I came very close
to attending the Harvard Graduate School of Regional Planning.
Escaped to Blue Hill, Maine, and have been variously and busily
occupied since with raising a family, breeding Irish wolfhounds,
growing blueberries, tending milk goats, managing a pottery kiln,
cutting saw logs and pulp wood, tree farming, scoutmastering,
running for office as state representative and sheriff (unsuccessfully
—on the Democratic ticket) and, for the last eight months, driving
an R.F.D. route. (I receive, sort, deliver and collect all mail and
postal business on a fifty-mile Rural Free Delivery route.) I'm still
occupied with all but the kiln and the political activities.

JOHN SCOTT MAGRANE

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Warren Pl., Montclair, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 46 William St., New York, N.Y.

BorN: Dec. 9, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1937(38); M.B.A, 1gyo.

[737]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MaRRIED: Helen Elizabeth Chambers, Oct. 4, 1941, Sacramento, Calif. cuippen:
Ralph Bollard, Sept. 15, 1944 (died July 5, 1946); John Scott, Jr., Dec, 23,
1946; Ross Whitney, Feb. 17, 1948; Mary Isabelle, Sept. 6, 1952.

occupation: Investment banking; vice-president, Dillon, Read & Co., Inc.

GEORGE FRANKLIN MAHONEY

MAILING ADDRESS: 19 Emmonsdale Rd., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

JOHN HENRY MAHONEY

HOME ADpRESS: 27 Lorraine Terr., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: U.S. Government, 79 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. §, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(38).

MARRIED; Rhoda M. Gallagher, Aug. 7, 1945, Chicago, Ill. cHmpren: Diane
Susan, May 8, 1946; Nancy Ellen, April 24, 1951.

occuPATION: Research analyst, U.S. Government.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; National CIC Association.

1 AM confident I shall not offend by omitting the 1937-47 period of
my life. This was adequately set forth in our Decennial Report and
repetition can gain nothing.

In 1947, I left the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission in Chicago;
established a home in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and in early 1948,
took my current position in the U.S. Government. In 1951, my
second daughter, Nancy, was born, and in 1955, we moved to our
present home in Arlington, Massachusetts.

I look forward to our 25th Reunion and hope, with God’s help,
that my family will be around for future ones, ad infinitum.

JOHN REGAN MAHONEY

HOME ADDRESS: 360 E. ss5th St.. New York, N.Y.

orrice appress: Casey, Lane & Mittendorf, 26 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.
BORN; June 20, 1916, North Andover, Mass.

prepareD at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. 1943(46).

Margiep: Louise Swenson, Aug. 12, 1961, Easthampton, Long Island, N.Y.
occupation: Lawyer.

orvicys HELD: President, Interstate Commerce Commission Practitioners, 1956-

$7; member, executive committee, Maritime Law Association, since 19593
vice-president, Alumni Council, Phillips Academy,

[738]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; India House; Tuxedo
Club; Whitehall Club; City, State and American Bar Associations.
PUBLICATIONS: Law Review articles on surface transportation, shipping.

AS I look back for the last twenty-four years, I can state unhesi-
tatingly that I have enjoyed the last year more than all the others
combined, The reason for this bold announcement is very simple.
After frantic and sometimes frenetic activity in the United States,
and at broadly scattered points throughout the globe, I have finally
had a real incentive for staying at home, because there was a real
home waiting for me. This statement is so obvious to the 99% of
the Class who have been caught up in matrimony, for most if not
all of the time since they graduated, that it appears superfluous
to them. However, in my Case, it is a new and wonderful step.
The past five years have not been distinguished professionally.
Along with my partners, have been busy trying to keep up with
the steady relentless growth of our law firm at a clip which has
kept pace with, if not far outstripped, the growth of our economy.
Because of the many transactions for which I have assumed ultimate
responsibility, I have had to give up a lot of the day-to-day work
on many of them. I hope that after we reach some kind of a plateau,
I may be able to return to the jousting matches in the courts and in
the agencies, which I consider to be the most exciting part of the law.
Since the last Report, my appearances in Cambridge have become
limited to the bread-and-butter interviewing trips at the Law School
for my firm, or visits to Soldiers’ Field on selected Saturday after-
noons, during the fall. I have often been in the vicinity of Boston
for meetings of the Alumni Council at Phillips Andover or for
projects in the Boston area. There have been some rewarding over-
seas visits. I had a particularly good look at the back country in
Yugoslavia several years ago, subsequent to my attendance as one
of the American delegates at the Comité Maritime meeting in Rejeka.
The continuing thread running through the last five years has
been my participation in a semi-successful attempt to solve the
economic problems of the offshore steamship carriers. In this con-
nection, I have had an eye-opening look at the legislative processes
of the United States, as they are manipulated at both upper and
lower levels. I've also had an opportunity at last to get a good view
of the pressure points of international commercial diplomacy.

[739]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PAUL MAIER

HOME ADDRESS: 143 Craigie St., Portland, Maine,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 723 Congress St., Portland, Maine.

porn: Aug. 16, 1913, Royersford, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Royersford High School, Royersford, Pa.; Hill School, Pottstown,
Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; M.v. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1941.

MarRieD: Miriam Deibler Slack, April 12, 1946, San Antonio, Texas. CHILDREN;
Paul John, Jan. 3, 1947; Susan Alda, Aug. 5, 1948, Margaret Elizabeth,
Dec. 8, 1950; Ellen Louise, Feb. 6, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Maier, ’34, M.D., 38.

occupation: Ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Portland Lions’ Club, 1954-55; secretary of staff,
Maine Eye and Ear Infirmary, 1955; deacon, Woodfords Congregational
Church, 1957-6o.

MEMBER OF: Cumberland County Medical Society; American and Maine
Medical Associations; New England Ophthalmological Society; American
Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology; staff member, Maine
Medical Center, Mercy Hospital, Portland City Hospital; Portland Lions’

Club; Woodfords Congregational Church; Deering Investment Corpora-
tion; various P.T.As.

JOSEPH ANTHONY MAIULLO, II

HOME ADDRESS: 132 Moran Rd., Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Maiullo & Maiullo, 2480 National Bank Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: Aug. 9, 1912, Detroit, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Howe Military School, Howe, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarriepD: N{uriel Agnes O’Connor, Sept. 25, 1937, Lynn, Mass. CHILDREN:
Diana, March 25, 1943; Anthony, 2d, Aug. 15, 1945; Joseph Anthony, 34d,
Sept. 13, 1948, William Anthony, Nov. 7, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Master of Ritual, Delta Theta Phi Law Fraternity, since 1938;
State Bar of Michigan: member of Committee on Character and Fitness,
and Grievance Committee No. 6, and formerly a member of Staff of
Counsel for State Bar of Michigan, 3d Judicial Circuit, since 1943; director,
Ternes Steel Company, since 1946, secretary and director, American Steel
Door Company, since 1948, Continental Associates, Inc., since 1953;
secretary, Carmel Hall Men’s Guild, since 1957; secretary and director,
Fathers’ Club, Convent of Sacred Heart, Grosse Pointe, since 1959.

Member oF: Harvard Club of Michigan; Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity; Uni-
versity Club; Detroit Golf Club.

WELL, gentlemen, here are the silver reminiscences since June,

[ 740 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1937. That September I married Muriel Agnes O’Connor of Boston,
the most beautiful girl at the Harvard-Yale boat races, and went on
to study law. At the same time I wore overalls in Ford Motor’s
metallurgy division (was that the year Chevrolet shot ahead?) and
later wore a kind smile as deputy collector of Internal Revenue. Our
President greeted me gracefully into active service with the U‘S.
Army (June, 1942) and in 1946 I emerged a captain, joining my
father in the practice of law.

It doesn’t seem like twenty-five years ago until I look at my grow-
ing flock: Diana, a senior at the Convent of the Sacred Heart, Grosse
Pointe; Anthony, 2d, studying at Grosse Pointe High School; the
younger boys, Joseph Anthony, 3d, and William Anthony at St.
Paul’s.

Now that I sum up my interests over the years I sound like a full-
fledged hobbyist. First there was the tropical fish, very fancy. This
grew into Weimaraners, I beat everyone on the block to hi-fi and
probably should be termed a classicist in musical taste. Lately I
look forward to hunting seasons as a member of Duck Unlimited, the
Horned Grebe Pleasure Society, which shoots ducks with the
Chippewa Indians, the Coon Creek Pheasant Preserve. In 1952
deer-hunting pals talked me into buying $1,500 worth of hunting
dogs and gear. To date I am without a buck. A new variety of
rose can send me packing for miles for the sheer pleasure of seeing it
grow in our own gardens. Clubs include Detroit Golf Club (late
70s, early 80s), the University Club and naturally I slave for the
Fathers Clubs at the Convent, Grosse Pointe High and St. Paul's.

When the political season rolls around my friends call me a
middle-of-the-road Republican. Since November, 1960, I have re-
peatedly stated that were my inclinations otherwise I would happily
find myself in Washington with the rest of the Harvard men. I
prefer the designation of Think Independent and to leave the vagaries
of political vicissitudes to the more daring, the more adventurous
of our Alma Mater.

ADRIAN HALSEY MALONE

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Spring Grove Ave. San Anselmo, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Malone & Hooper, 1100 Sansome St., San Francisco, Calif,
BORN: March 30, 1915, Mfount Kisco, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; BARCH., 1942.

C740]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

marrigED: Joan Skewes-Cox, Aug, 11, 1938, San Rafael, Calif. CHILDREN: Judith
Bennet, June 21, 1940; Sara Garcin, July 16, 1942; Nicholas Halsey, Jan.
23, 1946; Gillian Slater, May 21, 1950.

occuPaTion: Architect; senior partner, Malone & Hooper.

OFFICES HELD: President, Langunitas Country Club, 1948-49; president, Marin
County Chapter, United World Federalists, 1953-54; member, Camp
Development Committee, Marin County Girl Scouts, 1958-61; member,
Architects Advisory Committee for Marin City Redevelopment Agency,

1959-61.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Langunitas Country Club, Ross,
Calif.; University Club and Pacific Union Club (both in San Francisco),
PUBLICATIONS: Report to the Organizing Committee, 1960 Winter Olympic
Games, on the 1956 Winter Olympic Games at Cortina, Italy.

GETTING away from Harvard after graduation was almost as
difficult an undertaking as it has been to find the way back during
this quarter-century. Following a trip abroad, I returned to the
Cambridge fold for three years of architecture at the Harvard
School of Design. In the summer of 1938, I married Joan Skewes-
Cox, whom I had met at Vassar through the machinations of room-
mate Ellis Jones. The suggestion took, and we found ourselves
happily setting up housekeeping in half a cottage on Wright Street.
Miraculously, we came to know a side of Cambridge totally un-
known in college days. With no children, one ancient dog as
household chattel, nothing more pressing than meeting project
deadlines, and devising entertainment for after the charettes, we
floated in a transient stream of embryo professionals and interest-
ing oddballs, These were truly the golden years.

Pearl Harbor terminated all that, and I soon was commuting to
M.L.T., by bicycle to absorb a smattering of naval architecture and
ship design. This new technical polish led to a commission in the
Navy and assignment to Hunters Point Naval Drydocks for three
years of helping to keep ships afloat, wondering why they didn’t
tip over in drydock and mastering the intricacies of the scooter.
My most hazardous war experience involved getting to the Navy
Yard at eight and trying to survive the rigors of farewell parties
for friends embarking on long tours of duty and equally frequent
homecoming orgies for those who had already been through it.

In 1949, I started an architectural practice in San Francisco, with
Benjamin Polk of Des Moines and Roger Hooper of Boston. Polk
soon departed for India, but Malone and Hooper have persevered,
taking on all projects from doghouses to mortuaries to ski lodges,
and accumulating a vast amount of unrelated, unfiled information

[742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on the living habits of the human animal. At one point we entered a
meteoric international phase with commission for master plan and
building designs for the 1960 Winter Olympic Games at Squaw
Valley. However, in final high-level political jostling, we were
eliminated, coming out with our nervous systems more or less in-
tact and an historic trip to Cortina d’Ampezzo, Italy, behind us.
Gradually, the specialty of the firm has become buildings in the
recreation field — motels, clubs, swimming pools, ski facilities, tour-
ist centers —all of which seem appropriate in the West where
recreation is purportedly a major preoccupation.

In regard to children, Judith, our firstborn, arrived in Boston.
Some prenatal drafting room influence must have prevailed, as Judy
at twenty-one is still stretching her dynamic 5’ 2” across drafting
boards in a cartographic office. Sara appeared obligingly, if three
days late, soon after we reached wartime San Francisco and has
returned to the east coast and Sarah Lawrence. Nicholas, now six-
teen, and my good companion in a small busy world of ladies, is in
his second year at Brooks School. Gillian, the caboose, is eleven
and our last fleeting contact with the world of childhood. As in the
case of most youngest, everyone in the family has had a hand in
bringing her up with the result that she is thoroughly sophisticated,
a pleasure to her parents, and the friend of all animals.

Which leads to vacations, travels, and Jackson Hole, Wyoming,
where the Malone family has spent many summers on a ranch
started by author Struthers Burt. Any day in August you might
run across a dusty station wagon on Highway qo, bulging with
children, dogs, suitcases, laundry, straw hats, coke bottles, and two
grim adults, roaring through the sagebrush. We have tried many
different routes, but the trip that remains a hideous memory was
the departure from Jackson with six children and a trailer when
Fido, the poodle, ate poisoned grain; Martin, the young friend,
smashed his finger under a log; and Diana, the guest, had to catch a
plane in Sale Lake City. Fido threw up nine time in 350 miles, the last
performance on the lawn of the Mormon Temple in Sale Lake; the
young friend became delirious; the plane departed without us, and
the girls “panicked.” There have been other trips through the ycars
with more successful results. We discovered the fascination of
Mexico and its simple decelerated way of life. Last August, we took
all the children to Europe, ending in Rome, in September, where
the parents remained alone to recover from the summer of acting

{743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

as tour director and cultural slave driver for the otherwise motivated
young.

Revived by the beauty of Rome with its ageless reassurance and
self-centered bustle, I began thinking about our life and the future as
I had done on so many vacations before. Was existence in a
metropolis and the population explosion of California really my cup
of tea? Would I not be more at home in a smaller, less complex
environment, where a person can still direct his own destiny and a
professional man can be a constructive identity in the community?
Often while driving through Idaho, my wife and I had contemplated
the idea of retiring some day to country of this sort. Then one day
it hit us. What are we waiting for? Why not do it before we re-
tire and before we are too old to enjoy the new life? So I am
moving my family as well as my profession to Sheridan, Wyoming.
In February, I shall hang out a new shingle for the practice of archi-
tecture in a town of population twelve thousand. We realize there
are “ifs” and “buts” to such a move. Possibly I am already too old
to attempt it but just not smart enough to realize it. In any event,

we shall be in Sheridan and the answer may be available for our
Fiftieth.

LOUIS OTTO JOSEPH MANGANIELLO

HOME ADDRESS: 3028 Bransford Rd., Augusta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1467 Harper St., Augusta, Ga.

BORN: June 6, 1915, Waterbury, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. (Univ. of Maryland),
1942.

MarrieD: Carol Graham Pryor, June 11, 1950, Milledgeville, Ga. CHILDREN:
Carol Helen, Dec. 17, 1953; Victoria Raimonda, Sept. 22, 1957.

occuPATION: Neurological surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Rotating intern, University Hospital, Baltimore, 1942-43; neuro-
surgical resident, 1946~50, instructor in neurosurgery and neuroanatomy,
1950-51, University of Maryland School of Medicine; associate professor
of neurosurgery, Medical College of Georgia, since 1951; member, active
staff, St. Joseph’s Hospital and University Hospital, Augusta; consultant,
Fort Gordon Army Hospital and Veterans Hospital, Augusta.

Member oF: American and Georgia Medical Associations; Richmond County
Medical Society, American College of Surgeons (fellow); American
Board of Neurological Surgery (diplomate); Harvey Cushing Society;
Congress of Neurological Surgeons; Southern Neurological Society;
Southeastern Surgical Congress; American Association for Cancer Research;

[ 744]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York Academy of Science, International Congress of Neurological
Surgeons; Rotary Club, Methodist Church (steward).

PUBLICATIONS: “Massive Spontaneous Hemorrhage in Gliomas,” Journal of
Nervous & Mental Disease, October, 1949; “Use of Roentgen Rays in Body
Measurements,” American Journal of Roentgenology and Radium Therapy,
November, 1948; “Cancer Detection and Therapy — Part I,” Proceedings
of the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine, July-August, 1948.

IT hardly seems possible that it has been twenty-five years since we
graduated from Harvard. However, these have been a good twenty-
five years and having gone to Harvard has aided greatly in making
them so. After graduation, I spent another year at Harvard as a
special student. Then, in 1938, 1 was accepted at the University of
Maryland School of Medicine from which I graduated in 1942. I
interned at the University Hospital during 1942-43.

In July, 1943, I entered the USNMCR and was there until 1946.
During my service time I was assigned to FMF, Pacific, landed on
Iwo Jima and was among the first American troops to land in
Nagasaki, one month after the A-bomb was dropped there. After
my separation from service in 1946, I returned to the University
of Maryland School of Medicine and for four years, until 1950,
took up my training in neurosurgery.

In June of 1950, I married Carol G. Pryor, M.D., F.A-C.S. In 1951
we moved to Augusta, in which we live today. In 1952 I was certified
by the American Board of Neurosurgery. In 1953 I was made
F.A.C.S., and also our first child, Carol Helen, was born. I married
an exceptional girl. She has a regular practice in Ob-Gyn and 1s
board certified. She is prominent in civic affairs, USO, etc. Our
second child, Victoria, was born in 1957.

We are quite content in the sunny south. We have built a house
at Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, on the beach where we spend
most of our vacation swimming, fishing, hunting and playing golf.
I would recommend our northern brothers to visit us at this resort
sometime,

I am still a Republican though a southerner by adoption and should
be rightfully called a conservative Democrat. We belong to the
Methodist Church and I am on the official board of stewards. Also,
I am a member of the Rotary Club in Augusta.

Most of my spare time is spent in research. I have a project in
cancer research which keeps me busy together with my practice
and teaching at the Medical College of Georgia, I have a partner,
Dr. Ernest F, Daniel, and we have a very successful practice.

[ 745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

At the close of these twenty-five years the world is in a chaotic
condition. The A-bomb has produced an added interest in bomb
shelter here. Being close to the Savannah River Plant we are in a
critical condition. I trust that with God’s help the next twenty-five
years will be as good as the past twenty-five. Harvard and the fact
that I graduated from Harvard have made things brighter through-
out these twenty-five years. Harvard owes me nothing, but I owe
Harvard a lot.

ERNEST JOHN MANSMANN, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 22 Belfield Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE AppREss: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1916, Marlboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Marlboro High School, Marlboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; A.M., 1939.

MarRiED: Letitia Burns, Oct. 15, 1956, Winchester, Mass, cuiip: Betsy Helene,
Dec. 3, 1959.

occupation: European planning officer, Bureau of Educational and Cultural
Affairs, Department of State.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Belle Haven Country Club;
formerly: Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Club, New Orleans; Veterans

Corps of Artillery (Seventh Regiment), New York City; American Club
of Paris; Churchill Club, London; Cercle Interallié, Paris.

FOR four years after graduation I taught foreign languages at the
University of Pennsylvania and at three eastern prep schools. On
April 17, 1942, I entered the Army as a private. Then came — OCS,
New Orleans for a year as assistant director of personnel for the
Post; London for almost a year as information officer, Military
Government, Supreme Headquarters, and finally, a dream assign-
ment as liaison officer with the First French Army in France and.
Germany. The French Government evidently felt I wasn’t too
hopeless as they gave me a decoration — L’Etoile Noire. Came out
in 1946 as captain.

In 1946 I went with Bankers Trust Company in Wall Street where
I spent four years in the credit department, including a stay in
France to observe French banks. After a year at the First National
Bank of Boston, I entered the State Department in 1952. I have
spent the years since in cultural exchange work, in which I am
completely happy.

Back to Paris in 1956 to an Embassy as a cultural affairs officer.
Came home in September, proposed (and was accepted) and married

[ 746 ]

i ET
pe cot target RAE!

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Letitia Burns of Winchester, Massachusetts. We lived in Paris until
1958, entertaining the greater part of Boston among other things.
At last in 1959 we found the house we both loved completely in
the Belle Haven section of Alexandria. I try to stay clear of yard
and house projects but I fear it is a losing battle, especially in the
fall when some fifty trees start shedding. Then, our jewel, Betsy
Helene, arrived December 3, 1959. Bidule, our brown poodle, was
not at all content at first but soon became Betsy’s fond guardian.
Our social life is made up of evenings with old and new friends,
Embassy receptions and occasional dinners in town.

+ ADOLF WILLIAM MARBURG

BORN: Feb. 5, 1916, New York, N.Y. parents: Theodore Herman Marburg,
Winifred Carmer.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms School, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933—1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

pieD: Lost in flight, Feb. 18, 1944, in Alaska.

DURING his four years at Harvard, Marburg sang in the Glee
Club. After graduation he joined the research department of the
Crane Company (valves and fittings), as a testing engineer. He
spent a year of training in almost all the company’s departments,
including the plumbing divisions, before determining to enter the
field of industrial research. Later he joined the Stewart Warner
Corporation as a civilian engineer and was sent to Alaska, assigned
to the Army as a field engineer to assist in tests of heater equipment
and to collect data on cold-weather operating conditions. During
the winters of 1942-43 and 1943-44 he was stationed in Fairbanks
and made test flights to various parts of Alaska. He was killed when
the B-24 bomber in which he was flying from Kodiak to Fairbanks
ran into a blizzard and was lost. He was survived by his mother and
a sister.

HENRY ORLANDO MARCY, III

HOME apprEss: 1024 S. Chester Ave., Park Ridge, Il.

OFFICE ApprEss: Syntronic Instruments, Inc., 100 Industrial Rd. Addison, II.
BORN: Oct. 27, 1915, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newron, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1037. DEGREES: A.B, 10373 A.M., 1939; PH.D, 1942,
marriep: Dorothy C, Bellah, Sept. 13, 1937, Upper Montclair, NJ. cuipers:

[ 747]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Henry Orlando, 4th, Aug. 27, 1938 (7. Carmen Rickard, Aug. 22, 1959);
Gardner Nichols, Nov. 5, 1940; Sherry Elizabeth, Feb. 4, 1943; Heather
Ruth, Oct. 6, 1946, Theodore Wendell, July 21, 1954.

HARVARD SON: Henry Orlando Marcy, 4th, ’6o.

occupaTION: Manufacturing; president, Syntronic Instruments, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President and chairman, Syntronic Instruments, Inc., since 1949;
board member, Maine Township High School, 1953-59.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; Park Ridge University Club.

NOW that we have reached the main stream of life after all those
years spent among the eddies, it is hard to recall the still waters of
Harvard, hard to pause and jot down where precisely we have ar-
rived and whither we are bound at such speed. The electronic
parts manufacturing business continues to absorb my interests and
enthusiasms. Thirteen years ago it seemed rash and adventurous
to have started my own business. Now it seems only natural and
sensible. Competition has become keener, putting a new edge to
life. Our operation is small in an age that has appeared to favor
giants, and I frequently argue the merits of remaining small rather
than being devoured by mergers. Success has resulted from a policy
of specialization and service. Several large concerns have even dis-
pensed with their model shops devoted to our specialty, deflection
yokes, in favor of our doing the job for them more economically.
Finally, there is a freedom and a challenge in a small business far
too often stifled in a large corporation.

My family continues a wonderful source of excitement, confusion,
thrills, and frustration. Our eldest son, Henry, qth, is now a seasoned
graduate of Harvard, Class of 60. (Ere long he too will be called
upon to write his biography — poor soul.) He is just finishing his
Ed.M. at Columbia and is about to embark on a high school teach-
ing career. Our second son, Gardner, will be graduated from
Princeton at the height of our Reunion. Sherry, our elder daughter,
is a sophomore at Smith and hopeful of a year abroad studying at
Geneva. Heather is a sophomore in high school, more interested in
boys than in college and in all respects an equally normal modern
teen-ager. Teddy, our seven-year-old, is the philosopher of the
family. His well-adjusted approach to life is evidence of the relaxed
attitude of his mother and father after years of child-raising. Nothing
startles us anymore!

My principal diversion is boating. The past three years this has
taken the form of renting a cruiser in Florida waters. With my wife
as Jone crew member, we have found excitement, a chance to be
alone together, and the fascination of the ocean, Our trip from

[ 748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Florida to the Bahamas was a high point. This summer we pur-
chased Nereid, a twenty- -nine-foot Triton sloop which we have en-
joyed sailing on unpredictable Lake Michigan. Hope to enter some
of the longer races this coming season. May all the Class of ’37 have
smooth sailing in their chosen endeavors.

BROWNING ENDICOTT MAREAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Newburyport Turnpike, Topsfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 High St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 2, 1914, Canton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938.

MARRIED: Cornelia P. Pentecost, Sept. 30, 1939, Topsfield, Mass. cHiLpREN;
Pauline P., Nov. 20, 1940; Browning Endicott, 3d, Sept. 28, 1942; Michael
W., March 9, 1947.

occuPaTION: Manufacturers’ representative.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Topsfield Finance Committee.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Electronic Representatives Associa-
tion.

SINCE 1937, I have had a mediocre success in business, a brief
ulcerated career in the Navy during 1941-42, and a rewarding and
happy life with my wife and three children. We are living in Tops-
field; all three children now away in colleges and school. Work for
the town on the Finance Committee, a Republican with no place to
£0, deeply concerned with the future of our country. Am deeply
appreciative of the help from family and friends, and am thoroughly
convinced that those things that now really matter to me are of little
interest to others.

GEORGE ROBERT HALL MARSHALL

HOME ADpRESS: 300 Walnut, Joliet, Ill.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Jolict Township High School and Junior College, Joliet, Il.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1916, Marlboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Watertown Senior High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREES: S.B. IN ED. (Western Illinois Univ.);
S.M. IN Ep. (ibid.).

MarRiED: Melva Haney, 1957, Harvey, Ill.

occupaTION: Teacher of mathematics, Joliet Township High School and
Junior College.

TEN years, more or less, with Whiting’s Milk and others, driving

[ 749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

routes, 4F in the draft: asthma, bad. Fourteen years on the Boston
Elevated and MTA because I am a lifelong railroad enthusiast. Quit
because of psychological climate of this job, and went back to
school. Now teaching as noted.

+ ROGER BEASLEY MARTIN

BORN: Sept. 29, 1915, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Seldon Osgood Martin, a.m,
"04, PHD. “12, Ethel Jenney.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREE: A.B. ¢171 laude, 1937.

prep: May 15, 1946, East Pikeland Township, Pa.

WHILE an undergraduate Martin participated in House crew and
football, was a member of Phillips Brooks House, took a Detur
Prize, and received his A.B. with distinction. For about a year
after graduation he traveled to various parts of the world as a seaman
in the Merchant Marine, served briefly as a junior accountant, and
then decided to study medicine at Johns Hopkins University, where
he was an intern at Johns Hopkins Hospital.

He entered service as a first lieutenant on February 11, 1944, at
Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania. After being stationed for a time
at La Garde General Hospital, New Orleans, he was ordered over-
seas in April, 1944, on the staff of the 79th General Hospital, Eng-
land, where he served until July. He was then transferred to the
34th Field Artillery Battalion, 9th Division, First Army, as battalion
surgeon, just prior to the Remagen crossing of the Rhine. He re-
mained on occupation duty in Germany until hospitalized in Mu-
nich in January, 1946. He was survived by his brother.

JACK LAVERNE MASON

HOME Appress: 338 Haugh Drive, Pittsburgh 37, Pa.

orrice aporrss: Westinghouse Air Brake Co., 3 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: July 16, 1915, St. Louis, Mo.

preparep AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1937.

starriep: Doris Helen Bandlow, Sept. 3, 1938, Lakewood, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Susan Jane, Sept. 14, 1942; James Ward, Sept. 21, 1945.

occupation; Manager of labor relations, Westinghouse Air Brake Company,
manufacturers of railway supply equipment, heavy graders and trucks,
compressors, air and hydraulic cylinders, valves and component systems.

orrices wep: Former member, New York and Chicago Training and Per-

[75°]

ana peneanapemtim 5 AENEAN LTR TTR IT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sonnel Associations, Pittsburgh Personnel Association, roundtable director,
Industrial Relations Section, Pittsburgh Society for Advancement of
Management, vestryman, Episcopal Church, training coordinator — church
building fund drive, 1953-54; member, advisory counsel to rector, Christ
Church, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Various choral societies, including church choir; former member,
Huntington Valley Country Club, Abington, Pa. Harvard Club of
Philadelphia, Western Pennsylvania HYP Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Have written and presented innumerable training conferences,
including scripts and direction of industrial training films.

HAVE led a fairly ordinary life starting out after college as a
salesman and finding myself rather unexpectedly in the comparative-
ly new field of personnel and industrial relations in 1941. Since that
date have been continuously occupied in that field with major na-
tional corporations. In function, have divided my time between train-
ing and labor relations, the latter meaning that I have been at the
bargaining table at one time or another with representatives of most
of the major national industrial unions. Needless to say, after some
twenty years of this activity, am not particularly happy with the
present status of labor relations, with practically every relevant
government agency under the impression that its sole function ts to
improve, guard and maintain the health, welfare and happiness of
all union representatives and the people they represent. I find it
very difficult to believe that the merger of two banks in Chicago
would result in a monopoly, but the giant national unions, represent-
ing millions of workers but controlled by a handful of people and
capable at the drop of a hat of shutting down vast segments of indus-
try, are not so considered. Outside of this, I find the business of
personnel and industrial relations very rewarding, and feel that it
can and will make a significant contribution to the future, as we
learn more about people, the motivations and other factors that make
them tick. I am sufficiently optimistic to believe we shall even con-
vince the majority that the welfare state is for the birds, and that we
shall be much better off to be free, even if we might be poor.
Having unburdened myself of the above, there isn’t much else to
say. As evidenced by the facts in prior sections, have done most of
the usual things. Have a comparatively small family, a girl in college
and a boy now a junior in high school, During the past ten years
have tricd to make some kind of contribution to the work of the
church, not so much with dollars as effort, and find such activity
very rewarding. For the rest, am a typical suburban dweller trying
with little success to have a lawn. Play a little golf, a litle bridye,

(750 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

attend an occasional musical comedy. Having teen-age kids, am
still convinced that the “big bands” will never really be replaced b
rock and roll, but can’t convince them. Could be, though, that I’m
getting a little old.

LEE WILSON MATHER

HOME AppRESS: 101 46th St, Virginia Beach, Va.

OFFICE appress: USS Chikaskia (AO-54), % FPO, New York, N.Y.

BorN: March 20, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

mMarRiED: Mary Louise Benton, June 27, 1942, Norfolk, Va. cHi~pREN: Lee
Wilson, Jr.. Aug. 31, 1943; Winton Taggart (daughter), June 24, 1945;
Margaret Benton, Oct. 13, 1949.

occuPaTIOoN: Captain, U.S. Navy; commanding officer, USS Chikaskia (AO-

54).
MEMBER OF: U.S. Naval Institute, Annapolis, Md.; Princess Anne Country Club,
Virginia Beach, Va.

MY main interests continue to be the Navy and my family. I spent
the past year as commanding officer of a fleet oiler and enjoyed
every day of it. Now have orders to the February, 1962, class of
the Advanced Management Program at the Harvard Business School,
and after that will go to the aircraft carrier Wasp, as commanding
officer. After over a year away from naval aviation, I’m indeed
looking forward to getting back to the carrier Wasp.

Our son is in his freshman year at the University of Virginia, and
is quite happy there, so, though I'd hoped he’d go to Harvard, I’m
content.

Twenty-five years have passed incredibly fast. In spite of all that
has happened during these years, were it not for the ages of my
children, and my sparse hair, I might not believe that we are about
to have our 25th so soon. But, they have been good years, and I’m
looking forward to the next twenty-five.

HENRY WILFRED MAXANT

MAILING ADDRESS: % The Castle, Granite Street, Medfield, Mass,

[752]

ect 8 CLT I

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL BELKNAP MAYO

HOME ADDRESS: Box 479, Route 5, Excelsior, Minn.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Setter, Leach & Lindstrom, Inc., 133 Foshay Tower, Minneapolis,
Minn.

BorN: Feb. 3, 1916, Eugene, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1937; B-ARCH., 1940,

MARRIED: Helen McBroom, Oct. 2, 1948, Excelsior, Minn.

occuPATION: Architect.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects.

** FRANK ROBERTS MEAD, JR.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1915, Bristol, Conn. parents: Frank Roberts Mead, ’1z, Dorothy
Cook.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MARRIED: Julia Delle Zimmerman, Oct. 1, 1938, St. Matthews, S.C. CHILDREN:
Frank Russell, Aug. 22, 1939; Angela; Dorothy Anne.

piep: May 6, 1944, Olathe Naval Air Station, Kans.

MEAD was at Harvard for only half of his freshman year. After
leaving Cambridge, he attended the University of Virginia and the
Boeing School of Aeronautics in California. For two years he was
employed by United Aircraft in East Hartford, Connecticut. He
was sales manager for the New Haven Coca-Cola Company when
he entered service as an ensign in January, 1943. He died of injuries
received in a plane crash. He was survived by his wife and children.

PETER MEGGIE

HOME appreEss: 40 Harris Hill Rd., Wethersfield, Conn.

OFFICE appRESS: Hamilton Standard Division of United Aircraft, Windsor
Lakes, Conn.

BoRN: April 17, 1914, Dawson, N.Mex.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, Cunt laude, 1937; s.8. (Mass. Inst.
of Technology), 1947.

MarriED: Kula Mauromatakis, 1941. CHitprEN: Mary Ann, 1945; Christina, 1948;
Arthur Paul, 1952; John Michael, 1955; Dorothy Jean, igsg.

OCCUPATION: Senior analytical engineer.

[753]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

NEIL GARDNER MELONE

HOME ApprEss: River Road, R-F-.D., Carlisle, Mass.

orFice Appress: W. R. Grace & Co. Cryovac Division, 701 Concord Ave,
Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1915, Minneapolis, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., C17 laude, 1937; LL.B., 1941.

MarrieD: Virginia Tudor, Nov. 29, 1941, Baltimore, Md. (divorced 1956);
Mary Lee Powell Davenport, Dec. 21, 1956, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
James W. Davenport, Jan. 10, 1953; Mary Lee Davenport, Jan. 17, 1954
(died March tro, 1957).

occuPaTION: Manufacture of plastic film and packaging equipment; assistant
to the president, Cryovac Division, W. R. Grace & Company; general
legal and administrative work.

OFFICES HELD: Af{ember, since 1937, chairman, since 1956, 1937 Class Committee;
co-Class Agent, 1948-51; member, board of trustees, Harvard Yearbook
Building Fund Trust, since 1955; member of corporation, since 1959,
executive committee, 1961-62, Brooks School of Concord.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Concord Country Club; Colonial Retriever Field
Trial Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Law School thesis published in vol. 12, Journal of Air Law and
Commerce.

THIS is an attempt to encapsulate these near-twenty-five years into
a few terse paragraphs, under the patient goading of our Class Sec-
retary. The most recent goad reported the pushing of the panic
button. Reading between the lines of the vital statistics recorded
above:

The Melone family is happily ensconced in a small community
(1,500 souls, plus or minus) that is in effect a suburb of Concord.
The major interests of the senior members: holding our grip on
youth via an extremely active and inquisitive nine-year-old; train-
ing several golden retrievers to do what comes naturally; keeping the
grass (too much of it) trimmed to size, the weeds out of the garden,
and the woodshed stocked; fishing and canoeing in navigable waters
nearby and in northern Vermont (the latter interest being shared
with great enthusiasm by said nine-year-old). My bride’s daily
satisfaction lies in teaching a class of four-year-olds at Brooks School.
My annual frustration comes in the hunting season, which signals
the disappearance of the pheasants, ducks and geese that have flocked
regularly within 16-gauge range of our door during the spring and
summcr.

Our Secretary has suggested a mention of “career history.” After
graduation came a fabulous year at Oxford on a Henry Fellowship,

[754]

“ narcotic ARE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the study of law being the academic pursuit. By-products of
the sojourn were rowing in Torpids and Summer Eights, skiing in
Austria during the six-week Christmas vacation, and playing Shove
Ha’penny and darts during pub-crawls about the countryside on
bicycle, contra bonos mores.

Then came the Law School, and sharing with Bill Waters and
George Fox a five-way bachelor apartment on Everett Street out-
side the scope of parietal rules. That three-year interlude, though a
strong academic dose, was by no means without its moments of
levity.

The following September found me at the Civil Aeronautics Board
in Washington, first in the general counsel’s office, then as confiden-
tial assistant to Oswald Ryan, ’11, a member of the board. A year
later I was in a brown suit in the Pentagon Building, where I had
the dubious distinction of pushing papers for three years and reliev-
ing a WAC for combat duty. A couple of months after Hiroshima,
the battle-scarred uniform and the numerous campaign ribbons went
into mothballs and I was back at the Board.

Three years later, Brad Dewey’s father invited me back to Cam-
bridge to fill an opening in his legal department, and in Cambridge
(which, in 1941, I had thought I was leaving for the last time) I
have been ever since. Job titles have changed, and so has the organ-
ization. I still see familiar faces from ’37 in the midst — Brad
Dewey, George Blackwood, Fred Chase, George Hall, Mason Rogers
and, recently, Bill Bittenbender. One of the most interesting facets
of the present job situation is the prospective removal of Cryovac’s
headquarters to a new spot that has been selected in South Carolina.
Résumés, anyone?

To paraphrase the Elder Pliny: I have written at length because
I haven’t time to compose a shorter autobiography.

HENRY DENISON MERWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 333-3B W. Stare St., Trenton, N.J.

OFFICE appress: Rider College, Trenton, NJ.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1915, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: S.B. 1937(38); s.m. (Univ. of Wiscon-
sin), 1941; PH.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1950.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: College professor.

MeMoaer oF: Alpha Chi Sigma Fracernity; American Chemical Socicty.

[755]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

pustications: Merwin, H. D., and Peech, M., “Exchangeability of soil poras-
sium in the sand, silt, and clay fractions as influenced by the nature of

the complementary exchangeable cation,” Soil Science Society of America,
Proceedings, Vol. 15, 1950.

I WENT the usual path of the graduate student, to Wisconsin for
an S.M., and Cornell for a Ph.D. I pursued agronomy and chemistry
in graduate schools. My Cornell sojourn was interrupted by World
War II. I was a junior research assistant at B. F. Goodrich in Akron,
Ohio, most of that time, but I squeezed in a short period in the
Navy. I was at the Citrus Experiment Station in Lake Alfred,
Florida, for a year after Cornell. Then came an enforced vacation
for over a year. I became a research engineer for the Pan American

Petroleum Corporation (Standard of Indiana) in Tulsa, Oklahoma,

for six years. I got the teaching bug, and came to Trenton where

I have been teaching at Rider College and serving as chairman of

the Science Department part of the time. However, I have itchy

feet again, and I will have a new address come fall.

EDWIN ARNOLD MEYER

HOME ADDRESS: 1502 Bedford Rd., Deerhurst, Wilmington 3, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington 98, Del.

BorN: May 14, 1916, Akron, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: s.B, cum laude, 1937; MBA. (New
York Univ.), 1940; c.p.a. (New York), 1947.

MarrieD: Janet J. Smith, Nov. 27, 1943, Abington, Pa, cHmpren: Susan
Ferguson, Oct. 29, 1945, Cynthia Sheppard, Nov. 10, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Evan Meyer, °43.

occupation: Chemical manufacture, manager, Control Division, Elastomer
Chemicals Department, E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary, Harvard Club of Delaware, 1952-58; member,
board of directors, Wilmington Skating Club, 1960.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants; Delaware
Accountants Society; American Management Association; Harvard Club
of Delaware, du Pont Country Club; Wilmington Skating Club, U‘S.

Figure Skating Association,
AFTER a brief non-profit skirmish on Wall Street in the fateful
fall of 1937, I turned to more rewarding pursuits by joining Price,
Waterhouse & Company in New York. Remained on their staff,
going to graduate school at night, until it became obvious in 1941
that a single man wasn’t going to be able to duck the draft board for
long. My application for a commission in the Navy accepted, I was

[ 756]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

moved all the way to Philadelphia. This was fortunate in many
respects. My skin remained attached, I had a variety of interesting
jobs at the Navy Yard, and I met and married a lovely native. Over-
seas orders caught up with me eventually and I wound up in the
Pacific for a short while before the war ended. By due process of
the passing of time, I had become a lieutenant commander — now
retired.

Back to public accounting with the same firm, this time in Phila-
delphia. After nearly two years of extended traveling, I was sure
that this was not the life for me and was fortunate in finding an
opening with duPont in the treasurer’s department. After several
moves within the organization, I find myself responsible for the
accounting in one of duPont’s operating departments — synthetic
rubbers are our specialty; neoprene our best known product. Being
part of a large organization is fascinating in many ways. Our end
of the business is growing rapidly and there are a number of very
interesting challenges.

As a family we are very pleased with Wilmington. It’s small
enough to be suburban ten minutes from the office and large enough
to have many cosmopolitan ways. Our two girls are active in school
affairs, with emphasis on sports. We all enjoy figure skating during
the winter and sailing in the six warmer months. The latter has
become my particular obsession. It started a few years ago with the
purchase of a nineteen-foot Lightning which we raced some in a
local fleet. But, like most everyone who has never had a boat, we
now have one “slightly larger” on which we enjoy family day sailing
with friends.

It is apparent that our hobbies are principally family hobbies; our
travels have, too, been as a family for the most part. They have not
been exotic but have managed to take in a major piece of the United
States, with concentration on the North, East and New England,
where both girls have been in and out of summer camps.

My political convictions are strictly Republican — stolidly so
perhaps, but I couldn’t agree less with what our Democrat fellow
alumni have been trying to do to the country since our freshman
year.

THOMAS MIDGLEY, Hl

HOME Appress: 3839 Don Tomaso Drive, Los Angeles 8, Calif.
OFFICE Appress: 1838 Flower St, Glendale, Calif,
BORN: July 25, 1944, Columbus, Ohio.

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: Lhe Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: M.E. (Cornell Univ.), 1939.

marrigD: Dorothy Koke, Los Angeles, Calif. cumpREN: Thomas, qth, and
Patricia (twins), Oct. 7, 1935; J. Darby, Dec. 2, 1939; Toni Jones, July
12, 1945.

occupation: Consulting engineer; professional engineer.

MEMBER OF: Los Angeles Country Club; American Petroleum Institute; Ameri-
can Institute of Mining, Metallurgical & Petroleum Engineers.

EDWARD OEHLER MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 215 E. 72d St.. New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: St. George’s Episcopal Church, 207 E. 16th St. New York 3,
N.Y.

BorN: Oct. 25, 1915, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Public High School, St. Louis, Mo.; Institute Walter, Prex, Switz-
erland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937.

MmarrieD: Ann Hopkins Lackman, June 5, 1943, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Edward Oehler, Jr., Nov. 16, 1948; Henry Lackman and David Hopkins
(twins), Dec. 8, 1950; Helen Hopkins, June 25, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Oehler Miller, ’40.

occuPATION: Episcopal clergyman, rector, St. George’s Church.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors and faculty, Union Theological
Seminary, New York; member, Overseers’ Committee to Visit the Harvard
Divinity School; trustee, Havens Relief Fund; member, board of directors,
Hillcrest Center for Children, Bedford Hills, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Century Association, New York.

I AM violating no confidence when I admit that I have finally
succumbed to the giveaway gimmick. I hate to admit being so
gullible and vulnerable to the free-prize-for-prompt-response tech-
nique. A ball-point pen has arrived as an irresistible bribe from
Harvard College because my class report is still not in.

Bill Bentinck-Smith is magnificent as a persistent editor. First
came the soft-sell: “postage will be paid by Harvard College” for
my pin-point autobiography covering the post Wigglesworth-
Winthrop days. Six cents would be paid by Dr. Pusey for a four-
cent envelope from me. This fifty percent bonus flattered my ego
and set off a flood of compelling appeals from the editor in
Spencerian style. Bill wished me a happy Halloween and reminded
me of the Class Report. Happy Thanksgiving Day and another
nudge. The day after Christmas, when most of us were busy re-
turning neckties and bedroom slippers, there was conscientious old
Bill at his desk, writing his pungent epistle of December 26, cajoling,

[758]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

appealing, shaming, concluding with that classic reassurance of
faith, “I know you will help us keep the records straight and com-
plete.” In flowing, Elizabethan style, he followed with his gracious
expression of gratitude. “Thanks,” said big, bad Bill and enclosed
was this glorious ball-point pen. My children urged me to wait
longer. Surely, they said, Harvard would come through with a
Bentinck-Smith-Corona if I procrastinated right up to the bitter end.

Now it is midnight on January 13, and all available funds have
been dispatched to the Internal Revenue Service. Bill Bentinck-
Smith, if he can be trusted at all, starts trudging to press two days
hence. How shall I survive his glare next June, how can I face my
own sons who may apply one day for admission to Harvard, if a
blank appears after my name in the Class Report, and all I have to
show is a ball-point pen?

But what can I write? The Report wants nothing trivial or un-
important. Right there it takes away my best material. Be concise, it
admonishes. Well, here goes. I’m still an Episcopal parson, happily
married, with four children, living in the heart of Manhattan, and
loving it. For the past fifteen years, Pve been rector of St. George’s
Church on Stuyvesant Square, a great old parish founded in 1749.
There has been nothing in my rectorship that a smaller job or a bigger
man couldn’t cure.

Being a liberal by instinct, I shun what the Report form captions,
“Class Life.” My hobbies are filling out Harvard Class Reports. My
travels are limited to the Bronx. My international interests are re-
vealed in the fact that St. George’s held the official memorial serv-
ice honoring Dag Hammarskjéld. I delight in returning to Harvard
on any excuse, at least twice a year, as a member of the Visiting
Committee on the Divinity School.

In this desperate, Jast-minute effort to catch the printer’s ink be-
fore it dries, any attempt to comply with the editor’s request for com-
ments on “social, political, or religious convictions” would be like
announcing from the pulpit: “I haven’t had time to prepare a
sermon this week, so I’m just going to make some remarks about
war and peace.”

To be “concise,” as the Report requests, I am getting along just
fine. I love Harvard, I keep urging Classmates to give generously
to the Harvard Fund. I’ve been performing the same job, in the
same way, in the same place, for the past fifteen years. And as for
feeling young —I applied for more life insurance a few wecks avo
and all I could get was fire and theft. See you all in June! "

[759]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

+ FREDERICK MONTESER MILLER

BORN: May 11, 1916, New York, N.Y. parents: Hymen Rudolph Miller, Ma-
rion Monteser.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

piep: Feb. 9, 1936, Boston, Mass.

MILLER died during our junior year. While a freshman he was a
member of the Dramatic Club and the Glee Club. As an upper-
classman he was a resident of John Winthrop House.

HAROLD IRVING MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Neillian Crescent, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 483 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

porN: March 25, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; M.D. (Boston
Univ.), 1941.

MaRRIED: Maida Rosenberg, Jan. 26, 1947, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN: Jonathan
Lewis, Dec. 9, 1947; Jacqueline Amy, April 21, 1949; Jeremy Matthew,
April 2, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Private practice of general surgery; member of faculty, Boston
University School of Medicine.

orrices: Assistant clinical professor of surgery, Boston University School of
Medicine; chief of surgery, Central Hospital, Somerville, Mass.; surgical
staff member of approximately twenty Boston and nearby hospitals.

PUBLICATIONS: Nine articles, the most recent of which are: “Some Practical
Considerations of Cardiac Arrest and Resuscitation,” August, 1958, “Re-
trorectal Tumors,” February, 1960, “Surgical Approaches to Posterior
Proctotomy,” December, 1960, “Pediatric Proctology,” August, 1961, all
appearing in American Journal of Proctology; also “Mesenteric Infarction,
Report of a Case of Superior-Mesenteric-Artery Embolectomy and Small

Bowel Resection, with Recovery,” New England Journal of Medicine,
September, 1958.

IT’S a long time and it’s a short time between graduation and the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary. It seems that the biggest truth we have
to meet face to face is the passage of time. After graduation, I
went to B.U. Medical School, interned at the Boston City Hospital,
went into the Army, and thence to the South Pacific. Time passed
so slowly then. I remember how depressed I was reading Marquand’s
So Little Time then — there seemed to be so little time and that
time to go so slowly. Yet after discharge, the time went very
quickly. I became a surgical resident at the Boston City Hospital,

[ 760 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and when I was through, chose private practice with a flavor of
teaching, rather than a purely academic career. I married a fine,
bright girl and have three fine, bright children. The boys are cer-
tainly bright enough to get into Harvard, but I wonder if they'll
study hard enough. My number one, Jonny, is a radio ham, and is
working on me to become one. I don’t seem to find the time for
it. Jonny is almost me. Number two, daughter Jackie, is a dear
pretty thing and, like most daughters, a trial to her mother and,
most of the time, a joy to her father. My number three, Jere, the
child of my old age, is very sweet, gentle, and artistic.

Surgical practice is a compelling, demanding discipline. I’ve had
the good fortune to be on the faculty of B.U. Medical School since
my training and now hold the rank, in part through attrition, of
assistant clinical professor of surgery. I have had my share of slow
times, hard work, heartaches, and once in a while something really
good. Surgery is a good life for the guy, but it’s rough on the
intimates.

I’m very close to my brother Bucky, not a Harvard man, but
also a doctor. We had always hoped to practise together, but we
were never able to. He’s in Ohio, an orthopedic surgeon, a brilliant
free thinker and a strong voice against the John Birches.

I live a very quiet social life. I don’t have any compelling hob-
bies. I used to play a lot of squash but had to give it up because
of bursitis. I love to read, read a Jot and recently have been thrilled
by Durell’s Quartet. I’m a rather indifferent temple member and
think of myself as an independent voter, although I almost always
vote for Democrats.

HARRY BERNARD MILLER

HOME AppRESS: 260 Edgemoor Rd., Rochester 18, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Dynamics/Electronics, t300 N. Goodman St, Roches-
ter, N.Y.

BoRN: Feb, 21, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; $.M. (Case Inst. of Technol-
ogy), 1947.

MarrieD: Vivian Friedman, Sept. 7, 1941, Cleveland, Ohio. cru: Jonathan
Louis, May 1, 1945.

occuPATION: Communication engineer; head of Anti-Submarine Warfare
Laboratory, General Dynamics; Electronics,

[761]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MEMBER OF: Acoustical Society of America; Cleveland Physics Society; In-
stitute of Radio Engineers; Zionist Organization of America.

puBLicaTions: Miscellaneous papers in Journal of the Acoustical Society of
America and Navy Journal of Underwater Acoustics, a number of patents,

] GRADUATED with an A.B, degree in chemistry, spent two years
changing over to physics and communication engineering (Jeffer-
son Lab and Cruft Lab), and went to Cleveland in 1940, for my first
job in this field.

I had intended to stay with the Brush Development Company
(now known as Clevite Corporation) for about two years and then
return to Boston. Instead, I stayed with them for twenty years,
married a Cleveland girl, watched my son grow up with a midwest
accent and only reluctantly left my adopted city, in 1960.

In Cleveland, I continued my education at night school. It took
five years at Case Tech to acquire the S.M. degree in physics, and
an additional ten years to complete all the course work for the
Ph.D. degree in communication engineering. At this point I called
a halt: the residency, thesis, and examination requirements were just
too much for a family man.

My work had gradually changed from musical acoustics to elec-
troacoustic instrumentation to underwater communication engi-
neering. After twenty years at Clevite, I decided that I had gotten
into a rut. The job was too comfortable, and I wasn’t actually
doing some of the new ideas I had been trying out on paper. So,
I spent a year looking around for a new employer (with the inval-
uable help of Professor Hunt of Cruft Lab), and finally chose
Stromberg-Carlson (now General Dynamics/Electronics).

I made a good choice. And this in spite of the stock market re-
ports on GD, Fortune Magazine articles, and all the rest. The com-
pany has given me a free hand to set up a laboratory, a field site
on Seneca Lake, complete with self-propelled barge, and anything
else I have needed (including facilities to investigate a new field
called Pattern Recognition). After a year and a half, the venture
is beginning to pay off. The Navy is happy about ir all, the com-
pany is happy, I am happy, and my family (at last) is happy.

My son senses my fascination with my work, enough to want
to go into some branch of science. This is a source of great satis-
faction to me. For I feel that anyone having enthusiasm and the
necessary talent who does not go into science in this era, is
throwing away his birthright.

The only consistent hobby, other than my work, is music. We

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

all try to keep in touch with the violins, pianos, and clarinets that
seem to be all around the house. Another hobby, designing and
pressing an improved phonograph record, turned into a fifteen-year
fight with the U.S. Patent Office. I have just won. A third hobby,
Romance languages, has spread from me to Vivian and Jon. Vivian
and I managed to pick up two years of Italian and now we are aim-
ing to try it out in Italy. Jon is aiming for France.

JAMES GRIER MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 1739 Sheridan Drive, Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mental Health Research Institute, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Mich.

BoRN: July 17, 1916, Pittsburgh, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1937; A.M., 1938;
M.D., cum laude, 1942; PH.D. 1943.

MARRIED: Jessie Louise Luthi, Sept. 3, 1938, Lakewood, Ohio. CHILDREN: John
Grier, Feb. 5, 1943; Thomas Christian, Oct. 14, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Professor of psychiatry and psychology, senior research psy-
chiatrist and director, Mental Health Research Institute, University of
Michigan.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant and tutor in psychology, Harvard, 1937-38; professor
of psychology, Cambridge Junior College, 1937-38; intern in medicine,
1942~43, assistant resident and resident in psychiatry, 1943-44, Massachu-
setts General Hospital; 1944-46, first lieutenant and captain, Medical Corps,
OSS Assessment Staff, chief, 1945-46; 1946-47, chief, Clinical Psychology
Section, Veterans Administration, Washington, D.C.; 1946-47, assistant
professor of social relations (clinical psychology), on leave, Harvard;
1948-51, professor in Department of Medicine, Division of Psychiatry,
1948-55, professor of psychology and chairman, Department of Psychol-
ogy, University of Chicago; 1952-55, clinical instructor in psychiatry,
University of Ilinois,; 1953-55, lecturer in neuropsychiatry, Northwestern
University; 1953-55, chairman, Committee on Behavioral Sciences, Uni-
versity of Chicago; 1958-59, president, Division of Clinical Psychology,
American Psychological Association; 1951-52, president, Illinois Psycho-
logical Association, consultant to several government agencies; psychology
adviser, Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1952-58; member, board of editors,
Behavioral Science.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; Group for the Advancement of Psy-
chiatry; Academy of Psychoanalysis; Society for General Systems Re-
search; Michigan Society of Neurology and Psychiatry; Michigan Psy-
chological Association; Neuropsychiatry Advisory Committee, Veterans
Administration; American Association for the Advancement of Science
(fellow); American Psychiatric Association; American Psychological
Association; diplomate in clinical psychology, American Board of Ex-

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

makers are unfortunately still largely unaware of how significant
such contributions could be.

** LIONEL FRANCIS MILLER, JR.

porn: May 24, 1915, Saranac Lake, N.Y. parents: Lionel Francis Miller, Ber-
tha Goldsmith.

PREPARED AT: Saranac Lake High School, Saranac Lake, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; LLB.
magna cum laude, 1940.

marrigD: Shirley McDonald.

piep: June 12, 1942, Washington, D.C.

wwow: Mrs. Shirley Miller, 5182 Eastern Ave., N.E.. Washington, D.C.

DURING his sophomore year Miller took a Detur Prize and dur-
ing his senior year he served on the Kirkland House Library Com-
mittee. While in Law School he was an editor of the Harvard Law
Review. After graduation from Law School, he became an attorney
on the staff of the Chief Counsel of the Bureau of Internal Revenue,
U.S. Treasury Department. He was survived by his wife.

SAMUEL LEWIS MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Creswell Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Worcester Jewish Community Center, 111 Elm St., Worcester,
Mass.

BoRN: March 4, 1914, Ayer, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Ayer High School, Ayer, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; S.M. IN s.w. (Boston Univ.),
1941.

MARRIED: Naomi Lasker, Radcliffe "40, Dec. 18, 1944, Miami Beach, Fla. cHi-
preN: Mark, April 20, 1948; David, May 9, 1951; Deborah, Dec. 25, 1956.

occupaTiON: Realtor and social worker; director of group work program,
Children’s Division, Worcester Jewish Community Center.

orFices HELD: Chairman, United Jewish Appeal Campaign, Ayer, Mass., 1951-553
member, USO Committee, Ayer, 1952-55; chairman, Cub Pack 18, BSA,
Worcester, Mass., 1960-62.

MEMBER of: Northern Worcester County Board of Realtors; National Asso-
ciation of Social Workers, National Association of Jewish Center Workers.

WORKING with children at Peabody House, while I was in col-
lcge, led me to an interest in camping and thence to a school of
socal work for professional training in this field. There followed
several years with the Air Force. The last year of my military
asignmient was at Miami Beach, Florida, Naomi and I had been

[ 766 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

engaged for some time, and shortly after my arrival at Miami
Beach, we were married. Our honeymoon continued under ideal
circumstances for the remaining year of my Air Force service at
Miami Beach.

After the war, I entered a family business in Ayer and remained
there for ten years. Five years ago we moved to Worcester. Here
I have returned to the area of my early interest in child education
and development and am finding renewed satisfaction in combining
avocation and occupation, I am also a realtor, engaged principally
in property management. Each of our three children is a ve
individual personality, but all have in common a high level of intelli-
gence which, as it is given expression, delights us endlessly. Our
hopes for them are great, despite the uncertainties implicit in the
age of the atom and the missile.

LAWRENCE MILLS

HOME ADDRESS: 4221 Wickford Rd., Baltimore 10, Md.

BorN: Aug. 27, 1915, Portland, Oregon.

PREPARED AT; Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., 1937; A.M., 1940; B.D. (Episcopal
Theological School), 1942.

MarRiED: Betsy Bell Smith, Sept. 11, 1937, Mattapan, Mass, cHmpren: Elinor
Dudley, Sept. 25, 1939 (7. Stephen A. Weinstein, Feb, 19, 1960); Betsy
Lawrence, April 10, 1941; Lawrence, Jr., Oct. 15, 1944; Dudley Smith,
Aug. 7, 1953. GRANDCHILD: Eric W. Weinstein,

HARVARD BROTHER: Lewis Hunt Mills, Jr., 39 (deceased).

occuPaTION: Episcopal minister; assistant minister, All Saints Church, Wynne-
wood, Pa.

PROBABLY as others are agreeing, twenty-five years is a lot of time
and you never know what it may bring. Looking back on it, I guess
I share with a lot of classmates a kind of wonderment at all it can
bring.

Life in the ministry, since Harvard days, has taken me and my
family over a pretty wide range of the eastern seaboard, and up into
New York State. It’s been a happy life, though hard to measure
sometimes in terms of predictability. As for most of us, our path has
taken us more than a few miles from Harvard Square!

My duties have ranged from chaplaincy work in a mental hospital,
and parish and missions work, to taking on some teaching, and it has
happened, in awkward circumstances, that an owlish stare has come

[ 767 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

my way, and the remark, “There’s no telling what a clergyman may
be called on to do!”

The hope to join the group at Harvard this spring, from where
we all started twenty-five years ago, is going to mean a lot.

STEPHEN ANDREW MILWID

HOME ADDRESS: 787 Sunset Rd., Winnetka, III.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Lord, Bissell & Brook, 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Il.

BorN: April 13, 1915, Bayonne, N_J.

PREPARED AT: Bayonne High School, Bayonne, N.]J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; LL.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Josephine H. Muldoon, Aug. 17, 1946, Chicago, Ill. cur~pren: Cath-
erine Margaret, June 26, 1947; Mary Elizabeth, Oct. 2, 1948; Peter Andrew,
Dec. 15, 1952; Frances Carol, Dec. 31, 1958 (died Aug. 31, 1961).

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Lord, Bissell & Brook.

OFFICES HELD: President, Society of Trial Lawyers, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: The Law Club; Maritime Law Association of the U.S.; American
College of Trial Lawyers (fellow); American, Illinois and Chicago Bar
Associations; Union League Club of Chicago.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles published in Insurance Counsel Journal and In-
surance Law Journal; contributor to Personal Injury Manual, 1961.

IN view of the time it has taken me to make this report (having
received the maximum cajoling, threats, and even a ball-point pen,
inappropriately colored pink, from our Secretary, B.B-S), I would
have to plead guilty to my wife’s charges that work and more work
is my avocation. However, when I occasionally climb aboard the
7:00 A.M. train at Indian Hill Station, only to find Hubert Nexon
already aboard, poring over a mass of typed notes, I find some
solace in the thought that 1937 is still a bunch of hard workers!

My work is principally in the trial of cases defending persons who
are insured against claims by insurers whom we represent. One day I
may be defending one of our leading orthopedic surgeons against a
charge of malpractice, and the next day, I may be endeavoring to
convince a jury that the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negli-
gence in the manner she used a home permanent wave set manu-
factured by our assured. As a sidelight to such endeavors, I have
made five trips to London to consult with underwriters at Lloyd’s.
I have also managed to work in speaking engagements, in Miami in
January, and San Francisco in March.

[ 768 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Spare time, what there is of it, is spent with a vigorous and
growing family, with the usual chauffeuring jobs, etc. Can’t see any
danger in why Johnny can’t read, when Dad can’t help Cam with
freshman algebra assignments at New Trier High School.

WILLIAM MINOT

HOME ADDRESS: 75 Pinckney St., Boston 14, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peabody, Arnold, Batchelder & Luther, 10 State St., Boston 9,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1937; LL.B., 1942.

MAgRIED: Jane Phyllis Widener, Dec. 2, 1939, Brookline, Mass. (divorced 1953):
Virginia (Harrington) Hill, April 19, 1956, Boston, Mass. cx1Lp: William
Minot, Sept. 29, 1942.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MY personal world seems to become more relaxed, more tolerant,
more pleasant, as time goes on. In my early days at the law I used to
worry every time the telephone rang that I had made some bad
mistake. I still make mistakes, of course, but so does everyone else!

The law is a particularly stimulating profession in that there is
maximum variation from problem to problem and great opportunity
for simplification of matters apparently complex; for anticipation of
complexities in matters apparently simple.

My first marriage ended in divorce in 1953 and I now have four
stepsons as a result of my second marriage. Of the five boys, two
are in college and the others almost ready. It seems strange some-
times helplessly to watch the boys making the same sort of mistakes
I made at their age, my advice ignored, but, they are good boys and
we are a gay and happy family.

My wife and I cruise in a little sloop from our country place at
Wareham, Massachusetts, during vacations and the boys mostly
drive around in assorted gocarts, scooters and cars.

| EVROM ALLEN MINTZ
MAILING ADDRESS: 2001 New Hyde Rd, New Hyde Park, N.Y.

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

GEORGE MIXTER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 112-20 72d Drive, Forest Hills 75, N.Y.

orFicé Appress: Dept. of Surgery, New York Medical College, Fifth Avenue
ac roéth Street, New York 29, N.Y.

porn: June 25, 1915, Swampscott, Mass.

prePareD aT: St. George’s School, Newport, R..

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1937(38); M.D. 1942.

MaRRIED: Jane Sanford Warren, April 4, 1942, Pinehurst, N.C. cup: Martha
Warren, Dec. 8, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Murchie Eaton Mixter, ’40; Robert Cutler Mixter, ’44.

occupation: Surgeon: full-time teaching, research and clinical.

OFFICES HELD: 1942-43: surgical house officer, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston. 1943-46: Military Service: served with U.S. Marines in Pacific;
received U.S. Naval Citation Ribbon and other commendation. 1946-47:
research fellow in surgery (cardio-vascular), Boston University School of
Medicine (\fassachusetts Memorial Hospitals), Boston. 1947-49: assistant
resident in surgery, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, Boston. 1949-50:
chief resident in surgery, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, Boston;
trainee, Nauonal Cancer Institute, U.S.P.H.S. (concurrently), 1950-51:
six months — fellow in cardio-vascular research, Western Reserve Univer-
sity (Department of Surgery, Cleveland City Hospital). 1951-52: cardio-
vascular research fellow (American Heart Association and National Heart
Institute, US.P.HS. training course for cardio-vascular investigators),
Department of Physiology, Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.
1952-55: responsible investigator, Flashburn Section, Atomic Energy
Project, and instructor in surgery, University of Rochester, Rochester,
New York. 1955-56: nine months — staff surgeon (full-time), Manhattan
Veterans Hospital, New York City; last six months also assistant director
of professional services for reseach. 1956-57: assistant professor of surgery,
New York University Post-Graduate Medical School (full-time); associate
visiting surgeon, Fourth Surgical Division, Bellevue Hospital; consultant
in biomedicine, New York Naval Shipyard, Brooklyn, New York. 1957-
6o: associate professor of surgery, New York University Post-Graduate
Medical School (full-time); visiting surgeon, Fourth Surgical Division,
Bellevue Hospital; attending surgeon, University Hospital; attending
surgeon, Manhattan Veterans Hospital; consultant in biomedicine, New
York Naval Shipyard, Brooklyn, New York. 1961 to date: associate pro-
fessor of surgery, New York Medical College, attending surgeon, Flower
and Fifth Avenue Hospirals; attending surgeon, Metropolitan Hospital;

visiting surgeon, V.A. Hospital.

Mostra ov: American College of Surgeons (fellow); New York Academy of
Science, New York Academy of Medicine, New York Surgical Society;
Associated Physicians of Long Island; National Institute for Disaster
Mobilization, County, State and American Medical Associations; Boylston
Medical Society; Pinchurst Country Club.

rintiatioss: Forty-odd papers in the medical literature, mostly on burns,
Llood flaw, stomach and pancreas,

[770 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THERE is often an end that shapes one’s destiny, rough-hewn, etc.,
to the contrary notwithstanding. The “idée fixe” in my instance is
a stubborn notion that the teacher of surgery should be a good
practical surgeon, a capable research scientist and a dedicated
teacher. Despite interruptions and various deterrents, this has been
my recurrent theme for two and a half decades.

A skiing mishap delayed graduation until 1938, four years of
medical school brought me to the Massachusetts General Hospital as
a married intern with some valuable research work already done and
a wife to support me. The Coconut Grove fire casualties left me
with a permanent interest in the burn problem and an abiding
respect for disaster organization. Got “volunteered” into the Fleet
Marines shortly after donning Navy uniform, eventually winding up
in China (after several island campaigns) running a night club, in
addition to the official routine duties.

Back to Boston in 1946, transferring to Massachusetts Memorial
Hospitals for further research and surgical residency. Our daughter
Martha arrived during this hectic period, when we were proud
owners of a tiny house in Rollins Place on Beacon Hill. On comple-
tion of chief residency we moved to Cleveland for nearly two years,
where I was in cardio-vascular research at Western Reserve. The
first expression of a Drang nach Osten was a move to Rochester,
New York, where, as a member of the surgical faculty, I became
totally involved in an A.E.C. research project on thermal burns from
atomic devices. The absence of clinical surgery from these en-
deavors led to a further move eastward, in 1955, to New York,
where we have since remained. After nearly five years at the
Manhattan V.A. and Bellevue Hospitals as a full-time staff surgeon
(on the N.Y.U.-Postgraduate Service), I resigned to join the staff of
New York Medical College. Six weeks before the present writing,
I was made chief of general surgery at Metropolitan Hospital, a new
fifteen-story city unit of 1200 beds serving East Harlem.

_ Now the balance has swung away from real research, with a
heavy load of operative work, teaching and administration. Hope-
fully, a proper ratio of endeavors can be re-established in a couple of
years. Meantime, I have several basic research problems under study
at the Brooklyn Navy Yard (rats are traditional in the Navy!).

Recreation, as noted in earlier Reports, takes a different form
these days. Skiing, fishing and shooting are sporadic, indeed, golf
when possible, plus camping in Maine once a year comprise the out-
door activities. We are active in local school and community activi-

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ties, where Peg is the leader and I the reluctant dissenter. Martha
goes to boarding school next year, implying greater effort in my
tiny private practice — have you heard how teachers are underpaid?
Wherefore, we have ideas of getting off the fence and moving —
either into, or out of, town. Most recent, most welcome and most
delightful visitants (whom we always welcome) were the Land-
steiners, last week. Our participation in New York’s more famous

recreations 1s always dependent upon the descent of out-of-towners:
come one, come all!

All in all, the first twenty-five years have been good ones, but,
boy!, how we anticipate the next twenty-five!

FRANCIS DETWILER MOORMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 345 E. 57th St, New York 22, N.Y.

oFFice appress: L. W. Frolich & Co. Inc., 34 E. sist St. New York 22, N.Y.
BORN: July 7, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: S. Mercer Moorman, 2d, ’37.

occupaTION: Advertising, account supervisor and account executive, L. W.
Frolich & Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Pharmaceutical Advertising Club; English-Speaking Union; New
York Athletic Club; etc.

PUBLICATIONS: Various advertising, medical and sports articles for trade and
consumer publications.

ALTHOUGH the past twenty-five years since graduation have
been covered somewhat more fully in the previous Reports, suffice
it to say, my career has centered around the field of advertising and
public relations. Apart from one year in the Law School, and six
and one-half years on active duty in the Naval Reserve (going in as
a seaman and coming out as a lieutenant commander), my career
has consisted of doing publicity, editing, and working in advertising
and public relations, on both sides of the fence, with clients and
with an agency. After a time with the French Line, Charles Francis
Press, and Lord & Taylor, I have now been with one agency, L. W.
Frohlich & Company, for eleven years, contrary to the usual job-
hopping tactics on Madison Avenue. This company covers both
trade and consumer accounts, but our forte is pharmaceutical ad-
verting with our agency the number one in the ficld, and my
pompeulir client now the number one pharmaceutical manufacturer

[772]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in America. I am also in charge of our Canadian business, which
keeps me traveling to our northern neighbor regularly.

Being single, I have managed to become familiar with a good
part of the world in my travels all over the globe. I am particularly
fond of Europe, and succeed in getting there at least once a year.
I have made a number of trips behind the Iron Curtain, officially
and unofficially, and am now somewhat of an authority on life
there. I know every one of the countries of Europe, except Albania,
which Americans are not currently allowed to visit (although I did
get to other eastern European countries before Americans were
allowed officially to go there). I have run with, and in front of,
the bulls at Pamplona, have sailed the Greek islands, have climbed
mountains in Switzerland, have surfed Australian beaches, have
tramped through Cambodian jungles, have viewed the Taj Mahal
by daylight and by moonlight, and I have been a part of interna-
tional intrigues, which will not be published. I still swim and play
water polo occasionally, and am in regular touch with European
members of the International Federation. I covered the Tropheo
d'Italia (a once-in-four years water polo tournament, more prized
than the Olympic championship) in Moscow last summer for
Sports Illustrated, and plan to do so again in 1965, in Budapest. I
have attended all the Olympic Games since the Berlin Games in
1936, and hope to see Classmate Charlie Tuttle again in Japan, in
1064.

_ Other hobbies and interests include photography, theatre, writing,
and a host of other subjects. Unfortunately, I have an interest in
a great deal and variety of subjects, an interest which has been
expressed by both study and investments of time and money. I
have a partial and outside interest in a number of small concerns,
some of which have paid off, at least financially, to a degree. I
have even invested in the theatre without an equivalent amount of
success. My photography and writing have brought me a small
income on the side, as well as kept me busy. Other interests include
languages, and I can profess at least to partial fluency in six lan-
guages,

As for my social, political, and religious convictions, I am still a
Republican, but a liberal one. Having swum backstroke with our
President, when he was a freshman, has not swung me over to the
Democratic side, although I have kept in touch with him occasionally
over these years. Class me in the Eisenhower-Nixon-Rockefeller
wing of the Republican party. I am still an Episcopalian, although

[773]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

not an ardent church-goer. My practising convictions consist of
being tolerant of everything except intolerance, and maintaining
an active curiosity in what goes on around me. I still have an intense
interest in foreign affairs, but have little opportunity to influence
the conduct of them.

I, too, hope the next twenty-five years will be as interesting as
the past, but I have my fingers crossed. At the risk of closing on a
somber note, I trust no nuclear bombs destroy New York, and
prevent me from comparing my fiftieth report with the twenty-fifth.

S. MERCER MOORMAN, II

HOME ADDRESS: 180 Central Park S.. New York 19, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 157 E. 72d St., New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: July 7, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1937(38); M.D. (Univ. of Virginia),
1944.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Detwiler Moorman, 37.

OccuPATION; Surgeon,

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attending, Memorial Center for Cancer and Allied
Diseases, New York City, since 1955, Polyclinic Postgraduate Medical School
and Hospital, New York City, since 1955; surgeon, Albany VA Hospital,
Albany, N.Y. 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: New York Athletic Club; New York County and New York
State Medical Societies; American Medical Society of Vienna; American
Medical Association; Halloran Surgical Society; American Board of
Surgery (diplomate); American Board of Abdominal Surgeons (diplo-
mate); American Society of Abdominal Surgeons.

LIKE so many of those in my field, much of my time since gradua-

tion has been taken up by post-graduate education and training.

Following internship, I served a hitch in the Navy. Then came a

surgical residency and further training interrupted by a brief recall

to active duty. Finally I began practice in the big city and have
attempted to pursue it since then.

Aside from the theatre and music (ot the classical type), my main
hobbies are sports, poker, and travel. I swam a bit for my club and
during medical school helped coach swimming. [ve learned and
Enjoy ced almost every sport except golf and skiing, but being es-
sentially lazy my efforts are confined now to being a spectator when-
ever Doan geta ‘chance, I still love poker and other games of chance,

[774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but work and the absence of such aficionados of our Class as Tom
Sherwin and Mike Adlis prevent me from playing as much as I'd like.

Travel is perhaps my main hobby, and I do it whenever I dare to
take off from work. Culled from several trips to Europe and once
around the world, I'd say my favorite cities were Tokyo, Hong
Kong, Sydney, Berlin, and Copenhagen. I have managed to do
postgraduate surgical work in both Copenhagen and Vienna and
thus was lucky enough to make traveling doubly interesting. Un-
fortunately, I apparently picked up a bug somewhere in Asia or
North Africa which later caused a six-month period of hospitaliza-
tion last year, but I have recovered now, other doctors believe. The
worst part of it was the feeling of almost starting all over again
in practice. I still plan, however, on resuming my travels when or if
the Internal Revenue Service says the word. Connected with travel
is a hobby of languages. I have a good working knowledge of six, and
at present I am more or less hard at work learning a seventh —
Japanese.

Although I realize I do not frequent church as much as I should,
my religious conviction has been and is Episcopalian. Socially,
however, I am a bit of an iconoclast as regards mores and popular
trends, and I am in violent disagreement with Harvard for the use
of English instead of Latin on the diplomas. Politically, I am a
staunch Republican, and I actually worked when I could in the
campaigns of Eisenhower and Nixon. The elections of Roosevelt,
Truman, and Kennedy came as deep, personal blows to me. Pre-
ferring the apparently old-fashioned ideas of private enterprise and
self-dependence, I definitely favor Goldwater over Rockefeller,
_ who to me is a New Dealer in masquerade, though Nixon would be
my first choice in both domestic and foreign policies.

_ Will there be a Fiftieth Reunion for the Class of 37? Being some-
what of a skeptic, personally I wonder — what with the present
trend of our own and other governments. But if so, I sincerely hope
that all those present at the Twenty-fifth will also make the Fiftieth.

EDMUND SEARS MORGAN

HOME appress: 244 Livingston St., New Haven 11, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of History, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1916, Minneapolis, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; PHD. 1942+

[775]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

acarnieD: Helen Mayer, June 7, 1939, Arlington, Mass. cHiLpREN: Penelope,
Dec. 2, 1942; Pamela, Sept. 24, 1944.

occupation: Professor of history, Yale University.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; American Antiquarian Society;
Colonial Society of Massachusetts; Massachusetts Historical Society. -

pusLicaTions: The Puritan Family, 1944; Virginians at Home, 1952; The Stamp
Act Crisis, with Helen M. Morgan, 1953; The Birth of the Republic, 1956;
The Puritan Dilenrmia, 1958; The Gentle Puritan, 1962.

AFTER graduation I studied at the London School of Economics for
a year and returned to Harvard to take a doctorate in the history
of American Civilization, which I received in 1942. During the war
I worked as an instrument-maker at the Radiation Laboratory,
M.LT. After the war, I taught history and English for a year at the
University of Chicago. Since then I have taught American colonial
history at Brown University (1946-55) and at Yale (since 1955).

ELMER FRANCIS MORGAN

HOME ADDRESS: 328 Conestoga Rd., Wayne, Pa.

OFFICE aporeEss: Barnstead Sull & Sterilizer Co., Boston, Mass.

Born: July 31, 1915, Winsted, Conn.

PREPARED aT: Gilbert School, Winsted, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937 (38).

Marien: Alice Campbell, Dec. 20, 1941, Belmont, Mass. cHILDREN: Elmer
Francis, Jr., April 8, 1943; Georgia, April 4, 1948; Peter C., June 30, 1959.

oocupaTiION: Territorial manager, Barnstead Still & Sterilizer Company.

Memper oF: Victory Lodge, AF. & A.M. Watertown, Massachusetts; Ameri-
can Chemical Society; Seventh Armored Division Association; Fisherman’s
Club, Wayne; Methodist Church.

AFTER working in technical sales for a few years after graduation,
the Army beckoned. I joined the colors in 1941, before Pearl
Harbor. Some five years later, after service in the ETO, with a
couple of oak Icaves and assorted decorations, I reverted to civilian
status.

Concurrently, I married and started a family. Mike was born
in Shreveport, Louisiana, in 1943. Georgia came along in 1948, on
the other side of the Mason-Dixon line in Massachusetts. Peter
joined the family in 1959.

Sales engineering continued to be my livelihood in the New
Pngland area. Five years ago I joincd Barnstead Still & Sterilizer
Company and moved to Wayne, Pennsylvania, as territorial manager.

My outside interests have included church work, playing the

{775 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

violin in the Brandeis University (Waltham) symphony orchestra,
rooting for various Belmont Hill teams, where Mike prepared for
Washington & Jefferson College, oil painting, ice-skating and an
occasional round of golf. Others in the family have joined me in

these endeavors. At present, we are trying to renovate an older
house.

HALLOWELL VAUGHAN MORGAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 106 Ocean St., Manchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gately-Morgan Insurance Agency, Inc., 209 Washington St.,
Boston, Mass.

Born: March 3, 1914, Rydal, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937.

marrieD: Ruth Gilmore, Sept. 14, 1942, Morgantown, Ky. (divorced 1957);
Elizabeth Winsor, Dec. 6, 1961, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Cintra Hutchin-
son, May 13, 1944; Hallowell Vaughan, 3d, Dec. 8, 1945; John Gilmore,
March 31, 1946; Thomas M., Oct. 2, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Insurance agent; president, Gately-Morgan Insurance Agency, Inc.

IF it had not been for a nagging conscience, I could almost have en-
joyed the various shades of desperation elicited by the tardiness of
this account, exhibited by the worthy Classmates delegated with the
responsibility for producing our Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report.
However, my conscience sorely besets me and this is offered with
abject apologies.

Even under normal circumstances, writing such an account seems
an imposing task. As you will see, circumstances have not been
normal. Since an attempt to do this sort of thing was made ten
years ago, or was it five, I shall limit this to the most recent years.

The insurance business continues to prove highly interesting, if
not highly lucrative, and thus qualifies as an entirely satisfactory
form of occupation. Certainly it provides an ever-increasing number
of new faces, new friends, and new experiences. Added to this, a
growing involvement in politics has afforded many thwarting and
rewarding, and always interesting moments. Certainly, among the
more satisfactory experiences, can be numbered active participation
in the campaigns of our present Mayor and present Governor.
Neither of these is a Harvard man — but then, there are few Har-
vard politicians left in Massachusetts,

As for my social activities, and I suppose that is the proper term,

C777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

these came to a delightful climax last December sixth, when I was
married to a lady, née Elizabeth Winsor, daughter of the late Rob-
ert Winsor, ’o9. By so doing, I have added five radiant members of
the opposite sex to a family which had hitherto consisted of four
boys and one girl. This has proved a most happy merger, and
must also prove a qualifying excuse for the tardiness of this account.
As may well be imagined, such a merger involved, among many
things, a drastic expansion of all facilities.

Our Twenty-fifth will be a memorable occasion. I hope to see
you all. If you are there, you will certainly see all of us.

CHARLES TABOR MORROW.

HOME ADDRESS: 5617 Busch Drive, Malibu, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Aerospace Corp., P.O. Box 95085, Los Angeles 45, Calif.
Born: May 3, 1917, Gloucester, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass. _
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; S.M., 1938; S.D.,
1946. ;
MarriED: Julia Buxton Brown, June 4, 1949, Providence, R.I. cuitpreN: Hope
Elizabeth, March 19, 1953; Anne Barbara, Jan. 22, 1955.
occupation: Electronic and missile engineer; manager of technical relations,
Aerospace Corporation.
oFrices HELD: Chairman, West Los Angeles Section, Sierra Club, 1956-573
senior warden, St. Aidan’s Episcopal Mission, Malibu, Calif., 1958-595
currently: chairman, Local Area 14, Southern California Education Coun-
cil, vice-chairman, Education Committee, Los Angeles Technical So-
cicties Council; member, board of directors, Southern California Section,
American Rocket Society.
MeMBER OF: LR-E., AS.A.; A-RS.; S.M.P.TE.; Sigma Xi; R-ES.A.; A.A.AS.;
Sierra Club.
pusnications: “Reactions of Smal] Enclosures on the Human Voice, Part I,”
J ASA, July, 1947; “Shortcomings of Present Methods of Measuring and
Simulating Vibration Environments,” with R. B. Muchmore, Journal of
Applied Mechanics, September, 1955; “Steady State Response of the Sperry
Gyroton or Vibratory Gyroscope,” JASA, January, 1955; “The Shock
Spectrum as a Criterion of Severity of Shock Impulses,” JASA, May,
1497; “Averaging Time and Daca Reduction Time for Random Vibration
Spectra, Part 1,” JASA, May, 1958; “Application of the Mechanical Im-
pedance Concept of Shock and Vibration Testing,” 58th Meeting of the
Acoustical Society of America, published in Noise Control, July-August,

fe,
WORIDTD WAR ID found me still at Harvard with a Master’s degree
already attained and with some work done toward the Doctorate.

(778)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I spent the war almost entirely at Harvard employed in defense re-
search and teaching. My most notable research effort, which led
eventually to my thesis, was on the effect of a gas mask on speech.
In 1946, after my final degree, 1 spent about three months touring
the United States and Mexico with a friend. This trip, which was
done with little planning, could hardly have been improved upon.
Occasionally, I relive it via Kodachrome. Then I settled down to
five years at the Sperry Gyroscope Company developing a tuning
fork so it could behave like a gyroscope and measure rotations.
Recreation was skiing in the winter and trips to Virginia, North
Carolina, and Tennessee in the summer. I met my wife, who is
called Judy, on an outing of the Intercollegiate Alumni of New York.

Long Island soon became too congested for us, and we moved to
California, first to Pacific Palisades, then to Malibu, where we have
a mountain and ocean view. The morning after Christmas, shortly
after we moved into our present home, a fire driven over the
mountains by high winds sprayed over us and reduced many of the
neighboring houses to rubble. We ourselves were unnerved but
suffered no serious loss.

I worked for five years at the Hughes Aircraft Company and five
years at the Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation (or STL) in the bal-
listic missile and space effort. I have been at the Aerospace Corpo-
ration over a year. For the last five years, I have been part of the
corporate staff with responsibilities especially in educational mat-
ters. In the course of this, I have been able to prepare many tech-
nical papers and one book.

Generally, we enjoy California very much. We have spent our
vacations camping and roaming in the West, especially in Cali-
fornia. For several years now we have taken the two children
along. The advent of the children started us thinking more about
religion than we had. Eventually, we found ourselves in the Epis-
copal Church, which has proved satisfactory for our needs.

BYRON WALLACE MOSER, JR.

HOME ApDpREss: 7 Picards Lane, Laduc 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Southern Commercial & Savings Bank, 7201 S. Broadway, St.
Louis 11, Mo.

BORN: Nov. 30, 1915, St. Louis, Mo.
PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, Clayton, Mo,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1937; M.B.A4 1939:

[779 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

marrieD: Mary Armistead, Nov. 1, 1947, St. Louis, Mo. cHILpREN: Mary Lee,
May 14, 1949; Byron Wallace, 3d, May 17, 1951.

occuPATION: Banking; chairman of the board, Southern Commercial & Savings
Bank.

JOSEPH MOSS

HOME ADDRESS: 296 Beverly Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Moss Realty Co., 11 Queensberry St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1937, 1938-1939.

MARRIED: Beatrice Porter, Sept. 15, 1945, Brookline, Mass. cHmpren: Harriet,
Dec. 22, 1948; Robert, March 28, 1951.

occuPaATION: Real estate operator; own and operate residential and commercial
properties.

MEMBER OF: Realty Lodge, AF. & A.M.; American ORT Federation.

AFTER leaving school, I entered the real estate business, buying and
managing properties. This was temporarily interrupted by almost
five years of military service between the years 1941 and 1945,
during which time I spent three years in India and Burma. Shortly
after my return I was married and now have two children, ages
thirteen and ten. I am back in the real estate business again at the
present time. For relaxation I find golf most accommodating. My

political affiliations remain as Democratic as they were while I was at
school.

JOHN COLMAN MOTT

HOME apprEsS: 166 Carlisle Terr., Ridgewood, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Savings Banks Trust Co., 1¢ Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: May 29, 1916, Tenafly, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Englewood School, Englewood, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarRieD: Kathryn Hardin, July 22, 1944, Evanston, Ill. cHttpReN: Jeremy
Hardin, Dec. 3, 1945; Margaret, Oct. 1, 1949; Jessica, Jan. 4, 1954; Bethany
Joanna, Jan. 24, 1957.

occupATION: Banking, assistant vice-president, Savings Banks Trust Company.

AFTER several years at the University of Rochester as assistant
treasurer and investment officer, I have returned to the Wall Street
fold as assistant vice-president, Savings Banks Trust Company.
Hicre my principal function is supervising the operation of Institu-

[ 780 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tional Mutual Fund, Inc., a middle-size common stock fund avail-
able to savings banks. The variety and demands of the investment
field continue to seem to me unmatched.

Four children of varying ages keep alive some flexibility, much
pleasure and more awe than would otherwise be credible.

Meaningful associations include membership on the Board of
Managers of Oakwood School, Poughkeepsie, New York. In gen-
eral, education, race relations and international peace interests —
all to my mind intimately connected — chink in my “free space.”
Gardening comes off a very poor second.

DWIGHT FAY MOWERY, JR.

HOME aAppRESS: Sunset Lane, South Dartmouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Bedford Institute of Technology, New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1915, Moorhead, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; PH.D. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1941.

MARRIED: Suzanne Frame Lenderman, June 12, 1943, Wilmington, Del.

occupation: Professor of chemistry, director of graduate program, New Bed-
ford Institute of Technology.

OFFicEs HELD: President, Ripon Chapter, American Association of University
Professors, 1955~-56.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association of University
Professors; Harvard Club of New Bedford; M.L.T. Club of New Bedford.

PUBLICATIONS: Sixteen scientific articles in general fields of chromatography
and carbohydrate chemistry in Journal of American Chemical Society,
Journal of Organic Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry, Textile Research
Journal, Journal of Chemical Education, two patents assigned to the
duPont Company: USS. 2,452,595 N(ethylmercury)-p-toluene sulfonanilide
and method for making same; US. 2,481,438 N (ethylmercury)-p-toluene
sulfonanilide as a seed disinfectant (marketed under name Ceresan M.).

WHEN I left Harvard that June of ’37, my head was full of theory
which I hoped to put into practice that very summer. My nemesis?
Marcus Hook, Pennsylvania. The plant manager, a self-made man,
no doubt, decided to give us college boys some practical experience,
so theory went out the smokestack and muscles took over. We
hustled acid carboys, unloaded ore boats and freight cars and
repaired the railroad tracks in the plant when they needed it, all
in the plus 100° heat and humidity of the lower Delaware River
basin. Having learned how to handle a shovel and sledge effective-

[ 781 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ly, I decided that further study of the less violent side of the chemical
world was my ticket and so made a beeline to sign up for graduate
work at MILT. With a Ph.D. in organic chemistry under my belt
I then tried industrial research with duPont in Wilmington, Dela-
ware, where I met by bride-to-be, Suzanne Lenderman, and after
eighteen years of marriage I can truthfully say she is the best thing
that ever happened to me. After a few years of industrial research,
I decided to try teaching because of the greater variety as well as
freedom in research which it offered. Eighteen years and five col-
leges later I am convinced that the professional freedom and satis-

factions of the academic life are worth the financial sacrifice that

goes with it. For most of this period I have been actively engaged

in industrial and academic research, which, I find, complement teach-

ing in a highly desirable way and help to keep one’s feet on the

ground.

Being in the teaching profession I have had considerable time for
hobbies, the major one of which has been construction, which in-
cludes anything from metal-working and glass-blowing (special
laboratory equipment) to masonry, carpentry and plumbing (build-
ing a house). I have remodeled three houses and built one from the
ground up and find myself about to start another. Since leaving
Harvard I have been able to continue one hobby learned there, scull-
ing. For ten years after graduation I was fortunate enough to be able
to use sculls from M.LT., the American Bosch Rowing Club in
Springfield and the Union Boat Club in Boston. Unfortunately, I
have had little opportunity, due to location, for a boyhood hobby of
sailing but hope to rectify the situation soon. Photography, also,

which earned my room and board through graduate school, has been
largely replaced by more practical pursuits such as furniture design
and construction.

As far as social and political convictions are concerned, I am
beginning to wonder whether our democratic form of government

is capable of coping with a highly regimented form of government

whose major aim is our overthrow. With a leadership which is

always worrying about public opinion and the next election I do
not sce how in peace time we can possibly assume the austere policy
necessary to keep pace with a dedicated totalitarian government.

It appears to me that a stiffening of the backbone of this country

is in. order and that people should be made to see that hard work

and a tremendous expansion of education, especially in the scientific
tejds, are essential for our survival. I certainly hope that like the

[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ancient Romans we do not become soft and lazy so that we fall
easy prey to the barbarians.

As for religion, I am the son of a Unitarian minister but have
found myself leaning more and more toward an agnostic view. It
seems to me highly presumptuous that a being with as limited
an understanding as man should attempt to picture the creation of
the universe or the guiding power behind the physical laws. It
seems equally presumptuous that man should assume himself to
have been created in the likeness of his Creator. I believe that if
ever man should be able to comprehend the guiding principle of the
universe, which is highly unlikely, it would be such a grand revela-
tion that it would completely dwarf all earthly experiences.

HENRY COMAN MUNROE

HOME ApDpREss: 1421 Urbino, Coral Gables, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1850 N.E. 123d St., North Miami, Fla.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1914, Oneida, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Detroit University School, Grosse Pointe, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MarrIED: Fredericka Shurley, 1937 (divorced 1939); Lorraine Woodbridge,
March 15, 1946, Coral Gables, Fla. cuitpreN: Dana P., March 19, 1938 (9.
Charles Hagen); Stewart W., 3d, May 8, 1947; Kirk W., Feb. 7, 19493
Gail C., Oct. 14, 1952. GRANDCHILD: Charles Hagen, Jr., May, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Stewart Munroe, °38.

occupation: Auto dealer; vice-president, Munroe-Zeder Chrysler-Plymouth,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Kiwanis Club of Southwest Miami, Miami Auto
Dealer Association; director, Dade County Grand Jury Association, ves-
tryman, St. Matthew’s Episcopal Church.

MEMBER OF: Coral Gables Country Club; University Club, Detroit; Harvard
Club of Miami.

SINCE 1945, Zeder and I have owned and operated four dealerships
(Chrysler Corporation).

I was the first senior warden and one of the charter members of
St. Matthew’s Episcopal Church, a mission church,

EDWARD FRANCIS RICHARD MURPHY

MAILING AppRESS: 100 Melrose St., Arlington 74, Mass.

[ 783]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

WALTER JOHN MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Audmar Drive, McLean, Va.

oFFIce aporess: Office of the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, Washing-
ton 25, D.C.

BorN: July 25, 1916, Knoxville, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: South High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (Fordham Univ.), 1941.

marrieD: Mary Elizabeth Loftus, April 22, 1944, Worcester, Mass, CHILDREN:
Richard Jay, Aug. 1, 1945; Robert Bruce, June 21, 1949; Nancy, Jan. 8,

1953.
OCCUPATION: Naval officer — Lawyer.
MEMBER OF: American and Federal Bar Associations.

AFTER graduation, I went to New York and entered Fordham
Law School working the final two and a half years as a law clerk
with the firm of Oeland & Kuhn, at 115 Broadway. Admitted to
practice on the morning after the Pearl Harbor attack. I had en-
listed in the Naval Reserve in August, 1941, as an apprentice seaman,
Class V7, and was called to active duty in January, 1942. After
four months’ training, as an apprentice seaman and midshipman on
board the Prairie State, 1 was commissioned an ensign in the Naval
Reserve and served in convoy escorts in the Caribbean until early
1944. After attending Subchaser Training Center in Miami, as-
signed as executive officer of a new fleet tug and spent the rest of
World War II in the Western Pacific. Took command of the
ship in August, 1945, about a week before V-J Day.

Returned to the U.S., in February, 1946, and, in May of that
year, shifted to legal duties. Transferred to Regular Navy, as a
Jaw specialist in 1947. Since that time, I have had duty in Phila-
delphia, Boston, Philadelphia (again), Green Cove Springs, Florida,
Washington, Norfolk, Washington (again), Guantanamo Bay
(where, the day after my arrival, the Castroites hijacked a busload
of personnel returning from liberty — thereby causing an end to all
trips off the naval base), and (for the third time) Washington, where
Iam currently director of the Litigation and Claims Division in the
Office of the Judge Advocate General. After twenty years in the
Navy, I sincerely believe that it is a wonderful organization and I
could really enjoy it, if I could only afford it.

[ 784 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM EDWARD MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: 136 Lowell St., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Newman Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

BorN: July 30, 1916, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1033-1936, 1946-1947. DEGREES: A.B. 1937(47); AB. (St.
John’s Sem.), 1958.

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

I WAS engaged in personnel work until my entry into the armed ~
services (Army) in 1943. After my discharge the teaching profes-
sion — ten years in Connecticut and the last four in Boston.

FRANCIS ENOCH MYERS, II

HOME ADpRESS: 1720 S. Center St., Ashland, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Weirmar Products, Inc., Ashland, Ohio.

BORN: July 26, 1914, Ashland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marrieD: Mary Elizabeth Vilas, June 29, 1937, Cleveland, Ohio. cHTLpREN:
Alice Marilyn, May 23, 1941; Nancy Lynn, Oct. 31, 1944; Francis Enoch,
qth, Jan. 25, 1947; David Brooks, March 15, 1954.

OCCUPATION: President (administrative duties), Weirmar Products, Inc.; vice-
president (advisory and consultant duties), Hydr-O-Matic Pump Com-
pany, manufacturers of sump pumps and specialty pumps.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, F. E. Myers & Bro, Company, 1940
60; vice-president, Hydromatic Pump Company, since 1961; president,
Weirmar Products, Inc. since 1961; president, Ashland Country Club,
1941, 1953, Ashland YMCA, 1942; director, First National Bank of Ash-
land, since 1952; president, board of trustees, Samaritan Hospital, 1959-

; 61.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; University Club of Ashland; Union Club, Cleveland,

Ohio; Ashland Country Club, Wequetonsing Country Club.

TWO weeks after graduation, I was married and spent a delightful
two months in Europe before becoming an employee of the F. E.
Myers & Bro. Company, in Ashland, Ohio. From 1937 to Septem-
ber, 1960, I stayed with this concern, becoming vice-president and
a director in 1940. My duties were mainly in the financial division
of the company, although I represented the company at trade asso-
ciation meetings. During the war, much of my time was taken up
by government contracts, many trips to Washington, and con-
tracting suppliers for whom we were acting as sub-contractors.

[ 785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

In 1960, the F. E. Myers & Bro. Company was sold, and I resigned
my position at that time. At present, I am very active in an entirely
new field, manufacturing floor and wall tile made with marble
products.

I have continued to be a Republican and probably a conservative,
My eldest child is a junior at Duke University; my second, a senior
at Hathaway Brown School in Cleveland, Ohio, and the two boys are
in school in Ashland and living at home.

In the summertime, my family moves to a cottage at Mullett Lake,
Michigan, and I manage to join them for two or three weeks. Fish-
ing and golf are my two favorite sports, and I am still an avid sport
fan, enjoying football, basketball, baseball, and golf.

HENRY JOSEPH MYERS

HOME ADDRESS: 10707 Weymouth St., Garrett Park, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2025 I St, Washington 6, D.C.

BoRN: Oct. 2, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; M.D. (Tufts Coll),
1941.

marRieD: Viola Myra Aronson, Oct. 2, 1946, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:
Jessica Anne, April 19, 1948; Rhoda Louise, June 7, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Psychiatrist.

MEMBER OF: Medical Society of the District of Columbia; Washington Psycho-
analytic Society; American Psychiatric Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in various medical professional journals.

SINCE graduation I went through the four-year grind of medical
school and took my internship at St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, Washing-
ton, D.C. Following this, like most of us, I had my stint in the
Army. The Army sent me to California, England and, finally, to
Paris, France. Despite my relative good fortune and the fact that
I served as a medical officer and neuropsychiatrist, the experience
was enough to leave me with a permanent dislike for anything the
least bit military. In 1946 I returned to Washington and St. Eliza-
beth’s Hospital to resume my psychiatric training. Armed with a
little black book and a list of names supplied to me by Robert Louis
Cohen, ’37, I looked up the first name on the list, Viola Aronson,
and got no further. In a month’s time we were married. Since then
my time has been occupied with completing my psychiatric and
psychoanalytic training and the usual settling down into family

[ 786 ]

coppers! 2

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

living and the ways of suburbia (children, house, golf, community
activities, etc.).

My social convictions are that each man is his brother’s keeper
and has to be. Also that too damn much of life is based on I-It
relationships and not I-Thou (cf. Martin Buber).

My political convictions are that we must have peace. I am
against fall-out shelters and I am for the removal of the atom bomb
and the elimination of the threat of nuclear warfare. Also I do not
believe that this country has always been right or that it will always
be right.

My religious convictions are that I am dismayed at the resurgence
of religious mass conformity of the most shallow order. I resent
radio commercials which tell you to go to the church of your choice
but go to church. I defend the right of the non-believer and the
sceptic to be left in peace. In spite of all this I send my children to
a Jewish Sunday School because they want to go and it is the only
way I know for them to learn something of Jewish history and of
what it means to be Jewish.

THOMAS FRANCIS MYLES

HOME ApprEss: 110 Glezen Lane, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. 1941,

MarriEpD: Star Paris, April 30, 1955, Cambridge, Mass. cHitpren: Star Paris,
March 3, 1957; Barbara Russell, Sept. 30, 1958; Loring, Jan. 23, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Richard Myles, p.m.p., 44.

occupation: Lawyer; general practice; also trial work for Liberty Mutual In-
surance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Associate member, Wayland Republican Town Committee;
dance chairman, fall °61; worked for Salvation Army Fund drive, 1951-53.
Community Fund drive, 1953-55; chairman, Harvard Square Area, Com-
munity Fund, 1954, 1955; candidate, Cambridge City Council, 1952; mem-
ber of general committee, Professor Chandler R. Post Memorial Fund.

MEMBER OF; Massachusetts Trial Lawyers Association; Middlesex County and
Cambridge Bar Associations, VFW; Kiwanis, Wayland Town Committee
(associate member).

ABOUT nine months after graduating from the Law School, a
proper incubation period, the government changed an Ivy Leaguer
into a number, 31087068, Pvt. Basic Inf., 77th Inf, Div,, in Febru: ary,
1942. A year later a corporal was ordered i into the Infantry School,

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

OCS, Fort Benning, Georgia, and he became a gentleman, by
courtesy of the government and incidentally, a second “looie.”
At the A.G.F. Repl. Depot No. 2, Fort Ord, California, he was
made assistant staff judge advocate, but after several months his
turn came, so he was reassigned to what they needed — Infantry —
and was sent on a delightful zig-zag vacation cruise, as cargo, to that
renowned vacation island, New Guinea, and was placed in an officers
pool with about 550 others for assignment to troops. While wait-
ing for orders, taking light exercise—close order drill, etc., in
110, degrees and up etc.—a colonel descended from G.H.Q. at
cooler Hollandia, God’s Kingdom and that of the Great General —
looking for officer material for the Counter Intelligence Corps. Cards
were pulled, etc., and the first lieutenant and many others were
pulled out. The whole and exact interview: Colonel (not an Ivy
man, after reading the big card), “Hmmm, Harvard, Harvard Law,
exactly what we want. Are you interested?” Answer, “Yes.” About
two dozen were flown out that night to C.IL.C. School, Hollandia.
Now this happened before any of the Philippine invasions, so the
life of an Infantry lieutenant may well have been saved. Harvard,
Hallelujah!

A station with a CLC. team in Leyte followed, and there a gold-
plated Navy man, one Ed Hills, bumped into and mvited me into
Officer’s Country for dinner on his boat, the Missouri or something.
His “chow” was royal fare for me, complete with tablecloths, silver,
uniformed waiters, etc. Wow! What a war! After becoming a
detach. commander and a captain, Invasion School followed in
Manila and with a new team was sent into S. Honshu, Japan, initial
landings, remained there several months and was separated in June,
1946.

Leaving the service for the quiet civilian life, the local advice
“Go West, young man,” was heeded, the invitation of an Army
pal, Gordon Rice, Esq. of Reno, Nevada, was accepted, and two
years of law practice began. However, Reno was so “different”
that when a California client asked me to help organize the Western
Pioneer Insurance Company, starting as director and secretary, I
moved to Oakland. Although it got started successfully, my brother
asked me home for his wedding in June, 1950, and then the last eight
and a half years were reviewed. Certainly four and a half years
convinced me that a career in the Civil Service was not for me;
Nevada and the western life was “too much” even though San
Francisco somehow scemed to remind me of a better place —

[ 788 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

maybe it was the fog or the haze, rather; for it couldn’t have been
fog, you know, since San Francisco is over 3,000 miles away from
“the ocean”; what good was opportunity there, in the wrong place
with no chance of seeing family and friends?

So, back to Cambridge, opened a law office in Harvard Square
with one associate and slowly built up a general and trial practice.
Life began again and this rarefied atmosphere is thoroughly en-
joyed. In April, 1955, succumbed to the ever-persisting charms of
Star Paris of Brookline, bought a Cape Cod-styled house in Way-
land, painted it red, of course, have three little girls, ‘Trinkie, Bobbie,
and Lorie —all Harvard hopefuls —and have lived happily ever
after.

ANDREW THOMAS NELSON

HOME ADDRESS: 3221 31st Ave., Minneapolis 18, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Milling Co., 1200 Investors Bldg. Minneapolis,
Minn.

BORN: June 14, 1916, St. Paul, Minn.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1937.

MarRieD: Florence Oczak, 1958, St. Paul, Minn. cxmpren: William, 1958,
Catherine, 1959.

occuPATION: Assistant traffic manager, International Milling Company.

I AM a rate analyst. It’s a tricky and often boring trade, hard on the
eyes and hard on the seat of the pants. I am licensed to practise
before (if not on) the Interstate Commerce Commission and I am
a nominal member of a sub-committee of the Minneapolis Chamber
of Commerce.

My private life centers around the children. They’re noisy, de-
manding, and I love them dearly. This will not be news to more
experienced parents.

Reviewing my reply to the Confidential Questionnaire, I note a
phrase so satisfying that I’m quite willing to remove the mask of
anonymity: “The burning desire to invade Syracuse.” It’s the na-
tional problem. I’m happy to know that Alcibiades has promised
not to run for president in 1964.

[ 789 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

CAMMANN NEWBERRY

HOME AppREsS: 143 West St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 185 Devonshire St., Boston 10, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 9, 1914, Detroit, Mich.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937} LL.B, 1941.

MmarrieD: Marie Stevenson, Dec. 11, 1948, Beverly Farms, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Stoughton, 2d, Feb. 27, 1950; Stevenson, May 29, 1951; Alexander
Stanton, Jan. 31, 1955; Francis Lee, Nov, 18, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Stoughton Newberry, ’33.

OccUPATION: Attorney; campaign staff director to George Cabot Lodge, candi-
date for U.S. Senator, Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: 1947, Office of the Assistant to the Attorney General, Dept. of
Justice; 1947-52, administrative assistant to U.S. Senator Henry Cabot
Lodge; 1953-58, editor (later managing editor), Litle Brown & Com-
pany; 1960, campaign director, Lodge for Vice-president staff; member,
Visiting Committee to the Harvard English Department, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club, South Hamilton, Mass.; Somerset Club, Bos-
ton; Brook Club, New York.

ONE of the occupational hazards of working for politicians is a

certain job insecurity, particularly when the people you’re working

for have a habit of running against people named Kennedy. In 1952

the outcome of the senatorial contest in Massachusetts between my

long-time boss, Henry Cabot Lodge, and one John Fitzgerald

Kennedy caused me to turn to a different occupation for a few years,

-book publishing — which I enjoyed—but when Mr. Lodge was
nominated to run with Richard Nixon in 1960, the impulse to return
to political activity proved irresistible, and there ensued perhaps the
most fascinating, exhausting and exhilarating months of my life
when it was my privilege to work as Mr. Lodge’s campaign director
during the 1960 national campaign. But again that same John Fitz-
gerald Kennedy dictated temporary retirement. Yet here I am back
for more, this time doing what I can to help Cabot Lodge’s son
George win the U.S. Senate seat up for election in 1962 —a seat
once held by John Fitzgerald Kennedy —and, rumor has it at
present writing, also being “eyed,” as our newspaper friends like to
put it, by Mr. Edward M. Kennedy. By now it must be apparent
that I have a fairly strong conviction that the Lodges are in what I
personally believe to be the finest tradition of public service in this
country, so I feel that anything I have in the way of experience,
ability, and faithfulness to the cause of helping them win public
office is well worth the expending. And what’s more, win, lose, or

[790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

draw, I get much satisfaction and pleasure from these efforts, even
in spite of the job insecurity to which reference was made at the
beginning of this essay,

This satisfaction in my line of work is not diminished by the gen-
eral contentment of domestic life. Few, if any, would dare deny
that marriage to a sister of a member of the Harvard Class of 1937
gets matters in that department off to an auspicious start, while the
presence on the premises of four hopefully Harvard-bound sons
gives spice, suspense and satisfaction to every day of the year. There
has been time for travel (nonpolitical), and for the hobbies of
photography, book collecting, and boating. The privilege of being
able to look out from one’s front windows throughout the year
over the Atlantic Ocean is a treat of which I never tire. Indeed, if
it just weren’t for those Kennedys, [’'d say my cup was definitely
running over; and who knows what 1962 has in store — in addition
to the anticipated joys of our long-awaited and well-planned 25th?

+ THOMAS JEFFERSON NEWBOLD

BORN: Nov. 2, 1914, Manchester, England. parents: Thomas Jefferson New-
bold, ’10, Katherine Hubbard.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. °

MarRiIED: Mary-Dell Mathis, Aug. 29, 1942, Ventnor, N.J. cHttpReN: Thomas

_-; Jefferson, Jr., Oct. 7,. 1943; Peter Mathis, April 29, 1948 (died July 4,
19§2). a a .

pieD: March 3, 1960, Saranac Lake, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. T. Jefferson Newbold, P.O. Box go, Saranac Lake, N.Y.

THOMAS JEFFERSON NEWBOLD left college at the end of his
freshman year to take up flying. After a year spent learning to fly
and taking aeronautical navigation and meteorology courses, he
entered the employ of the Boston-Maine Airways where he re-
mained until July, 1939, except for a year spent in aircraft sales.
During World War II he served as a major in the Civilian Air Patrol
but left the service because of illness and entered the dairy business,
operating the Bartz Dairy, Inc. At the time of our Twentieth An-
niversary Report he was an executive of Dairy-Dell, Inc., in Saranac
Lake, New York. |

He was a member of the Adult Education Advisory Board; vice-
president and member of the board of directors, Saranac Lake Realtv
Corporation; member-at-large, Adirondack Council, Boy Scouts of

[791]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

America, regional director, Civil Defense, and president and member
of the board of directors of Saranac Lake Chamber of Commerce.
His wife and son survived him.

HUBERT HENRY NEXON

HOME ADDRESS: 554 Oakdale Ave., Glencoe, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Commonwealth Edison Co., 72 W. Adams St., Chicago go, Ill.
BORN: March 4, 1917, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1937; LLB.,
cum laude, 1940.
MarrieD: Phyllis Goldstein, Aug. 3, 1942, Washington, D.C. cuitpren: David
H,, April 10, 1945; Norman D., March 26, 1949; Janet A., June 17, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Phillip Joseph Nexon, ’51.

occupation: Assistant vice-president, Commonwealth Edison Company, electric
public utility.

orFices HELD: Member, Board of Education, Northbrook Elementary School
District, 1955-58; member, board of directors, Jewish Family & Com-
munity Service of Chicago, since 1961.

MEMBER OF; American, Illinois and Chicago Bar Associations.

AFTER lingering in Cambridge for three more years at the Law
School, I joined a large New York law firm, but found being the
last man in the last seat in the law library less stimulating than I
expected. Looking for greener fields, I moved on, in June, 1941, to
the then infant Office of Price Administration. By May of 1942,
the infant had become a sprawling giant and paid no attention what-
ever to the departure of one of its hordes of lawyers for a totally
undistinguished three and one-half years in the Army. In the eleven
O.P.A. months, however, I participated in drawing the early price
and rationing regulations and gained some idea of the difficulties of
centralized control of our huge and varied economy.

The first few months of the postwar readjustment were spent in a
quiet backwater of the Department of Justice — so quiet that private
practice again looked attractive. This time, I joined a small law firm
in Chicago and practised there until 1955. The firm represented
Commonwealth Edison Company, the electric utility which serves
Chicago and most of northern Illinois, and, in 1955, I joined that
company, serving successively as an attorney, director of rates and,
now, assistant vice-president.

While electric utilities too often look to the public like mono-
lithic, slow-moving giants, in fact their central place in our industrial

[ 792 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

economy makes the good companies enterprises of rapid techno-
logical change and physical growth. Working for Commonwealth
Edison, which must meet the needs of one of the great centers of
population and industry, has been and is an exciting and challenging
experience.

In the hours stolen from earning a living, Pve managed to help
in the job of raising a family of which I’m inordinately proud, to
take a modest part in community affairs, and to pretend that if I
hadn’t had a bad day I would certainly have beaten my sons at golf
or tennis.

None of this tells either of broadening interests and experience
or of broadening rump and bald spot and so omits much of the last
twenty-five years. The full lecture (complete with philosophical
background, family exhibits and edifying moral conclusions) will
be available, with or without application, in Cambridge in June.

JOHN SLOCUM NICHOLS

HOME ApprEss: Laurel Hollow, Syosset, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Loomis, Sayles & Co., 270 Park Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 16, 1914, Englewood, N.J.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Jarvis Gilbert, Aug. 14, 1943, New York, N.Y. crmpren: Elizabeth
Jarvis, Aug. 14, 1944; John Slocum, Jr., Jan. 19, 1946, Grosvenor Good-
ridge, July 4, 1947; Floyd Gelston, May 30, 1952; Sarah Kirkland, April 18,
I .

riARvan BROTHER: William Floyd Nichols, *34.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Downtown Association; St. Nicholas
Society.

MUCH of the history of my business career is illustrated by a chart

of the stock market. It is quite vivid to me. Even before graduation

from college, we used to discuss economic and business trends and
look for a practical application of “money and banking” to an educa-
tion in investments. I remember having a joint account with a class-
mate with a broker in Harvard Square. We each worried so much
that the other might lose money on the deal that one day we agreed
to sell our stock “at the market” instead of holding out for our price.

When I called the broker, he said, “You just sold Hudson Motors at

234%” ——the high price of the bull market of 1936-37!

It took me fifteen years to really live on intimate terms with

[793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

another bull market. In 1937 in Wall Street I started right out in
September selling stocks for clients. (We were right in tune with
the market.) The averages declined just about 50% in six months
that time. We had a litcle rally when Europe went to war in 1939,
but by 1942 things weren’t going so well and the market had fallen
flat again.

Having joined the Naval Reserve in 1940, I was called up in
September, 1941, so for the next four and a half years I had my
hands full and gave very little thought to business or the market.
Out of sight, out of mind. Not so the problems of mine warfare.
We worked hard at going to sea in small ships, keeping track of our
position, and coping with an enemy we couldn’t see. In the process
of enjoying a world cruise, we swept some German mines, some
Japanese mines, and rode out a typhoon in September, 1945, all with
no mishaps. The experience was a pleasant one on the whole, and
the sea will always have my love and respect. I am content to stay
on the beach now and contemplate the economic impact of rockets,
jets and missiles.

After the war, the stage was set for great growth and prosperity,
but the stock market wouldn't believe it. When the speculative
bubble burst in 1946, we had to wait another six years for the public
to get on the ball again. The era of confidence following the first
Republican victory in twenty years produced the first bull market
with which I was intimately involved. In our business, you just can’t
underestimate the power of confidence. I have never become
particularly involved in partisan politics, but when election day
comes around it will be easier for me to vote Republican. This
brings us quite up to date in a business which always looks for
opportunity tomorrow, with the success of other people, and usually
finds it.

Our achievement on the domestic front in 1961 was a four weeks’
vacation and a trip to Europe with Libby who is now in Briarcliff
College and Jack who is now in the Millbrook School. This was
the anniversary of my last trip abroad in 1937, but Europe seems
smaller in a Peugeot station wagon than on a bicycle. Can it be my
knack for languages has gotten rusty or was I wrong in remembering
that Americans have only to talk English in a loud voice to get what
they want? After three weeks of French, Swiss, Italian, German
and Dutch, I was glad to drive to the airport at Brussels and arrange
in English to transfer the car to Paris, thus arriving in New York
two days early. We did not find many Americans at home abroad,

[794]

Ae RAR A NAR OEO AOO LITT A

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and we did not live on Chateaubriand, pastry and wine. We did
have a ham and cheese sandwich in almost every language. When
the sandwich is delivered in the courtyard of a cathedral and
accompanied by a maestro and the Blue Danube Waltz, it is well to
enjoy it in any language, because you may be ordering the most
expensive ham sandwich in the world.

Looking to the coming year, the calendar is already full of extra-
curricular activities like the Harvard-Princeton game, trips to prep
schools, and a debut in December. When the snow falls, we shall be
planning holidays at our new little house in Londonderry, Vermont.
When you are skiing Bromley some day, come look us up. If we
are still there when Sally finds herself in the college whirl, I shall
by that time be known locally as the Old Man of the Mountains.

- JOSEPH NICKERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 719 High St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE appress: D. E. Makepeace Division, Engelhard Industries, Attleboro,
Mass.

BORN: Nov. 7, 1914, Dedham, Mass. .

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. .

MARRIED: Priscilla Howes, Sept. 16, 1939, Chestnut Hill, Mass. (divorced 1960);
Virginia Dolge Candela, June, 1960, Huntington, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Joseph Jr. July 7, 1940; David, Sept. 5, 1941; Richard Nicker-
son, Feb. 19, 1943; Michael H., March 2, 1948; Gretchen A., March 30,
1949; Patricia Candela, November, 1942; Michael J. Candela, November,
1944; Terence J. Candela, September, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Lindsay Nickerson, Jr., '33.

occupation: Vice-president — plant manager, D. E. Makepeace Division, Engel-
hard Industries.
MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club, Locust Valley, N.Y.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I worked in New York City for three
years, trying various jobs. Not liking the big city, I returned to
Boston, and went to work for Meredith & Grew real estate, staving
until the war interrupted life in general. I enlisted and served three
and one-half years in the Field Artillery in the European Theatre,
and returned home in November, 1945, being discharged as a first
lieutenant.

Real estate did not seem to fit the bill after the war, so in 1947,
I went with the D. E. Makepeace division of Engelhard Industries,
as a salesman and for the next eight years covered the New England

(795 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

States, selling precious metals for industrial purposes, as well as for
jewelry products. In 1955, the family, consisting now of five chil-
dren, was transferred to New York City, to a new job, running
the sales office for Engelhard Industries. Another shift in 1957
brought me to the American platinum and silver division, still of
Engelhard, requiring another family move from Locust Valley, New
York to Rumson, New Jersey. With this change of job came an
appointment, as vice-president of the division. I received another
assignment in June, 1959, to the head office in Newark, New Jersey,
which lasted until March, 1961. The next step was an appointment
as vice-president of Engelhard Industries, in charge of the dental,
setting, and contact divisions. The circle is now about to be com-
plete, as my next move is to take over as head of the D. E. Make-
peace division in Attleboro, Massachusetts.

In early 1960, a dissolution of my first marriage occurred. [
now live in Syosset, New York, and have been married to Virginia
Candela, whose husband died in 1958 leaving her with three children.
Ginnie and I now have a young son, Timothy, who brings our
combined families to the number of nine. Never a dull moment!

The family is looking forward to the move to New England and
the chance to see the Harvard football team in action, and it is our
fond hope that 1962 and succeeding years will be rewarding ones for
us all.

JULIAN NIECKOSKI

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Franklin St., Greenfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 97 Franklin St., Greenfield, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1915, Deerfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. 1941.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Physician,

FOUR years of U.S. Naval Service, as a physician, from 1942 to
1946, inclusive: North Africa, Sicily, Italy, and France.
In practice in Greenfield, Massachusetts, since 1948. Belong to
staffs of local hospitals, Membership in local medical societies.
Hobbies: golf, twice a week, in season.

[ 796 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP LAWRENCE NIGHTINGALE

HOME ADDRESS: 2919 Douglas Terr. Cincinnati, Ohio; Via Vincenzo Bellini, 4,
Milan, Italy.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Procter & Gamble Co., Winton Hill Technical Center, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Oak Park and River Forest Township High School, Oak Park,
Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1937.
MmarRiED: Barbara Moody, June 22, 1938, Middletown, Conn. cumpren: Jeanne
Alice, June 6, 1939 (7. Dale Husemoller, 1959); Nancy Ellen, April 11,

1942. GRANDCHILDREN: Carl Friedrich Husemoller, 1960; Anna Christina
Husemoller, 1960.

occupation: Engineer: currently, project engineer for certain detergent plants
in overseas countries.

orFices HELD: Member of Council, 1948-54, vice-mayor, 1950-52, secretary,
Planning Commission, 1950-53, Village of Greenhills, editor, Greenbills
Journal, 1950-52; member, Steering Committee, Great Decisions, Council
on World Affairs, Cincinnati, 1959-61.

FOR one who has stayed with the same girl and the same firm since
graduation, I consider that the past twenty-five years have been a
most varied and interesting period.

Soon after joining a large soap company at its Staten Island
plant, I was transformed from a chemistry major graduate into a
process design engineer, involved with designing, installing and
starting up new chemical plant processes. In 1943, I came to the
engineering division in Cincinnati, which has since been my base,
but not always my home. Until 1949, I designed synthetic detergent
plants for several locations in the U.S.A. Then I was shifted to the
design and development of dust control systems until 1954, when I
took on a temporary assignment in Newcastle-on-Tyne, England,
to work on a synthetic detergent plant there. Although the job was
cancelled, as I sailed across the ocean, I managed to spend four de-
lightful years in the north of England with the subsidiary, designing
and installing first a toothpaste plant, and then a large expansion in
an edible fats processing plant.

After a two-year sojourn in Cincinnati, I was again sent overseas
to Italy, where I am now engaged as project engineer for new
synthetic detergent plants being designed in Milan, and built in
Saudi Arabia and Iraq. I am experiencing first-hand the trials of
bringing modern industry to the developing nations.

As for my family, a year after graduation, Barbara Moody, my

[797 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Radcliffe steady, and I were married. We have two wonderful
daughters who, although born on Staten Island, grew up in the en-
virons of Cincinnati and, finally, in England.

They accepted the transformation to English school-girl life quite
eagerly, even donning the traditional uniform. Nancy, the younger
one, also developed a charming English accent. It was quite a joy
to see them participate in school hockey and tennis matches, and to
watch them go off on hunts with the local north country gentry.
Jeanne, the elder girl, attended Radcliffe for two years, but then
transferred to Penn State to be with her husband, her former math
instructor. Now they have two children and are at Haverford,
where Dale is an assistant professor, and where Jeanne is working
toward a degree, while raising a family. Nancy, who has had a year
at the University of Cincinnati, is interrupting her formal education
to study Italian language and art in Italy.

Hobbies have been most varied. In earlier years, they were chess
and golf, Later, in Greenhills, a village near Cincinnati, my wife
and I became entranced with life in this experiment in town planning,
fully convinced that it offered new opportunities in community
living.

We joined and became active participants in the Community
Church, P.T.A., Republican Club (me), Democratic Club (her),
Non-Partisan Club (both of us), and I served on the Council for six
years and the Planning Commission for four. We joined, with
others, in the formation of a village newspaper run on a non-profit
basis, and I served alternatively as editor and business manager.
The objective was to provide a medium for unifying the social life
of the community which we felt was unique in many ways and was
constructive. Perhaps we were wrong or perhaps we failed be-
cause, when the U.S. Government sold the village to its citizens in
1950, it seemed to be impossible to prevent a gradual transformation
to ordinary suburbia.

In England we were interested in exploring life in the country,
and adapted quite easily to the slower pace. We spent many en-
joyable evenings by the fire, discussing diverse topics with English
friends. We also traveled extensively throughout Britain, Ireland,
Europe, and made one trip to the Canary Islands.

When we returned to the States, we took an active interest in
promoting discussion on world affairs in Cincinnati. I served on the
steering committee of the Council on World Affairs, which or-
ganized some seventy-five discussion groups throughout the city.

[ 798 ]

AERTS AN ES NITE NOOO LI TTA TR

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It is part of a nation-wide program which, after our perspective
from England, we felt was necessary in the United States, if the
people in the United States are to support intelligently wise pro-
grams of world leadership which the government must conduct to
maintain its world position. My wife and I also led a. program of
forums in world affairs in the First Unitarian Church of Cincinnati,
and attracted several well-known international personalities to pre-
sent their ‘viewpoints.

Now that we have lived in Italy nearly a year, and have had
pleasant associations with the people here and also in Baghdad and
Saudi Arabia, it seems that people are basically the same everywhere,
and that differences are largely superficial. It is hoped that more
people of the world will discover this, understand the true sig-
nificance of the superficial differences, and will especially learn how
to avoid actions which foster jealousy, greed, and envy between the
‘“have-not” nations and the “have” nations, and also between the
“have” nations.

RICHARD NORMAN

HOME ADpRESS: 821 N. Washington St., Hinsdale, IIL.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Automatic Screw Machine Products Co., Chicago, III.

BoRN: Nov. 13, 1914, Chicago, Iil.

PREPARED AT: Pasadena Junior College, Pasadena, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937 (38).

MarrieD; Frances Lucille Hill, June 17, 1939, Oswego, N.Y. cuttpren: Richard
Hill, Sept. 22, 1940, Mary Ewing, Feb. 19, 1943; Frances Hill, Sept. 4,
1946; William Leonard, April 2, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Automatic Screw Machine Products Company.

FRAN and I did the 1939 typical thing and spent our honeymoon
in Bermuda, then toured the East for four months on an extended
business-pleasure vacation.
_ The Second World War called us back to Chicago, and plunged
me into the selling and manufacturing of hexagon steel nuts, a
business started by my father after he graduated from Harvard.
We started raising a family during those troublesome times, and
after the war took many trips: skiing in Mont Tremblant, Wiscon-
sin, and Aspen; freighter trips to San Juan and Mexico; the usual
Florida, New Orleans, and California jaunts, and a year of com-

muting between Chicago and Mexico, where we have established a
factory.

[ 799 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

We have managed to put our son Dick through Shattuck and the
University of Pennsylvania; Mary, two years in La Chatelainie in
Switzerland; Florence in English school in Mexico; Bill in the Spanish
part of the English-Mexican school and now attending our public

rade school.

I still toot the trumpet and belong to two song groups. A few
years ago, we opened a branch factory in Decatur, Alabama, and the
one in Mexico. It has kept me busy hopping from one to the other,
but also has excused me from becoming seriously involved with
feeding all the animals we seem to acquire from time to time, namely,
horses, ducks, rabbits, collies, even a heifer and a skunk, not to men-
tion cats and parakeets.

The last twenty-five years have been hectic, but never dull or
monotonous.

RICHARD PRICE NORTHEY

HOME ADpDRESS: 35 Orchard St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., 55 Chapel St. Newton, Mass.

BORN: June 18, 1915, Topsfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937}; G.P.A, IQST-

Marriep: Ann Nichols, July 1, 1944, Westport, Mass. cHitprEN: Rebecca,
June 24, 1948; Elizabeth, Nov. 20, 1950; Richard Price, Jr., March 12, 1957.

occupation: Accounting and operation systems and procedures, Industrial
Components Division, Raytheon Company.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants; Massachusetts Society of

C.P.A.s,; Systems and Procedures Association; Tedesco Country Club;
Eastern Yacht Club.

AT this point I find it hard to believe (1) that the twenty-five years
have passed and (2) that I have such difficulty in writing this report.
As a refresher, I referred back to the Tenth and Fifteenth Anniver-
sary Reports, but then decided to make a fresh start — on the report
(not the twenty-five years, although this is a pleasant thought).
The problem of writing the report takes me back to the freshman
days of weekly themes for English. I used to wait for some divine
motivation until the last minute and then go ahead without it.
After graduation and a year at the Business School, I decided to
forsake liberal arts completely and take up accounting as a career.
At that time, jobs were not plentiful, so I took a position with the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts as a municipal auditor, while study-
ing accounting at night. After four year of this, I entered the field

[ 800 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of public accounting which was to occupy my business days and
many nights for the next nine years. I became a certified public
accountant in 1951, and soon after this I left public accounting and
took a job as manager of the departmental accounting department
in one of Boston’s largest department stores. I enjoyed this work
for about five years but realized that the position had definite
limitations. So I transferred to the Raytheon Company in 1957 and
have been engaged since then in installing accounting and operating
systems in the factories of the tube divisions. ‘The work is interesting
and challenging, but the disadvantages of working for a large com-
pany are often hard to live with.

On July 1, 1944, I married Ann Nichols at Westport, Massachu-
setts. Our first daughter, Becky, was born four years later. A
second daughter, Lisa, came along in 1950, and finally a son, Dickie,
in 1957. We do have a lot of fun together, whether it be mowing
the lawn, visiting the zoo, skiing, swimming, boating, or going to
Logan Airport just to watch the planes (the latter being Dickie’s
idea of paradise).

During these years we have lived in Marblehead in four different
houses. We like almost everything about the town and would find
it hard to leave. As for hobbies, they center mainly around sports
such as golf, skiing (active), and other inactive interests such as
following the fortunes of Harvard football, Boston’s professional
teams, and most anything else appearing on the sports pages. Other
interests include a study of the financial fortunes of our larger
corporations with a view toward making some money in their stock.
This has been more lucrative than other hobbies and has been largely
affected by various situations completely beyond my control. I
also do a little gardening and even less photography, which used to
be a hobby.

As for political views, I believe they are basically more liberal
than twenty-five years ago. Obviously, the international situation
dominates any thinking along this line, and I believe very few people
can comprehend the situation enough to do more than vote for those
who have the experience and stature to cope with the endless chain
of problems involved in this field.

From my point of view, the greatest phenomenon of the last
twenty-five years has been the implementation of the concept of “the
greater good for the greater number” so sincerely advocated and
forecast by Professor Holcombe in his government courses. The day
has arrived when almost everybody can be classified as a capitalise,

[ 801 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

for certainly discretionary income and the time to enjoy it are now
the prerogative of nearly everyone rather than a few as it used to be.
This is good, I think. At least I try to believe it when the tax bills
arrive.

+ ARTHUR NOTMAN, JR.

BorN: Oct. 1, 1914, Pasadena, Calif. parents: Arthur Notman, 703, Florence
Hancock.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

pip: Sept. 6, 1941, Fort McClellan, Ala.

WHILE in college Notman won his numerals in soccer, was a mem-
ber of the ski squad and participated in House football, hockey,
baseball, and squash. After graduation he worked for a time in New
York City, and then studied mining engineering for two years at
the McGill University Engineering School in Montreal. He enlisted
in the Army in October, 1940, and was commissioned a second
lieutenant in April, 1941 and was assigned to the 1rozd Engineers,
27th Division. He was survived by his parents.

WILLIAM HUBERT O'CONNOR

HOME apprESS: 40 Walker Rd., Manchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Murray Leather Co., Montvale Avenue, Woburn, Mass.

BORN: July 20, 1915, Swampscott, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lynn English High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarRiED: Mary Agnes Nicholson, Sept. 16, 1944, Jamaica Plain, Mass. cHIL-

pren: William Hubert, Jr., Jan. 17, 1947; Robert J., Feb. 8, 1950; Richard
F., Dec. 6, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Francis O'Connor, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Tanning of side upper leather for shoes; cost control, production
scheduling and customer relations.

Memper oF: Reserve Officers Association, Military Government Association;
Harvard Varsity Club.

SINCE the last report we have moved to this seashore town and
have found it an ideal combination of country and seaside living.
The family has remained static numerically but is larger and noisier
in every other aspect, We are beginning to learn of the frustrations
and anxieties of the younger generation as they face the challenges

{ 802 }

ne meaner rermmenaingtemane ssn a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of education and the requirements they must meet in these days of
intense competition.

I still believe “there is no substitute for leather” and trust that the
rest of the world agrees with me. Since I am still engaged in the
manufacture of this necessity of life, 1 hope no real substitute will
be found. It seems that the greater part of our lives is taken with
following the activities of our youngsters —- swimming, a little golf,
and a great deal of watching the boys attempt to do what is just
beyond their reach. My own most demanding activity continues
to be the Army Reserve. Having this year become C.O. of a mili-
tary government unit in Boston, I find more and more time and
energy are required each year. Could this perhaps be due to the fact
that I am getting older and slower?

CHARLES WHEELER O’CONOR

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Juniper Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bowl-Mor Co., Inc., Newtown Road, Littleton, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

marrieD: Margaret E. Ford, Feb. 15, 1939, Boston, Mass. curLpreN: Patricia,

Oct. 22, 1939; Harvey Wheeler, Dec. 6, 1940, Carolyn, Oct. 6, 1942; Paul
Ford, Feb. 10, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Harvey Wheeler O’Conor, ’62.

occuPATION: President, Bowl-Mor Company, Inc., manufacturers of automatic
pinsetters for the bowling industry.

OFFICES HELD: Senior vice-president, through June, 1962, director, to June, 1964,
Young Presidents’ Organization; member, board of governors, Harvard
Business School Club of Boston; director, Boston Branch, National Metal
Trades, Conductorlab, Inc., Groton, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Brae Burn Country Club, Newton, Mass.; Metropolitan Club, New
York City; Madison Square Garden Club of Boston; Young Presidents’
Organization; Badminton and Tennis Club, Boston; Belmont Tennis Club.

ACCORDING to the story we have been telling our children since
they reached the age of reason (six months in each case), Peg is
still twenty-one and I am just twenty-three. Those dates that you
see by the names of Patricia, Harvey, Carolyn, and Paul above indi-
cate their present ages, and our consistent story of our still being
in the Spring of Life has long since lost its plausibility. Frankly, we
have been hanging on by our teeth for the last five years as our
wonderful offspring have been enjoying passing into and through
the “teen age” which for years we claimed we had just left. You

[ 803 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

who have small children, rejoice — you are in the best years of your
life!

In addition to trying to keep track of our children, Peg manages
all phases of the household and is active in charity drives of one kind
or another. She is also a director and past president of Independent
Investors, Inc., a women’s investment group which has been mak-
ing so much money that the husbands have tried (unsuccessfully)
to become members. She is an embryo golfer and better-than-
average curler (a kind of shuffleboard on ice). All in all, I would
consider her a well-adjusted mother and an eminently satisfactory
wife.

As the senior male member of the family, I spend the large major-
ity of my working hours on matters related to Bowl-Mor Company,
Inc. Bowl-Mor is a manufacturer of automatic pinsetting machines
for the bowling industry. It is the third largest machine builder in
the bowling field and has progressed from $2,000,000 of sales and
$4,400 of profits in 1956 to $8,000,000 of sales and $750,000 of profits
in 1960. Our company operates three plants and maintains a general
office at one of these plants in Littleton, Massachusetts.

As a little bit of historical background, I graduated from Harvard
Business School in 1939 and entered my family’s business, an inter-
national laundry and linen supply company. I showed great promise
and at twenty-four was operating the northeast area of the United
States containing some forty offices. Following a fifteen-month
naval duty at such battle-scarred bases as Princeton, New Jersey,
Washington, D.C., and Oahu, T.H., I returned to civilian life in
October of 1945. I shifted from the family business to the Inter-
national Shoe Machinery Corporation of Cambridge, Massachusetts,
where I was progressively assistant treasurer, sales and service man-
ager, and senior vice-president. In 1952 I heard of an opportunity
with Compo Shoe Machinery Corporation and became its president
in March of that year. In 1957 1 changed from the somewhat static
shoe machinery industry to the dynamic bowling industry and
became executive vice-president of Bowl-Mor Company, Inc., and
president of its principal subsidiary, the Bowl-Mor Corporation. In

1958 I was elected president of the parent corporation.

My primary extracurricular activity is the Young Presidents’
Organization, of which I have been a member since 1952. My other
principal hobby is still tennis, although I am also an ardent fisherman
and an occasional golfer. Politically, I am a rock-ribbed Republican;
although for some (as yet unexplained) reason I voted for Kennedy

[ 804 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

during the last election. This is something that my friends, a large
majority of whom are Republicans, won't let me forget, though I
still think that Jack is a better man for the job than Dick would
have been. Well, back to work.

JOHN JOHNSON PEAVEY ODELL, II

HOME ADDRESS: “Faraway,” Wayne, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Roche, Rickerd & Cleary, Inc., 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.

BorN: April 4, 1914, Lexington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill; Lake Forest
Academy, Lake Forest, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MARRIED: Margery Shuman, Sept. 16, 1939, Winnetka, Ill. cxttpren: John
Johnson Peavey, 3d, April 6, 1942; Gordon Jamieson, Oct. 10, 1944; Margery
Shuman, Dec. 21, 1946; Laurie Whirl, April 27, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, director of marketing, Roche,
Rickerd & Cleary, Inc., advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Wayne Community Association, 1955-57; superin-
tendent, Congregational Church School, 1956-58, captain, Boy Scouts of
America Financial Campaign, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Commonwealth Club, Chicago; Dun-
ham Woods Riding Club, Wayne, Illinois; Wayne-DuPage Hunt Club.

AFTER reviewing our Twentieth Anniversary Report, it is evident
there isn’t any new dynamic development in this familia Odell. Our
brood is substantially unchanged, except for our eldest boy and girl
who are away at school — Jay, a sophomore at the University of
Arizona, and Maggie at the Madeira School, her mother’s alma mater.
Gordie and Laurie, our second issue boy and girl, remain at home
completing high and junior high before going off to Georgetown
(heading for the foreign service) and Madeira.

Two events of some magnitude have taken place since my Twen-
tieth Anniversary Report, they are, in order, my survival of the
Northeast Airlines Nantucket crash of August, 1958, and the aban-
donment of my Quaker Oats career (almost twenty-five years!) for
the advertising agency business. By way of explanation, my forced
sabbatical gave me a chance to do a lot of thinking and I decided
to re-orient my business life to serving rather than being served.

My year away from the life of an organization man turned out to
be a rewarding one, for not only did I get put back together in
miraculous fashion, but I had the chance to make many discoveries
anew of family, friends, and also the dedication of the legal and

[ 805 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

medical profession. You see, the Lord not only spared me, but saw
that I was delivered straightway from the crash to the Peter Bent
Brigham into the capable hands of that famous leader of Harvard
men, Dr. Francis D. Moore, Moseley Professor of Surgery, surgeon
in chief of the Peter Bent Brigham, and recently appointed medical
adviser of King Saud of Saudi Arabia! This was no coincidence, as
Frannie had been a friend and schoolmate since the early 1920's
when we were kids at North Shore Country Day in Winnetka,
Illinois.

My good fortune was not confined there, as one of my first visitors
turned out to be my ex-summer boss and relative, Samuel P. Sears,
prominent Boston attorney and ex-president of the Massachusetts
Bar Association. Sam volunteered his services, and through his
efforts, I received a satisfactory settlement for damages. Small
world!

So, here on this lovely autumn afternoon, I look around and give
full thanks for many blessings —my long-suffering spouse, fine
family, farm and friends. It seems fitting, therefore, I should offer
this short personal prayer:

May all God’s creatures be creative as we were born to be. Lift
fear from our souls so we will cease to plan for doom (and bomb-
shelters) and instead proceed to positive peace.

LAIRD McKENZIE OGLE

HOME appress: 410 E. 57th St., New York 22, N.Y,

OFFICE AppREsS: United Nations, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Oct, 10, 1916, Terre Haute, Ind.

PREPARED aT: Gymmnase de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: AB., magna cum laude, 1937.

MarrigD: Jane Hutchinson, 1949, New York. cumpren: Crichton, 1955; Candia,

1958.
OccUPATION: United Nations.

MAINLY journalistic.

JOHN ALOYSIUS O’KEEFE, III

HOME ADDRESS; 3712 Thornapple St., Chevy Chase, Md,

orFice appress: NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md
BoRN: Oct. 13, 1916, Lynn, Mass,

preparep AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,

[ 806 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937; PH.D. (Univ.
of Chicago), 1941.

MARRIED: Martha Sylvia Tulane, August 21, 1941, Sharon, Wis. cHILDREN:
George Evans, Aug. 7, 1942; Katharine Scott, Dec. 3, 1943; Roy Tulane,
Jan. 5, 1946; Mary Frost, June 10, 1947; John Aloysius, 4th, Feb. 13, 1950;
Emily Christine, Sept. 27, 1954; Jane Frances, Nov. 27, 1955; Lucy

Marguerite, Feb. 3, 1958; Rachel Therese, Feb. 9, 1960.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Scott O'Keefe, Jr., *46.

occupation: Government research; assistant chief, astronomer, NASA Goddard
Space Flight Center.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Washington Academy of Sciences, 1956-58;

president, Army Map Service Local, American Federation of Technical
Engineers, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: American Astronomical Society; American Geophysical Union;
International Astronomical Union, International Union of Geodesy and
Geophysics, Washington Philosophical Society, Washington Catholic
Roundtable.

PUBLICATIONS: “Remarks on Loreta’s Theory Concerning R Coronae Borealis
Distances of the Reddened B Stars,” Astrophysical Journal; “The Universal
Transverse Mercatory Projection,” Army Map Service Technical Report
13; “The Earth’s Equatorial Radius and the Distance of the Moon,” with
J. P. Anderson, and “The Gravitational Field of the Earth” with A. Eckels,
in the Astronomical Journal, “The Origin of Tektites,” published in
Space Research, COSPAR.

AS a graduate student I tried to prove that eruptions from stars
discharge dust into space; I showed that at least the R Coronae
stars probably do this. During the war, I was a civilian mathema-
tician in the Corps of Engineers, working on a set of about 3000
old-style 1:50,000 maps of China. This series is internally accurate,
but carries no indication of latitude or longitude. By comparison
with a few known points, I established the positions of these sheets
and thus found reasonably accurate positions for roads, streams and
villages over about a tenth of China.

In cooperation with Floyd Hough and Jacob Skop, I planned the
UTM grid which is now shown on all U.S. and many NATO
military maps.

During the postwar period, I was the scientific leader of a project
for making a unified whole out of the surveys of the world. 1
helped Carl Aslakson trace some discrepancies in the early radar
surveys to the fact that the accepted value of the velocity of light
was wrong, and find the right value. I worked out a method for
the measurement of position across large stretches of ocean by the
study of the occultation of stars by the moon; and I used this method
to measure the distance to the moon and the size of the earth.

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

In the Vanguard program, I helped to plan the tracking net.
Hertz, Marchant and I, under Colonel F. O. Diercks, measured the
flattening of the earth from Vanguard I and Explorer I. Late in
1958 I transferred to NASA, where Ann Eckels and I succeeded in
measuring the third zonal harmonic (the pear-shaped component)
of the earth’s gravitational field, using Vanguard I.

At the present I am trying to prove that tektites, which are a
sort of glassy meteorite, come from the moon. A hot fight.

Martha is managing, on my government salary, to bake the
bread and raise nine children. We have sent two off to college, so
far, to run discussion groups on the encyclicals of Leo XIII and
Pius XII, and the Montessori method of teaching. Martha is es-
pecially interested in the relation between the mysticism of Emily
Dickinson and that of Catholic mystics such as St. John of the Cross.

Our children are healthy; George has a scholarship at Chicago
and spent last summer with a three-man survey party on Green-
land’s east coast. Katharine is at Toronto.

Travel, yes; hobbies, no. .

Convictions: I am a Catholic. It seems to me that orthodox
views have made important progress over the last fifty years in
the demonstration that the universe has a datable beginning; that
human free will is physically comprehensible, that the Gospels
were written at the times assigned by tradition; and that the full
understanding of the Bible is possible only with the aid of scholars.
I am keenly interested in the effort within the Catholic Church to (
bring the Mass closer to the people through the use of English and
through lay participation (the dialogue Mass), I hope that in this
way we may be removing some of the obstacles to the reunion of
Christendom. I hope that the Dead Sea Scrolls will help us all to
see further links between Judaism and Christianity.

Politically, 1 think that the great thing is the resurgence of West-
ern Europe. If we can really get that going, nothing the Russians
can do will make much difference.

Of course I’m for Kennedy.

 

BURTON LEGATE OLMSTED

HOME appreEss: 8 Rock Wall Lane, Cape Elizabeth, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Deering St., Portland, Maine.

Born: Nov. 1, 1913, Buffalo, N.Y.

preparep aT: Bennett High School, Buffalo, N.Y,

[ 808 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. (Univ. of Buffalo),
1941.

MARRIED: Margaret M. Reed, March 28, 1942, Buffalo, N.Y. cHILDREN: Sharon
Reed, June 19, 1943; Burton Legate, Jr, April 12, 1946; Kevin Morgan,
Dec. 16, 1948; Laurel Allen, June 12, 1952; Kimberly Hunt, Feb. 19, 1956.

occuPaTion: Surgeon; plastic and reconstructive surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Harvard Club in Maine, 1961-62, medical staff,

Portland City Hospital, 1961-62, Fathers and Sons, Inc., Cape Elizabeth,
Maine, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club in Maine, Portland Medical Club; Cumberland
County Medical Society; Maine Medical Association; American Medical
Association, American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery; New
England Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery.

ALTHOUGH these fleeting past twenty-five years have provided
a great variety of experiences, good fortune and happiness, pri-
marily they have been a time which has allowed me to realize most
of the ambitions which I had as an undergrad at Kirkland House.
Toward this end, I spent the four years after leaving Harvard
studying at the University of Buffalo School of Medicine, where I re-
ceived my M.D. degree in June, 1941. This was followed by an
internship at the Buffalo General Hospital, which was considered to
be quite a medical plum. The best plum which I plucked was the
prettiest nurse in the graduating class, who married me although
I had no means of any sort to support her. A surgical residency
at the Buffalo Children’s Hospital and the Buffalo General Hospital
ensued. At this time the Army stepped in to claim the next three
and a half years but gave me good experience in return. We first
crossed the continent to California, where we spent a most pleasant
year at Hammond General Hospital in Modesto, the nation’s
vegetable garden. Then back across the country and on to England,
where I enjoyed the hospitality of the Britishers. A year later I
returned for my final assignment, a year at Cushing General Hos-
pital in Framingham, Massachusetts, where I could work to my
heart’s content at my real love, that of plastic surgery. To continue
this, after leaving the Army, I spent two and a half years at Halloran
Veterans Administration Hospital on Staten Island, New York,
where I had an active surgery service. Finally I wound up at the
Indiana University Medical Center in Indianapolis, Indiana. My last
year here, working mainly at the James Whitcomb Riley Hospital
for Children, was most fascinating. Incidentally we became addicted
to 500-mile automobile racing.

Feeling confident of my ability, I set out to find a sire in which

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

to practise. We had decided that it should be in New England, but it
was a chance encounter which led me to Portland, Maine, on a gor-
geous September day in 1950. This charming old harbor city on
beautiful Casco Bay, looking out to the White Mountains in the west
and hard by the rolling waves of the Atlantic, was the place of my
dreams. My impulsive decision to stay has never been regretted.
Friendships have been warm and cherished. The professional com-
munity is tops, and practice has been kind, although not as remunera-
tive as in most other metropolitan areas. Since I have been the only
plastic surgeon in Maine, and there are many people here in great
need of this type of care, the practice has been most rewarding. I
have become associate surgeon at the Maine Medical Center, attend-
ing surgeon at the Mercy Hospital and the Portland City Hospital,
a diplomate of the American Board of Plastic Surgery and member
of the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery as
well as other local and national medical societies. . |
Life in these twenty-five years has, at times, been rather hectic.
We have packed up and moved at least twenty-two times. At long
last we have a permanent home where I can plant a fruit tree and
expect to eat the fruit it bears. After years of cramped quarter
living, we rebelled and designed and built a home in the woods, close
to the ocean, which was sufficient to provide for all the activities of a
growing family. This ranges from the cozy comfort of meals beside
an open fire to the tumult of 150 teen-agers descending on us for an
impromptu open house. Our children’s ages vary from five to
eighteen years, the eldest studying at Jackson College, the youngest
in her first year at school. This adds up to twenty-four years of
PTA and other school activities. We have been privileged to have
two exchange students of the American Field Service program to
live with us: one, an African son, Frank Mwine from Mbarara,
Uganda, the other an Italian daughter, Cristine Spreafico from
Bergamo. The outstanding personalities of these senior high school
students immeasurably enrich our lives and our community. The
inevitable parting when they return to their other home is most
difficult.
My hobby is my home. I’m a confirmed do-it-yourselfer and
point with pride to my gardens and landscaping and to the home
additions and alterations. We try to keep up with the children, and
thrill to their exploits on the basketball court. In the winter we take
to the hills for skiing, and in the warm seasons, to the ocean or lakes
for water sports. My wife and I have survived Cub Scouting and

{ 810 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I’ve been a committeeman for the local scout troop. Presently
our local recreational sponsoring organization takes my efforts, fur-
thering facilities in the community and sponsoring Little League.
The Harvard Club in Maine is my sole nonprofessional club activity.
Presently we are endeavoring to spark new life into this venerable
society.

PETER BUTLER OLNEY, II

HOME aAppress: 1 Cormier Rd., Lincoln, R.1.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haartz-Mason, Inc., Pleasant Street, Watertown, Mass.

BorN: April 15, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(38).

MARRIED: Frances Swift, April 2, 1942, Baltimore, Md. cuitoren: Peter Butler,
4th, Jan. 7, 1944; David Charles, March 23, 1948; Deborah G., May 28, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Austin Olney, ’44

occupation: Production control manager, Haartz-Mason, Inc., manufacturers
of coated fabrics, chiefly rubber-coated fabrics.

FROM 1937 to 1941, I worked for Time, Inc. New York was a
wonderful place. Living conditions were constantly changing and
most of the time I shared quarters with a bunch of fellows that
included several from the Class of 1937.

World War II interrupted this. I enlisted in the USMC and went
to the South Pacific where I participated in the comparatively mild
operations at Bougainville. It was a very different way of life.
The sergeant used to address me in the best Marine Corps manner
as “You damned Harvard queer.” Eventually, I reached the exalted
rank of sergeant myself and after one year in the tropics I was sent
home to OCS at Quantico. The war ended before I went overseas
again.

e afer my discharge I entered the Harvard Business School for
the one-year course offered to veterans. It was an excellent course.
From the Business School I came to Lincoln, Rhode Island, in 1947,
where I took a job in a textile finishing plant. In April, 1961, I
changed to my present position at the Haartz-Mason Company in
Watertown, Massachusetts.

Lincoln, Rhode Island, has been a fine community, especially for
the important job of bringing up children. We have taken an active
interest in such activities as Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, Brownies,
P.T.A., Little League, Sunday School teaching and local polities, ete.

[ 811 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Our elder son graduated from Phillips Exeter last year but pre-
ferred to go to Wesleyan. David, now in junior high, is doing very
well and is a top honor student. Debby is now a third-grader and
is a great pleasure, especially to her father.

LEO ORRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 243 W. 12th St., New York 14, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 65 Central Park, W., New York 23, N.Y.

porN: Jan. 11, 1916, Arlington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1033-1937. DEGREES: AB, 1937; S.M. IN P.H. (Columbia
Univ.); mp. (New York Univ.).

MarrieD: Gertrude Weissman, Sept. 18, 1941, New York N.Y. CHILDREN:
Peter, Oct. 7, 1945; Maxine, Jan. 16, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Orris, ’33.

occupation: Physician, dermatologist.

OFFICES HELD: Associate clinical professor of industrial medicine, Institute of
Industrial Medicine, New York University; member, dermatology attend-
ing staffs, Bellevue, University, Beth Israel and French Hospitals, vice-
chairman, Metropolitan New York Physicians Forum.

MEMBER OF: New York County and State Medical Societies, American Medical
Association; American Academy of Dermatology; Society for Investiga-
tive Dermatology; Industrial Medical Association, Industrial Hygiene
Association; Association of University Professors; New York Academy of
Medicine.

PUBLICATIONS: “Elicitation of Delayed Allergic Skin Reactions with Haptens,”
Journal of Experimental Medicine, 1952; “Influence of Nitrogen Mustard
on In Vivo Sensitization Reactions,” Federation Proceedings, 1951; “Clam
Digger's Dermatitis,” Arch. of Dermatology, 1952; “Cashew Nut Derma-
titis,” New York State Journal of Medicine, 1957; “Reactions to Influenza
Vaccine,” New York State Journal of Medicine, 1959; “The Carcinogenic-
ity for Mouse Skin and the Aromatic Hydrocarbon Content of Cigarette
Smoke Condensates,” Journal of National Cancer Institute, 1958; “The
Carcinogenic Effects of Beta Propiolactone,” Industrial Hygiene Quarterly,
1961,

I LEFT my birthplace, Boston, in 1938 and spent the next two

years at the School of Public Health, Columbia, acquiring a Master’s

in public health, and working in statistics for the Division of

Venereal Diseases, U.S. Public Health Service. On September 18,

1941, I married one of the few native New Yorkers, born in Green-

wich Village, and next day I was admitted to New York University

School of Medicine. Three months later, Pearl Harbor -—and I

was soon in the Army, but was assigned to medical school until

[ 812 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduation in 1944. I was then commissioned and placed on inactive
duty in order to intern for nine months. We thought we'd take this
opportunity to travel before recall to active duty, and I chose the
huge Los Angeles County Hospital for my internship. However,
we remained in Los Angeles for eighteen months, since I was re-
tained as a resident in dermatology. During this time, our first
child, Peter, was born, October, 1945. Finally in April, 1946, I was
placed on active duty, and travel really began since I was assigned
to the 98th General Hospital in Munich, Germany.

My wife and son came over six months later, and for almost two
years we lived in this Bavarian city as part of the Army of Occupa-
tion. I was chief of dermatology and V.D. (of which there was
much) and later general staff officer, II Constabulary Brigade Head-
quarters,

We returned to New York in 1948, and after two more years
of postgraduate work in dermatology, I passed the “Boards” and
became a practicing specialist in this field. I am particularly inter-
ested in the industrial aspects of dermatology and in research, and
I am an associate clinical professor at the Institute of Industrial
Medicine, New York University Medical Center, where I am
engaged in cancer research. Furthermore, for the past several years,
I have also been active as a consultant for medical publications and
advertising and have been consulting medical editor for such publi-
cations as Spectrum, Medical News, and Factor. In January, 1951,
our daughter Maxine was born. We all enjoy such sports as riding,
skiing, tennis and skating. Both my children attend progressive
private schools in Greenwich Village, where we live — my daughter,
the Little Red School House, and my son the Elizabeth Irwin High
School.

We are convinced that the paramount issue of today is peace,
and strive to achieve it; and as a physician, I feel that good medical
care will have to be extended to all the people. This will occur no
doubt through some form of national health insurance and prob-
ably an expansion of group practice.

We have been able to do quite a bit of traveling, including
Europe, Canada, Mexico and Cuba. Recently, we were in Greece
and Israel, and had the opportunity to visit our classmate, Manny
Labes. He lives on a cooperative-collective farm near Tel Aviv, is
married to a Belgian girl, has five children, and still looks almost
the same as he did twenty-five years ago.

The past quarter-century has also had its personal tragic episodes,

[ 813 ]

1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

but we have come far. I hope we shall be able to attend our Fiftieth,
while our son enjoys his twenty-fourth, and our grandchildren their
first.

THEODORE CABOT OSBORNE

HOME ADDRESS: 1521 Foxhall Rd., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

oFFice appress: Office of the General Counsel, Navy Dept., Washington 25,
D.C.

porN: April 27, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

prepaRED aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; LL.B. 1940.

marrieD: Elva Dorothy Lenz, Oct. 4, 1947, Washington, D.C. cuitp: ‘Theodore
Cabot, Jr, Oct. 26, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Machado Osborne, Jr, °45, M.P-Hy ’59; Charles
Cabot Osborne, ’52.

occupation: Lawyer: vice-counsel, Bureau of Naval Weapons, Dept. of the
Navy.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant counsel, 1948-55, counsel, 1955-59, Bureau of Ordnance,
vice-counsel, Bureau of Naval Weapons, since 1960, Dept. of the Navy.

MEMBER OF: Federal Bar Association; Harvard Law School Association; Phi
Beta Kappa; Signet Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Principal author of Chapter 10, Navy Contract Law, od edition,
1959 (chapter to concerns primarily the provision of industrial plant
facilities to contractors and otherwise for performing defense work).

SINCE graduation, my life (like Gaul) may be said to have been
divided into three parts.

The first, from graduation until the war, was a bachelor Bostonian
law student and novice lawyer era, beginning with three years at
Harvard Law School and ending with about two years of associa-
tion with the Boston law firm now known as Gaston, Snow, Motley
& Holt. Here I was fortunate to be among the best of teachers,
associates and friends, and gained a somewhat accelerated training
as increasing numbers of the firm marched off to war, leaving the
same amount of work (if not more) to be handled by those re-
maining.

By the 1940's I had become very fond of skiing; and it seemed
to me, as the country went to war, that it would be a great thing
if I could join the Ski Troops. This was arranged and in late 1942
I left Boston and the law for an army training camp near Leadville,
Colorado, high in the Rockies. We did some skiing, but mostly
on weekends; it appeared that snowshoes, after all, were really
more practical. Our unit, the 87th Mountain Infantry Regiment,

[ 814]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was assigned to help take Kiska Island in the Aleutians from the
Japanese. ‘This involved passing through all the motions and emo-
tions of a landing on a hostile island excepting, however, those
involved in actual contact with the enemy. Such contact we never
made because (as was established for certain several foggy days
after our assault) the Japanese had left before we arrived. The
outfit later was sent to Italy and saw heavy fighting there, but be-
fore it left for Europe I was detached by orders to the Military
Intelligence Service in Washington, D.C., in April, 1944. 1 worked
in the Pentagon until early 1946, leaving then as a first lieutenant
one of the most high-powered organizations it has been my privi-
lege to serve. By early 1946, I had become overwhelmingly attracted
to one of the other members of that organization, a former school
teacher from St. Louis, named Elva Lenz, who seemed inclined to
stay in Washington.

Therefore, while I was anxious to return to the law as I emerged
from the second (or military) phase of my career, I was also anxious
to remain in Washington. I obtained a legal position in Washington,
with the government; and I have been a government lawyer in
Washington ever since. Elva Lenz and I were married in 1947 and
in December of that year I joined the Office of the General Coun-
sel for the Department of the Navy, of which office I am still a
member. In 1955, I was appointed counsel for the Bureau of Ord-
nance, directly under the General Counsel, with a staff of about
twenty lawyers under me, and held that position until late 1959,
when the Bureau of Ordnance was merged with the Bureau of
Aeronautics to form the present Bureau of Naval Weapons. The
legal office for that bureau has about thirty lawyers. I hold the
unique title of vice-counsel for that bureau and provide legal advice
and assistance to the bureau as to contracting and other business
operations. Our work centers around the management of the
bureau’s installations and property and a procurement operation of
about $4 billion per year. The principal objects of the game are
to keep the bureau’s business operations out of trouble as much as
you can and to get the bureau out of trouble it nevertheless gets
into if you can. |
_ Elva and I live in the District of Columbia in the house we acquired
in 1949, together with our ten-year-old son Sandy (so called in-
stead of “Junior’”’). Around the house our activities are the usual
ones of parents and home-owners, although for city dwellers we
are fortunate to have a rather large yard, which permits us to enjoy

[ 815 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

some gardening. Our interests of a community sort have been limited
largely to activities connected with our son’s schools (under the
National Cathedral) and to some participation in activities at our
church, mainly on the part of my wife, who has also done some
teaching lately in the District public schools.

On vacations (and some weekends) our time is spent in enjoying
varied sports with our son and friends — bowling, swimming, fish-
ing, archery and skiing in particular, and more lately some shooting.
Sandy has now branched out into scuba diving. With one grand-
mother in Missouri and the other in Massachusetts, our vacation
trips have tended to alternate in direction and to cover a good deal
of ground, reaching the lakes of central Minnesota on the West,
Isle Royale in Lake Superior and Canada on the North, and the
mountains (both winter and summer) and seashore of New England.

WILLIAM FRANCIS O’TOOLE

LAST KNOWN appress: Accord, Mass.

O’TOOLE has been carried as a “Lost” man on our records since
1959. |

WILL OURSLER

HOME apprEss: 25 Sutton Pl., §.. New York 22, N.Y.

BORN: July 12, 1913, Baltimore, Md.

PREPARED AT: Collegiate School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

marriED: Adelaide Burr, May 20, 1939, Brookline, Mass. cxitp: William
Fulton (Duke), Sept. 30, 1942.

occupation: Author, lecturer, broadcaster.

OFFICES HELD: Board member, two terms, currently treasurer, Overseas Press
Club of America; president and founder, Creative Properties, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Overseas Press Club of America; Harvard Club of New York;
Players’ Club, Dutch Treat Club of New York, PE.N.; Baker Street
Irregulars.

pusLicaTions: Trial of Vincent Doon; Folio on Florence White; Murder
Memo; Father Flanagan (in collaboration); Narcotics: America’s Peril (in
collaboration); The Prudential; From Ox-Carts to Jets; The Boy Scout
Story; N.Y., N.Y.3 The Healing Power of Faith; The Road to Faith; The
Murderers (in collaboration with Commissioner Anslinger of the Federal
Narcotics Bureau) and many others.

SINCE graduation I have devoted myself with the assiduity of the
[ 816 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

possessed to writing as a vocation, avocation, means of making a
livelihood and of expressing myself. I have published something like
twenty books —I refuse to count them any more — and probably
hundreds of magazine articles—I never have counted them up. I
have appeared in many of America’s periodicals, including Reader’s
Digest, Cosmopolitan, American Weekly, Family Weekly, Esquire,
Coronet (now gone the way of all, etc. . . .), Collier's (ditto),
Pageant, Parade, and many other magazines, Chicago Tribune Syndi-
cate, King Features Syndicate, newspapers in many American cities
and abroad. I have lectured in the East and Midwest under the
management of Lee Keedick, have appeared on many radio and tele-
vision shows, and currently broadcast as one of a series of com-
mentators on worldwide short wave.

Have had several books on best-seller lists — hope to have more.
In the last few years I have devoted myself to serious fiction and
am engaged on a long-range novel that may take me five or six
years to finish; at the same time I have continued to write articles.
Am also the president and chief editorial director of a new firm
devoted to development of a new concept in group editorial activity.

During the war I served as a war correspondent in the Pacific
theatre of operations, accredited both to the Navy and the Army,
and I am proud to have before me above my desk a citation from
General MacArthur. I participated in a number of Pacific opera-
tions and landings, traveled in all parts of the Pacific from the Moana
Hotel at Waikiki to the Canberra in Brisbane, Australia, to the
Kanko Hotel in Nagoya, Japan.

I am married to a lovely gal named Ad (Adelaide Burr Oursler)
who takes care of me and my son, now a student at Colby, and man-
ages the household and the money (what there is of ic). Ad muddies
the checkbook up with her errant figures and in general runs the
show. (And any 1937—-ite who thinks, says or writes that be runs
the show is either nuts, a liar, or single.) My son Duke (William Ful-
ton Oursler) chose Colby over Harvard for his own good reasons,
not mine. (So the temperature drops to forty-eight below up there
— he’s got a B average!)

We live in Sutton Place South in New York City, in an apartment
house called Cannon Point North, which overlooks the East River.
We also own a farm in Vermont that we are hopeful of selling. It
really is a beauty and if anyone is interested — but enough of that.
I myself have a tendency to join things like clubs and associations
(non-political and in the extreme middle in any case). I am, at this

[ 817 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

writing, treasurer of the Overseas Press Club on whose boards and
committees I have given hours and hours and I am also currently
secretary, board member and chairman of the house committee of
my apartment house, and are you interested in selling me a small
fountain for our patio? (Would also appreciate tips on rugs, wall
paper and artificial flowers.)

Am also a member of the Harvard Club of New York, The
Players, The Dutch Treat, P.E.N., and the Baker Irregulars (de-
voted to keeping warm the achievements of the great but now
retired detective, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, Harvard honorary LL.B,
04).

In addition to my wife and son, I have two poodles, Moppup
(Isidore Machilovitch Moppus II) and Bonnie Amie, his wife, as he
would have it, although there seems to be some difference of opin-
ion. Bonnie Amie is a beautiful apricot blonde but not too bright —
she will never make Radcliffe, that is for sure. Moppup is a bril-
liant banker's grey who actually says a number of words and phrases.
His “hello” is extraordinarily distinct. And his “whoof!” to the
guests who stay after midnight is quite clear and easily interpreted

as “Get the hello out, folks, I have a rough day in front of me and
I have to get some sleep.”

FRANK JOSEPH OWEN

HOME ADDRESS: 1071 High St., Dedham, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Washington St., Westwood, Mass.

BorN: April 3, 1913, Beirut, Lebanon,

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: $.B.,, 1937 (39).

MARRIED: Rose Caputo, Oct. 8, 1941, Jamaica Plain, Mass. CHILDREN: Frank
Joseph, Jr. Aug. 15, 1944; Stephen, Aug. 30, 1947; Peter, Dec. 3, 1953+

occupation: President and treasurer, Owen Motors, Inc., automobile dealers.

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, New England Lincoln-Mercury Dealers Association,
SINCE 1953.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club.

WORKED as a sales trainee at the Heywood-Wakefield Company
in Gardner, Massachusetts, 1937-38; with the Schermer Atherton
Company, members of the New York Stock Exchange, on the trad-
ing desk, 1938-39; with Universal CLT., Boston, 1939-41. Joined
the service, October, 1941, as an ensign, and was on active duty with
the Naval Inspector of Ordnance at the Bausch & Lomb Company,

{ 818 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Rochester, New York. From 1942 to 1945, I was at the Bureau of
Ordnance, Washington, D.C. I was released from active duty,
October, 1945, as lieutenant commander, USNR.

In January, 1946, became general manager and one-third owner
of an automobile agency in Medford, Massachusetts. At the end of
1946, I left to open my own business on April ist, 1947, namely
Owen Motors, Inc., Lincoln-Mercury dealer, in Westwood, Massa-
chusetts.

My hobbies are golf, gin rummy, a little poker, and following the
exploits of two teen-age boys in prep school and the youngest who
is in second grade.

EDWIN KANE PACKARD

HOME ADDRESS: 143 Poplar Drive, Cranston 10, RI.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. David’s on the Hill, 200 Meshanticut Valley Pkwy., Cran-
ston 10, RL.

BORN: June 3, 1915, Braintree, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1937(38); B.D. (Univ. of the South),
1941.

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTION: Priest, Episcopal Church; rector, St. David’s on the Hill.

OFFICES HELD: Curate, Cathedral of All Saints, Albany, N.Y., 1942-43; rector,
Church of Our Saviour, Lebanon Springs, N.Y., 1943-47; chaplain, Darrow
School, 1943-44; vicar, St. Mark’s Church, Philmont, N.Y., 1944-45, St.
Luke’s Church, Chatham, N.Y., 1944-47, Church of the Divine Love,
Montrose, N.Y., 1950-53; curate, Grace Church, Utica, N.Y. 1947-503
chaplain, St. Peter’s School, Peekskill, N.Y., 1950-53; rector, St. David's on
the Hill, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Usual professional groups.

I AM most grateful to the Class of 1937, which has given me not
only the opportunity but also the obligation to look both back-
ward and forward at what is almost exactly the midpoint of my
active years.

First, some details of the past. After a somewhat reluctant col-
lege awarded me formal admission into the society of Bachelors —
a society which I have never lefe —I attended the Theological
School of the University of the South, more popularly known as
Sewanee, to prepare for the sacred ministry in the Episcopal Church.
In 1941 they confirmed things by awarding me another Bachelor’s
degree — Bachelor of Divinity — and a few weeks later I was or-
dained deacon. The next year I spent doing some graduate work

[ 819 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

of a very short time. It is already deemed unsatisfactory in man

respects. This gives rise to the question of whether politics should
ever in any way be allowed to play any part in education. I do not
pretend to know the complete answer to that question, Ideally, I
would say that politics should involve itself with education — but
that politics as it is practised has certainly damaged education so
much in recent years that the next generation will suffer from this
damage for at least a century. I would like to be here to work this
thing through on this local level.

But once again, I have faith in God’s guidance. Though I would
like to be here for all these things, still He may have other ideas.
He may want to put me to work in some other field — or He may
know of someone better suited to do His will here.

If I have any advice that is worth anything to either my class-
mates, my parish, my country or the world, it is simply this: be
sure to contribute something to the solution of any given problem —
don’t become a part of the problem yourself. And if you cannot
contribute actively to the solution, have enough faith at least to get
out of the Lord’s way and trust Him to get the job done.

FREDERIC CHAUNCEY PAFFARD, JR.

HOME appress: 106 Beaver Rd., Sewickley, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

BoRN: May 7, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarRiED: Edith Wynne Rizer, Nov. 29, 1939, Minneapolis, Minn. CHILDREN:
Wynne, Sept. 5, 1940; Jane, Oct. 6, 1943; Edith, Nov. 11, 1946; Helen
Adams, Feb. 7, 1951.

occupATION: Manager, Safety Glass Sales, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Board of Trustees, Sewickley Academy, Sewickley,
Pennsylvania; member, Board of the Municipal Authority of the Borough
of Edgeworth, Pennsylvania.

MEMBER OF: Allegheny Country Club, Sewickley, Pennsylvania; Harvard-
Yale-Princeton Club, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Edgeworth Club, Sewickley,
Pennsylvania.

AT age fourteen my eldest daughters have had an assignment to
write their respective autobiographies. Each manuscript could have
been put in two-volume book form, and I wondered how they could
recall so much in so few years. Now I look back over twenty-five
years and wonder, “Where did it go?” > ;

Living with five females has not exactly made a dull existence! I

[ 822 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

found the first-of-the-five in Minneapolis, which was where I fin-
ished my initial training period, and started my career with the
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company. My first date with this young
lady was nearly catastrophic as she went home with her brother, a
Princeton man! I was able to remedy this situation, and she has
been going home with Me these past twenty-two years. Our four
daughters also have certain independent characteristics, so life is
lively and lovely. Wynne is at Smith College, ’62, Jane at Wheaton
College, ’65, Edith at Abbot Academy, ’64, and Helen is a fifth-
grader at the Sewickley Academy.

They are not exactly sure I am “hep” as I am a complete washout
when it comes to the Twist. They claim I don’t know how to dance,
but anyway my wife wistfully says I still keep time. They are
athletically inclined, so I keep them in shape giving them a run on
the tennis courts. On week-ends, I slink off to the links trying to
acquire some sort of swing that will beat my wife. Other hobbies
include rocking in a deck chair admiring anyone who gardens. It
didn’t take too long to find someone who knew how to cut the grass.

I am not unpleased to allow the years with the Coast Guard from
1942 to 1946 to grow dim. Those years have ruined the Fourth of
July, as I no-longer enjoy loud noises.

With the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, I have endeavored to
be a good citizen in Minneapolis, Cincinnati and now Pittsburgh.

After twenty-five years, I still am thrilled by the tunes of the
Harvard Band. I have lost a few bucks over the years on the foot-
ball team, and am frustrated this year by not getting them back
because of the demanded odds.

ANDERSON PAGE

HOME appRESsS: 106 W. Moreland Ave., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Saul, Ewing, Remick & Saul, 2301 Packard Bldg., Philadelphia 2,
Pa.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; LL.B. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania).

MarrieD: Louise Lewis, March 8, 1941, Philadelphia, Pa. cuitpreN: Cary, May
9, 1942 (m. Richard H. DeLone); Esther Emlen, June 9, 1943; Louisa,
Jan. 20, 1945; Shippen, Sept. 6, 1947. GRANDCHILDREN: Madeline H. DeLone,
Oct. 4, 1959; Anderson DeLone, July 7, 1961.

occuPaTION: Law; partner, Saul, Ewing, Remick & Saul.

[ 823 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

orFices HELD: Chairman, Philadelphia City Housing Rent Commission, 1957;
secretary, board of directors, Springside School, Carson Valley School for
Girls, secretary, Vestry, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, 1953-61; member,
board of directors, Pennsylvania School for the Deaf.

memBer OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; University Club of Philadelphia;
Philadelphia Cricket Club.

MY daughter, Cary, married Richard H. DeLone, son of H. Francis
DeLone, ’37. Esther is Vassar '65, Louisa is Milton Academy ’63,
and Shippen is Exeter ’65.

Being a grandparent twice over entitles me to expound on the
state of the country and the world. So gather around, children,
and bow thine ear to my understanding.

The United States has almost come to the long-predicted point
where the work hours of the productive few can keep us all in
long supply of everything from apple sauce to xylophones. This
makes most of us unnecessary. So we had better find something to
do with our spare time and spare people or go in for wholesale
population control or both. Satan still finds plenty of evil for our
adolescents and unemployed to do. It also makes it apparent that
we're all utterly interdependent. We'd better make sure the machin-
ery doesn’t break down, for no one of us any longer knows how to
feed, clothe and house himself. The future seems to point to more
and more education, birth control and economic concentration and
organization on both private and public levels.

Speaking of education, it seems to me that private school and
college graduates should pay for their education either on the in-
stallment plan or when they “arrive” in some reasonable relation
to the financial boost they got out of it. I don’t see why Harvard
should be classified as a charity and beg for gifts when it sells the
best product in America with a lifetime guaranty to those best
able to pay for it.

As for the world at large, it is proceeding on the doubtful assump-
tion that the great ignorant populations of Asia and Africa are ready
for self-determined democracy. Frisky Merriman’s “Unity, gentle-
men, unity” has gone into the discard while the ancient empires are
fragmented into small medieval principalities and satrapies mas-
querading as “free and independent nations.” Being unwilling to
set up a Pax Americana and unable to set up a Pax United Nations,
we find Asia and Africa with no pax at all, no self-determination and
no democracy. Unless the western powers can establish a perma-
nent and enforced peace in them, these areas can look forward to

[ 824 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

centuries of continued poverty, misery and bloodletting by their
own people or the Communists, which will make their colonial
period look like paradise. While we are at it, we might just as well
stabilize Latin America before Castro gets in there with his egg
beater.

Assuming the adoption of these few modest suggestions, I see no
reason why we cannot look forward to a bright quarter century
of peace, prosperity and progress. [ll let you know in 1987.

WALTER HINES PAGE

HOME aAppREss: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 140 Broadway,
New York 15, N.Y.

BoRN: July 7, 1915, Huntington, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Jane Norton Nichols, Jan. 24, 1942, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Jane Norton, June 9, 1943; Walter Hines, Jr. Feb. 26, 1945;
Mark Nichols, June 14, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Wilson Page, Jr., "40; John Hall Page, "43.

occupation: Banking; vice-president in charge of commercial bank relations
(i.e., all clients) in New England.

OFFICES HELD: President, Long Island Biological Association, Cold Spring
Harbor, N.Y.; director, Kennecott Copper Corp. New York, N.Y.,
Pepperell Manufacturing Company, Boston, Mass., John and Mary R.
Markle Foundation, New York, N.Y. (all current); trustee, Milton
Academy, Milton, Mass. 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; New York Yacht Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a long time to work for one employer
but the employer has changed, I guess, more than I have. It was
at first J. P. Morgan & Company, a banking partnership where the
books were kept in large leather-bound ledgers with all entries made
in pen and ink by gentlemen on high stools next to a high counter.
Now it is the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
the fifth largest bank in the country, with young ladies sitting in
front of grey electrical monstrosities, running their fingers over
buttons which seem to keep everything in order.

After four of those years, I joined the Navy and got married.
The former arrangement broke up after five years, but the latter
is still in effect and has produced three offspring. Since 1948 we
have been living in one spot, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island,
which in spite of the thirty-mile commute has been highly satis-

[ 825 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

factory. Either in spite of or because of the fact that no ’37’s live
in the neighborhood, it seems to have many attractions. Sailing,
wood-cutting, gardening, riding, ice-skating are all participated in
by the Page family — although only the more sedentary ones by
your Classmate.

After having been soundly defeated in local politics a few years
ago, I have kept out of that arena. “Moonlighting” activities are
now centered on a job as president of the Long Island Biological
Association which carries out a program of research, teaching and
an annual symposium on genetics at its Laboratory in Cold Spring
Harbor. In a nutshell, the spread of knowledge in this field is awe-
inspiring and mostly over the head of a “C” student in Biology A. I
am its partial housekeeper.

Life has been a little upset lately by rumors, which have been
pretty well confirmed, that by 1963 I will be based maybe in Lon-
don, maybe in Paris, but still working for the same employer. Does

anyone want to buy a 38’ cruising sloop for delivery next Sep-
tember?

ROBERT EDWARD PAIGE

HOME AppREsS: 7740 Ludington Pl. La Jolla, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Allen Mortgage Co., La Jolla, Calif.

BORN: May 23, 1913, Southbridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,
N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

Marriep: Jean Loveall, March 12, 1944, San Diego, Calif. cto: John Lawton,
Oct. 20, 1945.

occuPATION: Vice-president and loan officer, Allen Mortgage Company, real
estate mortgage loans.

ALBERT EDWARD PALLON

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Sunny Reach Drive, West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE appress: State of Connecticut, Purchasing Division, 70 Arch St., Hart-
ford, Conn.

BORN: June 21, 1914, Beverly, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937, DEGREES: A.B, 1937; A.M. (Gcorge Washington
Univ.), 1957.

marrigo: Adele E. Wilcox, July 21, 1940, Boston, Mass, catnren: Carol
Elaine, April 27, 1944; Michael Edward, Aug. 20, 1947.

[ 826]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Chief, Central Supply and Warehousing, State of Connecticut.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Northern Connecticut, Traffic Club of Hartford;

Officers Club of Connecticut, Retired Officers Association, F. & A.M.;
A. & AS.R.

UPON graduation I embarked on Naval Service. In 1957 I de-
barked, and joined some former shipmates in Connecticut in the
production of nuclear power plants for submarines. This looked
like a good thing until we acquired a new leader who didn’t rate
Admiral R’s esteem as much as ours. Thereafter Uncle Sam’s
nuclear fleet continued to grow without our assistance, but not
vice versa. After this abortive fling in civilian business, I went to
work for the state of Connecticut in 1961. My job is to set up a
central supply system and warehousing to provide commonly used
items — primarily food — for the state’s institutions. This project
should be getting off the ground just about the time of our big
reunion, which makes me somewhat skeptical about being there.

_As for the way life has treated me during the past quarter-century,
I have no complaints, and if the next quarter is equally good, I shall
be quite happy. In spite of my Pollyanna outlook on life and world
affairs, I feel sorry for our kids and the future facing them — from
the difficult situation confronting them education-wise and all the
way out into the space age. More power to them!

JOSEPH PALMER, Il

HOME appREsS: 25 Ikoyi Crescent, Lagos, Nigeria.

OFFICE appRESS: American Embassy, Lagos, Nigeria.

BORN: June 16, 1914, Detroit, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B. 1937s

mMarrieD: Margaret McCamy Jones, May 10, 1941, Savannah, Ga. CHILDREN:
Joseph Woodbury, March 30, 1943; Heather Gordon, April 9, 19473
Thomas Jones, Oct. 13, 1950.

occupation: Foreign Service; U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Ikoyi Club, and Island Club, all of Lagos;
American Foreign Service Association; Rotary Club of Lagos; Tarpon Club
of Lagos.

AMONG the lamentable changes in the new Saturday Evening
Post is the omission of synopsis of previous installments of con-
tinued stories. Adapting the Pos?’s former technique to past quin-
tennial biographic installments, my synopsis might read as follows:

[ 827 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

CHARLES RAWLINSON PARK

HOME ADDRESS: 2818 22d Ave., S., Nashville, Tenn.

oFFice appress: Dept. of Physiology, Vanderbilt University, School of Medicine,
Nashville, Tenn.

Born: March 2, 1916, Baltimore, Md.

PREPARED AT: The Park School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1941.

MARRIED: Jane Harting, Aug. 26, 1953. cHiLD: Edwards Abraham, Sept. 19, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Chapman Park, '44, A.M. 47.

occupation: Professor of Physiology, chairman of department, Vanderbilt Uni-
versity, School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Life Insurance Medical Advisory Board, since 1958; con-
sultant, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, since 1959; vice-president,
American Society Clinical Investigation, 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Society Biological Chemists; American Physiological
Society; American Society Clinical Investigation; Association American
Physicians; Peripatetic Club; Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega Alpha; Sig-
ma Xi,

PuBLicaTions: About fifty scientific papers concerned with the regulation of
carbohydrate metabolism.

IN 1937 Johns Hopkins Medical School accepted me despite my
thoroughly mediocre college record. Times have really changed!
I had little idea of what medicine was about and had virtually no
understanding of career opportunities in other fields, a state of
ignorance that remains prevalent among medical school applicants
today. Fortunately, I soon found the work interesting and became
a reasonably good student.

I interned in medicine at Hopkins in 1942 and then went to the
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital for two years of medical residency
under Dr. George Thorn, who had come from Hopkins to Harvard
the year before as the newly appointed Professor of Medicine. It
was in these years that we saw a succession of dramatic therapeutic
results as sulfanilamides and penicillin were introduced.

I had done some minor research work as a medical student and
house officer and this was a factor in my assignment in 1944 to the
Medical Field Research Laboratory at Fort Knox, Kentucky, for
army duty. The work there was interesting and, after 1945, was
concerned with basic rather than applied physiology. My taste
for full-time research was then further developed when in 1947 I
became a Fellow in the Department of Biochemistry at Washing-
ton University under Dr. Carl Cori. There, at the age of thirty-one,
I began to learn something of biochemistry, a subject which has been

[ 830 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the basis of my subsequent research. Dr. and Mrs. Cori were at the
peak of their careers and had just received the Nobel prize. Their
laboratory was a very active place which attracted many outstand-
ing people as workers and visitors. An environment like that, where
experts could be seen in action, was invaluable to the beginning
research worker. At the Cori laboratory I was additionally exposed
to graduate student, Janey Harting, who in 1953 consented to col-
Jaboration in a matrimonial project which has been an unqualified
success. Janey is dynamic, intelligent and sensitive. Edwards, born
in 1955, has many of her excellent qualities including, apparently,
unusual athletic ability.

In 1952 Vanderbilt Medical School needed a chairman for the
Department of Physiology. I was trying to decide at that time
whether to continue in research or to return to clinical medicine.
Vanderbilt’s offer of the job decided the question. It was a wonder-
ful break. _

The last nine years here in Nashville have gone well. The depart-
ment has grown and produced some good people and research.
Nepotism flourishes. Janey has a laboratory in my department, a
salary which I set, and incidentally has become an excellent and
well-known biochemist. We lead rather typical professorial lives
at a time when professorial living is improving rapidly as, of course,
it should! We are doubtless high up in an ivory tower but the
prospect is, in general, pleasing.

ROBERT MEADE PARKER, JR.

appress: The Armored Center, Fort Knox, Ky.

BORN: June 19, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MarRiED: Jacqueline Montagne, Oct. 12, 1946, Liessies (Nord), France.

occupation: Colonel, U.S. Army.

MEMBER OF: Union Club, New York City; Army and Navy Country Club,
Washington, D.C.

BETWEEN graduation and World War I, I was employed in Wall
Street by the brokerage and investment banking firm of Auchincloss,
Parker & Redpath. The first two years were spent as an apprentice,
learning the various administrative positions. Following this train-
ing, I acted as assistant market and security analyst in the New York
office. Evenings, I attended school at the New York Stock Exchange

[ 831]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and at the New York University School of Law, where I com-
pleted two and a half years, when the war interrupted further
study.

The Army called me to active duty as a second lieutenant on
January 23, 1941, and assigned me to the First Armored Division at
Fort Knox. In the spring, I became part of the cadre for the Fourth
Armored Division at Pine Camp, New York. I served with the
Fourth from its initial organization until it was deactivated in
January, 1946. During the fighting in Europe, the Fourth was most
of the time in General Patton’s Third Army. I acted as operations
officer, executive and commander of the oqth Armored Field
Artillery Battalion. My military decorations were the Silver Star,
Legion of Merit, Bronze Star with two oak leaf clusters for valor,
and the French Croix-de-Guerre.

After the war, I decided I liked the military profession and de-
termined to stay on in Europe until it was decided whether or not I
would receive a regular Army commission — and, during the proc-
essing of my application, to marry my wife. Both applications re-
ceived favorable action, during the summer of 1946.

Since then, my tours have included: instructor in tactics and
gunnery at the Armored School; chief of War Plans, Sixth Army;
executive to G.I. Personnel Com Z, France, assistant chief of Joint
War Plans on the Army staff, and lastly attaché in the Sudan. This
was an interesting tour, as the duties were different from any I had
previously experienced in the Army, and the Sudan is one of the
newly independent African nations. However, it ended unfortu-
nately in my having a phlebitis, which required evacuation by stretch-
er over a very long distance — Khartoum (Sudan), Asmara (Ethio-
pia), Dhaharan (Saudi Arabia), Wheelus AFB (Libya), Frankfort
(Germany) to Walter Reed in Washington, D.C. At present, I am
on convalescent leave pending taking up my new assignment at
Fort Knox, which I hope will be a military command.

My hobbies are squash, golf, tennis, reading, and languages. I
attend church fairly regularly, but believe that my social, political,
and religious convictions are milder now than they were at Har-
vard, except for one point and that is that the United States must
preserve a military lead over its enemies and be visibly prepared to

use it, if it is to survive as a free nation, This conviction seems a
fairly natural one for a soldier.

[ 832 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT EDWARD PARKS

HOME ADDRESS: 92 Spring St., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Shawmut Bank of Boston, 542 Commonwealth Ave.,
Boston, Mass. -

BorN: April 3, 1915, Lunenburg, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New York Military Academy, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Betty Borden, Nov. 10, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cup: Harriet Borden,
Jan. 24, 1944 (died Nov. 23, 1946).

occuPATION: Banking; assistant branch manager.

MEMBER OF: Nuttall Ornithological Club, Cambridge; Bank Officers Association
of the City of Boston.

SOME men begin a career after leaving college, but a good many of
us just look for a job. Jobs were a bit difficult to come by in 1937,
but I did land one and managed to keep it six weeks. The second
time I did a bit better. I still have the job after twenty-four years.
The National Shawmut Bank still claims me as an employee, and I
have made some progress learning the business and climbing the
economic ladder. I assist the manager in all duties of operating a
large metropolitan branch bank, including developing new business
and approving some types of loans. Some branches of banking could
be quite dull and unrewarding, but I have found during the last
fifteen years that dealing with the public on a daily basis can be
quite challenging as well as rewarding. I plan to continue my career
with my present employer.

Betty Borden, Radcliffe ’38, and I were married November 10,
1939, and have recently celebrated our 22nd Anniversary. For
fourteen years we lived in Cambridge near Fresh Pond and this
suited both of us very well, because it was handy to Harvard
Square.

Our only child, Harriet, was born during the war, just a few
months before I went overseas. I was discharged from the Army
in December, 1945, and our daughter died in November, 1946.

Neither Betty nor I knew how to drive an automobile, but in
the spring of 1947 this condition was rectified, and many new
horizons were opened to us. New England has been the locale for
most of our motor tours, and the back roads and remote areas have
been particularly attractive. Frequent trips rather than long ones
have been our choice, and each year our vacation includes several
such excursions,

In the late ’4o’s, ornithology became a very active hobby for us,

[ 833 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and even resulted in a trip to Hawk Mountain Sanctuary in Pennsyl-
vania to view the fall hawk migration. In later years gardenin
has somewhat replaced bird-watching as a hobby. This can be
accounted for by the acquiring of our own house in Arlington in
1955. A certain amount of gardening seemed advisable, just to
beautify the place. Then the hobby grew, and soon we had rock
gardens, wild-flower plots, decorative pools and other innovations
all on a plot of less than 10,000 square feet.

Currently my hobbies are jazz and sports cars. About four years
ago I started guitar lessons, having never played any musical instru-
ment before. I gave up the lessons and play only for myself — never
to an audience. My wife and I both own sports cars, she a Sprite,
and I a Sunbeam Alpine. I greatly enjoy the races at Thompson,
Connecticut, and Betty enjoys the ride and the countryside.

My war service was uninteresting and interminable. I was a ser-
geant in the Finance Corps. I did go overseas to Oran, Algeria, and
Caserta, Italy, which I never would have done otherwise, and I also
spent a week’s vacation in Switzerland, so it wasn’t all drudgery.

How many of you classmates recall Dr. James B. Conant’s words
in his welcoming address to us as freshmen? He stated that the
value of a college education lies in what is left after you have for-
gotten all you have learned there. In a way, this expresses to me
what Harvard has done for me personally. After twenty-five years,
what am I now, not what did I learn then. |

LEO PARSKEY

HOME aAporEss: 2 Stillman Rd., Bloomfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Parskey, Gross & Kline, 104 Asylum St., Hartford, Conn.

BORN; June 22, 1915, Hartford, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Hartford High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 19373 LL.B. 1940,

MarrieD: Rhoda Muriel Schulman, Nov. 2, 1941, Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Leslie Frances, Nov. 11, 1945, Margaret Jean, Nov. 18, 1949; Joseph Wil-
liam, March 9, 1953.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Parskey, Gross & Kline,

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Hartford Zionist District, 1947-48; hearing examiner,
Connecticut Civil Rights Commission, 1949-54; national board member,
American Veterans Committee, 1949-50; councilman, 1953-57, deputy may-
or, 1955-57, City of Hartford; president, Hartford Chapter, American
Jewish Congress, 1955-56; vice-president, Emanuel Synagogue, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut, Lions Club of Bloomfield; Con-

[ 834 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

necticut State and Hartford County Bar Associations; Hartford Mutual
Society; Commercial Law League.

PUBLICATIONS: “Justice in a Jam,” Connecticut Bar Journal, June, 1958.

AS I glance back over the past twenty-five years I can visualize a
series of personal vignettes of greater or lesser consequence.

Our first home. My wife and I were married in November,
1941. At that time I was with the Social Security Board and just
prior to the wedding I had rented an apartment for us in the north-
west section of Washington. When we returned from our honey-
moon we learned that a moving van had arrived earlier that day but
finding no one there to let them in had left. While we were speak-
ing to the manager, a truck arrived with a mattress and two pillows.
What a quandary! Should we go to a hotel for the night and
possibly miss the moving van the next day or remain at our
mattressed apartment? We stayed.

Our first born. We expected the child some time in November,
1945. My wife was in Hartford and 1 was stationed at David Mon-
than Field in Tucson, Arizona, awaiting my separation. Sunday
morning — November 11th, my wife entered the hospital and I
had to sweat it out all day. Finally, at 9:30 in the evening my
mother-in-law called to tell me that I was the father of a baby girl.
As I hung up I beamed, then moaned. I had just arrived at the
base and didn’t know a sou!!

My entry into politics. In 1953, as the endorsed candidate of the
Citizens’ Charter Committee, I ran for the office of councilman.
Hartford has a council-manager form of government. A nine-man
council is selected on a nonpartisan basis from a group of eighteen
nominees selected in turn in an open primary. Having finished sixth
in the primary I was supremely confident of my election even
though the Democratic Party had decided to support its own slate
of candidates. On election night I eagerly awaited the returns. To
my dismay I was running tenth, eighty-six votes behind. I decided
to drive downtown to extend my congratulations to the winners.
As I was on my way, I heard an announcement over the car radio
that due to an error of one hundred votes in the tabulation J] had
been elected with fourteen votes to spare. Whew!

Political mathematics. Why I ever became interested in the slide
rule, ’ll never know; I hadn’t even taken a course in mathematics
at college. The year was 1956, the place Democratic State Head-
quarters in Hartford, the time about two o’clock in the afternoon
on election day. A voting machine had broken down in one of the

[ 835 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

voting precincts in Hartford and the votes then cast were quickly
relayed to headquarters where they were turned over to me for
interpretation. As I was making my calculations, in walked Chester
Bowles. I remarked that based on these results Stevenson would
carry Hartford by only 8,000 votes (Hartford normally votes
Democratic by about 25,000) and would lose Connecticut by about
300,000. Bowles, Bailey (now National Democratic Chairman) and
company were stunned. Unfortunately, the calculations proved to
be quite accurate. In 1960, Governor, now Secretary, Ribicoff,
viewing my slide-rule in operation, was overheard to remark, “I
could be president of the United States, but I can’t work a damn
slide-rule.”

The lawyer's nightmare. Not too long ago I had the occasion
to try a medical malpractice case before a jury. The case was a
difficult one and the trial was in its eighth day. I awoke early this
morning and donned my grey flannel suit. I kissed my wife good-
bye and was about to leave the house when fortuitously I reached
behind me. To my surprise my pants were ripped from stem to
stern. Later on my way to Court, fully recovered, I had horrible
visions of bending over to produce an exhibit only to discover that
my derriere was exhibit A.

Of course, the stark reality of the past quarter of a century is
the pattern of intense struggle for survival in a crazy, mixed-up

world and none of us can escape it except on a lazy Sunday after-
noon with one’s memories,

CARL TAYLOR PARSONS

MAILING ADpRESS: P.O. Box 14, Dorset, Vt.

ALAN GORDON PATTEE

HOME ADpREsS: 155 Corral de Tierra Rd., Salinas, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 Sanborn Rd., Salinas, Calif.

BorN: Dec, 12, 1913, Riverside, Calif,

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937. DEGREE: 8B, 1937.

marrigD: Mary Hayne, June 29, 1938, Carmel, Calif. cHmoren: Susan, May 28,

1940 (m. Gerald Sutton, May 17, 1960); Harry Hayne, March 4, 1942.
GRANDCHILD: Jennifer Sutton, Feb. 27, 1961.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Burleigh Pattee, ’33.
occupaATion: Rancher, dairyman and legislator,

{ 836 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: State legislator, chr., Republican State County Chr. Association;
chr., Monterey County Grand Jury; president, Monterey County Tax
Committee; delegate, Republican National Convention; member of board,
Seventh District Agriculture Association and California Rodeo Association.

MEMBER OF: Elks; Moose; Rotary; Phoenix, Old Capitol and Pacheo Clubs;
Cypress Point, Corral de Tierra Country Clubs.

AFTER leaving college I worked in the family citrus firm of Pattee
& Lett Company in Riverside, California. In 1938 1 married Mary
Hayne of San Mateo and in 1939 moved to Salinas in Monterey
County where I entered into cattle and dairy ranching. I have
been doing this ever since. I have two children, a married daughter,
Susan, who presented us with a grandchild, Jennifer, and a son,
Harry, now in the rorst Airborne Division stationed at Fort Camp-
bell, Kentucky. My traveling outside of California has been limited
to a few trips to British Columbia and one to Washington, D.C., for
Eisenhower’s inauguration.

I was elected to the State Legislature in 1955 and have majored
on the agriculture and tax committees. During the war I was a
deferred dairyman and served as senior civilian defense warden. I
have been active in all phases of agriculture here in Monterey
County and also served on two county Grand Juries. I have played
an active part both local and state-wide in the Republican Party.
My hobbies are golf and duck hunting. My religion is Episcopalian.
Between my family, ranching and dairy business along with politics,
I have had a busy and interesting life.

+k JOHN GARRETT PATTESON

BORN: Feb. 17, 1914, Richmond, Va. PARENTS: James Henry Patteson, Jr., Mary
Wiley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MarRIED: Anne Middleton. cuiLpren: Eleanor Hart Middleton (stepdaughter);
Mary Linda, 1950.

piep: May 11, 1950, Washington, D.C.

wipow: Mrs. John G. Patteson, McWhorter Place, Annandale, Va.

PATTESON left Harvard after freshman year and entered his
father’s shoe business. After a short time he became associated with
the Day Trust Company in Boston as a clerk. While working there,
he attended Northeastern University’s evening law school. He later
practised with the law firm of Goodwin, Procter & Hoar in Boston.

[ 837 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

For the last two years of his life he lived in Annandale, Virginia. He

was for some time in ill health. He was survived by his wife and
children.

ANTHONY JOSEPH DREXEL PAUL, JR.

HOME apprEss: Upper Gulph Road, Radnor, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2000 Two Penn Center Plaza, Philadelphia 2, Pa.

porn: Nov. 30, 1914, Rosemont, Pa,

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1937(38); 1u.B. (Univ. of Virginia),
1941.

MarRiED: Margaret Delano, June 24, 1939, Rheinebeck, N.Y. cHmLpREN: Wendy,
June 18, 1941; Linda, June 22, 1942; Anthony Joseph Drexel, 3d, March 15,
1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: James William Paul, °34.

OccuPATION: Attorney; partner — Norris, Hart, Hepburn, Ross & Putnam, Esgqs.

OFFICES HELD: President, Seamen’s Church Institute of Philadelphia; trustee,
Drexel Institute of Technology; member, board of managers, University
Museum of the University of Pennsylvania; director, Voluntary Defenders’
Association; member, Visiting Committee for Board of Overseers of
Peabody Museum.

MEMBER OF: Gulph Mills Golf Club; Philadelphia Club; Courts, The State
in Schuylkill.

AFTER graduation in February, 1938, from Harvard (due to taking
a half-year off in my junior year, in Honduras on a joint Peabody
Museum-Smithsonian Institution expedition), I finally decided to be-
come a lawyer, rather than an archaeologist, and entered the Univer-
sity of Virginia Law School in September, where I spent a pleasant
three years. I was married in 1939. Upon graduation from law school
in 1941, I went to work with my present law firm, passed my Penn-
sylvania bar exams after the war had started, and went immediately
into the Navy in March, 1942. Spent the next several years in the
Southwest Pacific on a mine sweeper, and in the Miami area on a
destroyer escort.

After the war I returned to same law firm with much trepidation,
as I thought I had forgotten what little law I had learned in law
school. Went through the usual problems of readjustment from
Navy to civilian life. I’m still with the same firm and became a part-
ner in 1956, which made a great difference — being one’s own boss.
I enjoy the practice of the law, mainly estate and trust work on my
part. I like the firm, which is a small one, consisting of about twelve
lawyers, and we all get along very well—no prima donnas, Our

[ 838 ]

ee ne A NE OTE A OT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Classmate, Bo Lea, is head of our tax department. Four of the six
partners are Harvard graduates.

I spend some little time on outside activities, such as the Seamen’s
Church Institute and the Drexel Institute, and on the private side
like to be home in the suburbs of Philadelphia, as much as possible
with the family. We go out socially very little (cocktail parties are
my pet aversion). I enjoy Philadelphia very much as a place to
live, and, with advancing age, have lost my earlier wanderlust. I
find I thoroughly enjoy seeing old Classmates, and am always amazed
at how quickly old Harvard ties are renewed after a long lapse of
time.

A final personal observation — middle age, which we have arrived
at, is a much better time of life than youth with its unsureness and
uncertainties.

PAUL PEARLMUTTER

HOME ADDRESS: 13-14 Plymouth Drive, Fair Lawn, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 202 22d Ave., Paterson 3, N.J.

BorN: Nov. 6, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936, 1937-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1937(39)3 p.vs. (Temple
Univ.), 1943.

MaRRIED: Rose Hampel, Aug. 27, 1944, Paterson, N.J. cumpren: Fredi Lynn,
Nov. 15, 1946; Donna Alison, Sept. 28, 1950.

occupation: Dentist.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Passaic County Fluoridation Committee, 1953, 1954, 19553
member, Board of Health, East Paterson, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: American, New Jersey State and Passaic County Dental Associa-
tions; Haledon Lodge, A. & F.M.; Preakness Valley Swim & Recreation
Club.

LIFE is a continuation of things begun before the Twentieth Class
Reunion. I am still practising dentistry but noting that as the years
pass, the patients seem to be younger and younger.
_ The girls are older and keeping my wife and me constantly on our
toes trying to guide them socially, educationally and religiously.
They are attending the Beard School, a mere twenty miles away
from home and office; bus service for them is supplied by my wife
and me. The house has doubled in size but the mortgage is not
proportionately less — just somewhat.

All in all, life is full and challenging.

[ 839]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

SIMON FILLMORE PEAVEY, III

MAILING aDpREss: Horton Point, Southold, Long Island, N.Y.

RICHARD GIFFORD PEDRICK

HOME ADDRESS: 790 Spring Lane, York, Pa,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Town & Country Shelters of Pa. and Md., 790 Spring Lane,
York, Pa.

BoRN: April 5, 1915, Beverly, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937 (38).

marrieD: Mollie G. Peterman, Nov. 12, 1942, York, Pa, CHILDREN: Katharine
Neff, Oct. 4, 1943; Richard Gifford, Jr., Sept. 27, 1948.

occupation: Outdoor advertising executive; president, Town & Country Shel-
ters.

OFFICES HELD: Publicity director, York YMCA, York Aquatic Club.
MEMBER OF: York Chamber of Commerce; York YMCA: York Aquatic Club;
Reciprocity Club; Country Club of York; Harvard Club of Pennsylvania.

IT never occurred to me, until I sat down to write, how difficult
it is to digest twenty-five years of living into a relatively few
sentences. As I look back it seems that we have been constantly
on the move around the country except for the last six years when
we have started “sinking roots.”

Immediately after college I was in the Boston area for several
years while working for Joseph T. Ryerson Steel Company at their
Cambridge plant. Next was a two-year span in the Washington,
D.C., section working in the Steel Division of the War Production
Board, followed by a three-year tour of duty in the Navy. The war
years found me in Navy training at Harvard, the Maritime Acad-
emy, and Miami Beach before commissioning the ship at New
Orleans and going into active duty as a communication officer
aboard a patrol craft escort and spending the next two years first in
the South Atlantic waters and then the South Pacific.

Happy to be a civilian again, I worked a year on the west coast
in the Pasadena area for Latisteel Corporation before returning to
Wellesley, Massachusetts, and the New England area for several
years with American Chain & Cable Company. Transferred to the
midwest section as district manager for American Chain, I settled
for several years in Des Moines, lowa. Finally, I arrived in York,
Pennsylvania, as sales manager of D. S. Peterman & Company for

[ 840 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

several years before starting my own business of outdoor advertising
as Town & Country Shelters.

In looking back I feel I have been very fortunate in achieving the
two things I wanted most out of life — personal happiness and my
own business. The personal happiness is directly attributed to my
wonderful wife and two children, Kathy, eighteen, and Rick,
thirteen. We are grateful for a close, happy family which has al-
ways enjoyed and respected each other. When the children were
small, it was a thrill that they would ask “ma and pa” to take an
active part in their weekend softball game. We all looked forward
to the fun of family ski weekends and the bigger vacations of
snorkeling at Water Isle in the Virgin Islands. As the children com-
peted in sports events, we'd be in there rooting at the Little League
games and the big swimming meets.

Kathy, who won the State of New Hampshire and the State
of Vermont diving competitions a year or so ago, is now a young
lady in her freshman year at Pine Manor Junior College. Rick has
participated in football and baseball but has put more emphasis on
swimming than anything else. He has competed in many age-group
meets and swam on three free-style relay teams which have broken
and set national records. I now find that my spasmodic excursions
to the golf course will have to be increased to keep ahead of my
wife, who has been York County’s Women’s Amateur Golf Cham-
pion several times.

While working for large corporations for a number of years, I
was always eager to have my own business. Now that it is estab-
lished, I thoroughly enjoy the independence and the challenge it
offers. All in all, these past twenty-five years have been rewarding
and happy ones, and I eagerly anticipate those next twenty-five!

+ JOHN NELSON BORLAND PELL
BORN: Nov. 10, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Clarence Cecil Pell, ’o8,
Madeline Borland.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937.

MARRIED: Nancy Campbell Blagden, Feb. 16, 1940, New York, N.Y. cnn:
Nancy Campbell, May 21, 1946.

piep: Aug. 7, 1947, Everett, Mass.
PELL wrote for our Decennial Report:
“Worked in the factory of the Piper Aircraft Company in Lock

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Haven, Pennsylvania, for a while after College. Had to stand up all
day, so I left there to work for the Royal Indemnity Company,
They made me an office boy rather than an executive; as this too
involved standing, I left and enrolled in the University of Virginia.
Here there were a lot of laboratory courses which kept me on my
feet, so I joined American Airlines. Unfortunately I had to sell
tickets in a vertical position. The upshot of this was that I got a job
flying. I instructed in the civilian pilot training program at North-
east Airlines for a while, but the airplanes we used weren't too com-
fortable, so I started flying for TWA. Nothing about TWA made
me comfortable, so I joined China National Aviation and flew for
them. Wearing an oxygen mask while flying their routes interfered
with my rest, so I returned to the U.S. and started to fly for Capital
Airlines. This has been a great success as they have made me a check
pilot, and now I just sit in their planes and criticize others and don't
even have to fly. Member: Racquet Club of New York and Piping
Rock Club.”

Pell was killed in a plane crash when he attempted an emergency
landing, while he was piloting a plane in a thick fog. At the time of

his death he was vice-president of North Atlantic Airways. He was
survived by his wife and daughter.

ANTHONY DANIEL PELLEGRINO

HOME apprEss: 29 Elton Rd., N., Stewart Manor, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 130 Duane St., New York 13, N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 9, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MarrieD: Gertrude Mary Vesenmeier, May 11, 1946, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Michael James, Feb. 27, 1947; Joan Louise, April 24, 1948, Susan Carol,
Nov. 4, 1949; Audrey Rose, Sept. 27, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Owner, automobile service station.

FREDRIC C. PEMPLE

HOME apprEss: North St., Medfield, Mass. ;

BUSINESS ADDRESS: % Actuarial Dept., John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
200 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass,

BORN: July 7, 1915, Boston, Mass.

preparep aT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937,

[ 842 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRIED: Elizabeth Eckman, Oct. 8, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: David, Nov.

7, 1942; John, Nov. 24, 1944; Cynthia and Susan (twins), Oct. 10, 1947;
Nancy, April 23, 1956.
OCCUPATION: Insurance.

THIS report, as well as my past ones, reveals a standardized pattern
of living which, to many, would seem deadly. It really isn’t. I
have found that a job providing security, permitting ample use of
one’s imagination, requiring no extensive business trips, and assuring
an adequate, if unremarkable, income, provides a very satisfactory
foundation for living the kind of life we want to lead.

A few years after our oldest child was born we moved to the town
where we now live, about twenty miles southwest of Boston. It was
a small rural community then; now it’s becoming part of Greater
Suburbia, although thanks to our town’s planning board and zoning
by-laws, it’s been spared many of the distressing by-products of the
exodus from the city. In a sense, we’ve grown with the town. We've
gone through the usual cycle of community activities, beginning with
scouting, then changing, as the kids grew older, to things like PTA,
town finance committee, church vestry, etc.

Last year I headed two building committees at the same time.
One involved enlarging and modernizing our local Episcopal church;
the other involved building a new and larger house for ourselves in
a part of town that still has little in it except beautiful open, rolling
countryside. Both projects turned out quite successful. In the first
instance we got everything we wanted for slightly less than fifty
per cent of the architect’s original cost estimate; in the second one
we got the house we wanted for about $10,000 less than our architect
(whom I got rid of) insisted we'd have to spend. I find the planning
of buildings fascinating and probably should have studied architec-
ture years ago. Now it’s too late. However, it doesn’t matter too
much. There’s always something new happening that captures one’s
interest.

Right now my main interest is in helping put some life into our
local Republicans. My particular contribution has been to head a
group appointed to reorganize the town Republican committee and
to bring about broader participation and interest on the part of all
Republicans and persuadable Independents in town. Now we're
about to undertake a series of newsletters aimed particularly at
regaining seats in the state legislature that went to the opposition
last time. This sounds like small-time stuff, and of course it is. Yet

this is what Republicans all over Massachusetts (and elsewhere too)

[ 843 ]

_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

must do in order to rebuild and keep an effective two-party system
of government.

The kids are growing up. In fact, some of them really aren’t kids
any more. David, our eldest, is in his second year at the Universi
of Massachusetts and hopes to go to medical school. Johnny, seven-
teen, is going either to Harvard or Princeton next fall, and thinks
he’d like to go to Harvard Law School after that. The older girls,
now fourteen, don’t yet seem to realize that their college years, if
any, are just a few years away. We’d like to have them attend a
school that is more noteworthy, intellectually and academically,
than our local high school, but we can’t afford everything, and the
girls don’t want to go elsewhere anyway, so it looks like they'll stay
in school here and we'll hope for the best. Nancy, age five, is the
apple of everyone’s eye, but even she is beginning to grow up. Once
in a while I remark to her that pretty soon I shan’t be able to pick
her up any more, and then what will I do, and she always offers the
same simple solution — which is, of course, the only solution — get
another baby. Her suggestion has much merit, but somewhere
you've got to draw the line.

I suppose a report of this nature wouldn’t be complete without a
recital of my favorite aversions, hobbies, etc., or a few indications
of whatever status symbols I’ve acquired over the years. However,
Bill Bentinck-Smith not only is after me to write this report, but
has now even got my wife on my neck too, so without further

ado, here goes my report in the direction of Cambridge! See you
there next June!

THOMAS LOCKWOOD PERRY, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 11831 Chaparal St. Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: Dept. of Chemistry, California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, Calif,

BORN: Aug. 10, 1916, Asheville, N.C.

preparep aT: Asheville School, Asheville, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB, summa cum laude, 1937; BA.
(Oxford Univ.), 1939, M.v., cum laude (Harvard Univ.), 1942.

Marriep: Claire Joan Lippman, June 3, 1941, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Susan Rawn, Oct. 12, 1949; Thomas Lockwood, 3d, May 1, 1951; John

Lilburn, Nov. 24, 1953; Katherine Freda, Jan. 31, 1958.
occupATIoN: Physician, medical research scientist,

oFFices HELD: Medical research consultant, Dept. of Chemistry, California
Institute of Technology.

puBLications: Numerous publications in medical and other scientific journals,

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation from Harvard in 1937 I studied as a Rhodes
Scholar at Oxford for two years, beginning the study of medicine
there. At the outbreak of the war, I returned to Harvard and
graduated from the Medical School in 1942. Then came several years
of internship and residency in the field of pediatrics, interrupted by
three years’ service in the Army, two of them in combat in Europe.

From 1948 through 1959, I practised pediatrics in Los Angeles. I
found caring for children enjoyable and emotionally rewarding but
not very satisfying intellectually. In fact, the more successful my
practice became, the less happy I was. It seemed as if I were an
automaton desperately rushing just to keep my nose above the
never-ending flood of well-baby checkups, acute illnesses, and
worried parents. For years there was little sleep or time off, and I
felt as if I saw everybody’s wife and everybody’s children except
my own! I have come to the conclusion that the private practice of
medicine, particularly by a lone physician, is archaic. Either the
physician degenerates into a mere businessman more concerned
about making money than serving his patients or else he works him-
self to death. It is a pity that so many good doctors are misrepre-
sented by the American Medical Association in its consistent opposi-
tion to progressive changes in the administration of medical care.

During the last five years, I have been engaged in medical research
and since early 1960 have been doing it full time. I am investigating
biochemical causes of mental] retardation and mental illness, hoping
to make some contribution to an understanding of what causes
mental deficiency and how to prevent it in children. I believe it
likely that many of the serious mental illnesses of adult life such as
the schizophrenias and manic-depressive psychosis are biochemical
diseases as surely as diabetes is, and that in time we will understand
them and be able to cure some of them. I find it stimulating and satis-
fying to be working toward solving such a major problem.

I feel the overwhelming issue of our time is the prevention of a
terrible nuclear war which would destroy our country, as well as
that of what we choose to call “the enemy.” I regret deeply our
dropping atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the armaments
race of the last fifteen years, and the pollution of the atmosphere and
of foodstuffs by nuclear weapons tests, whether Russian or Ameri-
can. I can see no possible solution for the people of the world ex-
cept that of universal disarmament, complete and inspected, no mat-
ter how difficult negotiations to effect this may prove. I hope Presi-

[ 845 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

dent Kennedy and the bright young Harvard men grouped about
him will steer our country toward leadership in a peace race.

WILLIAM NORRIS PERRY

HOME ADDRESS: 218 Holt Rd., Andover, Mass,

oFFice appress: Applied Plastics Co., Norwood, Mass.

porn: March 24, 1916, Andover, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MARRIED: Jane W. Rice, 1937 (divorced 1947); Virginia Moody, June 24, 1949,
Andover, Mass. cHttpreNn: Elizabeth R., March 4, 1941 (72. Richard Moore,
December, 1961); Virginia Ann, Dec. 17, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Randolph Hight Perry, ’25.

occupaTion: Partner, Applied Plastics Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Memorial Hall Library, Andover, Mass., since 1946,
member, board of directors, since 1958, vice-chairman, since 1960, Andover
Chapter, Red Cross.

AFTER almost twenty years in the Boston wool trade, deteriorat-
ing conditions in the New England wool manufacturing industry
finally convinced me it was time for a change, so in 1955 I changed.
Our “new frontier,” the application of plastic finishing materials to
metal, has been a challenge, and is a varied and expanding field —
everything from market equipment to nose cones, from submarine
to space capsule parts.

Our family seems rooted to Andover, and in a small way we have
concentrated on local community activities —lately particularly
with the Red Cross: Virginia (wife) as Blood Program chairman,
Virginia (daughter) as R.C. Youth Program chairman, and I’m
currently the Chapter vice-chairman.

Having attended Harvard only one year, I haven’t identified my-
self very closely with the Class of ’37, so didn’t plan to send in a re-
port. Bill Bentinck-Smith’s persistence (at least twenty-one re-
minders and a ball-point pen) finally wore me down.

EDWARD HAMBLEN PETERSON

HOME Appress: Mountain Road, Hampden, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Hitchcock Bldg., 1562 Main St., Springfield, Mass.
BorN: March 9, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1937 (38).

[ 846 ]

—_——£

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Virginia M, Acheson, Aug, 16, 1940, Lincoln, Mass. CHILDREN: Linda
Mae, Feb. 27, 1943; Elaine Hamblen, May 7, 1947-
occuPATION: Building manager and insurance.

EMPLOYED at Hood Rubber Company, Watertown, Massachu-
setts, 1938-43. Commissioned USNR, June, 1943; inactive duty,
January, 1946. Real estate, Lexington and Concord, Massachusetts,

1946-50. Since then I have been managing the family business in
Springfield.

EDWARD JOHN PETRENIK
HOME ADDRESS: 651 Virgil Ave., Ridgefield, N.J.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1915, Stonington, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Shelton High School, Shelton, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937-

Marriep: Margaret Frances Perry, June 30, 1944, Union City, N.J. CHILDREN:
Edward John, Jr., Dec. 18, 1949; Richard, Dec. 12, 1956.

occuPATION: Self-employed, operating hunting and fishing camps in Maine,
chemist.

SINCE graduation in 1937 and up to 1945, I worked as a chemist in
the following fields of business: dyeing of yarns, pigment manufac-
turing, and the manufacturing of engineering instruments and sup-
plies. From 1945 until 1959, I was employed as a chemist in the field
of industrial finishes or coatings. Top position: chief chemist of a
small lacquer manufacturing plant.

I have no war record or government service, do not dabble in
politics (vote Republican most of the time), lead a quiet social life,
and am Catholic in faith, although not fanatically so. Life has been
rather uneventful, except for marriage and the raising of two chil-
dren. .

The most eventful happening to me, in the recent past, has been
my acquisition, in 1959, of a set of hunting and fishing camps on the
shore of Moosehead Lake in Maine. It is a beautiful region and I
have operated the business for two seasons, from May to December,
and worked the rest of the year as a chemist. I expect to remain in
this resort business, as I believe it will be beneficial to my family and
will, in time, provide financial independence as well as the oppor-
tunity to indulge in my hobbies of fishing and hunting.

JOHN JAMES PHELAN, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS; 5100 42nd Ave., Hyattsville, Md.

[ 847 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

RICHARD WARREN PHILBRICK

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Elm St., Concord, Mass.

OFFicE AppRESS: Itek Laboratories, 10 Maguire Rd., Lexington, Mass.
BorN: Dec. 6, 1915, Belmont, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MarrieD: Elizabeth H. Balcom, Sept. 4, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Lesle
Anne, Oct. 13, 1940 (mm. Dawson Baptist, Sept. 5, 1960); Richard Balcom,
May 13, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Arthur Philbrick, °35.

occupation: Information technology; executive engineer, director of opera-
tions, Itek Laboratories.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Commission on Cartography, Pan American Institute
of Geography and History, 1953-57; president, Greater St. Louis Federal
Businessmen’s Association; chairman, U.S. Icelandic Defense Council, 1957-
59.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Society of Photogram-
metry; Congress of Surveying and Mapping, Pan American Institute of

Geography and History; National Association of Watch and Clock
Collectors.

PUBLICATIONS; Many papers on aerial photography, reconnaissance, cartography,
aerial mapping, and intelligence; one patent.

BETWEEN pilot training in 1937, and retirement in 1959, flowed a
military career that was far-flung, fast-moving, and always stimulat-
ing. Its milestones run like this. Kelley Field, Texas, 1938: graduated
as pilot and commissioned as second lieutenant. Lowery Field, Colo-
rado, 1940: graduated from photography school. Labrador, 1941-
42: squadron commander, engaged in mapping Labrador, Baffin
Island, and the Arctic air routes to Furope (by now a major). South
America, 1943: led squadron, mapping the routes for flying rubber
out of the Amazon basin. Eglin Field, Florida, 1943: test pilot, in
charge of testing reconnaissance planes, equipment, and techniques.
Developed a new method of measuring, from the air, the off-shore
depths for amphibious operations (now a lieutenant colonel). Eng-
land-France, 1944-45: combat reconnaissance. Commanded Fifth
Reconnaissance Group. Germany, 1945-46: planned and managed
the post-hostilities mapping of Europe, photographing one million
square miles in one year. Bikini, 1946: observed the atomic bomb
testing. Became thoroughly shaken and doubtful about national pos-
session of such forces. Boston, 1946-49: doing research in the physics

of aerial photography. Korea, 1950: more combat. Helped recon-
noiter the seawall at Inchon (now a colonel). Maxwell Field, Ala-
bama, 1953: graduated from Air War College. St. Louis, Missouri,

[ 848 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1953-57: commanded the Aeronautical Chart Center. My first stint
in business management. Iceland, 1957~59: commanding Iceland Air
Defense Force and Base commander. Found Iceland stark but fas-
cinating — found the people admirable and of exceptional integrity.
Boston, 1959: eighteen homes, twenty-two years, and six thousand
flying hours later, retired. (My wife says to mention the Air Medal,
Bronze Star, and the Legion of Merit.)

The two-decade shake-down cruise outlined above has kept me a
student of things and people, but would have been drab without my
family. Looking back, the bright parts came when we were together.
Married since ’38, Betty and I have shared the distress and rewards
(hardly equitably to her, I’m afraid), and the joys of two fine chil-
dren. Lesley Anne was married in 1960, and the Dawson Baptists are
living in New Orleans. Richard Balcom, I hope, will be starting at
Harvard in the fall.

We are now settled in Concord, on the Concord River, near the
forgotten bridge (the Old South). Since returning from Iceland, I
have been with Itek Laboratories, where I am busier than ever in
the mysteries of information technology.

This all sounds so retrospective; it troubles me because we don’t
feel retrospective. I have yet only tasted the fishing in Newfound-
Jand and Iceland, or the golf in Iceland(!) and Scotland. We both
look forward to seeing more of Ireland and Denmark, to finding
new places like Greece or Northern Italy .... and people like
grandchildren. »

NICHOLAS PHILLIPS

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: Mene Grande Oil Co., Apartado 234, Maracaibo,
Venezuela.

BORN: Dec. 27, 1913, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; CPA. 1951.

MaRRIED: Mary-Elizabeth Lobel, Oct. 6, 1944, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Nicholas
Brooks, Nov. 27, 1947; Martha Metcalf, Oct. 6, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Accountant and auditor; chief internal auditor, Mene Grande Oil
Company, subsidiary of Gulf Oil Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Board of directors, president, 1957-59, treasurer, 1959-61, Vice-
president, since 1961, S.A. Escuela Bella Vista (American community

school in Maracaibo); president, 1952~53, treasurer, 1955-56, P.T.A. (vari-
ous areas in Venezuela).

MEMBER OF: American Institute of C.P.A.’s; Massachusetts Society of C.P.A.’s;

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Institute of Internal Auditors; Colegio Nacional de Tecnicos en Conta-
bilidad (Venezuela); Gulf Terminal Club and Creole Maracaibo Club,

Maracaibo, Venezuela.

ENTERED banking business in Boston on graduation and continued
therein while studying at Northeastern University School of Law
(evenings) until early 1942 when I decided to change to a career
in accounting. This was delayed by some three and a half years as
a chief boatswain’s mate, U.S. Coast Guard Reserve, on active duty
in North Atlantic convoy escort and anti-submarine patrols and then
in New Guinea-Philippines area convoy and landing operations.
Returned fortunately without a scratch, to study of accounting in
December, 1945, continuing with various C.P.A. firms until 1951
when I became a C.P.A., and shortly thereafter accepted an assign-
ment in Venezuela with my present company, a subsidiary of Gulf
Oil Corporation, engaged in crude oil production and refining. In
ten years I have come up to my present work as the company’s
senior internal auditor.
Personal life has centered on raising a family amid dictatorships,
revolutions, Communist infiltration and the illiteracy and poverty
of a populace which has been held in abject slavery for some 500
years. I am appalled and disgusted by the utter lack of understand-
ing of Latin America’s problems and peoples by my own government
and especially by my country’s official representatives from the
Department of State whose “Ugly American” acts and attitudes
embarrass us almost daily. It is no surprise to those of us who have
lived in foreign lands long enough to learn the languages and customs
that much of the world fears and distrusts good old “Uncle Sam,”
and does business with Mr. K. We of the American ‘‘colonies”
working overseas are not nearly as afraid of the Communists with
whom we live and work every day, as we are of our inadequate
Congress, State Department, et al., who insist on “making the world
safe for democracy” when it is quite clear that democracy is un-
suitable for and unwanted by the majority of the world’s millions.
Let’s hope the “Harvard Boys” in Washington have learned the
meaning of “Veritas” and do something realistic about the millions
who are less fortunate in heritage and education as well as in material
things.

[ 850 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SILAS BENT PHILLIPS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 718 Elmwood Drive, Abilene, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: West Texas Utilities Co., Box 841, Abilene, Texas.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1915, Portland, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., cu laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Frances May Rau, Jan, 17, 1943, Yuma, Ariz, cuiLpren: Dabney Carr,
Jan. 28, 1946; Elizabeth May, May 11, 1950; Jane Rowland, June 19, 1953;
William Stevenson, Dec. 20, 1956.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, West Texas Utilities Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, West Texas Chamber of Commerce, 1952-57, Texas
Manufacturers Association, since 1961; president, Highway 67 Association,
1955-57; vice-chairman, Abilene Planning and Zoning Commission, since
1959; co-chairman, Abilene United Fund, 1960-61; vice-president, West
Texas Utilities Company, since 1960, Abilene Boys’ Club, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Abilene Country Club; Abilene Rotary Club; Abilene Tennis
Club.

A FEW days ago I dug out of my old things the thesis which I
wrote during my senior year at Harvard. I thought that it might
help me to reminisce and maybe kick me off into this narrative of
my life. It is working pretty well because starting with the date on
the flyleaf of April 14, 1937, and thumbing through its pages which
describe the electric power industry in New England, all comes
back to me, including the monumental struggle I had producing the
thing. More than that, I can see that this paper and the work that
went with it had much to do with my seeking work with a utility
company after graduation and, consequently, my life work — for,
what do you know, I am still at it!

That first job was with very large Commonwealth Edison in
Chicago; it was a training course and then regular work later. This
pulled me away from the Newton suburbs, where I grew up, and
fine times on the Cape, but after two years I took a more drastic
step yet and moved to Texas. This really broke the pattern, for I
turned Texan with few reservations. I liked it then and still do. At
first my home was San Angelo in West Texas, and I tried all man-
ner of new things for me. Learned about cattle and sheep and the
ranch business, tried to speak Spanish, owned some horses, played
polo, hunted and fished, even took a great trip into Mexico with
two of my Harvard Classmates. Somehow working for the West
Texas Utilities Company seemed secondary to the liberal education
I was getting in the ways of the Southwest,

[851]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

This phase ended abruptly with the war and my entry into the
Air Corps in 1941. A splendid year of schooling at UCLA in Los
Angeles turned me into a meteorologist of sorts, launched me toward
duty in California, then a long pleasant residence in Washington,
D.C., and finally assignment to China. Early in this sequence, |
married, and most happily too; and thus fortified, everything that
has happened since has seemed much better. Again in San Angelo
after the war’s end, the present phase of domestic delight and bliss
began. Our first child, a daughter, arrived in 1946, our second, a
daughter, arrived in 1950; our third, a daughter, arrived in 1953; our
fourth and last child, a son, arrived in 1956. One thing I know, girls
are easier to get along with than boys.

The year 1952 found us transplanted to the town of Marfa in the
high country of extreme western Texas, This was a district office
for my company and I was district manager. Life was as pleasant,
and friends were as close here as any place we have experienced. We
shed tears when we left in 1957 and moved to Abilene, our company
headquarters, and, by the way, where we still are. Children, school,
work, and play are the rule for us, and this in a country where you
can be outside in the sunny fine weather of the wintertime and where
the summer, though hot, is best of all. Our eldest girl, now fifteen,
has been a State champion in tennis, and I suspect that I relive in
her the hopes that I once had for myself. Perhaps the other chil-
dren will learn to play tennis well; at least I intend to expose them.
This must be my hobby, too, though I find my exercise and sport
on the golf course.

Now to put the cap on this history and to expose my political
convictions. I haven’t been sold on the way things have been going

in Washington for a long, long time, in fact back to the year before
J entered Harvard.

GERARD PIEL

HOME AppREsS: 320 Central Park W., New York 25, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scientific American, 415 Madison Ave., New York 1, N. Y.

porN: March 1, 1915, Woodmere, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1037. DEGREE: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1937.

Marriep: Mary Tapp Bird, Feb. 4, 1938, New York, NY, (divorced 1955);
Eleanor Virden Jackson, June 24, 1955, Santa Monica, Calif. cHitpREeN;
Jonathan Bird, Nov. 23, 1938; Samuel Bird, June 27, 1940; Eleanor Jackson,
June 4, 1959.

[852]

encores apple tin EE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD sons: Jonathan Bird Piel, 61; Samuel Bird Piel, ’62.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Piel, Jr., L..B., 35.

occuUPATION: Editor and publisher; publisher and president, Scientific American.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, American Civil Liberties Union;
trustee and member of management board, American Museum of Natural
History; trustee, American Shakespeare Festival Theatre and Academy,

_ member, executive committee, Health Research Council of the City of

New York; trustees’ committee to Visit the Department of Biology, Johns
Hopkins University.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Engineers Club, Century Association;
American Academy of Arts and Sciences (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Science in the Cause of Man, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1961.

NOT long after our graduation, by the merest chance, I was pro-
pelled into a line of work that has indefinitely prolonged my educa-
tion. From the pool of college-office boys at Time, Inc., I was
summoned to be science editor of Life. The choice of me for this
assignment was in part a measure of the low priority then accorded
to science in our popular press. It reflected also my editor’s appre-
ciation of my particular qualifications for the job: my total ignorance
of the subject. His idea was that if science could be reduced to my
level of comprehension, then the readers would get the story, too.
A physics casualty at Andover, I had managed to get my A.B.
untainted by any science course at Harvard. Concentration in his-
tory, according to my adolescent fantasy, had prepared me for a
career as a foreign correspondent, off to high adventure in the capi-
tals of the world. Fortunately, I had no choice in the matter.

My war effort, therefore, was to pursue purely informal study
of the atomic nucleus, the gene and the galaxy and to share my first
acquaintance with these matters with the readers of Life. Before
long I made the discovery that history and politics were approach-
ing a significant intersection with science. I was perhaps the first
member of our Class to learn, in August, 1944, of the impending
fateful experiment at Alamogordo—my principal leads to secret
information having been provided by the strictures of the Office of
Censorship itself.

Meanwhile, I had been making more personal discovery. The
most ardent readers of my science stories in Life were the scientists
in that magazine’s circulation. It was clear that the nation needed a
first-class magazine of science. At the typewriter furnished by my
employer, I had learned something about science but nothing what-
ever about the publishing business. Crowded equally by the realiza-
tion that the impending Age of the Atom was no time to be compet-

[ 853 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ing for attention with “Life Goes to a Party,” I resolved to sally
forth into closer grips with the real world.

To Washington and the Fourth New Deal, perhaps? In the course
of this soul-searching, in December, 1944, I sought the counsel of
my friend, Henry J. Kaiser—my “Close-up” of the No. 1 Ship-
builder had launched him as a folk hero even before Pearl Harbor —
and found myself enlisted as his assistant in making no small plans
for the postwar Kaiser Empire. Working with Henry Kaiser, ]
learned why J. M. Keynes was able to say: “I like business. The
decisions are so simple and the consequences are so large!”

Banking proved to be somewhat more complicated. It took
eighteen months to round up the venture capital for a new maga-
zine of science. With the funds not yet all in hand, my co-con-
spirators and I (Dennis Flanagan and Donald H. Miller, Jr., editor
and general manager, respectively) found ourselves, in September,
1947, in possession of what was left of the old Scientific American.

Our first issue in May, 1948, convinced our prospective authors
of the soundness of our purpose. By the time we published our
twenty-first issue, we had convinced our subscribers and had 100,000
of them. And with our thirty-third issue in January, 1951, we went
into the black, having sold the bellwethers among the advertisers
who now adorn our magazine and burden the postman. We are
credited with publishing an extraordinary magazine. What makes
it, in truth, extraordinary is the surprise, brilliance, integrity and
grandeur of human aspiration that shines from its pages. This is
the work of its authors, not its editors.

As the most attentive reader of these authors, in my function as
their editor, I am continuing my education, learning something
new every day and constantly approaching the happy extreme of
the ultimate opposite of an expert. In particular, I have been mak-
ing up for what I missed of Harvard; in those forbidding buildings
up the street from the New Lecture Hall, into which I never ven-
tured as an undergraduate, I now find myself quite at home. My
connection with the faculty of arts has, meanwhile, been happily
maintained by Jonno and Sam, historians like myself. ~

The one big thing I have learned is this: In the scientific knowl-
edge that confers the capacity to destroy, man has gained equally
the capacity to realize his humanity. If our species can escape the
curse presently laid upon its existence by the past history of civiliza-
tion, it should be possible for our children to find a pleasant home
here on this planet,

[ 854 ]

 

i
5
X
&
i
i
'
e

SME PCE A

conten, tates taped tha
Lee RAMEE MR ENE a aR SHEE .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

To John Homans I am grateful for my reintroduction to dry-fly
fishing back in 1950. I hope he has forgiven me for abandoning the
fly rod in favor of the ’cello. As soon as I get my vibrato working,
Eleanor and I will have some duets to make up for it, and some
trios as soon as Nelle can pipe on the recorder.

ALVAH NATHANIEL PIERCE
MAILING ADDRESS: Y% Skaggs & Walsh, 12-01 Broadway, Long Island City 2, N.Y.

HAROLD MINOT PITMAN, JR.

HOME apprEss: 9 Park Avenue Terr., Bronxville, N.Y.
OFFICE appRESS: D’Arcy Advertising Co., 430 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
BoRN: Aug. 7, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Bronxville Schools, Bronxville, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: DIPL. (Univ. of Poitiers), 1938.
MARRIED: Jane Bartlett Thomas, Oct. 10, 1942, Providence, R.I. cyiLp: Stephen
Minot, 4th, July 8, 1951.
occuPATION: Advertising copywriter, D’Arcy Advertising Company.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Public Relations, Pack 5, Bronxville Cub Scouts;
_ vice-president, member of board, Community Fund and Family Consulta-
tion Service (both Bronxville area); rear commodore, Shenorock Yacht
Club; membership chairman, New York Region, Sports Car Club of
America, public relations chairman, Republican Finance Committee, Provi-
dence, R.I.
MEMBER OF: St. Nicholas Society of the City of New York; Descendants of
' the Illegitimate Sons & Daughters of the Kings of Britain; Shenorock
Shore Club; Sports Car Club of America; Royal Automobile Club; British
Auto Racing Club; Madison Avenue Sports Car Driving & Chowder So-

_ elety.

AFTER premature departure from Harvard in 1936 I spent a short
working-class-ty pe term as a stock clerk at W. & J. Sloane’s store on
Fifth Avenue. Saving grace: Edward C. Streeter, ’36 — now a patent
agent and inventor — was my associate. Thence, motivated by his
impending marriage to a beauteous Welsh actress in an unspellable
Welsh town, I got to Europe and did the conventional cycling and
living off cousins in England and stopped in France long enough to
acquire a Molyneux mannequin friend and a diploma from Tours
branch of the Université de Poitiers. Having acquired an undying

[ 855 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

love of travel and of living on ancestral money (while it lasted) |
returned to work as copy boy on the New York Daily News. |
learned the tricks of the trade sufficiently to parlay my experience
— including, thanks to Dick Preston, covering the survivors of the
crash of the Cavalier — into a desk job on the Providence Journal-
Bulletin. This resulted in my taking up socially where my family
(300 years in Rhode Island) had left off. Culmination was marriage
to a Providence girl and a good long look at the desk men on either
side of me. I discovered each was twenty years older and making $20
a week more than I was. End of newspaper career.

I went to Rhode Island’s largest advertising agency across the
Mall and presented myself as a copy reader, which the boss misheard
as copy writer. Hired at one hundred percent increase in pay. Be-
ginning of advertising career. Since then: H. B. Humphrey Com-
pany, Boston; ten years at J. Walter Thompson Company; five at
McCann-Erickson, Inc.; and a hectic, interesting, but fateful six
months at Ogilvy, Benson & Mather, Inc., as senior copy writer on
the Shell Oil Company account. Then to D’Arcy Advertising as
senior writer. Although never making vice-president, I have ac-
quired a thorough professional knowledge of print advertising plus
considerable kudos for creative contributions both on the job. and
in civic affairs. I’ve also acquired the conviction that print copy to-
day is seriously endangered by over-art-direction at the expense of
communication. I hope, next time around, to reverse the trend of the
do-nothing picture and the unreadable copy block.

To count my blessings: wife, blond son, house, health, and living
in the Land of the Free. Plus happy memories of vacations in Nassau,
Grand Bahama, Ocho Rios, Bermuda, Florida’s West Coast, and
Rhode Island’s South County, plus Nantucketward cruising with
the Streeters and with the Elwood D, Boyntons, ’35. Add the pleas-
ures of owning a small sloop, sundry interesting English cars (con-
secutively), and the excitements of winning sports car rallies, flag-
ging at races, and a stint or two at Sebring’s international races — and
you know what I’ve been up to. Currently, I usher at Christ Episco-
pal Church, Bronxville, where Stephen is a choir boy, I chairman a
division of the Community Fund, of which I have also been a direc-
tor, and lose every other game of chess to my wife.

Having just read the accomplishments of our candidates for
Marshal, I’m tempted not to send in this recital of non-accomplish-

ment. But then, they say, contentment also comes to those who get
to know and live with their limitations,

[ 856 ]

 

moa RCI EPONA [TE]

eA arent one

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH MORTON POBIRS
MAILING ADDRESS: 7 W. 65th St.. New York 23, N.Y.

ALBERT BARNES POE

HOME ADDRESS: % Lincroft P.O., Phalanx, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard Industries, Inc., P.O. Box 504, Asbury Park, N.]J.

Born: May 26, 1914, Montclair, N.J.

prePARED AT: Montclair Academy, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MARRIED: Ruth Barkhorn, Feb. 20, 1943, South Orange, N.J. (divorced 1952),
Margaret Q. Goddard, Aug. 7, 1954, Harrison, N.Y. cHiLpreN: Leslie,
March 16, 1944; Patricia, Nov. 30, 1948; Susan, Dec. 16, 1950.

occuPaTIoN: Assistant to president, Public Relations, Harvard Industries, Inc.
(industrial — electronics, metal fabrication, printing).

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America, Air Force Association, Avia-
tion/Space Writers Association.

MY most pleasant moments at this stage of life are weekend tennis
matches, interspersed with squash and occasional flurries of sailing,
flying, travel and brief moments with my children when they aren’t
off on their own projects. Addicted to tennis as I am, I have been
lucky to play indoors at the Hamilton Farm Court in Gladstone and
now at the Holmdel Indoor Court. Somewhere I missed golf,
which I always felt was too frustrating for my liking. The past
twenty-five years have revolved around Montclair, Short Hills, Far
Hills and now Phalanx (near Red Bank) where we are living in an
old farmhouse once and still referred to as Alexander Woollcott’s
house.

In between hobbies, I have been engaged in some form of public
relations since I first went to work for Transradio Press at 342
Madison. I wrote radio copy for Allan Hale who had a program
called “Confidentially Yours.” Outside of this brief period, I have
never been a commuter. This fact may have added a few years to
my longevity. Before the war, I was with Curtiss- Wright, then
served a few years in the Army Air Force as a flight instructor at
several fields in this country. Curtiss relieved me of my responsi-
bilities after the war and I then went to Thomas A. Fdison, Inc., as
advertising manager, then to Lockheed Electronics Company, as
director of public relations. I am now assistant to the president for
public relations at Harvard Industries, Inc. Probably the first man
to return to Harvard after twenty-five years!

[857 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

My lust for travel has never diminished although I shall no doubt
have to put off the grand tour until after the children are all
married. I did make Cuba twice, Bermuda, Nassau and Central
America and a few weeks in Mexico last fall including Mexico City,
Mazatlan and Acapulco, How I envy Frank Moorman (read his
travel record!).

Philosophically, I am a Goldwater Republican. His stand on re-
ducing the federal government in size and scope is a classic. The
way things are going down there I figure taxes will go up 25% by
1965 or 1970. Maybe I won't care by then, but I am not building a
bomb shelter unless it’s in the squash court at Sea Bright. It’s not
the original cost of the shelter, it’s the cost of machine gun bullets
and barbed wire. Obviously, we have left the world in a hell of a
mess for our children. But I don’t believe it’s the end even though
it looks as though China is getting ready to explode the big one. |
feel I have done right by voting Republican all my life, but if I
had my own way, I'd get rid of the appeasers and sympathizers in
government. Everything else has failed, so let’s cut off Russia from
our sources of food, machinery and war materials. I was all for
McCarthy in the beginning and still believe he was sincere. Does
anyone else believe Sam Sheppard was innocent?

The years have flown by and I find less and less time for leisure.
I enjoy reading but homework cuts into it. I guess if I quit now,
taxes wouldn’t leave my wife enough to bury me. It all boils down
to the struggle for money which goes on and on and on. And I
thought the “working class” was just a passing slogan!

Anybody for tennis? Ill be around at Sea Bright and Holmdel
for a few years. Look me up, anyone.

ALBERT LEONARD POLON

HOME ADDRESS: 305 W. 86th St., New York 24, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Patco, Inc., 806 South Blvd., New York 59, N.Y.

BoRN: Oct, 7, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MakrRiED: Marjorie Goldberg, June 6, 1942, Washington, D.C. cutpren: Marian
Elizabeth, Jan. 28, 1945; Andrew David, Feb, 16, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, Patco, Inc., manufacturers of
cathode-ray tubes.

IT is arduous — almost brutal ~~ to demand of a man that he reduce
twenty-five years of his life to the cold light of print. For that

[ 858]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

reason, I shall eschew the factual, which is both voluminous and
boring, and touch only on the highlights.

Purely by accident, I seem to have spent many of these past years
as a minor sort of entrepreneur, finally winding up in a quiet back-
water of the electronics business, where I am now ensconced. The
major influence which shaped my living was a serious health prob-
lem, which started in 1948, and with which I still grapple, although
each passing year strengthens my feeling of victory. Deep content
and pride mark our family relationships, and as the children become
semi-adult we find larger pleasures in them.

We travel a lot — find the stimulation of foreign lands and cul-
tures exciting. Hobbies are all of the sedentary kind: books, bridge,
friends. Politically, I find the certainty of my youth has been re-

placed by the tentative quality of middle age, but perhaps this
mirrors the confused world situation.

GEORGE RUSSELL POOR

HOME ApprEss: 18 Gregory St., Marblehead, Mass.

BorN: March 28, 1916, Salem, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; LL.B. 1950.

MaRRIED: Gladys Haslett, March 27, 1945, New York, N.Y. cHiLpreN: Jean
Elizabeth, May 29, 1946; Geraldine Haslett, Oct. 18, 19473 Sally Gladys,
June 10, 1950; Susan Abigail, Jan. 30, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Estate manager; musician.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club; Pleon Yacht Club; Blue Water Sailing Club,
Harvard Club of Boston.

ONE year of Harvard Law School, 1937~—38; Sylvania Electric
Products, sales department, 1939-42; Navy, officer on subchasers,
ending as lieutenant, 1942-45; Salem Manufacturing Company, 1946;
Harvard Law School, 1947-50; music, car business, etc., 1950-61.

Finally passed the bar exam last year and am currently taking the
Graduate Tax Program at Boston University Law School. Still

active in music. Sailing in the summer, skiing in winter, are entire
family activities.

WILLIAM IRVING POPPER

HOME apprEss: 32 Schrade Rd., Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Popper & Popper, 200 Fifth Ave., New York 10, N.Y.
BoRN: March 13, 1917, New York, N.Y.

[ 859 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (New York
Univ.), 1941.

marrieD: Margaret Stern, April 30, 1948, New York, N.Y. cHmpren: Michael
Stern, May 6, 1950; Marjorie, Jan. 10, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Henry Popper, ’32, A.M., "34.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1958, chairman, 1959, Briarcliff Community Committee;
treasurer, 1954, director, 1955, Briarcliff Nursery School; member, Demo-
cratic County Committee, Westchester County, Executive Committee,
Briarcliff Democratic Club, Democratic Town Committee, town of Ossin-
ing; active in Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; New York County Lawyers Associa-
tion; Commercial Law League of America; Harvard Club of Westchester,
American Civil Liberties Union; Americans for Democratic Action; Sta-
tioners Golf Association of New York; B’nai B'rith; Pleasantville Cantata
Singers; Ossining Music Guild.

I SWEATED my way through four years of night Law School at
New York University with daytime employment, only to end up
at the Draft Board the morning after taking my Bar exam. I had
a succession of varying careers in the service and wound up as an
Army captain with O.S.S. in the CBI Theatre. We were following
the withdrawing Japanese — at a respectable distance —in North-
east China when news of V-J Day finally caught up with us about
one week late. I can well remember checking into a field hospital
on the way back to have my innards probed by Charlie Hutter,
Harvard’s Olympic swimmer. I can also recall examining a Chinese
field hospital operated by Classmate Wesley Furste in South China.

After a spell as an apprentice with the General Attorney of the
New York Central Railroad I went into the private practice of law
and since 1949 have been a partner in Popper & Popper. We have
a specialized practice in the toy and stationery fields. I do consider-
able work in bankruptcies and reorganizations which lately has
had me traveling around the country.

My family has been happily located in Briarcliff Manor since
1953. Our village is waging an effective delaying action in an effort
to maintain its rural character. Among the rustic institutions which
we preserve is our Volunteer Fire Department, for which E. J. Kahn
and other local farmers give their all to keep our insurance rates
low. Both children are thriving here and as they grow I inevitably
find myself involved in the Cub Scouts, Little League and now the
Boy Scouts. My wife and I have managed two trips to Europe in

[ 860 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

addition to a couple of Caribbean Islands visits. I have particularly
enjoyed family ski weeks in the Laurentians the past two years.

I use tennis (doubles, of course) as a conditioner both summer
and winter. Other hobbies are singing with oratorio groups, play-
ing piano duets with my daughter and dabbling in local politics.

HAROLD FREEMAN PORTER, JR.
MAILING ADDRESS: 2431 Webb Ave., New York 68, N.Y.

ROBERT MALCOLM POST

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Midland Drive, New Hyde Park, N.Y.

OFFICE Appress: Walter L. and Robert M. Post, 150 Broadway, New York 38,
N.Y.

BORN: May 21, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: LL.B. (St. John’s Univ.), 1941.

MarriED: Miriam Hall, April 23, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. cutup: Robert Malcolm,
Jr., April 14, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Linford Post, Jr., ’35.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and director, E. Fougera & Company, Inc., Audemars
& Piquet & Company, Inc., Indiantown Company, Inc.; vice-president and
director, First Bank of Indiantown.

MEMBER OF: B.P.O.E. Lodge No. 1, New York; County Lawyers Association,
Florida Bankers Association.

AFTER leaving Harvard and graduating from law school, I spent
three years in the Army. After discharge, I joined my present law
firm, where I am still gainfully employed in the pursuit of a living.
My activities since the war have been varied, and require tremen-
dous traveling throughout the United States. Unfortunately, this
allows very little time for social activities, as I am seldom in one
place very long.

My son is presently attending LaSalle Military Academy, with
hopes of following his father and uncle into Harvard, and then on
into law — provided the military service does not catch him before-
hand. According to my wife's thinking, my only hobby is the pur-
suit of a living.

[ 861 ]

| __

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

FRANCIS JOHN POTTER

HOME ADDRESS: 3604 Parkwood Drive, Greensboro, N.C.

OFFICE appREss: Duplan Corp., Akron Drive, Winston-Salem, N.C.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1916, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph William Potter, Jr., °37.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative, Duplan Corporation, synthetic textile yarns.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Textile Chemists & Colorists; Starmount
Forest Country Club, Greensboro, N.C.; Lake Hickory Country Club,
Hickory, N.C.

WE happen to live in the most dangerous time in the history of the
human race... . There is no sure answer for anybody. .. .” This
statement by President Kennedy makes us reflect on what we have
achieved in the past twenty-five years and ponder on what the next
twenty-five years will hold for us.

Considering the fact that we have been involved in one world
conflict and now face the threat of another, we can only hope and
pray that some means will be found to preserve our way of life and
further its benefits to other less fortunate nations. It is indeed dis-
appointing to feel that our progress in the area of foreign relations
and international concord has not kept apace with advancements
in science and technology. Present indications are that this “gap”
will continue for many years to come, primarily because of the type
of people with whom we are dealing.

As to my personal life, I still remain a bachelor; hence I can be
excused from writing the customary comments on family life. This
situation could change, of course.

My business career pretty much parallels’ the vagaries of the
textile industry, which has been up and down as long as I have been
associated with it. I have really enjoyed being a part of this fascinat-
ing and diversified part of our economy,

Music, in most of its forms, has always been one of my major
interests and I mean the pure pleasure of listening to it. I am par-
ticularly concerned over the near demise of “Big-band Music,” as
we knew it in our college days. I thought sure it had reached
permanent stature but the war and a new generation changed that.
Maybe this type of music will someday find its rightful place in
musical Americana.

In spite of world tensions, the fluctuations of the stock market,

[ 862 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

inflation and taxes, I am very optimistic that we shall enjoy many
more Class Reunions with a more promising outlook than that of
my opening quotation. Let’s hope so.

JOSEPH WILLIAM POTTER, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: Harbor Hill Drive, Lloyd Harbor-Huntington, Long Island,
N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Selchow & Righter Co., 505 E. Union St., Bay Shore, Long
Island, N.Y.

BoRN: March 29, 1914, Cambridge, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Nancy Upp, Oct. 22, 1955, Reading, Pa. camp: Amy Clare, March
21, 1961.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis John Potter, °37.

occupation: Director of advertising and product development, Selchow &
Righter Company, dealers in games, puzzles, toys and novelties.

I WON'T be the one to say that the first twenty-five years are al-
ways the hardest because actually they were not. The first ten years
are the hardest. The last fifteen years have been happy years filled
with good living and some satisfying periods of achievement. I
hope the next twenty-five are as good. —

My wife and I now have our first child, a daughter, born in 196r.
This has made us very happy and we hope for another to fill in the
blank spots of our lives. In 1958, because I changed jobs, we moved
from Wellesley Hills, Massachusetts, to a lovely New England town
called Longmeadow in central Massachusetts. Now just recently we
have changed our location again and have settled in another com-
munity called Lloyd Harbor on Long Island Sound within the town-
ship of Huntington, New York. It too is a beautiful area with many
trees, hills and a view of the water. We know we are going to en-
joy living in central Long Island, especially since we love the water
and will launch our boat in the waters of the sound come spring of
"62.

Since our last Report I have entered a different type of occupa-
tion. I am now in the business of developing, advertising, promoting
and selling games, picture puzzles, toys and novelties for children
and adults. The emphasis is on games. I work for a company which
has been in this kind of business for ninety-five years, and which is
well known for its Scrabble games and Parcheesi. Actually I don’t
play games all day, but ic is an important part of the business.

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Hobbies and sports do not seem to get as much attention as the
used to. I used to ski a lot, now just occasionally. I quit playing bad-
minton, and I took up square dancing. I don’t take those long hikes
that I used to love, nor have I done very much swimming or sailing
lately. Tennis has long since been gone, and I only get an infrequent
game of golf. Could be that I’m getting old? But my wife and I do
enjoy our cabin located on a small island in the middle of Lake Win-
nepesaukee, New Hampshire, our haven of peace and beauty
where we lead the simple life. We managed to revisit the Bermuda
Islands again this year with much enjoyment. I was a member of the
Harvard Club of Springfield, Massachusetts, for a while but have
dropped all of my club affiliations recently because of relocating on
Long Island. Now, if the future continues as good as the past, I'll
have no complaints.

MAX MERLE PRESSER

HOME AppRESS: 931 Helmsdale Rd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

OFFICE appress: Firestone Synthetic Fibers, Hopewell, Va.

BoRN: Aug. 18, 1915, Newcastle, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., Cum laude, 19373 A.M., 1939.

MarRiED: Bernice Julia Levy, Feb. 15, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: David
Leonard, Nov. 10, 1943; Mark Howard, June 28, 1946.

HARVARD SON: David Leonard Presser, 65.

occupaTiON: Technical service representative, Firestone Tire & Rubber Co,
fiber manufacturing; dye expert on nylon and related fabrics.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists.

TWENTY-NINE years ago when I first entered Harvard, it was
with the intention of preparing to become a doctor. Four years and
one shattered romance later with an impressive S.B. cum laude in
biochemistry and a not so impressive turn-down from the Medical
School, I decided to go into the field of teaching. After the School
of Fducation granted me an A.M. in teaching chemistry and biol-
ogy in 1939, my local school board in Cleveland, Ohio, put me on
their roster of substicute science teachers at a rate of five dollars for
each day actually taught. Prior to receiving this fabulous offer, Miss
Bernice Levy of Cleveland, Ohio, had graciously consented to be-
come my wife. We were married in Cambridge City Hall on Febru-
ary 15, 1939.

The problem during the next few years was how to augment the
meager income from substitute teaching sufficiently to cover our

| 864 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

living expenses. Part-time jobs in a chemical plant and a night
college solved the problem. My wife and I were quite happy during
this period. Many of our friends were having similar problems, but
all of us seemed able to laugh about it and still to remain warm,
friendly and devoted to one another. Those were good years to
remember.

Soon after Pearl Harbor, I decided war work was more impor-
tant than teaching, and obtained a job at Plumbrook Ordnance Works
in Sandusky, Ohio, making TNT. After fourteen months, a better
opportunity came along at Sun Oil Company in Toledo, Ohio, mak-
ing vitally needed butadiene for our synthetic rubber plants. After a
short time as a plant chemist, a promotion to laboratory shift fore-
man followed. The pace was hectic and the work interesting. Adding
to the overall confusion was the arrival in 1943 of our first child,
David. Shortly after the end of the war in 1946, our second son,
Mark, was born. Sun Oil stopped making butadiene, and work at the
lab became rather routine and monotonous.

In 1949, we left the Toledo area and returned to Cleveland. Op-
portunities in teaching were not numerous and pay unrealistic, so I
continued in the field of chemistry by accepting a job with In-
dustrial Rayon Corporation. After working on plant problems for a
year, I joined the Hi-Polymer group as a research chemist in 1950.
Shortly before making this move, my wife became critically ill with
lupus erythematosus, an illness closely related to rheumatic fever.
The resident doctor at University Hospital told me very matter-of-
factly that the illness was 95% fatal, and that there was no known
medication. The resident also told me that occasionally a patient
would have a remission and recover. The ensuing year was a very
difficult one. A news item to the effect that Dr. Hench and Dr. Ken-
dall, while working at the Mayo Clinic, had found that an adrenal
hormone, Compound E, had been found to be effective in the treat-
ment of rheumatoid arthritis started a chain of events that culmi-
nated in the recovery of my wife from her near fatal illness. Com-
pound E turned out to be cortisone. Cortisone was being manufac-
tured by Merck at the pitiful rate of ninety grams a month, Dr. Max

Tishler, my section man at Harvard in advanced organic, was active
in the production of cortisone. When he was asked how cortisone
could be obtained for my wife, his answer was to get her into a
hospital that had a research program set up to investigate rheumatic
illnesses. My brother-in-law, Melvin Lennard (’36), found that
Mount Sinai Hospital in New York was setting up such a program,

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and persuaded Dr. George Baehr to accept his sister as a patient, It
is quite a tribute to Dr. Baehr and his fine staff that they suc-
ceeded in keeping my wife alive for six weeks prior to receiving an
allocation of cortisone.

Several surprising things became apparent during the period of
my wife’s illness. I found that I was still intensely interested in the
field of medicine, and was sorry for not having followed it as a
career. Secondly, it came as quite a shock that our close friends and
relatives made no inquiries or overtures concerning financial help.
This made me realize how alone we were, how little we could
count on those closest to us when the chips were down.

The next eleven years in the Hi-Polymer Division at Industrial
Rayon were very interesting. This period was one of intense re-
search and growth in the field of synthetic fibers by many com-
panies. The use of nylon increased tremendously. The acrylic fibers
Orlon and Acrilon were offered to the public. These were followed
by the polyesters, Dacron and Kodel. The acrylics, the polyesters
and nylon also appeared in blends with natural fibers and gained
wide public acceptance. The texturizing of synthetic fibers by
means of heat to yield stretch fabrics, fabrics with high bulk and
low weight opened up new markets for synthetic fibers. It was
exciting having a part in this frenzied activity. My interest centered,
finally, on the problems of dyeing carpet-type nylon alone and in
blends with other fibers. This led to numerous technical service
assignments in the dyehouses of carpet mills using IRC nylon.

Due to intense competition and financial losses, IRC was forced
to shut down its Hi-Polymer division in 1961. The only concrete
offer of a job came from the East Cleveland board of education.
Starting in September, I was to teach science at Kirk Junior High.
My son Mark had just graduated from this junior high school in
June; so that this probably represented the first case of a father fol-
lowing his son into junior high school. Fate, in the form of Fire- :
stone Tire & Rubber Company, intervened before the school year i
started, and when September came, I found myself back in the fiber
field as a technical service representative for Firestone Tire & Rubber
Company, in the carpet nylon division located in Hopewell, Vir-
ginia. Whether this assignment will be long-lasting is uncertain,
since Firestone has no nylon research and development group to
back up its production group.

Looking back over the past twenty-five years, I have been sad-
dened most by the changes that have taken place in people. The

[ 866 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

warmth, joy, and friendliness, so prevalent in the past, when most of
us had few material possessions, was gone. The never-ceasing “cold
war” and its concomitant threat of nuclear extinction have com-
bined to make people internally sullen, resentful, and suspicious,
concerned only with the welfare of their own family group. It
seems paradoxical that our technical achievements are higher than
ever before, while our human relationships are at a low ebb. Per-
haps when the turmoil and upheavals presently going on cease, we
shall reach a new era when people will no longer go hungry, when
the whole human race can join hands and raise their eyes toward the
distant stars.

RICHARD PRESTON

HOME AppRESS: 454 Bay Rd., Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Economic Development Associates, Inc., 359 Boylston St., Bos-
ton 16, Mass.

BorN: March 31, 1913, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Martha Moore Proctor, Jan. 7, 1939, Boston, Mass. (died 1941); Caro-
lyn Crandall, Feb. 27, 1943, Ashaway, R.I. cumpren: Julie Ann, Aug. 21,
1941; Patricia Woodbury, Dec, 21, 1943; Richard. Thomas, Aug. 29, 1946;
Christopher, Jan. 28, 1948, Robert Gutterson, Jan. 21, 1957.

occupation: President, Economic Development Associates, Inc., consultant firm
doing community, regional, state-research, planning, development and pro-
motion, urban renewal and redevelopment, industrial and promotion con-
sultants.

OFFICES HELD: Commissioner, Mass. Department of Commerce, 1952-58; eco-
nomic development adviser to Belgian Government, 1957; president, Asso-
ciation of State Planning & Development Agencies, 1957; U.S. delegate,

_ First International Conference on Regional Development, 1958; director,
American Industrial Development Council, 1959; executive director, New
Hampshire State Planning and Developing Com., 1960-61; trustee, Institute
of Contemporary Art, 1960-61; director, Northeastern Industrial Develop-
ers Association, 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Industrial Development Council; Northeastern Industrial
Development Council; Cruising Club of America; Spee Club, Harvard;
Myopia Hunt Club; Tennis and Racquet Club; Harvard Club of New
York; Schussverein Ski Club; AF. & A.M.; Advertising Club of Boston;
Manchester Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Common Objectives and Techniques in Regional Development,”
Ostende, 1958; “Cooperation, Keystone of Industrial Development,” AIDC,
1960; “Planning — Applied Common Sense”; New Hampshire Municipal

Manual, 1960; “States’ Role in Economic Development,” 1957; numerous
speeches.

[ 867 ]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

WHATEVER else our fate, Harvard ’37 will never die of bore-
dom. Certainly other Classmates may have had far hairier adven-
tures than have J, in fact mine are rather routine, but nevertheless
things are continually popping in sufficient quantity to add up to a
most interesting life. Ever since I went from Boston to Lawrence-
ville and thence to Harvard, the unroutine has been my lot. Take
being in the U.S. Navy as a reserve type and ending up as a liaison
officer “in but not under” the British Army. Or being a depart-
ment head in New Hampshire while living in Massachusetts. An-
other interesting example is acting as an economic development
adviser to the Belgian government and not speaking Flemish or
French. Indeed, life has been rather different and surely of diverse
interests.

The family will tell you I am “based on” rather than “resident in”
Preston's Hatchery where my ever-loving and wonderfully tolerant
spouse presides over the destinies of five descendants, one dog and
assorted flora and fauna. The said descendants are quite something
in themselves. Two very delightful daughters, three vigorous sons
make for an organization of broad interests, fresh points of view and
constant motion, In just that area of living, boredom is impossible
but somehow I get mixed up in extra familia activities too. My wife
awarded me a stuffed fish which hangs on my office wall over the
observation “Preston’s Lament — I wouldn’t be here either if I could
keep my d--n mouth closed.” Very observant is the donor, for it
seems that I do manage to get wrapped up in the darndest pursuits:
such as, but not limited to, conferences, discussion groups, school
committees, running horse shows, dinners, ocean races, meetings;
involvement in church work, historical societies, Legion, fraternal
and club activities, accepting speaking engagements (I'd rather
give than hear one); fund-raising and politics. In fact, politics
started me off on my chosen career, a rather nebulous thing known
as economic development.

Back in 1950 I became interested in government, particularly
that of Massachusetts. It was my conviction then and is now that
the Republicans can give and do provide Massachusetts with better
government than do other “parties.” By devoting a couple of years,
at family expense, to organizing the Commonwealth’s Republican
Finance Committee, I managed to be a part of the team that realized
this conviction. I was all set to return to the United Fruit Company
where I served in labor relations and other activities for the Banana
Navy. However, Governor Herter asked me to aid in writing legis-

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lation for and later in organizing the Massachusetts Department of
Commerce. He did me the honor of appointing me Commissioner,
which position I filled until receiving my PhF (“fired by Furcolo,”
his Democratic successor), some four and a half years later. The
challenge of such a creative task as working toward a stable, pros-
perous economy in my native state was a thrilling privilege. Massa-
chusetts has a variety of problems, many of which will one day
overtake the younger states. It, therefore, presents one with even
a greater Challenge: that of pioneering in the seemingly unglamorous
area of re-redevelopment. The bug got me and I have been at it
ever since both in and out of government.

Cruising in small sailing auxiliaries, cruising on not so small skis
and indulging in auxiliary pursuits thereto provide all the fun and
games required. Add reading to these two and I’m darned if I can
see where one can find time for lesser activities. I am no more
certain of the future than is anyone. The now clear and present
danger of a philosophy and way of life (or is it existence?) which
Communism poses is a hateful cloud over mankind. Combatting it
certainly calls for closed ranks and ingenuity, self-sacrifice and sound
judgment. Harvard °37, Yale 37, etc. °37 have that challenge
squarely in their laps on top of all else.

Yes indeed —as I first stated, we'll never die of boredom. I sug-
gest a class toast to our day and times— Things are never worse
than normal (for normal is not so blamed bad when you compare
it with what it might be!).

McCOLL PRINGLE

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Limehouse St., Charleston, S.C.

OFFICE ApprESS: E. H. Pringle & Co., Charleston, S.C.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1915, Charleston, S.C.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Agnes M. Clay, Oct. 15, 1944, Baltimore, Md. cuitpren: Ernest H.,
2d, Feb. 3, 1946; Mary Clay, July 26, 1947; McColl, Jr, May 1, 1950;
Agnes Clay, June 21, 1954; Amelia Field, June 25, 1955; Louise du Pont
Crowninshield, June 13, 1957; Margaretta McEvoy, Jan. 23, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ernest Henry Pringle, 3d, 35 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Investment banker; president, E. H. Pringle & Company, dealers
in municipal and federal agency bonds; institutional trade chiefly.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, E. H. Pringle & Company; director,
Southern Ice Company of Delaware; member, Standing Committee, Clergy

[ 869 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Society of South Carolina; trustee, Bancroft School, Haddonfield, New

Jersey.
MEMBER OF: St. Cecilia Society; Carolina Yacht Club; Charleston Library
Society; Carolina Art Association.

JUNE, 1937, leaving Dunster House, I thought, “‘No, this is too good
to end.” Inability to settle down followed. Two positions in bank-
ing (Chicago and Baltimore) melted away (the new man was more
interested in debutante parties). Now followed two years of teach-
ing at private schools — good experience. December, 1941, rejected
as an apprentice seaman, I became an ensign by mail, embarking
upon four years of typical naval service (mostly destroyers in the
Mediterranean). October, 1944, I married in Baltimore on a Sunday
evening, was aboard ship Monday morning 8:00 A.M. in Charles-
town, Massachusetts. Labor Day, 1945, I started in investment
banking in Charleston, South Carolina. This work is interesting, re-
quires creative and imaginative thought. Gradually, we have been
able to increase and stabilize sources of business. |

For a wife, I got the peach. For a family, a bunch of zesty kids.
My sons will now be able to carry on the name. The old family pew
is the locale of rewarding devotionals. Cultural activities consist of
reading (and avoiding TV). Of the times, I deplore the growth of
the federal government at the expense of Freedom. Americans are
renouncing self-reliance and whittling away Liberty (now termed
“liberties”), to get material benefits secured through the central
government at the expense of their fellow countrymen. The tragic
federal farm program is a splendid example. A needed motto:

“Give the country back to the Citizens.” Or do you prefer life

“under the good emperors’?

ROBERT REED PROCTOR

HOME ApDpRESS: Slumber Corners, Weston, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan American World Airways, New York, N.Y.
BORN: Dec. 12, 1915, Needham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.
MARRIED: Juanita Boles, Aug. 8, 1942, Miami, Fla. cuitpren: Robert Reed, Jr,
Sept. 30, 1943; Laird Montgomery, June 6, 1950.
occupation: Airline pilot.

THE general dislocations of the early war years resulted in my final
selection of a career. Three short, but very pleasant, years with
Eastman Kodak at Rochester, New York, were terminated in 1941,

[ 870 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

when the vagaries of fate, plus an interest in aviation, led to m
employment with Pan American Airways in Miami, Florida. There
I flew for three years with the Air Transport Command operation,
mainly across the South Atlantic and Africa.

In 1945, a shift to the commercial division led to my being based
in New York, where five years were spent with our Atlantic Divi-
sion. This was followed by a foreign transfer, with two very re-

- warding years of living in Frankfurt, Germany. Opportunity for
checkout as captain found me once again in Miami, where I flew on
cargo operations throughout Central and South America. Only
recently the impact of the jet age has resulted in my return to New
York, where I am back again on various European and Eastern
routes.

It is only natural that this general instability of domicile has pre-
sented many problems, mainly those concerning the rearing and
education of the children. Fortunately, a very wonderful and
efficient wife, plus the adaptability of children, have solved these
problems effectively, and we feel that the advantages of a variety of
environments have compensated for the lack of permanent roots in
community life.

After twenty-five years, and some three and a half million miles,
I find that most of the original aims and goals have tempered, and are
now centered around the care and feeding of family, and pleasures
associated therewith. The many moves have served to increase our
curiosity concerning other peoples and places, but have produced
an antipathy toward the process of moving, ie., the liquidation of
property, etc. (generally at substantial losses). With this in mind,
we are now hopeful for more stability before experiencing too much
senility (an endeavor long since lost, in the eyes of our progeny).

CURTIS PROUT

HOME aApprEsS: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard University Health Services, 75 Mt. Auburn St., Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1915, Swampscott, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 19373 M.D., cum laude, 1941.

MarRiED: Daphne Brooks, June 27, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHttprEN: Diana, Dec. 20,
1940 (m. Charles Nichols); Daphne Willett, Oct. 4, 1943; Rosamond, Nov.

21, 1947; Phyllis Brooks, Dec. 6, 1950, GRANDcHILD: Curtis Seth Nichols,
April 20, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Willett Prout, °36.

( 871 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occupation: Chief of medicine and associate director, University Health Serv-
ices, Harvard University; instructor in medicine, Harvard Medical School
(at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital).

OFFICES HELD: Class of 1937: Class Committee and Reunion Committee, 1oth,
1sth, 2oth and 2sth Reunions; secretary, Harvard Medical School Class of
1941; former secretary, Harvard Medical Alumni Association; business
manager, Harvard Medical Alumni Bulletin, member, Admissions Com-
mittee, Harvard Medical School, 1954-61; chairman, Dover Board of
Health, 1958-62; school physician, Noble and Greenough School, 1946-61,
Dover Public Schools, 1947-61.

MEMBER OF: Usual medical societies; American College of Physicians (fellow);
Tavern Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author of three papers on malaria, penicillin, 1945-46; miscel-
laneous papers on cigarette smoking, alumni affairs, college health, etc.

IN the autumn of 1933, my only connection with Harvard was
through a brother in the sophomore class. It all seemed alien; and
although not unfriendly, still the University had been there a long
time and it was probably run by a faculty and alumni body who had
been there forever and would continue forever regardless of me or
any other freshman. As college progressed, I didn’t get much more
idea that I was particularly part of it, although I was often sur-
prised by the friendly interest shown by the few faculty members
or administrative personnel that I met. I recall feeling very distinctly
in the spring of my senior year, along with many others, a lack of
a sense of identification with Harvard and wondered where was
this mystic bond that classmates are supposed to feel toward each
other and toward their college.

Suddenly, it seems, we are part of that infinitely aged and august
group, the 25th Reunion Class, furthermore, it has become increas-
ingly clear that there is a very real bond with Classmates and the
University. Most astounding of all, in my 25th Reunion year, I
became a full-time employee of Harvard University, and on review-
ing the last few years, it almost seems as if I have become one of
those alumni boosters whom we all supposedly deplore.

Going from a small prep school to a large college was perhaps
the largest factor in the loss of identity. The usual painful attempts
to emerge from adolescence and dependence contributed. From
here I went to medical school where the classes were smaller, more
intense and more cohesive, so that by 1941 I felt that my loyalties
and my identification were almost entirely with those 135 men.
Medicine has been so completely absorbing, satisfying and stimulat-
ing that it has been the largest factor in shaping my attitudes. A
happy marriage and wonderful children have helped to provide the

[ 872 ]

Aa ALLL St ROT TN ANON tS AG: ON AOE HR BEEN DONE IE AITO UT ASAE eB tr

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

stability to withstand the emotional stress of a busy family practice.

Gradually increasing self-confidence in one’s capabilities and aware-

ness of one’s limitations have beer the result, and helped to make

the rather profound change from being primarily a solo private

practitioner to my present occupation. This is as associate director
and chief of the medical services for the University Health Services
which includes the College, Radcliffe, all the graduate schools,
faculty and employees — some 21,000 people covered by a compre-
hensive prepaid insurance plan —a sort of medicine of the future.
- Twenty years of being a doctor has led to some conclusions:
doctors are privileged people, lucky to be allowed to serve while
enjoying a favored position in our society. They get more, more is
expected of them, and they should give more in every way. Gen-
erosity is the mark of the true physician, to deny it is to lower our-
selves in the public eye and in our own eye. To try to comprehend
the large amount of scientific knowledge daily accumulating, while
retaining the attributes of the good physician and citizen, is the
greatest challenge imaginable.

Four months in the hospital with osteomyelitis in 1935 solidified
my desire to go into medicine. The resulting hole in my skull made
me ineligible for military service. This produced problems which
I attempted to resolve by going into a malaria research project in
1944. At that time, I hadn’t made up my mind whether to stay in
academic medicine or go out into practice. 1 was not aware of the
political countercurrents in academic circles and was completely
unprepared for the in-fighting and empire-building which went on.
As a result of a particularly disastrous experience, when I felt I was
being helpful and my motives were misconstrued, I decided to turn
my back on academic medicine and to go into practice, where at
least the praise and the blame would be determined by what I did
and not by anyone else. A combination of practice, part-time teach-
ing at the Medical School and hospital and work on the Admissions
Committee at the Medical School made an acceptable compromise.
This was a satisfying professional life but the pull to the University
world never diminished.

Changing jobs, as most of us know, is not an easy experience
emotionally. You suddenly realize that you are in your forties; if
you are ever going to try some of the changes of direction you have
been thinking about for years, it’s now or never. It is gratifyi ing to
find that when everything has been going very well indeed, you
have the guts to make a change because you think it is the best thing

[ 873 ]

1 Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

to do. Whether or not the change is necessarily wiser is probably
not the important part, although in this instance, I am very happy
I made the change. Somewhere one has to strike a balance between
sticking to the same task through thick and thin, and on the other
hand, being ready to strike out in a new direction, partly as an ex-
pression of that divine discontent with which we are all endowed
and partly to keep from getting in an intellectual and emotional rut.

Externally, nothing very spectacular has happened. The income
has risen slowly but steadily, never enough to relax and start coast-
ing, but not in recent years so small as to produce severe worry.
Politically, I haven’t moved very far either, but the direction the
moves have taken has been more to the left than to the right. I feel
a little ashamed of having been conservative as a youth at an age
when to be radical is normal. The geographical center hasn’t moved
much either; having started to live in Baltimore in 1943 with no
particular idea of coming back to the Boston area, I now live only
about ten miles further from Boston than when I started. All in
all, I have been lucky. Now [ have the privilege of doing something
which has meaning, is absorbing and may be considered, in a way,
repayment.

. ROBERT EDWARD PURDY

HOME ApprESS: 121 Montvale Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Life Insurance Co., 4508 Chrysler Bldg., 135 E. #e
St., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1914, Wakefield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1037.

Marriep: Anne Fricke, May 27, 1943, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Jeffrey
Blanchard, March 5, 1944; Holly James June 16, 1946; Nan Carleton, Sept.
2, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Insurance; assistant regional vice- president, group insurance sales,
responsible for the company’s operations in New York City and New
England.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York, Chamber of Commerce
of New York; Weston (Mass.) Golf Club.

WHEN I try to recount my various moves and transfers since
entering the field of Group Insurance sales in the fall of 1937, it
sounds altogether like a scrambled bus timetable. It should suffice
to say that I’ve lived for at least one year and never more than
three in the following desirable suburbs, each of which had at the

[ 874 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time, according to the natives, “one of the two best public school
systems in the country” — South Bend, Indiana; Portland, Maine;
Charleston, West Virginia; Sherborn, Massachusetts, New Haven,
Connecticut; Weston, Massachusetts; Darien, Connecticut, Berwyn,
Pennsylvania, Moorestown, New Jersey, and Weston, Massachusetts
— sometime ask me about corporate living.

In August, 1941, I got patriotic in time to get in ahead of the draft
and spent four years in the wild blue yonder. One of them was in
the Middle East in a B-25 dropping things on Rommel. This got
me three medals, several promotions and a cushy desk job in the
Z.1. for the duration. By V-J Day I was a lieutenant colonel, the high-
est-ranking bombardier in the Air Force, had acquired a Wellesley
girl, Anne Fricke, for my one and only, and the first installment on
our family had arrived. We came back to Boston and have lived
here off and on as much as possible since then.

I'm still pretty active for an old man. Manage to play a goodly
amount of golf, and my mid-80’s scores are no improvement what-
soever over what I could do thirty years ago. The whole family
skis and we all head for New Hampshire just about every winter
weekend. In this I’ve improved, but am afraid it’s mostly because
the equipment is better nowadays. Once a week I manage to work
in some pretty violent hockey with the Lincoln Mohawk Skating
Club at the Belmont Hill School rink. Here I’m beginning to feel old
though. It’s getting increasingly tough to keep up with the kids.

The rest of my spare time is spent on airplanes between New York
and Boston and avoiding TV. We are not planning a fallout
shelter, nor will we be knocking at the door of yours when the ume
comes, thank you just the same.

ELLWOOD MILTON RABENOLD, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 310 Woodland Terr., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE AppREsS: Office of CNO, OP-611, Pentagon, Washington, D.C.

BORN: July 21, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, Riverdale-on-Hudson, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cur laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Joan Ackerson, April 26, 1943, New Orleans, La. (died April 5, 1055);
Marjorie Thomas, April 17, 1956, Woodstock, Ill. cuitpren: Erie and Diana
(twins), June 2, 1946; Glenn Ellwood, June 14, 1957; Elizaberh, Nov. 18,
1960,

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Folk Rabenold, '39; Charles Frederick Rabenold, ‘47;
John Kuhnast Rabenold, ’sr.

[ 875]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occupation: Foreign service officer assigned to the Navy’s Political-Military
Division.

MEMBER OF: Foreign Service Association.

I AM writing this after a long day spent (in the absence of my wife)
with an infant’s diapers, formula and runny nose. It is my infant,
not my child’s child, which gives me pause to reflect whether, after
twenty-five years since college graduation, I am not where I should
have been at the beginning. I am happy to report that more has
transpired in my postgraduate life than the nursing of the offspring,
pleasant as that occasionally can be. The years have been full,
diversified and invariably rewarding.

Upon leaving the Harvard University campus in 1939, I booked
passage on a slow Norwegian freighter bound for Argentina. I
spent a year in Buenos Aires working for the National City Bank
of New York, learning the language and seeing how people lived
some 5,000 miles from home. The Graf Spee was scuttled in
Montevideo Bay that year, while war broke out in Europe. I re-
turned to the States, but not before I had decided on the foreign
service as a Career.

This career, however, was still five years away. In early 1941 I
was drafted into the Army and traversed the ranks from a $21-a-
month draftee through acting mess and supply sergeant to captain
of Infantry. I have nothing but fond memories of my military
service which actually was not spent in the Infantry, but in counter-
intelligence in Panama. After the war came the examinations for
the foreign service and ultimate commissioning as a diplomatic and
consular officer.

Since 1947 I have been Vice-consul in Genoa, a Second Secretary
in Madrid, Consul in Zagreb and First Secretary in Buenos Aires.
They have all been fascinating posts, especially Yugoslavia where
in 1956 I represented U.S. interests not more than a two-hour drive
from the scene of the Hungarian Revolution. Our twins, then ten
years old, were not with us during those two years, but in the
Swiss Alps, most of the time on skis. Little Glenn was born in
Munich.

One gloomy winter’s day in Buenos Aires (July 1, 1960), the State
Department gave us two weeks’ notice to pack up and attend the
Air War College in Montgomery, Alabama. We made it in time,
traveling within twelve hours from freezing Argentina to broiling
Miami. The ensuing year was a delightful opportunity to sit back,
listen to the world’s savants and ponder the problems of U.S. foreign

[ 876 ]

 

i
‘
i
i
:
'
}
&

spotter pe nec at

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

policy and military strategy. The excellent martinis at the officers’
mess helped immeasurably in this task of meditation.

Since July, 1961, 1 have been serving as a State Department ex-
change officer with the Navy. My naval colleagues consider that,
after stints with the Army and the Air Force, I have now come to
the right place for my more advanced military education.

Looking back over the years, many of them spent abroad, I find
that there was little or no time for the normal community and club
life of the average American family. However, we fully indulged
in our hobbies of music, fishing, tennis and golf. Now that we are
back in the States for a while, we are resolved to renew our family
ties and see more of our friends — that is, if that infant I mentioned
at the outset will let us.

ROBERT WILLIAM RAYMOND

HOME ApprRESS: R.D., Delmar, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 75 Willett St., Albany, N.Y.

BorN: April 27, 1915, Albany, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933—-1937- DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.D. (Albany Medical Coll.),
1941.

marrieD: Marion Elsie Wright, Aug. 2, 1942, Mount Kisco, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Dorothy Nethercott, May 24, 1943; Susan Louise, March 13, 1948 (died
May 30, 1951); Carol Alexander, April 11, 1950; William Thomas, April 9,
1952. _

OCCUPATION: Physician; private practice of internal medicine and allergy; assist-
ant clinical professor of medicine, Albany Medical College.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, Westminster Presbyterian Church, Albany, 1958-61;
member, Steering Committee, Bethlehem Central High School, Delmar,
N.Y,, 1958-61.

MEMBER OF: Masters Lodge No. 5, F. & A.M., Albany; Massachusetts Gamma

_ Chapter, = AE. Fraternity (life member); American Board of Internal
Medicine (diplomate); American Academy of Allergy; American College
of Allergists; Albany County Medical Society; American Medical Associa-
tion; Mendelssohn Club of Albany.

pusLications: “A Mild Exanthematous Disease Seen in the Schouten Islands,”
American Journal of Tropical Medicine, vol. 26, No. 4, July, 1946; “Infec-
tious Mononucleosis with Psychosis,” New England Journal of Medicine,
October, 1948.

FOUR years after our Commencement at Harvard, I stood with
most of the other members of the Class of 1941 of Albany Medical
College, and together with the degree of doctor of medicine re-
ceived a commission as first lieutenant in the U.S. Army Reserve.

[ 877]

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Six months later we were at war; and on July 1, 1942, having com-
pleted a year’s internship, I started almost four years of active duty
by arriving at the Medical Field Service School, Carlisle Barracks,
Pennsylvania, with approximately 1000 neophytes like myself.

On August 2, 1942, Marion Wright of Chappaqua, New York, the
loveliest member of the Class of 1943 at Russell Sage College School
of Nursing, and I were married at St. Thomas Episcopal Church in
Mount Kisco, New York. We fell in love with San Francisco dur-
ing our brief stay there awaiting the formation of the convoy, and
by September 1, 1942, 1 was on my way to the Southwest Pacific.
There, after brief visits to New Caledonia, New Zealand, and
Australia, I spent the rest of my thirty-nine months overseas on the
island of New Guinea; first as a battalion surgeon and then as a
medical officer of the 17th Station Hospital. I was very lucky to

‘ be associated with the fine officers and men— co-workers and
patients alike — and came through without any injuries. Much of
this good fortune should be ascribed to General Douglas MacArthur,
who used our pitifully small numbers in leap-frog tactics; starting
in November of 1942 with the Buna~Gona campaign, and going on
to ultimate victory over the Japanese with minimal casualties to
ourselves.

After discharge, February 26, 1946, I became assistant resident
in chest diseases at Albany Hospital, retaining activity in the U.S.
Army Reserve, promoted to major, Medical Corps; though I am
now no longer in the Reserve. The next year found me assistant
resident, Medical Service, Albany Hospital. On July 1, 1948, I
hung out my shingle to practise medicine in my home town. Fortu-
nately, I was associated with Dr. Kenneth E. Crounse, allergist at
Albany Hospital, and received training in this specialty from him.
I obtained my certificate as diplomate of the American Board of
Internal Medicine on June 6, 1951, the final examinations for which
came only a few days after the death of our little three-year-old
Susan from acute leukemia. The next year Bill was born and helped
restore our little family with his sunny disposition. Incidentally,
the girls, Dot and Carol, have Marion’s red hair, but Bill’s hair is
as brown as mine used to be. (Yes, mine has faded both in color and
quantity!) The family decided a few years ago to move to the
country; and so we bought a farm eight miles outside of Albany,
near Unionville, with steep hills which we have planted to pine
and spruce seedlings, fences for a horse and several sheep; chickens;
and plenty of hard work lugging rocks, bales of hay, pails of water,

[ 878]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and paying bills. But we love it, and our pride and joy is a pond
for swimming and_ fishing constructed with the advice of the Soil
Conservation Service.

Now comes the most difficult part of this report. I would say that
I believe in being active in church and community affairs. Serving
as a deacon of our church, helping in the Adult Education Course
when we were without a minister, and also participating in such
activities as the curriculum committee for our school district, to-
gether with experiences as a practising physician, have certainly
opened my eyes as to the real needs of our country. We need to
recapture some of the spirit of those who built this country — who
were willing to work hard and had courage in adversity; had a
worthy goal and strove to achieve it. If such an attitude were
general among the people there would not need to be so many
restrictive and protective governmental controls. The ever-increas-
ing trend of looking toward Washington or the State Capitol for
help to solve every problem could be reversed if the citizens would
do as much as they could on a local level first. Sharing mutual con-
cerns brings a feeling of belonging which is lacking to a large extent
when a community gets help from the government. Indeed, many
of the local problems stem from the flow of money and interest
away from the area to the centers of government.

CARLTON SAMUEL REDMOND, JR.

HOME aAppREsS: R.F.D. 2, Laconia, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hunter Hosiery, Inc., P.O. Box 263, Laconia, N.H.
BORN: Aug. 2, 1914, Waterbury, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Wight, Aug. 17, 1940, Marion, Mass. cutLpreN: John Hunt-
er, June 23, 1941; Peter Wight, Feb. 9, 1944; Daniel Stevens, Oct. 16, 1946.
OCCUPATION: President, treasurer, Hunter Hosiery, Inc., manufacturers of ladies

seamless nylon hosiery.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Hunter Hosiery, Inc., Laconia Dye Works, Inc.; com-
missioner, Belknap Recreational Area.

ON graduation left for Honduras to work for the United Fruit
Company. In 1940 I married Elizabeth Wight in Marion, Massa-
chusetts, Have three sons who are now, John twenty, Peter seven-
teen and Daniel fifteen. In 1941 returned to the United States by
boat; two days out of New York Pearl Harbor was attacked. This
speeded up our arrival in New York by some twenty-four hours,

[ 879 ]

— L_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

along with several hundred other boats in the area at that time.
Went to work for Scott & Williams, Inc., Laconia, New Hampshire,
as a machinist in war work; then in time and motion study, fore-
man and production engineer.

Left Scott & Williams in 1949 to form own hosiery company,
Hunter Hosiery, Inc. Added dyeing and finishing plant in last
twelve months to become a completely integrated mill. The hosiery
business, like any other today, is extremely challenging. What with
governmental controls and increasing foreign competition, the
general economic picture is not too bright for private enterprise.

My family has continued to be the most gratifying experience in
my life. Betty has done a remarkable job with the boys, often re-
ceiving little help from me, especially during the early years of our
business. Now that John is at Colgate and Peter and Dan at Ver-
mont Academy and Holderness, respectively, Betty is relaxing some-
what. Her route to relaxation I sometimes question as she is now
engaged in the dog business — basset hounds. Breeding and raising
and showing same occupy much of our spare time.

Skiing is still our number one winter activity. I was recently
appointed commissioner to the Belknap Recreational Area. The
commission operates, for the county, the local ski resort. We are
now in the process of tripling the skiing capacity soon to become
the best and nearest major ski area to Boston.

As to the immediate future, the family, of course, is looking for-
ward to the June Reunion. Beyond that we hope to continue some-
what along the path, or rut, that we are traveling now. We can only
hope that the next twenty-five years are as kind to us as the last.

HERBERT GREELEY REGAN

HOME appress: 74 Birch Tree Drive, Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State College at Boston, 625 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; A.M. (Boston Coll.), 1939. _

Maraiep: Loretta P. Murphy, Oct. 14, 1943, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: James
Carlisle, Feb, 18, 1947; Neil Gerard, March 6, 1951; Loretta Louise, April
10, 1957.

occupaTion:: Dean of men, State College at Boston. .

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1956, chairman, since 1960, Westwood School
Committee, chairman, Westwood Junior High School Building Committee,
member, since 1956, chairman, 1956-59, Westwood Town Democratic

[ 880 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Committee; delegate, State Democratic Conventions, 1958, 1960; past

president, St. Margaret Mary’s Holy Name Society, Westwood, member,
Westwood Dental Clinic.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Association of School Committees; Massachusetts

State Colleges Association; Westwood Post No. 320, American Legion,
Westwood-Dover Conservation Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author with Wm. Reid, Massachusetts: History and Govern-
ment of the Bay State, Oxford Book Company, New York, 1956; “Massa-
chusetts,” Encyclopaedia Britannica Junior; “Some Thoughts on the Teach-

ing of Massachusetts History & Government in the Classroom,” The
Torch, 1V, November, 1951.

AFTER lengthy and considered reflection on what I have been
doing since 1937, I have to conclude that most of it has been un-
planned and unexpected. Never, in 1937, did 1 envisage myself as
a professor, an elected town official (I was city bred), a delegate to
Massachusetts State Democratic conventions. And being a pacifist of
sorts, as most of us were in 1937, I never expected to spend over
three years fighting a war. Nor, in my wildest dreams, did I ever
foresee myself as an author. Business was my goal, with prolonged
golf club membership. For a while, I had the golf club membership,
but this has long since gone by the board. In retrospect, I am not the
me of ’37. Yet I am sure it has all been for the best. I am a very
contented suburbanite who feels that Dame Fortune has been by his
side the last twenty-five years.

Blocked, for various reasons, some obvious in 1937-38, from
making a million in the world of business, I went back to school.
I was the only A.M. (history major) graduated from Boston
College in 1939 to get employment. Teaching in Ayer, Massa-
chusetts, I found out that I liked the job, the kids, and the pleasant
associations I made in that community. Appointed to the Boston
School System in 1941, I later learned that no other history appoint-
ments were made until 1946. By then I had a very enjoyable assign-
ment teaching returning veterans and in 1947 was appointed assistant
professor at the Teachers College of the City of Boston. In 1952, the
state took over the college and since then the enrollment and the
faculty have quadrupled in size. It now has 1,600 daytime students
and about 2,000 in evening extension courses. In 1947, I was the
youngest person on the faculty, by many years, and this did not hurt
when expansion hit Boston State College. Now a full professor and
dean of men, I feel that I have been very fortunate.

The book was born as a result of being chairman of the history de-
partment at the college. A publishing house asked me to write a text

[ 881 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

book on government in Massachusetts. With a fellow professor,
Bill Reid (Dartmouth ’34), the task was completed in 1956. Massa-
chusetts: History and Government of the Bay State (New York:
Oxford Book Company, 1956) is being used in high schools through-
out the state, Its success has exceeded our expectations. This ex-
perience as an author led to an article on “Massachusetts” for Britan-
nica Junior. Now those of you who know me are probably shaking
your heads in disbelief.

Good fortune was also with me during my forty months of war
service. I spent thirty-two of these on the USS Knight (DD 633).
There was never a better destroyer in the fleet, nor one that saw more
active service, and it never got scratched, except when hitting the
dock which it always did. From my experiences on this good ship,
I strongly recommend destroyer duty.

Fortunate, too, was I to marry a wonderful girl, a very beautiful

and brainy creature, who is also a good cook and loves to entertain.
What more can one ask? We have three wonderful kids: Jay four-
teen, Neil ten, and Lisa four. The boys I would like to send to Har-
vard, but it will be their decision, not mine. We have thoroughly
enjoyed living in Westwood. I] must confess I knew nothing about
the town (10,500 population, 1961) when we bought our house
(1951), nor about drainage, cesspools, or rising tax rates. We were
lucky; no complaints.

My hobbies remain about the same — cards and golf — _ but since
1956 I have a new interest — politics! I was elected to the Westwood
School Committee that year and have found it a most enjoyable and
interesting experience. My hat is now in the ring for a third term.

In conclusion, I have no regrets at the way things have transpired
since 1937. Sure the grass is always greener in the other fellow’s
yard, When isn’t it? Maybe I would have made a fortune in busi-
ness. As it happened though, I discovered I had a natural talent for
teaching, and thoroughly enjoyed my work in the classroom. It is a
thrill, uniquely experienced by educators, when former students
write or return to the college to tell you of their successes and ex-
periences. Then I feel that I am doing what I was meant to do, and
that with my wonderful family, good health, and fine friends, I have
all I need for a good life.

[ 882 ]

rem RET

ie ee sf pal Me ne

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES ERNST REICHE

HOME apprEss: 1 Library Lane, Simsbury, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 928 Farmington Ave., West Hartford 7, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1913, Bristol, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MarrigD: Marjorie Fowler, May 19, 1941, Monck’s Corner, S.C. (divorced 1946),
Caroline Blackmer Taylor, June 24, 1957, Cape Elizabeth, Maine. CHiLpREN:
Anne Fairbrother, April 3, 1942; Edward Taylor Wilson, April 20, 1947
(stepson) ; Courtland Darrow Wilson, Nov. 17, 1948 (stepson).

OCCUPATION: Public relations director, Manufacturers Association of Connecti-
cut.

MEMBER OF: Nuclear Energy Writers Association; Aviation Wniters Associa-
tion; Blackwater Salmon Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Nebraska Highway Needs,” Lincoln, Nebraska, 1948.

WRITING as a man who has spent no one knows how many hours
slashing away at a typewriter keyboard in the past twenty-five
years of newspapering and public relationsing, I boggle at the no-
tion that I have anything at all to say which could possibly interest
anyone in the Class of 1937.

As with most other people, the hands which have been dealt
me in the past twenty-five years have been a mixed bag: good, so-so
and lousy. I expect that this pattern will continue.

There have never been any ties between me and other members
of the Class— except for Wheeler Sammons— and this pattern,
too, I expect will continue.

I have strong feelings about any number of things. However, I
have turned in my soapbox long since and don’t propose to indulge
in any wooden rhetoric here. Taciturnity has never been one of my
strong points but with all due respect I see no need for dwelling
on what I have been doing for the last twenty-five years .. . es-
pecially so when I can only remember the names of about eight class-
mates. I do wish all of the Class well, always.

Postscript — After having read the foregoing, my wife com-
mented that I wasn’t trying awfully hard. She admits, however,
that I can be awfully trying. For the record, during the past twenty-
five years I have collected pay checks (some of them way up into
two figures) from the Hartford Times, the Providence Journal,
the Washington Post, the Automotive Safety Foundation, General
Dynamics, Marquis-Who’s Who, Inc., and the Manufacturers As-
sociation of Connecticut.

[ 883 ]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

+ CHARLES WILLARD REID

porN: Dec. 17, 1914, Brookline, Mass, parents: William Thomas Reid, Jr,, ’o1,
Christine Lincoln.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB. 1937.
marriep: Mildred Jean Tarbuth, July 12, 1944.
pIED: Sept. 9, 1944, Chicago, Ill.
REID was active in the Instrumental Clubs and the Vocal Club at
Harvard. After a year with a travel agency in Boston and Brook-
line, he joined the faculty of the Morristown School, Morristown,
New Jersey, where he spent a year, and then accepted a position as
teacher of English and American history at the Manlius School in
Manlius, New York. Later he taught at the Fairfield Country Day
School, Fairfield, Connecticut, and the Mount Tamalpais School, San
Rafael, California. In March, 1942, he enlisted in the Coast Guard
at Boston as an apprentice seaman and trained at Manhattan Beach,
New York, at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, and at sea, before enter-
ing the Coast Guard Academy at New London, Connecticut, for
officer training. After receiving his commission, he was appointed
instructor in Spanish at the Academy, a position which he retained
until his death.

He died just after his wedding trip, while serving as a lieutenant

(j-g.) in the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve. He was survived by his wife
and father.

JAMES DUNHAM REILLY

HOME ADDRESS: 451 Country Club Lane, Coronado, Calif.

OFFICE apprEss: % Chief of Naval Personnel, Navy Dept., Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: June 23, 1915, Winnetka, II.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, IIL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREE: 8.8. (U.S. Naval Academy), 1939.

MARRIED; Louise H. Blossom, June 8, 1941, Lake Forest, Ill. cumpren: Sheila
Ann, Nov. 30, 1943; Kevin Dunham, Oct. 30, 1957.

occupation: Captain, US. Navy.

AS a two-year student I am not fully entitled to this page. My re-
spect for Harvard is nonetheless sincere and ever-increasing, al-
though my practical associations have been but few. Perhaps more
interesting than the requested life account, in my case, will be some
remarks on my relationship with Harvard and in regard to my

“years before the mast” (respects to H’s sea-going, literary Dana),
since I departed school to join the Navy,

[ 884]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Why I attended. Sights set on any best quality college (parental
influence), but lacked selection convictions. A long-admired friend
was applying and would be my roommate (security). Headmaster
was a graduate (slight influence). Harvard’s prestige highly coveted
in my midwest, suburban, slightly snobbish and intellectually af-
fected community (couldn’t go wrong). I had no specific goals to
be fulfilled in college, or by Harvard — just another liberal arts
type, needing confidence and hoping soon and somehow to find his
niche in the experiences ahead.

Why I left. The naval science course attracted my enthusiasm,
flattered me with an “A,” indicated a virtuous, venturesome and
meaningful way of life. Certainly national service and a practical
life in ships with men and weapons was better than commuting,
capturing the dollar, seeking power or prestige via wealth and in-
fluence —the apparent self-centered mode de vie, as it seemed
then, of almost all the men that I had ever known. Family military
traditions, commissions on the staircase, battle relics in the basement,
may have set the stage. Also I was unduly conscientious about term
bills vs. benefits to other members of a large family. Then too, I
considered myself not the quality of student that President Conant
really wanted.

I was in that delightful immature stage wherein all matters are
easily black or white. Even now I believe I recall a Yard gate in-
scribed on one side “Enter to Grow in Wisdom” (probably Vis-
dom — some of those old chiselers never did learn to spell!), and on
the other “Depart to Serve Thy Country and Thy Kind.” Full of
childish ideals and some self-styled patriotism, but without a full
share of the Visdom, I headed for the Naval Academy blessed with
that unique fortune, as it turned out, of knowing exactly what I
wanted.

Twenty-five years in the U.S. Navy, during which I had sea duty
aboard the USS Chester, USS Shangri-La, USS Chevalier, USS Los
Angeles and USS Washburn; shore duty: U.S. Naval Academy,
Annapolis; staff of Com 9, Great Lakes; Naval Training Center,
Great Lakes; staff of General MacArthur, Tokyo; Naval Training
Command, San Diego; Personnel Research Acty, San Diego, have
taught me that:

Personal. A marriage can be strengthened and become increas-
ingly meaningful even with frequent short and occasional long
separations.

A good wife in a wheelchair from polio can keep her shafts turn-

[ 885 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ing, never miss a signal, solve the household logistic probs, precisely
aim with distinction an oil paint brush, take a proper strain on a
flower stem, and exhibit laudable qualities of leadership when on
independent duty.

Three years in Tokyo during an eventful period are fascinating,
including Harvard Club luncheons, and teach ucmost, repeat utmost,
respect for the Japanese.

Living in Coronado, California, is delightful and friendly, and
owning a house there, in my case, is a safe anchor to windward. The
Pacific, my appointed home away from home, comes only in the
Xtra-Large size, and as is often said, is often not pacific.

If in time we all tend to sacrifice our virtuous ideals, life in the
service enables one to do so at a relatively slow rate. Lifetime per-
sonal satisfactions can be had with a number of small, sometimes un-
recognized achievements.

A poor game of squash through the years is still refreshing. Many
years of gunnery damages ears, resulting in some advantages.

Professional. There’s nothing “wrong” with the American teen-
ager, neither my numbers below decks, nor my fine daughter at Vas-
sar. American youth may not possess all the attributes of best mili-
tary character, perhaps fortunately, but is not “soft” today when
confronted with obstacles.

Many Harvard graduates served with distinction as 5 naval officers
in World War I], and such civilian influence was in part needed to
penetrate a certain amount of practised but unintentional regular
Navy stuffiness.

While the prestige of the line officer continues to deteriorate, the
experienced management of men under trying conditions remains
critically important to military success. In war, just doing the simple
things right is often most difficult, sometimes impossible, but fre-

quently vital and absolutely necessary to victory.

War to the individual can be characterized as mostly monotony,
plagued with varying degrees of apprehension, pierced with mo-
ments of extreme and even wild terror.

Philosopbical. The so-called military mind may be just what is
needed for some military purposes. Professionalism in the services
is lacking and can result one sad day in costly loss of blood and
treasure.

Pride of country does not necessarily justify faith in American
righteousness, American power, or American supremacy as the solu-
tion to world problems. Our national influence is precisely limited,

[ 886 ]

Tee en ee RRR OO PT 2

ay

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and in projecting it we may expect to suffer events contrary to our
best interests and desires. C’est Ia vie.

In the realistic consideration of American forces and influence we
must be cautious against undue faith in our industrial base as the
winner, in our weapons technology as the answer, in our beloved
concept of the citizen soldier as still appropriate, and in the right-
eousness of the UN as a peace instrument.

The place of military force in the grand scheme will forever be
subject to debate, with never a “correct” answer. Historians, man
your stations. The unfolding of human events, to me, is more
determined by a variety of forces than by chance, and all central-
ized controls of effective combinations of these forces, for better or
worse, are, historically, impermanent.

A good study of forces, of expressions, can begin with my four-
year-old son (or yours), who has an infinite variety in his repertoire,
adding up thankfully to a God-given insurance against the prejudices
of elders.

And finally ... simple statements about complex matters are
often subject to invalidating inaccuracies and -misinterpretations,
but they’re tempting. ©
_ Harvard to me now, looking from the outside in, stands as a distant
but imposing symbol constantly representing an intelligent approach
to life’s problems. That elusive verrras must still be sought.

While I tend to avoid social identification with Harvard in defer-
ence to those who graduated, I never hide my pride in her, and
gratefully acknowledge the chance events that keyed me to her so
many years ago.

FREDERICK REINSTEIN

HOME AbpRESS: 859 Northampton Drive, Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADpREss: Literary Agency of Washington, roro Vermont Ave. N.W.,
Washington 5, D.C.

BoRN: March 23, 1914, Podhajce, Austria.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1938.

MmarrigD: Johanna E, Dannheisser, May 1, 1945, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Richard David, Jan. 10, 1954; Diana Josephine, June 21, 1961.

occupation: Director, Literary Agency of Washington; representing authors
in sale of their books, articles or short stories.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Military Order of Foreign Wars;
US. Army Reserve.

puBLicaTions: Ghosted a multitude of books and articles,

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YOU'RE staggering around in your little old rut — which differs
from the grave only in depth, they say — when from Cambridge
comes the pronunciamento to unburden the soul and heart and
mind. Be informal, they say, but what they really want is a personal
and professional X-ray —a clear one at that. So you go out and
rent a motel and take along all the prior Reports and then you begin
a quarter-century of personal review.

Maybe you're not really in a rut or how come you fathered a
second child (same wife) only five months ago (June 21, 1961)?
There must certainly be some life in the old carcass even if it sort
of shakes the bones to realize it is twenty-five years since you left
the cloisters —a year that also coincided with the father’s Twenty-
fifth. And you haven’t forgotten that rumble even now!

The first two Reports were fairly complete, so let’s just move
back in time about fifteen years, just after you left the U.S. Engi-
neers, There was nothing much around Baltimore to intrigue you,
but they just did have an opening at the U.S. Army and Air Force
Recruiting Service. So back to the faded uniform for five months
and you did everything but recruit — write radio spot announce-
ments, arrange military functions, and generally remind people
that the Armed Forces are almost as important during peacetime
as you-know-when. It was also a time when you decided that the
father of Robinson Crusoe had been neglected, and so to the li-
braries, and after eight months, oops, a partial biography that it
turned out was too good for publication. Since you couldn’t sell
your own book, why not do the same for other authors? So to
Washington and setting up as the nation’s only literary agent —
still true. It was the best of times; it was the worst of times. In
brief, it was the fall of 1948 and they gave you as much chance of
surviving as they were giving Harry Truman. Well, he got in
and you held on, as one President after another pops into the White
House, about a mile from where this is being composed. Nope.
Haven't ghosted any presidential memoirs but the office did type
Merriman Smith’s book, “Meet...... ” On second thought,
why give the book publicity since we never represented the author?
However, if you need some bedtime reading, you can help me out
by buying Only in Russia (Norton), Tennessee Williams: Rebellious
Puritan (Tischler) or even Mr. Lincoln Runs for President (Hayes),
all recently sold and published by yours truly and sincerely. And
so, I guess on to 1970 and beyond!

[ 888 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM FRANCIS RENNER

HOME ADDRESS: 210 Paddington Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 W. 29th St., Baltimore 18, Md.

BoRN: Aug. 18, 1915, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; MD. (Univ. of Chicago), 1942.

MarriED: Laura V. Kehne, Sept. 20, 1939, Frederick, Md. csttpren: John Wil-
liam, Jan. 17, 1946, William Keyser, Dec. 9, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gerard William Renner, ’44.

OccuUPATION: Physician; private practice of internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, executive committee, 1958-61; chief of staff, 1961-62,
The Union Memorial Hospital; chairman, Speakers Bureau, The Heart
Association of Maryland, 1958-59; physician, Cardiac Clinic, Johns Hop-
kins Hospital, 1959-61; Instructor in Medicine, Johns Hopkins University,
1961; Physician in charge of Cardiology, The Franklin Square Hospital,
1959-61; member, Medical & Chirurgical Faculty of Maryland; member,
visiting staff, The Union Memorial Hospital, Hospital for the Women of
Maryland, Franklin Square Hospital, Maryland General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, American College of Physicians;
Heart Association of Maryland; The Johns Hopkins Faculty Club.

PUBLICATIONS: About a dozen contributions to medical journals, the last one
being “The Role of the General Hospital in the Training of the Doctor,”
Journal of American Medical Assoctation, November 18, 1961.

IN July, 37, I joined the 7th Field Artillery, Fort Ethan Allen,
Vermont, with several of our classmates, as a second lieutenant
(Thomason Act officer). I enjoyed this contrast to a student’s life
thoroughly until Armistice Day (old terminology), 1937, when I
became involved in a fatal accident — fatal, that is, to the horse
with whom I tumbled. I spent the next six months in the country
club section of the Walter Reed Hospital having my face put back
together. Despite my cosmetic difficulties, I managed to meet some
attractive young nurses and dietitians, a development which brought
about my second fatal accident — this time to me — in my encounter
with a pretty little blonde nurse. I married her, September 20, 1939.

Having had a taste of medicine as a patient, I decided to see the
other side of the coin; consequently, spent the years 1938 to ’42 at
The Medical School of the University of Chicago and the year
1942-43 as an interne at the University of Chicago Clinics. In Julv,
"43, I joined Uncle Sam and spent most of the next three years see-
ing a good portion of the world, and incidentally doing a little
medicine here and there, as C.O. of the 874th Medical Hospital Ship
Platoon (Sep.) and as a medical officer of the Army Hospital Ship
Acadia, a derelict from the Boston to New York run.

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

The war won, I donned the white uniform again, this time at The
Union Memorial Hospital in Baltimore, where I completed my
training in internal medicine in 1948. Since 1948 my time has been
about ninety-nine per cent absorbed by my practice and related
medical activities.

When I was a freshman, my faculty adviser recommended that
I not take a premedical course if I intended to be a doctor, since he
could assure me that once I entered medical school there would be
no time in the rest of my life to develop intellectual interests, |
accepted this sage advice and majored in English literature. This,
however, did not save me from the predicted fate.

I don’t know that I can agree with Mr. Wells Fay who wrote
in his Class Report, “Lawyers live well, die poor, and go straight
to hell,” except, perhaps, with the third part— but, like most
doctors, I can subscribe to his sentiment towards his profession,
“Be that as it may, 1 wouldn’t trade!”

SYDNEY RESNICK

HOME AppRESS: 1690 Cabana Drive, San Jose 25, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Regal Petroleum Co., 965 Stockton St., San Jose, Calif.

BorN: May 17, 1915, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

marrigp: Miriam Roher, May 29, 1947, San Francisco, Calif. cumtpren: Paul
Gerson, May 16, 1948; Daniel Roher, Oct. 15, 1949; Andrew Cassel, Oct. 14,
1951,

occupation: General manager, chain of service stations.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, various corporations; vice-president, Temple Emanu-
E], San Jose, Jewish Community Council of San Jose; secretary, Santa Clara
Valley Harvard Club.

MEMBER OF: American Petroleum Institute; Century Club, YMCA; La Rin-
conada Country Club, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants;
Doric Lodge, San Francisco F. & A.M.; Scottish Rite, San Jose.

DURING the last three months, family deliberation has rotated
around the axis of atomic fallout. Initially, there was a study of
wind currents and much vacillation about the advisability of a move
to the southern hemisphere, This problem found its solution in a
decision to participate in a community shelter. It is much easier to
be a fatalist! In the midst of all this came the request for a biographi-
cal sketch. C’est la vie!

Harvard Business School and accounting apprenticeship in New

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

York City gave me the necessary background which enabled me to
become a certified public accountant just before a five-year stretch
in the Army. Sometimes I think that the war lasted as long as it did
to give me ample time to pass through all phases of Army life —
from private to captain. I was far from combat: two years in the
land of calypso and the remainder in the States. As a contract
termination officer during the closing year of the war, I had occa-
sion to make several trips to the West Coast.

It was no wonder then that after release from service I turned
my bachelor steps to the San Francisco Bay area. Accounting was
my profession, and I had no difficulty locating with an accounting
firm in San Francisco as a tax consultant. hese were the years of
wide-eyed idealism, we would now have a long period of peace and
good will. The Korean War and now the 1961 fallout shelter would
make anyone cynical,

Marriage and its attendant responsibilities was the impetus lead-
ing to the establishment of my own professional practice in San
Jose during the latter part of 1947. Three sons followed in rapid
succession in 1948, 1949, and 1951. As San Jose experienced a spec-
tacular growth during the Fifties, so did my tax practice flourish.
When I had attained reasonable financial security, I decided to seek
relief from the pressures of clients’ problems and confine my activi-
ties to the myriad problems of a medium-sized corporation. As
general manager of a chain of fifty service stations, my responsibili-
ties cover a wide range — personnel supervision (400 employees),
tax planning, merchandising, land purchase, lease problems, among
others. I have found that the change from professional practice has
given me wider latitude and permitted me more time to engage in
various charitable enterprises.

‘In the meantime, all three boys have me back in school, and as I
did twenty-five years ago I look forward eagerly to their vacations.
But at least I’m in the process of obtaining a refresher course. Soon
we will be helping to plan their careers; “the discussions relating to
colleges are not too far off. My concern at the moment is the tre-
mendous financial requirements of seeing them through this phase
of their education.

While the family responsibilities — with three almost teen-age
boys — keep me absorbed most of the time, I can still find time for
bridge and an occasional round of golf in the high eighties. More
and more of my evenings are filled with meetings relating to the
Jewish Community Council, of which I am vice-president. ‘In addi-

[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

tion, I have served on the board of our local Temple for twelve
of the last fourteen years and have been active in the YMCA
Century Club.

Generally, these have been twenty-five wonderful years, and if
I could again make a choice I wouldn’t want to change anything,
We are a happy family in a wonderful community. My primary
concern is not for the politics of this country but with coexistence
with the Communist world. Will my children have the opportuni-
ties afforded to me?

PHILIP MORRISON RICE

HOME ADDRESS: 2355 Grandview Terr., Manhattan, Kans.

OFFICE appREss: Dept. of History, Kansas State University, Manhattan, Kans.

BorN: Aug. 9, 1916, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREES: A.B. (Pomona Coll.), 1938; a.m. (Univ.
of North Carolina), 1946; pH. (ibid.), 1949.

MarrieD: Harriett Elizabeth Willis, July 25, 1942, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Ashley Leigh, Nov. 12, 1945; Carol Elizabeth, Dec. 17, 1952; Harriett Ann,
Oct. 18, 1961. oe

occupation: Administrator and author; professor of history and head, Dept. of
History, Kansas State University.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of history, 1948-59, director of summer sessions, 1957-59,
North Carolina State College; professor of history and head, Dept. of
History, Kansas State University, since 1959; political analyst for television,
State of North Carolina, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Mississippi Valley Historical Association, Conference on Slavic
Studies, Sigma Phi Alpha; U.S, Naval Institute, North Carolina Historical
Society; Society for the History of Technology, Manhattan Country Club;
Phi Alpha Theta.

pusLications: Understanding a History of Civilization, New York, Prentice-
Hall, 1959, 2d edition, 1961; “The Early Development of the Roanoke
Waterway,” 1953; “The Know-Nothing Party in Virginia,” 1948; Internal
Improvements in Virginia, 1775-1860, 1949; Evaluation of Motivation in
Professional Curricula, 1954.

THIS calls for a far more accurate memory than I now have or
probably ever have possessed. Life after leaving Harvard is often a
hazy mirage but included one prewar trip to Europe highlighted by
being ordered out of Italy and being refused permission to cross the
border into Nazi Germany. The war itself was fraught with the
usual: commander in the Navy, life aboard a destroyer in the
Pacific, a long-term residence in Hawaii, a brief career on the faculty
of the ncs at Harvard —a sojourn that came so Jate that the war

[ 892 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was over before I could fully enjoy it. Postwar activities were tied
up with graduate work at the University of North Carolina and then
a long career of research, teaching, and (more than anything else)
administration. I am the holder of two Ford Foundation grants for
research: (1) motivation of students in professional schools, (2)
Soviet history. I often feel as though much of life had been devoted
to clerical duties that absorbed infinite time and produced little in
the way of concrete results except to provide a path back to the
west coast. Unfortunately, only the halfway point has been reached.

Our children span a period of sixteen years from eldest to young-
est — all three being girls. In fact, even the host of dogs, cats, turtles,
fish, etc., have managed to be female and produce naught but their
own sex. Return jaunts to Harvard have been few — research at the
Russian Research Center, a drive through the campus enroute to the
Cape, or a visit to the Library. Harvard smokers at the ana provide
some contact during the post-Christmas rush of meetings. At this
stage of one’s life, one cannot help but reflect that there has been so
little to remember except those things that might better be in-
corporated in a novel than in a biographical sketch.

CHARLES FORREST RICHARDSON

HOME ADDRESS: 80 East End Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastern Operations, Inc., 80 Pine St., New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: July 31, 1915, Omaha, Nebr.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

marriEp: Maria Dolores Joy Petrie Hoyle, March 1, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHiLp:
Maria del Pilar Alexandra Hope, March 16, 1944.

OCCUPATION: President, Eastern Operations, Inc., consultant in foreign financial
and business management matters.

OFFICES HELD: Founder, former director, life member, African Affairs Society of
America, Ltd.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Asiatic Society; City Mid-
day Club; Nippon Club, Inc. and Japan Society, New York City; Ameri-
can-Japan Society, Tokyo.

WHEN I was getting ready to graduate in 1937, about the most

- important thing in my perspective seemed to be getting a job. For

various reasons I went into the banking business, working first in

the Middle West and then in Boston. In 1941 I was married and mv

wife and I had one year of very pleasant life together in Boston

before the war changed everyone’s situation. We went to Wash-

[ 893 ]

_———— L_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ington in 1942 and after a brief period with the War Production
Board, most of which seemed to be spent in telling newly-rich
defense workers why they could not buy farm pumps, I went to
work with the State Department. My responsibilities as an officer
of the Department of State covered the wartime economic relation-
ships of the United States with China, India, Afghanistan and Ceylon.
Having transferred to the Foreign Service, I served for nearly a
year in a consulate in Mexico. After the war ended, the patriotic
fervor for this activity seemed to run out; I resigned from the
service and returned to New York, where I entered the Chemical
Bank in 1946. -

During ten years or so with the International Division of the
Chemical Bank, the bulk of my time was spent in developing busi-
ness and administering credits in the Far East, particularly Japan.
As a result of this interest, I left the bank in the summer of 1956,
and have thereafter conducted my own management firm serving
clients having financial and business interests in the Far East. I have
spent about half the past ten years in Japan, making two long visits
there each year, while my wife practises landscape architecture in
America. Most of my classmates have done more diversified travel-
ing than I have, and the Far East is not really so very glamorous.
Tokyo is a highly cosmopolitan city, as evidenced by the fact that
a couple of weeks ago over one hundred Harvard men and their
wives turned out at a dinner for Dr. and Mrs. Pusey and Mr. and
Mrs. Kane. .

These days I am most interested in catching up with life in
America and the interests of my family.

CHARLES OLIVER RICHARDSON, JR.

HOME apprEss: Kaufmann Drive, Peterborough, N.H.

BORN: Aug. 26, 1915, Weston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B 1937} 8.T.B., 1949.

Maarrigp: Elizabeth Ruth Hartshorn, Aug, 26, 1940, Weston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Penelope, June 29, 1946 (adopted); Charles Oliver, 3d, Jan. 30, 19523 Eliza-
beth Anne, April 5, 1956 (adopted).

OccUPATION: Minister, Unitarian churches of Wilton Center and Milford,
New Hampshire.

orrices HELD: President, Stow Civic Club, 1951-53; chaplain, Blue Hill Lodge,
AF. & A.M., 1954-57; chairman, Star Island Religious Education Institute,
1956-58; member, board of directors, Monadnock Area Family Service,

[ 894 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
since 1961; Monadnock Theatre Guild, since 1961; chairman, Peterborough
Heart Fund, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Peterborough Lions Club; Peterborough
Golf Club; Middlesex Club; Charles A. Welch, AF. & A.M.; Blue Hill
Lodge, A.F. & A.M. (honorary); Souhegan Country Club, Peterborough
Historical Society; Sharon Arts Center, Kennebunkport Historical So-
ciety; Massachusetts Historical Society.

FOLLOWING graduation, I went to work for the Boston Herald-
Traveler, feeling convinced that newspaper writing would be in-
teresting and productive. I served successively as copy-boy, news
reporter, and war service columnist, for six years.

I entered the Naval Reserve in 1943, as an ensign. My war record
was brief and my Naval service entirely on land. I spent some time
in the Bethesda Naval Hospital, with a severe throat infection, and
finally received a medical discharge.

The time in the hospital gave me an opportunity to look back
over my life, and to decide what I wanted to accomplish in the
future. As a result, I entered Harvard Divinity School in 1946, to
study for the Unitarian parish ministry. The denominational ques-
tion presented no problem; I had always been a Unitarian, and was
convinced that its position was most consistent with American free-
dom and individualism. I still am so convinced, despite the differ-
ences of opinion, often so highly publicized, which its complete
freedom encourages within its ranks, I was graduated from Divinity
School in 1949, and ordained the same month, by my congregation
in Stow, Massachusetts, where I had been serving as a student. |
remained happily in Stow until 1953, when we moved to Canton,
Massachusetts, to a larger and more rapidly-growing parish.

During my four years in Canton, we put on a successful fund-rais-
ing campaign, and built an addition to the church buildings, which
comprised seven church school rooms, a chapel, and an office. It
now seemed time to see something of my wife and children! Coun-
try living appealed to all of us, so we moved to Peterborough, in
1957. Since then, I have been doing interim church work, com-
munity work, and enjoying my family. An interim minister, I feel,
has much to offer a church in the way of continuity and stability,
and this has proved true for me in the past five years.

[ 895 ]

- HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MELVIN RICHTER

HOME ADDRESS: 3408 S. Stafford St., Arlington 6, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 826 Pennsylvania Bldg., 425 13th St., N.W., Washington 4, D.C,

BorN: April 17, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937; LL.B., cum
laude, 1940.

marrieD: Lenore Rebecca Feingold, Feb. 14, 1943, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Amy Rachel, April 18, 1945; Sara Madelyn, Feb. 21, 1949; Ruth Ann,
Feb. 28, 1952.

occupaATION: Attorney in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Cooperative School for Handicapped Children, 1953-
1957; member of board, Arlington Fairfax Jewish Center, since 1961
(both Arlington, Va.).

MEMBER OF: American, Federal, District and Federal Power Bar Associations.

WITH the exception of three years at the Law School, one year as
clerk to Justice Lummus of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massa-
chusetts, and two years in the Army during World War II, I have
spent my life, since graduation from college in 1937, in and around
Washington, D.C. Although born and bred a Bostonian (but not a
“proper Bostonian”), I quickly found that Boston (during 1940-41)
offered young lawyers very little opportunity for remunerative serv-
ice, or, for that matter, a living wage. Accordingly, in 1941, I
turned to Washington and government service to provide me with
the means of a livelihood. After brief service with the Railroad
Retirement Board and the Office of Price Administration, I found
my niche in the Civil Division of the Department of Justice.

There, except for two years of military service and six months at
the Federal Power Commission, I remained from 1943 through 1957,
working on civil matters involving the government in both the Su-
preme Court and in various U.S. Courts of Appeals scattered
throughout the country. Although I never attained any lofty posi-
tions while with the government (for the last three years of my
career as a civil servant, I did carry the title of Assistant Chief of the
Appellate Section, Civil Division), I thoroughly enjoyed my over a
decade in the Justice Department and am proud of the fact that
during that time I was permitted to appear and present oral argu-
ments on behalf of the government in five cases before the U.S.
Supreme Court and in innumerable cases in the several U.S. Courts
of Appeals.

Probably because of my good fortune as to associates, atmosphere,
and work, I have long been of the strong conviction that at least

[ 896 ]

ica HELTER I TIEN
merece ASE

eect ieee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for a lawyer, the government has everything to offer — but money.
And the need to earn more money — especially where there are no
outside sources of income — takes on a particular importance when
one has heavy family responsibilities. In my case, this need emanated
principally from three growing daughters, one of whom is retarded
and requires specialized and highly expensive schooling. Consequent-
ly, in 1957, 1 took the plunge into the private practice of law as an
individual practitioner. Fortunately, while at the Justice Depart-
ment, I had acquired a familiarity with problems of federal regula-
tion of the natural gas and electric industries. By sheer luck and the
help of very good friends, I have been able to keep my head above
water by dint of specialization in these fields.

CHARLES FRANCIS RICKARD

HOME appress: Venice, Fla.

OFFICE AppREss: Venice Transit & Storage, 522 E. Venice Ave., Venice, Fla.

BORN: July 5, 1911, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1037 DEGREE: A.B. 1937+

MARRIED. CHILDREN: Three daughters. GRANDCHILDREN: Three.

OCCUPATION: Owner and operator, Venice Transit & Storage, agents for
nationally-known Aero Mayflower Transit Company.

LIVING in Venice, Florida, since 1947.

EDWARD HOLLISTER RIDDLE

HOME ADDRESS: 212 Wyncote Rd., Jenkintown, Pa.

OFFICE apprEess: Rohm & Haas Co., Washington Square, Philadelphia 5, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1916, Wellesley, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1937; PHD. (Univ. of
Illinois), 1941.

MarRRiED: Katherine Berniece Harper, Dec. 30, 1939, St. Louis, Mo. CHILDREN:
Ellen Harper, April 21, 1942 (died June 17, 1942); Nancy Ellen, June 4,
1943; Janet Ware, April 24, 1945; David Lincoln, Oct. 11, 1947; Lawrence
Hollister, March 1, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Manager, sales department, Rohm & Haas Company, chemical
company.

OFFICES HELD: President, University of Illinois Chaper, Phi Lambda Upsilon;
chairman, Rohm & Haas Chem. Club; chairman, Public Relations Commit-
tee, and member, board of directors, Philadelphia section, American Chem-
ical Society; elder, Presbyterian Church; chairman, recording department,
Volunteers Service for the Blind.

[ 897 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937
MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi; Alpha Chi Sigma, Franklin
Institute; Manorlu Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in a number of chemical journals; Monomeric
Acrylic Esters, Reinhold Publishing Corporation, 1954.

SINCE I can no longer remember anything for more than five
minutes unless I write it down, and since [ have not been so illus-
trious as to have a Twentieth Century Boswell following me around,
plucking all my gems of wisdom out of the air for posterity, it is
difficult to reconstruct twenty-five days of my life, let alone twenty-
five years. As I meditate, all I can recall are the things I had planned
to do and didn’t, or the things I had wanted to do and couldn't,
Either subject would take all the space allotted to me. Upon mature
deliberation, therefore, I have decided that the solution of the
problem lies in limiting my remarks entirely to actual accomplish-
ment, keeping in mind the aphorism, “Blessed is he who, having
nothing to say, abstains from giving wordy evidence of the fact.”
This makes the memoir-writing task extremely easy.

From the Hub of the Universe I went to the Mecca of the Mid-
west, the University of Illinois, to obtain a Ph.D. degree and a wife,
the first expected and the second unexpected. Soon the second was
expecting our first. Although we didn’t make out so well with
the first one, four fit-as-a-fiddle Riddles followed to provide ample
evidence that we could do it. However, I can’t even come close
to keeping up with those early birds in our Class who are already
grandfathers; the eldest of our brood finished high school last year.
With a National Merit Scholarship finalist certificate to show to her
grandchildren, she is now a freshman at the College of Wooster
in Ohio.

How many of the Class of 1937 can lay claim to having had only
one job and one wife since they graduated? Not that this repre-
sents a great accomplishment, it just demonstrates typical Harvard
non-conformity. After leaving the University of Illinois, I sold
my soul on the installment plan to the Rohm & Haas Company,
manufacturers of chemicals and plastics, and I’m still collecting my
monthly installments here. After a few years, during which I
moved around the company gaining valuable experience in various
positions, I settled down in 1946 in one of the sales departments
and started traveling. I was trying to develop a line of organic
chemical intermediates for sale to other chemical companies and
to industries such as paint, rubber, etc. After ten years of roaming
the outfield, I was partially benched as assistant manager of the

[ 898 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

department, and then in 1958 I was sent to the dugout full time
as manager.

My greatest accomplishment came in 1949, when in transferring
part of my then sizable territory to a new man I managed to retain
all the cities with major league baseball teams and give him all the
minor league towns. Now, however, I have matured. I no longer
take vacations in order to watch the World Series on television.
In short, I have reached middle age, that unavoidable period in life
when “one’s narrow waist and broad mind begin to change places.”
I suppose I should also classify as an accomplishment the thin tome
titled The Monomeric Acrylic Esters, which resulted from taking
off four months in the summer of 1953 from sales duties to haunt
the company library. While it never made anybody’s best seller
list, at least it did not receive a review as devastating as the one-line
dismissal Ambrose Bierce once gave to a new book, “The covers
of this book are too far apart.”

Although my enjoyment of baseball and other sports has been
strictly of the spectator variety, my interest in the theatre has found
me nearly as often behind the footlights as in front of them. In
1943 I joined the Germantown Theatre Guild and was fortunate to
have leads in plays by Noel Coward, John Van Druten, James
Barrie, etc. In 1947 traveling put a temporary end to such partici-
pation, but in 1955 the work schedule permitted limited application
of the grease paint, with the highlight being the part of Henry
Higgins in “Pygmalion” (before “My Fair Lady” was born). While
this extracurricular activity had many satisfactions, it had even
more headaches and problems, and I am now “retired” again. Fortu-
nately, a substitute which I have found even more satisfying came
along at the right time. As a result of reading chemical journals
to a chemist in our Research Department who lost his sight several
years ago, I became active in making tape recordings of books for
the blind; these tape recordings are loaned to the blind anywhere
in the country, through either the Free Library of Philadelphia or
the Library of Congress (the original tape is kept in the library as
a master and copies are made on tape as needed). Most of the books
I have recorded on tape have been fiction, ranging from The Pick-
wick Papers and An American Tragedy to Mister Roberts (it’s a
bit startling to hear those four-letter words come blaring back at
you in your own voice from a tape recorder). Reading fiction on
tape is like playing all the parts in a play, although the extent of
dramatization is necessarily somewhat more limited. Not only does

[ 899 ]

potsesvanooien|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

this tape recording activity have many satisfactions, but it also has
the real advantage, compared with Thespian activities, that the read-
ing is done at home on my own schedule — no dress rehearsals last-
ing until the wee hours of the morning.

Looking back, I can see that those four years so long ago at
Harvard represented only one short scene in the drama of life, and
even though the later scenes were played outside the academic
milieu, the educational process continued right on, sometimes even
more painfully than in college. George Bernard Shaw expressed it
well when he wrote, “Education in the ways of the world is a series
of humiliations, like learning to skate. All you can do is to laugh
at yourself with the crowd.” In these turbulent times when peace
of mind has become so difficult to achieve, the ability to laugh at
oneself with the crowd, to have a sense of humor, is a most vital
faculty. Many of us tend to take life and ourselves too seriously,
becoming burdened with an exaggerated and unrelieved sense of
conscientiousness, which only creates turmoil inside the mind of
man. I’ve been fighting against this turmoil for much of the last
twenty-five years, sometimes successfully, often unsuccessfully.

One of my favorite stories relates to the chimpanzee in the zoo
who was seen holding the Bible in one hand and The Origin of
Species in the other, looking back and forth from one book to the
other. When the zoo director was asked what in the world the
chimp was doing he said, “I guess he’s trying to figure out whether
he’s his brother’s keeper or his keeper’s brother.” What better way
to express the Riddle of life?

THOMAS SIMPSON RISLEY

HOME AppRESS: Paine Avenue, Prides Crossing, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: 1 Monument Sq., Beverly, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 7, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: 1 aft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., 1937; M.D. 1941.

marrigep: Anne Motley, Dec. 5, 1942, Mattapan, Mass. cuitpren: Edward Ham-
mond, 2d, Dec. 11, 1943; Nancy Anne, Nov. 2, 1948; Judith Motley, Aug.
28, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Hammond Risley, Jr. '38 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Surgeon; visiting surgeon, Beverly Hospital.

orrices Hei: Captain, A.US., Hines Hospital, Ill, 1944-46; instructor in sur-
gery, Harvard Medical School, 1947; staff appointments, Massachusetts
General and Deaconess Hospitals, 1948-50, Beverly Hospital, since 1950.

MEMBER ov: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons,

[ 900 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American Board of Surgery; New England Surgical Society, Massachusetts
Medical Society; Essex South Medical Society; Essex Surgical Society;
Boston Surgical Society; Harvard Club of North Shore; Manchester Yacht
Club (commodore 1960-61); Manchester Harbor Boat Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on surgical subjects including: “Acute Pancreati-
tis,” “Regional Enteritis,” “Ulcerative Colitis,” “Trans-Metatarsal Amputa-
tion,” “Lumbar Sympathectomy,” “Popliteal Embolectomy,” “Abdominal
Emergencies in Diabetics,” “Mucormycosis of the Aorta.” (References or
reprints supplied on request.)

AFTER graduation in 1937, life in the big wide world got off to
a brave start with a monumental trip to Europe with three Class-
mates, Dick Axten, Allen Drew and Cheves Walling. We not only
reviewed Fine Arts 1A, but did a modest amount of mountain climb-
ing. Then began four enjoyable years at Harvard Medical School.
Summers were spent sailing a Friendship sloop for Alamoosook
Camp in Maine or doing outpatient surgery at the Massachusetts
General Hospital. After graduation, another wonderful trip —
first to Alaska with my family and then a grand camping tour of
the West with two friends. More mountain climbing — this time
with rope and ice axe. The fall of 1941 was spent doing pathology
at the University of Michigan in the very pleasant town of Ann
Arbor.

At last, in 1942, began the five-year plan of surgical training at
the Massachusetts General Hospital. This turned out to be seven
years, because of two years in the service fighting the battle of
Chicago. The main compensation was an opportunity to do vascular
surgery under Dr. de Takats at Hines, Illinois. (We owe much to
Classmate Dick Norman of Hinsdale for making life pleasant
during this period.) In 1947 I was east surgical resident under Dr.
Allen, and from 1948 to 1950 I assisted Dr. L. S. McKittrick and
worked at the Massachusetts General and Deaconess Hospitals.

In 1950 came an abrupt change from the traffic lights of the big
city to the relative calm of the North Shore. Here I have been very
happy as a member of a medical group working at the Beverly
Hospital where I have had an opportunity to develop my interests
in vascular and chest surgery. My practice, as well as the teaching
of the house staff and nurses, has been both absorbing and satisfying.

Family life has meant a great deal to me. I still have the same
attractive wife I started with. Our boy Ned is soccer captain at
Pomfret School and is trying hard to find a college that will Jet
him in. (Harvard, why have you changed so?) We have two
adorable daughters and more pets than we can keep track of. We,

[901 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

as a family, have had many happy ski, camping and sailing trips
together.

Since we live in a yachting center, it is natural that much of our
life has been centered about the activities of the Manchester Yacht
Club (including cruising and racing Lightnings). For six years I
have been a flag officer and commodore the last two. This fall, I
happily turned over my blue and white flag to the capable hands of
Classmate Dick Preston. |

In summary, life has been good to me the past twenty-five years.
Tam still grateful for the boost that Harvard gave me.

ABRAHAM ROBBINS

MAILING ADDRESS: 449 Portland Ave., St. Paul 2, Minn.

SIMON MATHEW ROBERTS

HOME ADDRESS: 132 Bellevue St.. Newton 58, Mass.

oFFice apprEss: Monks Laundry Co., Inc., 284 Norfolk St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 28, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; 8.B. (Mass.
Inst. of Technology), 1939.

marrieD: Ruth B. Gorfinkle, June 1, 1947, Brookline, Mass. cHILpreN: Carl
Geoffrey, June 17, 1948; Michael Bennett, March 5, 1950; Betsy Joy,
Dec. 20, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Business executive, laundry, dry cleaning, diaper service.

OFFICES HELD: President, Monks Laundry Company, Inc. since 1947, Brannen’s
Laundry Company, Brookline, Mass., vice-president, National Laundry
Company and National Diaper Service, Boston; secretary and member
of board, Massachusetts Laundry Association; member, Advisory Com-
mittee, American Insticute of Laundering, Joliet, Ill.; director, Newton
Central Little League.

MEMBER OF: Various clubs and trade associations in laundry, dry cleaning, and

diaper service field, Cambridge Kiwanis; Harvard Club of Boston; Phi
Beta Club of Newton; Belmont Country Club.

I CAN recall quite clearly the summer of 1936, before our senior
year, when plans to be an engineer finally jelled. There were last-
minute course changes to prepare for M.LT. Then there were two
summers of postgraduate work, before I was launched on my chosen
career in June of 1939.

My first job was with the American Laundry Machinery Com-
pany, working out of New York City, as an engineer and covering

[ 902 J

nee HERE EAP TO RP EEG RRP OEE BON EEDA M8 APCD ANAS COMI IL TD NE TEATS ATI HITT

NEE TINE CARNE RE 0 ape

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

most of the eastern states. But the war changed that. Soon I was
applying some of that engineering training for the Air Force at
Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio. In the closing days of the war, my
father died. I bade good-bye to my engineering career, and entered
the family business in Boston, in 1946.

I have no complaints, either about life in Boston or my postwar
business career, except possibly that the responsibilities of small
business seem endless. I have far too little time for my family, for
reading, for golf, and for the many community activities which |
enjoy.

Ruth and I were married in June, 1947. We had planned a brief
honeymoon, but realizing that vacations might never be as easy to
come by, we allowed ourselves to be persuaded into seven great
weeks of transcontinental touring, including a trip to the Canadian
Rockies, and three wonderful romantic weeks in sunny California.
I missed the Tenth Reunion that year.

Back in Boston, young and ambitious, I was soon looking for new
worlds to conquer. Whenever there was a lag, I managed to get my-
self involved in a new enterprise. Most of these experiences were
with old and rundown businesses. We worked hard, rehabilitated or
consolidated, and soon were extending our activities to the further
suburban areas of Metropolitan Boston, and into shopping centers.
We now operate a group of laundry, dry cleaning, and diaper serv-
ice units in the Greater Boston area. In the more sophisticated
language of today’s public relations people, we cover the gamut of
fabric care services.

Ruth and I enjoy traveling, but our trips have been limited in
recent years, as we come to spend more of our holidays with our
three children. When the children were younger, we managed at
least one trip a year to Florida, the Caribbean, Mexico, etc. In the
spring of 1957, we celebrated our tenth anniversary by treating our-
selves to five wonderful weeks touring England, Scotland, France,
Italy, and Switzerland.

Our vacations with our children have consisted of ski trips during
the winter months, and Cape Cod holidays in the summer. We are
one of the skiing families who visit the ski areas of New Hampshire
and Vermont weekends and during school holidays. The children
started to ski early, and have become great companions. During the
summer, we water ski and fish with them, but there isn’t enough
spare time. But, alas, soon the children will be grown up and then
there will be plenty of spare time.

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Civic activities, in recent years, have become largely organizing
and fund-raising activities. There seem to be far too many worthy
causes and rarely enough people to work for them. A great source
of satisfaction in the last two years has come from working with
budding baseball stars in Little League. I have been coaching and
working to help raise funds for the League. I am director of the
Newton Centre Little League.

Reflecting on the last twenty-five years, as I am sure we all occa-
sionally do, I am forever amazed at the comparative normality of my
life, and that of most of my friends. |

With the world in almost constant turmoil, at war, or on the
brink of it, or just getting over a war, our lives, while reflecting the
times, have been amazingly orderly. A profile of our Class would
probably be very little different from that of the twenty-five-year
Class of a generation or two ago. I think we have been very fortu-
nate and I am looking forward optimistically to the next twenty-
five.

CHARLES DUDLEY ROBINSON

HOME ADpRESS: 2415 Lincoln St., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE appress: A. R. Barnes & Co., 8111 N. St. Louis Ave., Skokie, Ill.

BorN: Nov, 17, 1915, St. Paul, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Evanston High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937 (39).

MARRIED: Ruth E. Vehe, April 28, 1943, Evanston, Ill. cuimpren: John Dudley,
Nov, 29, 1945; Daniel Vehe, Sept. 20, 1947.

occupation: Managing partner, A. R. Barnes & Company, railroad and indus-
trial form printers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Skokie Valley Industrial Association, 1960; campaign
chairman, Evanston United Fund, 1961; member, board of directors, Skokie
Rotary Club, since 1961, Evanston United Fund, since 1961, Rotary Form
Printers Section, Printing Industry of America, since 1961, Printing Indus-
try of Illinois, since 1961, Master Printers Section, Printing Industry of
Illinois, since 1961, Skokie Valley Industrial Association, 1956-61.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Evanston; Skokie Rotary Club.

WHEN the elegantly printed invitation from our eminent Class
Secretary came, it seemed like an easy job to write down what I
had been doing the past twenty-five years. When the actual writ-
ing was to be done, I found my memory to be like a sieve. What
have I done with the last twenty-five years?

Well, the early days are easy. I distinctly remember trying to find
a position — and then being perfectly willing to take a job — any

[ 904 ]

ccc enero 1 SONA

RN ENE TOOL IE IE ITT INT SRN MTT PO TE ET ATT
ny emer

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

job — and being happy to find one at $15.00 a week. The next few
years were spent in a succession of jobs— each somewhat better
paid — but with more work attached. Those were the happy days
of being a minor executive in a minor job in a major company,
which meant vast amounts of time to work and little for anything
else. Just as I became associated with my present company, I found
the Army seemed to want me.

The five years beginning in the fall of 1941 were spent in a
manner familiar to millions of others — doing what I was told and
being invited to keep my thinking for off-duty hours. Since my
career was spent mostly in the United States with only what turned
out to be a very interesting and generally pleasant year in Ital
starting just as the war in Europe ended, I have often felt I had little
to complain about.

The most memorable incident of those years was being intro-
duced by Jack Mason to Ruth Vehe. I was so startled to find her
that I waited a full twenty-four hours to ask her to marry me. I
have since felt that this was the single most intelligent action of
my life.

In 1946 I went back to A. R. Barnes & Company, at that time
located in Chicago, and joined the ranks of the commuters. This
is a family business, and since J am the oldest of the present genera-
tion of the family I gradually found myself running the place. At
this point, it occurred to me that commuting was harder work than
that which I was being paid to do —so we moved the company to
the suburbs so I could get to work in five minutes.

The time since then has been spent, as far as business is con-
cerned, in trying to get things up to an income level that I considered
satisfactory. This golden age has yet to arrive, but it has been inter-
esting and on the whole quite profitable. Of course, other interests
have come along — children, two now large and interesting boys —
new friends, old friends, music— my wife handles this end while
I listen — reading, and so on. We — from this point on, things are
done together — found we had a common interest in history. We
have since attempted to keep abreast of the current developments
in this field, especially American history, which meant we became
Civil War buffs some years ahead of the current craze and now find
ourselves working on the reconstruction era.

Ruth introduced me to her college, and I am afraid I have become
almost an alumnus of Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio. She has
been on various boards at Oberlin, and I have spent many pleasant

[ 905 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

weekends there. The entire atmosphere of a moderate-sized, in-
tensely intellectual, liberal arts college in a small town is far different
than it was under the elms in Cambridge. At the risk of seeming to
be a traitor to Harvard, I would like very much to have at least
one boy go to Oberlin. i
In between times, I have spent countless hours on such usual
suburban occupations as United Fund work, School Board caucus
committees, Industrial Association work, printing industry com-
mittees and boards, Cub Scout and Sunday School work, and other
similar ventures. This has been interesting and most instructive as
to how people act when they feel strongly about some particular
interest. Having reached the stage of gray hair, bifocals, and the
start of a paunch, I am beginning to feel more middle-aged and
just a bit less excited by the daily routine. I am hoping to find new
directions in which to turn to make the next twenty-five years as
interesting and pleasant as the past twenty-five have generally been.
Whether it will be more memorable is in the lap of the gods.

THOMAS ARNOLD ROBINSON |

HOME AppRESS: Fordham University, New York 58, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fordham University Development Office, 135 E. ed St. New

York 17, N.Y.

BORN: June 11, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1937(39)3 A.M. (Fordham
Univ.), 1948; s.1.8. (Woodstock Coll.), 1959.

UN MARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Watson Bryant Robinson, °36, LL.B., °39; ‘Henry Mur-
ray Robinson, '41; Cecil Robinson, * 43.

occupation: Roman Catholic priest and cleric in the Society of Jesus, assistant
director of university development, Fordham University.

OFFicEs HELD: Counselor, Camp Black-Point-on-Lake-George, Ticonderoga,
N.Y., 1937-40; trainee, Daitz Flying Corp., 1940; formal member, Society
of Jesus, since 1949 (ordained 1958); promoter, Apostleship of Prayer, since
1950; high school teacher, assistant prefect of discipline and junior debate
moderator, Brooklyn Preparatory School and St. Peter’s Preparatory
School, Jersey City, 1952~55; assistant pastor and assistant director of Mis-
sion Center, Nativity parish, New York City, 1960-61.

MEMBER oF: Cenacle Crusade of Prayer; Cum Laude Society; National Forensic
League (degree of distinction): Renaissance Society of America; American
Catholic Historical Association; American Historical Association; Puerto

Rican Association for Community Affairs; Harvard Varsity Club, Ine.;
Friends of Harvard Track.

[ 906 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: “Bellarmine’s De Controversiis at Woodstock,” Woodstock Let-

ters, April 1951; various letters to the editors of America and the New York
Times.

MY life since graduation has been a many-colored thing... .1
would hardly say a many-splendored thing, although God has
granted me more compensations, surely, than I have deserved.

Leaving Cambridge with the determination to be a Roman
Catholic priest, and a flying missionary one, to boot, there still re-
mained the rather earthy matter of paying for the projected flying
lessons. It would mean hiring myself out on the common market
for a while or joining the aeronautical division of some branch of
the service.

It makes me more sympathetic now (I hope), as a priest, to look
back and realize that making money is not the easiest thing in the
world; at least if you are starting from scratch, and not joining
some relative’s or friend’s concern, and have no professional training.
True, success might have been found eventually, selling on a com-
mission basis, if I had not run into the raw difficulty that no doubt
many another person has had to cope with: dishonesty. What do
you do when your immediate superior tells you to use shady
methods on the customers, or prospective customers? | told him he
could keep his job, I’d have no part of it.

In my innocence I then thought I could find some kind soul
who would pay me for using his equipment in order that I might
learn all about airplanes and flying and then leave him for the
missions. I did find one who was kind in every way except one:
he wouldn’t pay me, even though I was under the impression that
I was being of some assistance to him in one way or another. _

That left the service and, sensing that war was near, I made sure
to volunteer instead of letting myself be drafted and, with bands
playing and trumpets blaring, I gallantly joined the Army...
carefully specifying “Air Corps.” To my utter amazement, I was
put in the Air Corps. As I bicycled around the Windsor Locks,
Connecticut, Army Air Base, distributing notices, not many months
later, suddenly there came blasting out of every barracks I passed
the radio story of “Pearl Harbor,” and with it were blasted my per-
sonal ambitions, for the duration. For in a short time there was an
urgent call for volunteers in communications; so I sacrificed train-
ing in aviation on the altar of country and decency. Eventually pro-
moted to corporal and sergeant, I nevertheless felt I should use my
educational background to the fullest. So I volunteered for O.CS.

[ 907 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Because God is our beginning and our end, and in Him we live
and move and have our being, and our reason for being. Take this
away and what do you have? You have Soviet Russia.

ALBERT IGNATIUS ROCHE

HOME AppRESS: 753 Willow Grove Rd., Westfield, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: International Electric Corp., Paramus, N.J.
BORN: July 23, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.B.A., 1939.

MarRiED: Louise L. Neubauer, Oct. 2, 1954, Westfield, N.J.
occuPATION: Accountant.

WARREN MILLIARD RODGERS

HOME ADDRESS: go W. 72d St. New York, N.Y.

oFFice appress: Hill, Darlington & Grimm, 2 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
BORN: July 21, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1949.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Analyst, Hill, Darlington & Grimm.

AFTER leaving the Square, went to Columbia for my LL.B. and
practised law with the firms of Phillips & Nizer and Frank, Weil &
Strouse until 1951, when the lure of Wall Street proved too strong.

I formed my own over-the-counter firm which I headed until 1955.

Then I joined one of the largest firms as a security analyst. Of
recent years, I have devoted most of my time to technical market
and stock analysis, which is either a cross between a science and an
art, or else the last refuge of soothsayers and crackpots. I frankly

am still undecided.

During the last two years, I helped organize two young electronic
firms, one in Princeton, and one in Boston — just to keep things
in the Big Three. If they come up to expectations, I'll have more
time for my favorite hobbies, golf and travel, and perhaps for some

charitable work. This summer I’m off for Yugoslavia and Greece,
Khrushchev and the Dow-Jones permitting.

[910]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER ROBERT ROEMER
HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 Memory Lane, Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
BORN: July 26, 1914, Newark, N.J.
PREPARED AT: Lynbrook High School, Lynbrook, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B4 1937(38).
MmarrigD: Marion Irene Ferber, July 8, 1944, Somerville, N.J. cHrpren: Robert
Eugene, April 4, 1947; Flora Jean, Nov. 5, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Kenneth Roemer, ’35.
occuPATION: Life underwriter.

AN account of events during the past twenty-five years, which Bill
requested, sounds like a lot of ground to cover. The remarkable
thing (and I’m sure most of you agree) is how quickly the time has
gone — and how much remains to be accomplished.

Since details were the essence of earlier Reports, I see no need to
add an elaborate rehash here. In summary, the first fifteen years
were spent abroad, mostly in the Far East, and the next five up in
Canada. The year 1956 saw us finally settled down (geographically,
at least), but by 1959, I’d upset the apple-cart financially by going
into business on my own. My only regret is that I didn’t do so a
good deal earlier.

So much for the past. As for the future: it contains (1 hope) our
most productive years. If we can make the world a more agreeable
place to live in, perhaps the time we’ve had will be justified after all.
Meanwhile, the conscience can gather some consolation at least by
recalling that a hundred or a thousand years ago, the citizens were
doing just about as badly with an infinitely simpler assignment.

JAY DONALD ROGASNER
MAILING ADDRESS: Iris Theater, Alleghany Ave., Philadelphia, Pa.

CHARLES SAWYER ROGERS

HOME ADDRESS: 6018 Valley View Rd., Oakland 11, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Fourth and Jackson Streets, Oakland, Calif.
BORN: May 14, 1915, Braintree, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B, 1937,
UNMARRIED. |

occupation: Manager, Consumer Research, Safeway Stores, Inc, retail food
chain.

[or]

deste

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association, Appalachian Mountain Club;
Sierra Club; Berkeley Camera Club; American Legion; Oakland Zoological
Society; Harvard Club of San Francisco.

puBLICATIONS: Article on store location research, Super Market Merchandising,
November, 1956.

IN this year of our Twenty -fifth, two things have happened in my
life which I'll remember at least until our Fiftieth. One very good
and the other not so good. The not-so-good thing has been the
struggle to get used to bifocal glasses. For me, adjusting to the
“Bifocal Ogle” has been a more shocking indicator of middle age
than my receding hairline or any other physical change since we
were in college. The good thing this year has been a wonderful
five-week vacation trip to the Orient. Japan, Hong Kong, Thai-
land, Malaya, Singapore, the Philippines, and Hawaii. I traveled
with a group and the tour couldn’t have been more perfect. I
wrote a journal of the trip for my relatives and friends, and I really
mean the closing line: “I can’t wait to get back to the Orient.”

This year also marks my fifteenth anniversary with Safeway. I
have found that marketing research in general, and consumer re-
search in particular, has been an absorbing and satisfying profession.
My early training in this field came during three happy years with
Lever Brothers in Cambridge right after college. There were six
years between Lever Brothers and Safeway when my employer was
Uncle Sam. The war years are still vivid. My Navy duty was prac-
tically all in the Pacific. Fortunately for me, my assignments were
interesting and excellent experience. For the last year and a half
I had command of a provision stores ship. Our trips to feed the fleet
in Tokyo Bay, Shanghai, and the Philippines among other places
whetted my appetite to see more of the Orient. This year I finally
did as a civilian on vacation.

In Japan I bought a fine Nikon F camera with extra lenses and
accessories. With this and my Retina 3C I took over 1,700 colored
slides. Photography has been one of several hobbies since college
but now it’s number one. Other interests are hi-fi music, symphony
concerts, theatre, occasional short trips to the mountains, gardening,
and do-it-yourself projects around the house. The latter activities
take time, as most home owners know. I have never been happy
sitting still with a book, and I don’t even do a thorough job on cur-
rent magazines. I still don’t have a wife and not even any children. I
try to do my civic and political bit in the neighborhood and precinct.

I believe we're expected to philosophize a bit in these blurbs. 1

[912]

apt eee ni pT!

ae RT RC

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

might expound that as the years add up the faster they go. I’m
glad there’s a lot of living ahead for us. We've seen the advent of
radio, radar, television (ugh!), the transistor, atomic energy, man
in orbit. How long until there’s a cure for cancer and a man on the
moon? We'll see these and more before our Fiftieth, providing some-
one here or in Russia doesn’t push the wrong button.

HOWARD GARDNER ROGERS

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Newton St., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Polaroid Corporation, 730 Main St. Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1915, Houghton, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MarRiED: Erdna M. Reggio, Jan. 17, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN: Anne
Cranford, Nov. 20, 1940; Peter Nicholas, July 15, 1942; Mary Phillips,
March 22, 1945; Mark Howard, Oct. 7, 1946; Lucinda Gardner, Sept. 23,
1950.

OccUPATION: Research; department manager, special color photographic research.

MEMBER OF: Society of Photographic Scientists & Engineers; New England Sec-
tion, Optical Society of America; Museum of Science.

POLAROID Corporation has claimed practically all my time
and energy since 1936. After a couple of years of assisting in the
production of the early micro-crystalline polarizing sheet, I started
on a series of research projects. With the inspiration and support of
Dr. E. H. Land, I have made inventions in the fields of optics and
photography, including light polarizers, fabrication methods for
optical plastics and color processes for the Land Camera. The color-

process work has been particularly challenging, satisfying and time-
consuming.

MASON THACHER ROGERS, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 19 rue de Longpont, Neuilly sur Seine, France.

OFFICE ADDRESS: W. R. Grace & Co., Overseas Chemical Division, 2 rue Paul
Cezanne, Paris, France.

BORN: March 29, 1916, Buffalo, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.
UNMARRIED.

[913]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Container and Chemicals Division, Dewalco SARL,
Paris, France (afhliate of W. R. Grace & Company, Overseas Chemical
Division).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and France; American Club of Paris;
University Club of Paris.

WITH the fifty megaton “device” just detonated, boding ill for the
future, it is easier to look back over twenty-five years than ahead
for the same span.

My business life started the day after graduation, practically, with
Dewey & Almy Chemical Company in Cambridge, in the export
department. Twenty-five years later finds me still with the same
firm, now with a different name following a merger with W. R.
Grace in 1954, and still concerned with overseas business. I came
to France in 1947, just after our Tenth Reunion, and have now be-
come a Francophile. Our company’s growth in western Europe
during that span of years exemplifies the vitaliry and enthusiasm
which has characterized Europe’s remarkable recovery from the
war — thanks in no small measure to generous U.S. aid at the outset.
The Common Market concept has made better progress than most
of us thought possible; and now, with the “Outer Seven” wanting
to be in on the act, Europe’s economic future looks bright. I wish
the political situation could evolve equally favorably.

I travel a good deal — our “territory” extends from North Africa
to North Holland and east to Switzerland’s Austrian border. I
also try to get back to Boston every other year — the jet age makes
it easy.

The war years for me were from June, 1942, to October, 1945
—all spent in the United States, first at Rocky Mountain Arsenal
in Denver, watching and trying to help the fascinating process of
building a plant from breaking the ground to first production of
mustard gas in six short months; then to a procurement depot in
Indianapolis. Service: Chemical Warfare. Rank: Second lieutenant
to captain.

As an old bachelor I can’t report on the exploits of young ones
(and no longer so young, unless they be grandchildren! ); will leave
that to you more prolific classmates and look forward to reading
all about them.

The developing ease and speed of travel (not to mention the lure
of Paris) has brought many of you this way in recent years. Let
the flow increase!

[914]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IRVING ROMANOW

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Shepherd Pk., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1136 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933—1935. DEGREE: pD.D.s, (Atlanta Southern Dental Coll.), 1940.

marRiED: Mary Cwi, Oct. 9, 1943, Atlanta, Ga. cumpreN: Allyn Lea, Jan. 16,
1946; Elizabeth, May 6, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Dentist-periodontist; teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Executive Board, Greater Boston Dental Society, Alpha
Omega (Boston Alumni Chapter).

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan District Dental Society; Massachusetts Dental Society;
ADA, Greater Boston Dental Society; Alpha Omega; American Academy
of Dental Medicine; American Society of Periodontists, N.E. Society of

Periodontists; American Academy of Periodontology and a few other
dental societies,

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles in professional journals,

FOLLOWING in my father’s footsteps I entered dental school
after leaving Harvard. Then came about six years of military
service, finally emerging with the rank of major. During these years
I happily met and married Mary Cwi of Atlanta, Georgia.

Having always enjoyed school I returned to spend a few years
(half-time) in the study of periodontology. After becoming a
diplomate in the American Academy of Periodontology, I limited
my practice to periodontics and continued part-time teaching. At
present my position is Assistant Professor of Periodontology in the
department of Stomatology at Boston University School of Medi-
cine.

Since leaving college I have had the good fortune of traveling
for pleasure as far east as Vienna, south to the Florida Keys and
west to the wonderful city of San Francisco.

My hobbies are fishing (fly and fresh-water), sketching and sculp-
turing.

I feel that the intellectual stimulation I received at Harvard has
influenced my thinking throughout my life. I have two daughters;
if Harvard were co-ed I would love to see one of them have this
wonderful experience.

[915 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

CORNELIUS VAN SCHAAK ROOSEVELT

HOME ADDRESS: 2500 Q St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Linderman Engineering Co., 1469 Church St., Washington, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREE: $.B. IN MINING ENG. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1938.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Theodore Roosevelt, 3d, 36; Quentin Roosevelt, "41 (de-
ceased).

OCCUPATION: Engineer; vice-president, Linderman Engineering Company; con-
sultant to the Chief of Naval Research, Office of Naval Research, Navy
Department, Washington, D.C.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, William Hunt & Company, Fed. Inc.
US.A,, 1949-50, William Hunt & Company (Philippines) Inc., 1947-50
(Manila), International Industries, Inc. 1949-50 (Far East area); vice-
president, Security Banknote Company, Philadelphia, 1949-55; vice-presi-
dent and director, Linderman Engineering Company, since 1954; director,
G. B. Linderman Company, Washington, D.C., since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Tau Beta Pi, Delta Psi (Number Six Club), both in Cambridge,
Mass.,; American Instivute of Mining Engineers, New York Academy of
Sciences; St. Anthony Club, Racquet and Tennis Club and River Club,
New York City; Army and Navy Club and Metropolitan Club, Washing-
ton, D.C.; Polo Club, Army and Navy Club, Manila; Country Club, Baguio,
Philippines; American Club and Press Club, Hongkong; Canton Club,
Canton, China, Shanghai Club and American Club, Shanghai; Cornish
Steam Engine Preservation Society, Cornwall, England; Porsche Club of
America, Washington, D.C.

pusLications: “The Herpetology of the Island Caja de Muertos,” 1928; “An-
cient Civilizations of the Santa Valley and Chavin,” The Geographical
Review, 1935.

IN 1935 I transferred from Harvard to MIT in order to study
mining engineering. Losing a year in the process, I graduated in
1938 and promptly went down to Mexico to work for the Ameri-
can Smelting and Refining Company, first as a junior engineer
and eventually as engineer in charge of the La Plata and Iguana
mines in Chihuahua. These two mines had a combined output of
about 500 tons a day of lead-silver ore and employed altogether
about 250 men. In December, 1941, just after Pearl Harbor, I re-
turned to the U.S.A. and was commissioned an ensign in the Navy,
early in 1942. During the war I was attached to the Special Devices
Division and by 1945 I was in charge of the Research Section. In
1945 I went to Europe with the Naval Technical Mission to see
how the Germans had conducted their research programs. At the

[916 }

orang et ete ene nT CO TT.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

end of the war I was involved in setting up the Office of Research
and Inventions in the Navy and had become a lieutenant com-
mander. Returning to civilian life, I went out to China with
William Hunt & Company, where I was in charge of their mining
and construction division. We represented about eighty prominent
American manufacturers of industrial equipment and also offered
consulting services to our customers throughout China, Korea, For-
mosa, Hongkong, Siam, the Philippines, Japan and Indo-China. In
1947 1 opened our company office in Formosa (now usually referred
to as Taiwan) at a time when there were four Americans on the
island. In 1948 I took over our office in Manila and sold Pullman
cars and paper currency to the government. When Shanghai fell
to the Chinese Communists, we pulled our forces back to Hong-
kong and I became president of the company. By 1952 it was
abundantly evident that business in the Far East had slowed down
to a crawl and wouldn’t return to its immediate postwar status for
many years — if ever —so I returned to the U.S.A.

Since then I have been associated with the Office of Naval Re-
search (at the end of the war I had helped found its predecessor —
The Office of Research and Inventions) and have served in a con-
sulting capacity on a wide variety of interesting technical projects,
mostly of a classified nature. In order to preserve my technical
sanity and retain a healthy commercial outlook, and in order not
to become a true bureaucrat totally unconcerned with practical
financial matters, I helped found the Linderman Engineering Com-
pany which, very fortunately, has never had any trouble meeting its
weekly payroll. We manufacture electronic control equipment for
steel mills, and specialize in gear used in tinplate mills such as pinhole
detectors and extensometers. Our pinhole detectors can catch pin-
holes in tinplate that are less than a thousandth of an inch in diameter,
and do so while the ribbon of steel is traveling at up to three or
four thousand feet per minute. The device remembers where each
hole was and later discards the sheet that contains the hole. The
equipment is used by almost all mills in this country and by mills
in twelve foreign countries.

What with working in Mexico before the war and in the Far
East afterwards, I have managed to do a good deal of traveling.
Suffice it to say that I wandered throughout Asia and crossed the
Pacific some ten times, the Atlantic eight times, and went around
the world once. Hobbies still include cabinet-making, archaeology
(I spent some time in the field in Peru), and collecting Japanese

[917]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

netsukes. An Episcopalian, I vote Republican — the conservative
variety.

Other items of possible interest? Not too many. I hold a num-
ber of patents, have a German Gliding License (which I picked up
in a flying school there during the Nazi regime) and am now
developing with other members of my family an island some seven
miles long which lies off the North Carolina coast and in the
direct path of most of the hurricanes coming up the Atlantic coast.

Does anyone have any pinholes they want detected?

FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 45 E. 66th St, New York, N.Y.; 5188 Palisade Lane, N.W,,
Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Roosevelt Automobile Co., Inc., 2825 V St., N E, Washington
18, D.C.

porn: Aug. 17, 1914, Campobello Island, N.B., Canada.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LLB. (Univ. of Virginia),
1940.

marrieD: Ethel duPont, June 30, 1937, Greenville, Del. (divorced 1948);
Suzanne Perrin, Aug. 31, 1949, New York, N.Y. cHrLpren: Franklin Delano,
3d, July 19, 1938; Christopher duPont, Dec. 21, 1941; Nancy Suzanne,
Jan. 11, 1952; Laura Delano, Oct. 26, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Roosevelt, ’30; John Roosevelt, ’38.

occupation: President, Roosevelt Automobile Company, Inc.; owner and
operator, FR Herefords Clove Creek Farm, Poughquag, Dutchess County,
N.Y.

OFFICES HELD: Senior partner, Roosevelt & Freidin, New York City, 1946-58;
Member of Congress from 2oth District of New York, 1949-54.

MEMBER OF: Rombout Hunt Club, Hyde Park, N.Y.; Racquet & Tennis Club;
Milbrook Country Club, Milbrook, N.Y.; Bar Association of the City of
New York; Fly Club, Harvard College; other bar associations and numer-
ous veteran and fraternal organizations.

I GRADUATED from the University of Virginia Law School a
few days after Italy invaded France in June, 1940. In commenting
on the kind of world into which our Class was then emerging, my
father, then President of the United States, delivered his famous
“stab in the back” speech. That summer and fall I undertook my
first political activity as chairman of the Youth Division of the
National Democratic Committce. We sct up 3,000 first-voter and
college clubs, and I learned to think on my feet by giving 279 politi-
cal speeches across the country. Then, Thad a few months of clerk-

[918]

ec SEN IRAE

fet RE NES AEN ET RE BEC ITERATE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing in a New York downtown law firm before being called to active
duty in the United States Navy in March of 1941.

Except for a few weeks of school and an occasional weekend of
leave, I spent the next five years on Uncle Sam’s destroyers; in the
North Atlantic; in the African invasion; in the convoy run to Mur-
mansk; and in the Sicilian invasion, where we got clobbered by
some JU-88’s. After patching up in Malta, we got our ship back to
Charleston, South Carolina, where I was given command of a new
five-inch-gun destroyer escort and went to the Pacific for the in-
vasion of the Philippines, Iwo Jima, and Okinawa. We received
credit for a Jap sub off the Philippines and a number of kamikazes.
I wound up the war at the Naval War College at Newport, and in
1946 went back to practising law with a medium-sized firm in mid-
town Manhattan.

Having been born and brought up in politics, I naturally con-
tinued my interest. In a special Congressional election on the west
side of Manhattan in 1949, I found myself running as an independent
Democrat with the invaluable support of the Liberal Party against
Tammany Hall, the Republicans, and the left-wing American Labor
Party. We started a new kind of campaigning for New York City,
ie., door-bell ringing, hand-shaking, walks through crowded areas,
and sound trucks. Like me, lots of enthusiastic young volunteers
found grass-roots politics to be exciting and fun.

On May 17, 1949, I found myself elected to Congress by almost a
two-to-one majority over my combined opposition. This success
was followed some five years later by a miserable defeat, when the
New York City bosses combined to nominate Averell Harriman for
governor, after turning thumbs down on me and my up-state sup-
porters. To combine defeat with folly, I then accepted nomination
for attorney general, only to be roundly beaten by Jack Javits in the
November election. Thus, having been retired from politics by the
Democratic party bosses, a liberal Republican, and the voters, I re-
turned to the practice of law in late November of 1954.

- When Sue and I were married in 1949, we bought a lovely old
farm in southern Dutchess County, New York. We started with
300 run-down acres, but have continued to add as neighboring land
came on the market. Today, we farm a thousand highly productive
acres based on organic farming methods with very limited use of
chemical fertilizers and no sprays. Although we had maintained
some sheep and cattle through 1954, we really started to build a
purebred herd of Polled Herefords in early 1955, mostly on my

[919]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

weekends, which were now freed from politics. Cattle from my
herd have won many county, state, and regional blue ribbons, and
even one national championship. We have sold our breeding stock
into many states and Canada. Our farm has provided a wonder-
ful home base and source of recreation and pleasure for our family;
but it has also given Sue and me an opportunity to test out some of
our ideas in such areas as farming practices, soil fertility, and the
basic field of ecology. .

I learned to sail in the tricky waters of the Bay of Fundy where I
was born. Since the age of sixteen, except for the war years, I have
sailed the Maine coast every summer. Sue and I continue this most
enjoyable hobby together for three weeks every summer. My two
sons are excellent sailors, and it won’t be long before the two girls
become apprentice seamen. My eldest son, who graduated from
Yale, June, 1961, is now engineer officer on a mine sweeper in Japan.
He prepared for his active duty in the Navy by sailing in the
Bermuda Race and the Race to Sweden in 1960.

My second son reports that he is really studying hard at the
University of Virginia— things must have changed since my law
school days. I believe, so far, he is uncontaminated by the Byrd Ma-
chine. Our ten-year-old, Nancy, is a delightful companion and
easily beats me at gin rummy. Two-year-old Laura, of course,
dominates the whole family, but especially Daddy.

In 1957 I learned that the Fiat Motor Company of Italy was
considering introducing its economy and sports cars into the Ameri-
can market. I have always enjoyed cars since the days of that super-
charged LaSalle, when we were “young and gay.” So I went to
Italy and came back as the Fiat distributor for nine southeastern
states. Today, our Fiat distributors area covers twenty-two states
from Delaware to Colorado, and from Florida to New Mexico.
We also distribute Jaguar cars in six southeastern states. Our main
office is in Washington, and we have a regional office in Fort Worth.

Our organization includes almost 200 dealers. This has been a fas-
cinating and exciting business, with big swings up and down, fierce
competition from other imported makes, and Detroit. It has
made it possible for me to travel to Europe three or four times a
year — strictly business—and it has made it possible for me to
learn a great deal about the economic and human conditions in a
large part of our country and the world.
I went back into politics in 1960, campaigning both in the primaries
and the general election for President Kennedy. Although I would

[ 920 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have greatly enjoyed going back into public service under his
leadership, I found that the demands of an expanding business made
this, at least “temporarily,” impossible. I use the word “temporarily”
in quotes because I have learned that in these fleeting years one
cannot gaze too far ahead into the crystal ball. It is much more fun
to grasp the opportunities which pop up so unexpectedly.

I believe that every citizen should be prepared to serve his country,
his state, and his nation, but this must be balanced by his adequately
meeting his obligations to his family and his own inner need to
succeed in his chosen profession or business.

WILLIAM CALVIN ROOT

HOME ADDRESS: 10559 Gooding Drive, Dallas 29, Texas.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Braniff International Airways, Dallas, Texas.

Born: Aug. 4, 1915, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Mars High School, Mars, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937(38).

MarRiED: Eileen Bushnell, July 26, 1941, San Antonio, Texas. cHmpreN: William
Thomas, 3d, Sept. 16, 1943; Lawrence Gordon, April 18, 1948, Cynthia
Lynne, June 8, 1950.

occupation: Airline pilot, Braniff International Airways.

OFFICES HELD: Past member, board of directors, Air Line Pilots Association
and Professional Standards Committee.

MEMBER OF: Spring Valley Country Club.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I did two years of graduate work in
physics at Columbia University. Continued living at Roosevelt
and Floyd Bennett Fields in New York City. I met Miss Eileen
Bushnell, pilot and graduate of Douglass College, at Red Bank
Airport, Red Bank, New Jersey, in 1940, and we were married in
San Antonio, Texas, the following year.

Resided in Tulsa, Oklahoma, from 1941 to 1944, and served as
flight instructor and assistant director of Wartime Flight Training
School. Became an airline pilot for Mid-Continent Airlines in 1944,
and moved to Kansas City, Missouri. Mid-Continent was merged
with Braniff International Airways in 1952, and in 1957, we moved
to Dallas, Texas.

Hobbies are photography, teaching the children music, boating,
and traveling. We have a summer home on Lake Texoma in Okla- ©
homa, and spend free time in the summer months with the family
in our eighteen-foot runabout. Elder son, Tom, is now a freshman
at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth. Next son, Larry, is

[oz]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

now in junior high, and wants to attend Harvard, as a member of
the Class of 1970, subject to Director of Admissions. Daughter
Cynthia, eleven, is my prize piano pupil, and also best crew member
on the boat. The whole family has traveled extensively around the
United States, Canada, and Mexico, courtesy of airline pass privileges,

CHARLES LATTNER ROSE

HOME ADDRESS: 322 Mason Terr., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of Sociology, Tufts University, Medford 55, Mass.

BorN: May 30, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; A.M. (Univ. of Chicago), 1939.

marrigD: Caryl Ruth Epstein, Feb. 14, 1941, Los Angeles, Calif. cumpren: Ber-
nard, Dec. 30, 1941; Martha, Nov. 5, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Research social worker.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles principally in the field of the family of the mental pa-
tient.

UPON graduating in 1937, I enrolled in the University of Chicago
and got my Master’s degree in social work. My first job was case-
worker for the relief administration of Chicago (the depression was
still upon us) and I learned about life at first hand.

But the University of Chicago did something more important for
me than launch me into social work. It was then that I met and
married a fellow student, with an assist from Cobb Hall and the
Harper Library stacks. After starting my family, I did a short
hitch in the Navy during World War II and then quite unexpect-
edly found myself with my impedimenta back in Boston, my home
town, since nowhere else could I find a place to live.

Finally settled in Boston, I went to work for the Veterans Ad-
ministration as a social worker. In 1959 I was awarded support by
the U.S. Public Health Service to study relatives of mental patients
and have since been engaged in this research. I am at present a
research associate in the Department of Sociology at Tufts Uni-
versity.

Over the years my wife has endeavored to teach me to be tough-
minded. My survival attests to the fact that at least she has been
partially successful. Right now, my son is a junior at M.I.T., and
is interested in metallurgy. My daughter, aged fifteen, rules the
household with an iron hand through her domination of the family
telephone line and her ability to help us out of tight spots with
occasional small loans.

[922 ]

een cent NAMED LE SATE ITT |

oer

 

'
t
‘
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Will somebody please explain why my wife is so excited about
going to the 25th Anniversary celebration of my Class?

HARRY JOSEPH ROSEN

HOME ADDRESS: 173 S. Flagg St. Worcester 2, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Temple Emanuel, 280 May St., Worcester 2, Mass.
BorN: Feb. 11, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: B.J.ED. (Hebrew Teachers Coll.), 1936;
a.B., cum laude (Harvard Univ.), 1937; aM. (ibid.), 1940.

MarRIED: Estelle Goldin, Aug. 16, 1944, Providence, R.I. CHILDREN: Joel,
Feb. 4, 1948; Daniel, May 7, 1950; Celia, March 1, 1953.

occuPATION: Religious educator; director of education, Temple Emanuel.

OFFICES HELD: Founding president, National Association of Temple Educators.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Temple Educators; Worcester Association
of Jewish Communal Workers.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, New England edition, The Jewish Teacher.

AFTER graduation from college I studied for a Master of Arts in
Teaching degree at the Harvard Graduate School of Education
while continuing the work in Jewish religious education. This was
followed by service in the Army as an interpreter in various P.O.W.
camps. During this period I married. My wife and I enjoyed
southern hospitality for about two years and then returned to
Boston. I put in six months at the Jewish Vocational Service and
then returned to Jewish education. I have been in Worcester at
the same job ever since.

Life has been very good to me. We have three fine children.
The community is congenial. The work is ever-challenging, for if
there is anything many children do not want it is compulsory reli-
gious education. I have the only school of its kind in reform Jewish
education, one which is looked up to everywhere.

+k WALTER BIGELOW ROSEN

BoRN: July 3, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: Walter Tower Rosen, ’94,
Lucie Dodge.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1937; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),
1941. , ,

piep: Aug. 18, 1944, in the European Area.

ROSEN achieved a distinguished scholastic record at Harvard. He
[923 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in the Senior Sixteen and was a mem-
ber of the Political Union, the Russian Club, and the Signet Society,
After spending a year in the Graduate School, he attended the Yale
Law School, receiving the LL.B. degree in 1941. He enlisted in
Ottawa a few months later as an aircraftsman (2d class) in the
Royal Canadian Air Force. He won his wings as a sergeant pilot,
September 24, 1942, was promoted flight sergeant in March, 1943,
and pilot officer the following July. In September, 1943, he was
shipped to England for service with the RAF and was promoted
flying officer in January, 1944. He died from injuries received on
active service as pilot and captain of a four-engine Royal Air Force
Bomber. He was buried in the Regional Cemetery, Harrowgate,
Yorkshire. He was survived by his parents and a sister.

In 1946 Rosen’s parents gave to Harvard in Walter’s memory
the eight-inch Gubb telescope which he had used at his home. In
1951 The Walter Bigelow Rosen Professorship of Music was estab-
lished by the Harvard Corporation from funds given to Harvard by
Rosen’s father, family and friends.

BENSON ROSENBERG

HOME abprEss: 167 Hartley Terr., Hillside, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Elizabeth Bio-Chemical Laboratory, 53 Jefferson Ave., Elizabeth,
NJ.

BorN: Dec. 26, 1914, Elizabeth, N_J.

PREPARED AT: Thomas Jefferson High School, Elizabeth, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1937.

MaraieD: Edith Caroline Krouse, July 23, 1937, Elizabeth, N.J. cumpren: Jean
Ann, Oct. 23, 1940; James Bruce, June 28, 1944; William Harry, Dec. 19,
1949.

OCCUPATION: Executive director, Elizabeth Bio-Chemical Laboratory.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and president, New Jersey Association of Licensed
Nursing Homes, 1948-57, trustee, Temple B’nai Israel, editor, Temple Bul-
letin, Elizabeth, N.J., 1955-62; convention chairman, American Association
of Nursing Homes, 1957; chairman, Jewish Relationship Committee, Union
Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1957-6o.

MeMber or: Harvard Club of New Jersey; American Association of Blood
Banks, American Association of Bioanalysts, New Jersey Association of
Clinical Laboratory Directors, Mt. Nebro Lodge No. 128, F. & A.M.;
Elizabeth Chapter, B'nai B'rith; Mcn’s Club, Temple B'nai Israel.

PUBLICATIONS: “Evaluation of the Iodine Pregnancy Test,” American Journal of
Obstetrics & Gynecology, 74:314 1957; “Laboratory Evaluation of an
Immunological Pregnancy Test” (in preparation for publication).

[ 924]

rv
cep eee eit RET LANE SONI AP OIIITS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Laboratory Report of Harvard Graduate — Class of 1937
Subject Tested: Benson Rosenberg
Duration of Experiment: 25 years (June, 1937, to June, 1962)

Part I. In Vivo Reactions

Procedure: The month following beginning of experiment,
subject was reacted with Edith Krouse. Previous observations dur-
ing the preceding four years had led to the conclusion that this
reaction, properly catalyzed by love, common interests and mutual
respect, would lead to the best possible results. Phase one, the com-
pletion of the first twenty-five years will be July 23, 1962.

Results: (a) Jean Ann—a neatly turned-out package was pro-
duced on October 23, 1940; will graduate from Wellesley College in
June, 1962, and that same month will marry Waldron Kraemer,
Harvard Law School, ’61.

This most favorable outcome resulted in further experimentation.
(See b & c below).

(b) James Bruce — produced June 28, 1944; will graduate
from The Pingry School, June, 1962. It is hoped that the Board
of Admissions to Harvard will be interested in this specimen so
that another cycle may be observed.

(c) William Harry — final product produced on December
19, 1949; attending The Pingry School — only recognizable flaw is
that he admires Yale University. We hope that this will be corrected
in the next four years.

Note: It is interesting to observe that both male offspring carry a
strong fish-loving gene, a dyscrasia which most markedly
characterizes the subject. The virulence of this disease seems
to be increasing and it is strongly suspected that in a few
years it will overtake all other activities.

Part II. Field Studies

Procedure: Subject exposed to outside world by working first
for New York University School of Medicine and then for the
State of New Jersey at Marlboro Hospital. He soon realized private
enterprise was more advantageous; in 1940 he became a partner in
the Elizabeth Bio-Chemical Laboratory, a private clinical laboratory.

Results: Laboratory is one of the largest of its type in the East,
and has expanded its operation to include research and development
for industry and the production of rare blood-typing sera.

Lo2z5 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

In 1942, subject branched into the nursing home field. From a
small unit of twenty beds, expanded to one of 115 beds, built in 1958,

Conclusions: From all available data, the first twenty-five years
of this experiment have surpassed all expectations. The combina-
tion of the original reactants has resulted in an outstanding yield.
The reactants themselves have proved their stability and equilibrium.
It is hoped that Phase two, which is about to start, will be as
successful.

LEONARD JACOB ROSENFELD

HOME ADprEss: 19 William St., Mount Vernon, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Schenley Industries, Inc., 350 Fifth Ave., New York 1, N.Y.

BoRN: June 26, 1916, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Port Richmond High School, Staten Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. ”agna cum laude, 1937; AM. » oe
lumbia Univ.), 1939; 11.3. (New York Univ.), 1946.

mMarrieD: Adele Frances Siegel, April 1, 1939, Staten Island, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Susan, Feb. 3, 1943; Paula, June 23, 1946.

occuPATION: Lawyer; member, Law Department, Schenley Industries, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary, Schenley Industries, Inc., since 1952; member,
board of directors, since 1956, secretary, since 1959, Mount Vernon He-
brew Camps, Inc.; member, board of trustees, Mount Vernon YM-YWHA,

since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the United Nations; American Legion,
American Society of Corporate Secretaries; Association of the Bar of the
City of New York; B’nai B’rith; National Urban League; Phi Beta Kappa.

THE college entrance problem being what it is these days, daughter
Sue’s admission to Pembroke in the class of ’64 has to rank as the
most noteworthy pleasant event of the family’s past five years. With
our Pembroker mostly away, the rest of us lead a fairly quiet life
at home. Daughter Paula is involved principally with high school
and activities at the YM-YWHA. Our Y, incidentally, is a first-
rate social agency, on whose board I now sit, vice my spouse, who
served on it with distinction for many years.

Adele and I read a good deal, go to theatre occasionally, and are
regulars at the Wednesday evening Boston Symphony concerts at
Carnegie Hall. Summer usually finds us at Compo Beach, on the
Sound at Westport, Connecticut, which we have loved since the ’30s.

I am still practising corporate law at the same old stand, delighted
by the eternal challenge of novel problems.

Painting and sculpture — at Art Students League, the Educational
Alliance, and solo — have continued to fascinate me. Never expect

[ 926 ]

.
|
|
|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to get beyond the Bar Association exhibitions, of course, but have
developed such a kinship with serious artists and appreciation of
their work that galleries and museums have become for me among
the most exciting places in the world.

I’m as concerned as any about the future of our country and the

world, count myself pretty much a Kissinger man, but with high
hopes for the U.N. for the long pull.

ARTHUR MAX ROSS

HOME ADDRESS: 944 Reliez Station Rd., Lafayette, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: University of California, Berkeley, Calif.

BoRN: May 1, 1916, Rochester, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Monroe High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1937; PHD. (Univ.
of California), 1941.

MARRIED: Jane D. Noble, Sept. 10, 1942, Washington, D.C. cxmpren: Audrey
(stepdaughter), Jan. 15, 1933 (7. Herbert Schneider, Jr., 1955); Marilyn
(stepdaughter), Feb. 15, 1936 (7. Wendell Stanley, Jr., 1959); Richard,

Sept. 10, 1944; Leslie (daughter), Oct. 27, 1953. GRANDCHILDREN: Linda
Schneider, 1956; William Schneider, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Professor of industrial relations and director, Institute of Industrial
Relations, University of California.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, 1953-56, vice-president, 19§7-59,
National Academy of Arbitrators, member, executive board, Industrial
Relations Research Association, 1955-57.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; National Academy of Arbitra-
tors; American Arbitration Association; Industrial Relations Research Asso-
ciation; Contra Costa Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Trade Union Wage Policy, 1948; Industrial Conflict, 1955;

Changing Patterns of Industrial Conflict, 1960; numerous articles, chapters
and other shorter items.

MY residential history since 1937 shows the gradual effects of aging:
various furnished rooms in Berkeley as a graduate student; numerous
rented houses while fighting the Washington housing shortage dur-
ing World War IJ; but only two addresses since returning to Cali-
fornia in 1946. In 1955 we moved into a contemporary home in
the suburbs, with swimming pool, shrubs, gardens, etc.

Likewise my professional life has been more stable than I would
have expected. The University of California has been my only
major employer since the end of the war. The association has not
been too restrictive, however, since I have had two sabbatical leaves
as well as a year of labor-management arbitration in Detroit and a
year with the government during the Korean War.

[927 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Apart from university duties and research, my chief professional
activity has been settling industrial disputes. There is never a short-
age of work in this field! I am “permanent arbitrator” for various
companies, including North American Aviation and Convair, and
have handled controversies in practically every industry. Most of
my government assignments have been in this area; the most recent
has been a term of five years with the President’s Atomic Energy
Labor Panel.

We are down to one child at home now. The two elder girls,
Audrey and Marilyn, are married. Our son Richard is a senior at
Putney School; he plans to attend Cal’s Riverside campus. This
leaves us with Leslie, just turned eight, very much a young lady
despite her ambiguous name.

My hobbies include golf, music and foreign travel. I am execu-
tive secretary and banjoist for an amateur Dixieland band called the
East Lafayette March and Funeral Band, which performs at chari-
table functions. We caught the travel bug gradually, beginning
with Hawaii, moving on to two Mexican vacations, and culminating
with eight months in Europe earlier this year. We combined lectur-
ing and research with cultural and touristic activities, and managed
to spend considerable time in exotic places such as Ireland, Finland,
Yugoslavia and Greece — as well as East Berlin. Now that we are
hooked, probably we'll spend more time on the foreign circuit.
I'm in favor of Africa next time, but my wife is plumping for Japan.

JACK ROSS

HOME AppreEss: 108 St. Paul St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE appress: 2d Howitzer Battalion, 1q4th Artillery, qth Armored Division,
APO 696, New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 11, 1915, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936, 1937-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1937(39).

MarRRIED: Mildred Goldstein, Dec. 17, 1941, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter F.,
June 29, 1945; Mark H., Nov, 22, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Martin Herman Rabinovitz, ’49.

occupaTion: Chief warrant officer, U.S. Army; Adjutant General Corps with
primary military occupational specialty as military personnel officer.

WRITING this finds me in the 4th Armored Division in Germany
in the middle of the uncertainties created by Berlin, Khrushchev, et
al, At this time, I am an enforced and involuntary bachelor with so
many others now in Europe, wondering whether the high level

[ 928 ]

1
. pee yep PO AOS AEE LOE IAC GOTT

peso ep Pe PED UO POAT PEER TRESTLE TENTH TTT!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of international politics will reach to the personal level and permit
the family to join me here, It is quite disconcerting to have one’s
immediate and personal future governed by discussions at the am-
bassadorial level.

From the foregoing it may be discovered that I am in the Army
for a career, at least until my prospective retirement date of May,
1967. At that time I hope to enter the educational field primarily in
counseling and guidance, and to that end have already completed one-
half the requirements for a Master of Education degree at neighbor-
ing Boston University, during assignment in the Boston area from
September, 1959, until my departure for Germany in October,
1961. The rest of this postgraduate education will have to wait
until return to the Boston area, if possible, some time after 1964, or
after military retirement.

Most of the period between graduation and October, 1942, was
spent trying various occupations, during which time I was married
on December 17, 1941. In October, 1942, the draft called me, and
until March, 1946, I remained in the United States in various clerical
capacities, primarily in personnel and administration. From 1946 to
1948, I was engaged in the furniture business, and from 1948 to 1950
in the newspaper distributing field. In September, 1950, I was re-
called to active service as an army master sergeant with the unit
which reactivated and operated the Reception Center at Fort Devens,
Massachusetts. In June, 1951, I received my warrant officer appoint-
ment as a personnel officer and have been so occupied since that
time. My service since that date has seen me in Utah, Texas (1951
to May, 1952); Germany (May, 1952, to May, 1955); Aberdeen
Proving Ground, Maryland (May, 1955, to September, 1958); Korea
(September, 1958, to October, 1959); Boston (October, 1959, to
October, 1961). My current station in Germany should terminate
either October, 1964, or April, 1965, depending upon army policies
in effect at that time.

I find personnel work at the battalion or battle group level frus-
trating, annoying, exasperating and most rewarding. I am dealing
with individuals (anywhere from 750 to 1200 men), and have found
myself often wondering whether I should not be wearing the chap-
lain’s insignia instead of the warrant officer bar. I am considered the
father confessor, oracle, expert on personal as well as personnel
affairs, and the one who can solve any problem, whether involving

pay, marital happiness, promotions, reassignments, etc. This job,
like no other, involves working with people who are away from

[ 929 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

their usual environment, away from home, and whose situation
generates problems which cannot be duplicated in civilian life. As
for my own adjustments, I find that I must be flexible enough to fit
immediately into the various units and situations caused by frequent
assignments, ranging from the civilian comfort of living at home
in Boston with my family, to extended field duty with a tactical
unit either in Korea or Germany. Though I am accustomed to these
changes, it is my family which must bear the brunt of my comings
and goings. For them, home is where I am assigned, when they are
with me; or where they wait for my return, when they cannot
accompany me. Despite these glaring disadvantages, my wife as
a full-time mother and part-time father has developed a couple of
teen-age sons who are our pride, joy and constant pleasure and
satisfaction. .

My community efforts are limited by my temporary residence
wherever we have stayed. Nevertheless, we have managed to be-
long to the respective P.T.A.’s and to the local Reform Jewish
Temples, where available. Our sons have been, and are, active in
local school extracurricular activities, with Peter, the elder, ex-
tremely interested in music, with emphasis on the classical, in arrang-
ing and conducting. He shares this with the high school band,
orchestra and the Greater Boston Youth Symphony at this time.
Mark, the younger, enjoys the usual activities expected of a pre-
teen-ager, but has yet to find a driving interest.

My immediate future concerns my service here in Germany;
possible early reunion with my family, and the experience of shar-
ing my son’s problems related to admission to the college of his
choice. After 1967 I must start another career and resume the
stabilized life of the conventional civilian. Sorry I can’t make the
25th Reunion, but I should be settled permanently enough to make
the soth.

LAWRENCE ROSS

HOME ApprEss: Cambridge Avenue, Annisquam, Gloucester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 Pleasant St., Gloucester, Mass.

BorN: May 31, 1914, Utica, N.Y.

preparep AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; M.D., 1941.

MarrieD: Marjorie Endecott Osgood, June 26, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lawrence Endecott, Oct. 24, 1941; Edward Lorraine, April 5, 1946; Cath-
erine McCombs, June 7, 1950.

[ 930 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Physician; specializing in obstetrics and gynecology.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of staff, 1954-61, chief of obstetrics, 1961-, Addison Gilbert
Hospital; president, 1960-61, Essex South District Medical Society; coun-
cillor, 1959-61, Massachusetts Medical Society; member, Board of Gov-
ernors, 1957-60, Annisquam Yacht Club.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Essex South Medical Society, An-

nisquam Yacht Club; Harvard Club of the North Shore; U.S. Power
Squadron.

MARRIED two days after graduation, the next four years were
spent at Harvard Medical School, where I learned what real studying
was, and Marjorie worked our way through school. Thence to
interning at the Rhode Island Hospital for two years, interrupted
by two bouts of rheumatic fever which eliminated me from the
war. Following this came a busy tour of duty at the Boston Lying-
In Hospital, which I look back on as a most rewarding experience,
thanks to the stimulating contacts and friendship with the then
“Chief,” Dr. Frederick Irving, and the many other fine men on
the hospital staff. Then, at long last, private practice at Gloucester,
Massachusetts —a wonderful place to live and work in. We are
fortunate to live in the delightful village of Annisquam, where our
three children are growing rapidly — almost too much so, since
Larry, the eldest is more than three inches taller than I, and a sopho-
more at Carleton College. Ned (named after our Classmate Ed
Young) is rapidly catching up and is a sophomore at Gloucester
High — hockey being his main interest. Cathy, at eleven, is very
blonde and feminine.

Besides my practice, my chief interest has been in helping our
local hospital to expand and improve its medical services. As chief
of staff for seven years I have survived two capital building fund
campaigns — and I think most everybody still speaks to me. It is
very rewarding, however, to see two new buildings now completed
and renovations of the rest of the hospital almost at an end. My
main hobby is boating, which takes up most of my spare time, and
our annual cruise “Down East” in our thirty-foot cruiser is the
high point of my year. |

I like to think that I have not changed too much in this twenty-
five years — except for more pounds and much less hair — with

continuing interest in people and medicine — and grand memories
of our four years at Harvard.

[931]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ROBERT RALPH ROSS

HOME ADDRESS: 504 W. roth St., New York, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2133 Third Ave., New York, N.Y.
porn: Oct. 15, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Franklin High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: S.B., Cum laude, 1937; LL.B. (New York
Law School), 1955.

Marrigp: Sybil Hart, Sept. 8, 1946, Brooklyn, N.Y. (divorced 1958). CHILDREN:
John Hart, Dec. ro, 1947; William Stewart, Nov. 25, 1950; James Franklin,
Dec. 1, 19§2.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arnold Ross, °353 M.B.A.. °37:

occuPATION: Attorney.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers Association.

IT’S been a long pull through the depression years, almost five years
of army service, and then various experiences in the business world.
In my late thirties I went to law school and am now practising in
what we call in this part of the world “a neighborhood practice.”
This means operating from a store in a primarily lower income
area, and taking anything that comes along. It means hard work
and a tremendous variety of problems; continual court appearances,
criminal work, accidents, landlord-tenant, and surprisingly enough,
a good number of purely commercial matters. It’s a long way from
my classmates downtown, and their corporations and estates; but
it’s an exciting branch of a fascinating profession.

I remember on graduation day, so long ago, watching the parade
of the twenty-five-year class, and thinking to myself that I might
put on weight but that I would never lose my hair. But life has its
way of dealing with illusions. Gone is my hair. Gone, too, is my
wife. One can be replaced and one cannot. I am proud of my three
sons, and I look to the future with optimism and expectancy.

VINCENT JOHN ROSSI

HOME ApprEss: 14 Jewett Pl., Utica, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1209-1210 First National Bank Bldg. Utica, N.Y.

BORN: June 30, 1916, Utica, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Utica Country Day School, Utica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B., 1941.

marriep: Esther Anderson, Oct. 24, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: John
Francis, Sept. 6, 1945; Vincent John, Jr., Aug. 16, 1948; Mary Ellen, Oct.
10, 1951; Patricia Ann, March 17, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

[932 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Grievance Committee, Oneida County Bar Association,

since 1959, Committee to Reorganize the Oneida County Democratic
Party, November, 1961.

MEMBER OF: American, New York State and Oneida County Bar Associations.

AFTER fifteen years of general law practice, with the raising of a
family, the enjoying of the pleasures therof and the bearing of the
problems that go with the raising, 1 have just in this month of
November, 1961, started to do something to write about. I am the
chairman of the Committee to Reorganize the Oneida County
Democratic Party. The “machine” has controlled the Democratic
Party for the last twenty-five years, and the city of Utica for most
of the time. We plan to oust the machine and put people of principle
in charge of the party. I am now trying to do and achieve what I
spent four years talking about in college, i.e, good government. It
is not “interesting.” It is just hard work, annoying work and it
makes it almost impossible to continue to earn a living, but it is good
to do it. |

I have hopes that one or both of my sons will go to Harvard and
I hope that I can afford to send my two daughters to a good college,
but I deplore the modern over-preoccupation with getting all of the
children into and through a college, without real consideration of
the ultimate purpose of higher education.

I suppose my wife and I have been living the treadmill existence
of most middle-class parents. All in all it has been good.

WILLIAM HERBERT ROTHWELL, II

HOME appress: 11 Little’s Point Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Alexander Fitzherbert, Inc., 150 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1913, Marlboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MarRRiED: Faith Ware, Sept. 19, 1936, Brookline, Mass. cHttpreN: James M.,
2d, March 14, 1938 (7%. Dawn White, June 3, 1961); Eliot W., May 13,
1940; Taft, March 25, 1943; William Herbert, 3d, April 7, 1945; Faith B.
May 29, 1953; Janet H., Aug. 20, 1954.

occupaTION: Independent insurance adjuster.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1952-61, chairman, 1954-56, Swampscott School Com-

mittee; chairman and member, Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic
Council, 1952-58.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Beach Club, Swampscott, Mass.

[ 933 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

RIGHT after graduation, I went to work for my father in the
property management and insurance business, because in September
of our senior year I was married to Faith Ware. Here I remained,
enjoying it very much until November, 1940, when I volunteered
to go on active duty in the Navy as an ensign. This began what
was to be a long and interesting tour of duty. After attending
various Navy schools, I finally wound up in the mine-sweeping
branch of the service, serving as the commanding officer of a Y.M.S.
and progressively two fleet sweepers and finally a converted de-
stroyer. I enjoyed my service duty and met many of my Classmates
in various parts of the world.

In 1938, our first son was born and thereafter additional heirs
continued to arrive, with the fourth, a boy, joining the family in
April, 1945. In December, 1945, I was placed on inactive duty.
I returned to work with my father and stayed with him until 1953,
when I went to work for John C. Paige & Company. Simultaneously,
with the changing of jobs, a second daughter and fifth child arrived.
This was the beginning of our second family, because we now have
two little girls —seven and eight—-and the preceding child is a
boy who is eight years older. It keeps one young anyhow.

Shortly after the war, we moved from Cambridge to Swampscott,
buying a large, old summer house and winterizing it. This has
worked out wonderfully for us as we now combine winter and
summer living in one home. I became very interested in the town
and ran for and was elected to the School Committee in 1952. I
served on it for nine years, three years as chairman. I have also
been a Town Meeting member. Since then, one of my biggest
interests has been public education— its role in the life of the
community. I also served as chairman of the Massachusetts Inter-
scholastic Athletic Council— governing body for high school
athletics, I hope I shall continue to be interested in the town govern-
ment.

After staying at Paige’s for four years, | moved to the personnel
office at Harvard University in connection with handling labor
relations, but this newly-created position did not work out and I
only stayed in Cambridge a year. Today I am working for an inde-
pendent insurance adjuster, a most interesting job. Since college
my life has been a happy one. I married a lovely wife who has
raised a well-behaved family but also an interesting one. We don’t
have too much time to sit around, what with field hockey, football,
hockey, and baseball, But in spite of all the activity, we seem to

[934]

REEL NTR IE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be the ones who are called upon to help when projects need to be
accomplished such as Community Fund Drives, etc. Probably by
the time this is printed, we shall have two sons in the service and
perhaps be grandparents, as Jim, our eldest, was married last spring.
The greatest satisfaction I have experienced over the past twenty-
five years has been the pleasure of raising this large family — seeing
them grow and develop.

PAUL TALBOTT ROTTER

HOME ApprEss: 15 Noe Ave., Madison, N.J.

OFFICE AppREss: Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co., 520 Broad St., Newark, N.J.

BORN: Feb. 21, 1918, Parsons, Kans.

PREPARED AT: Parsons Senior High School, Parsons, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Virginia Sutherlin Barksdale, July 17, 1943, Danville, Va. cHILpREN:
Carolyn Sutherlin, Feb. 16, 1948; Diane Talbott, June 15, 1951.

occupation: Life insurance executive; vice-president, insurance services, Mutual
Benefit Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, United Campaign of Madison and
Florham Park, 1954-57; president, Harvard Club of New Jersey, 1956-57;
president, Board of Education, Madison, N.J., since 1959, council advance-
ment chairman, since 1959, member, board of trustees, since 1959, Robert
Treat Council, Boy Scouts of America; vice-general chairman, Education
and Examination Committee, Society of Actuaries, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries (fellow); British Institute of Actuaries (asso-
ciate); Actuaries Club of New York; Harvard Club of New Jersey; Morris
County Golf Club.

MY business career, begun with the Prudential Insurance Company
of America, was, of course, interrupted (1941-45) by army service.
In 1946 I became a fellow of the Society of Actuaries and accepted
an offer from the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company. Since
than I have held several positions, becoming vice-president, insur-
ance services, in January, 1959.

I met my wife Ginny while stationed at Fort Monroe, Virginia.
Carolyn was born after we returned to New Jersey. Diane was
born the summer after we moved into our new home in Madison
in 1951. Both girls have reached that age when we must begin to
make concrete college plans for them. But at least I won’t have to
worry about their ability to get past the Admissions Committee
at Harvard!

My outside activities include the usual number of fund drives,
civic interests, professional committees, etc., the most interesting

[935]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and satisfying of which is that of president of the Madison Board
of Education. Much has been and is taking place in the educational
field. Many school systems are embracing new concepts and
approaches to education which will affect them, for good or ill,
for many years into the future. Madison is adopting some of these
and rejecting others.

T also find myself in the middle of the plans to revamp the course
of study leading to fellowship in the Society of Actuaries. This
has been going on for two years, and we hope to see the end of it
next year. |

In 1960 Ginny and I enjoyed a wonderful month in Europe. We
attended an international congress of actuaries in Brussels and man-
aged to see some of Italy, Switzerland, France and England before
flying back to New York.

I “took up” golf again this year. I had forgotten this happened
before, but the Fifteenth Anniversary Report says I did it in 1949.
That time it didn’t last beyond that one year; this time I think the
bug has bitten more deeply.

CHARLES GRAHAM ROUDABUSH |

HOME appress: 4115 W., Platt St. Tampa 9, Fla.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1916, Tampa, Fla.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937. .

marriep: Marjorie Jean Chamness, Oct. 2, 1948, Dublin, Ga. cuitpren: Charles
Graham, 3d, July 29, 1949; Carla Chamness, March 10, 1952.

occupation: Merchant home builder; owner.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of the West Coast of Florida (past president),
Tampa Yacht & Country Club; Tampa Philharmonic Society.

SOON after graduation I joined Republic Steel Corporation in their
sales training program lasting over two years. During this time I
worked in many different production departments in the various
plants located in northern Ohio. After this stint in the mills, there
was a year in the general sales offices in Cleveland before assignment
to the New York City sales office. A year was spent in Manhattan
before war clouds loomed, and I joined the Air Force in July, 1941.

After a very short period in pilot training. I became a navigator
and spent the remainder of my service in this capacity in the United
States and in the Southwest Pacific with service seen in New Guinea,
Philippines, Okinawa and Japan. I was released from the service

[ 936 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in January, 1946, with the rank of major and returned to ‘Tampa,
Florida, which has been my residence since then.

After being engaged in a retail and china business for two years,
I started my present business as a merchant home builder, building
betrer-class homes of my design.

In 1948 I married Marjorie Chamness, a wonderful wife and the
mother of our two fine children. Our son, Charles, 3d, now twelve
years of age, is preparing for Harvard at St. Mark’s. Our darling
daughter Carla, nine years old, attends a local Episcopal day school.
Our recent summer vacations have been in New England, with
most of the time spent in Boothbay Harbor, Maine.

DONALD ROWELL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4130 Braganza Ave., Coconut Grove 33, Fla.

poan: May 9, 1915, New Haven, Conn,

PrePARrED at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 19373 B.ARCH., 1940,

Maraiep: Anne Martin, June 19, 1937, Newport, N.H. (divorced 1949); Mary
Jamieson Beatty, Oct. 9, 1949, Miami, Fla. (divorced 1953); Jane Patteson
Irvin, April 17, 1953, Miami, Fla. crttpren; Dexter Richards, Dec. 31, 1939;
Diane, Jan. 29, 1942; Christine Edith, Nov. 29, 1945; Leslie, Oct. 9, 1952;
James Kee Irvin, June 30, 1941 (stepson); John Patteson Irvin, May 9, 1943
(stepson).

occupation: Architect (self-employed).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; Coral Reef Yacht Club; American Insti-
tute of Architects.

MY love of tropical living stems from a year’s (1941) initiation
while working on the design of army bases in Trinidad, B.W.I. In
1942 we were transferred to New York, but “cave dwelling,”
airing the children in Central Park and struggling with the subway
crowds became unbearable. While awaiting navy orders, we de-
cided to move to Coconut Grove, the most southerly and therefore
the most tropical part of sub-tropical Miami. Carrier duty in 1944
in the Pacific with Task Group 58 produced what I thought was to
be a permanent case of heat rash, but in spite of this and other dis-
comforts, I had a continued desire to live in the tropics.

Settling again in Coconut Grove, after the war, was therefore
inevitable. There have been some disappointments, namely, that not
all my clients want buildings designed for living in the sub-tropics,
and that Miami has grown into a large metropolis, Fortunately, it
does not boast subways. I might add that Miami isn’t likely to have

[ 937 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

them with our high water table. Needless to say, my main hobby
is tropical planting and of recent years garden lighting.

With four of our six children now in college, our worries con-
cerning SATs and college admissions are temporarily over. Of our
three boys, two are at Dartmouth (my son Dex, after two years in
the Marines, is now in the Regular NROTC program there) and
one is at Stetson (in central Florida). I don’t know if Dartmouth
will deign to appear in Cambridge this spring, but Diane, who is
training to be a nurse at Simmons in Boston is sure to. She likes
Harvard!

WILLIAM ESMOND ROWLEY

HOME AppRESS: 141 Maple Ave, Altamont, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss; The Knickerbocker News, Albany, N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 20, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937.

MarRiED: Constance N, Lee, June 24, 1939, Scarsdale, N.Y. CHILDREN: Anne,
Feb, 10, 1942; Richard Lee, Dec. 27, 1946; Christine Bostwick, Oct. 21,
1949, Susan E., Aug. 21, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Spencer Rowley, 739.

OccUPATION: Assistant city editor, The Knickerbocker News.

AFTER graduation I taught English and American history at the
Loomis School, Windsor, Connecticut, for two years; got married;
returned to Harvard for four years teaching English A and studying
in the History of American Civilization program (finished courses
and general exams but have not done thesis for doctorate); went
to Amherst half a year to teach soldiers. I realized after all this
teaching I was not much good at it, and after all this studying that
my education was incomplete, being all academic. In a two-year
stretch in the Army, most of it as an historical section reporter in
Europe, I got to know some newspapermen and decided to change
to that work. After the war I got a job on the Binghamton Sun,
Binghamton, New York. The pay was submarginal, but with the
G.I. Bill’s aid 1 squeaked through a year until I got a better job
on The Knickerbocker News in Albany.

Here I’ve continued nearly fifteen years, in various jobs, some on
the city desk, covering a curious mixture of city (political and
social), medical and religious news (in which I’ve become increas-
ingly interested, trying to bring more of it out from under the
shadow of church news) and doing an increased amount of editorial

[ 938 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

writing. I have come to love Albany and the sprouts that are thrust-
ing their way up through the layers of decadence. Some days I
feel my work is continuing my education; other days the frustra-
tions, failures and pressures make it seem like a deepening rut. A
year ago Gannett sold our paper to Hearst, giving Hearst ownership
of both papers in town and giving us plenty of qualms. So far, we
have kept much of our independence and become in some ways
stronger in criticism of the status quo in Albany.

Despite this declaration of love for the city, we live outside it,
in a village not completely changed from small town to suburb.
We live across the street from a Lutheran church, which is the
center of much of our family life, although my wife and I, being
creedally unorthodox, have not become members. She, however,
is choir director, and I faithfully sing bass for her. I fight physical
decay by playing tennis and volleyball. I’ve quit smoking but not
drinking.

We have a nineteen-year-old daughter, a sophomore at Witten-
burg College; a fifteen-year-old son and twelve-year-old daughter,
both in public high school; and a three-year-old daughter whose
belated and unplanned arrival has been one of the brightest things
in our life.

Convictions? Not much changed, although I hope mellowed.
Generally like what President Kennedy is doing. Probably would
be a Democrat except that Dan O’Connell has made Democracy
a rather special and very conservative thing in Albany County, so
I'm not enrolled. Politically and socially I like to think Pm liberal,
but have not suffered much for my convictions. (I went to Florida
on a freedom ride with some Albany Negro ministers last summer
— but as a reporter — and was not beaten up or jailed.) Religiously,
I am still searching but I think I am a Christian if you stretch the
term, as I think it should be stretched. I am dismayed at the vagueness
of my belief as well as my failure to live by it.

HAROLD IRVING RUBENSTEIN

HOME ADpRESS: 249 W. Elm St., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 18 N, Montello St., Brockton, Mass,
BoRN: December 9, 1915, Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES! A.B, 1937; M.B.A., 1940.

[ 939 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MARRIED: Irma C. Sims, Sept. 16, 1941, Brockton, Mass. cHmpreNn: Bonnie Ellen,
Dec. 11, 1942; James, Aug. 24, 1946.
occuPATION: Manager, Brockton Wholesale Beverage Company.

WHAT with spending four years at the request of the government
in the Army and twenty trying to convince people to drown their
worries and cares with alcoholic beverages especially in southeastern
Massachusetts, I find myself at the pinnacle of my career by being
selected to dispense the liquor for the 25th Reunion.

MERRILL BENJAMIN RUBINOW

HOME ADDRESS: 68 Butternut Rd., Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 843 Main St., Manchester, Conn.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1916, Manchester, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Manchester High School, Manchester, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $.B., 1937; M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1942.

MarRiED: Grace Essman, June 24, 1949, Hartford, Conn, cuitpren: Nicola E,,
April 9, 1950; Greta M., Aug. 16, 19513 Jonathan E,, July 6, 1955:

HARVARD BROTHER: Jay Elliott Rubinow, ’ 33, LEB, "37

occuPATION: Surgeon, private practice; senior attending surgeon and associate
gynecological surgeon, Manchester Memorial Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: President, Manchester Division, American Cancer Society, 1954-
56, Manchester Civic Music Association, 1955-57; member, board of
directors, Manchester Medical Association, since 1959, member, Manchester
Community College Committee, since 1961; member, House of Delegates,
Connecticut State Medical Society, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: American, Hartford County and Manchester Medical Associations;
Massachusetts, Connecticut State and Hartford Medical Societies; American
College of Surgeons (fellow); Connecticut Society of American Board
Surgeons; Manchester Lodge of Masons.

PUBLICATIONS: Three case reports in medical journals.

THE recession year of 1937-38 was spent in industria] chemistry.
It was a pleasant interlude, but somehow a return to the academic
womb seemed more secure, and the next four years were spent in
medical school, After a year of surgical internship came three
years of military service, which included a combat tour of Europe,
with a medical battalion of the Third Army. There was much
combat and some decorations, but my efforts were so eclipsed by
those of my Classmates that further mention need not be made.
Cessation of hostilities brought me right back to Boston, and five
more years of surgical training. If not still in the academic womb,
I was at least in its shadow. It all seemed so slow and endless at the

[ 940 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time, and now after almost twelve years of private surgical practice,
it seems so far away.

The completion of academic surgical training brought certifica-
tion by the American Board of Surgery, fellowship in the American
College of Surgeons, and a great desire to be independent and
responsible for my own decisions. This led me back to the town
of my birth, and the choice has been a happy one. It has been
gratifying to see our community grow, and our community hospital
gain stature in the twelve years which have passed. We have pio-
neered in a mechanism known as “progressive patient care,” in
which the patient is transferred from “intensive care” to “inter-
mediate care” to “self care,” depending on his needs and progress.
This has been a pet project in Manchester, and we are all proud
of its success, and of its being exported to so many other hospitals.

Let no one be surprised to learn that there has been no change
for the better in my clarinet-playing ability since Chatham Bars
in 1957. The competition between the ebony music-maker and the
fourteen clubs and white ball was hardly a contest at all. Pursuit of
sufficient skill to match a dwindling handicap left only the winter
season for music, and, finally, the construction of a new home
almost sealed the keys completely, much to the joy of my neighbors.
When the ground is frozen “through the green,” we summon
enough time to get away for some skiing and are fortunate to have
Mt. Tom so near that an afternoon can be spent there after a full
morning’s work. I can still ski better than the children, but this
is probably the last year that I shall be able to make such a boast.
We have been fortunate despite some bad skiing spills and, indeed,
the only serious injury was a knee ligament sprain incurred while
skating.

The Twenry-fifth Anniversary Report is probably the only
medium I shall ever have for expressing a few words on how
the world in crisis appears to a small community surgeon who
devotes hours and days trying to salvage one human ravaged by
disease or injury, while the rulers of nations consider means to cause
or prevent the destruction of millions, Although this has been so
often expressed, I must add that it is hard to understand why the
same efforts and funds cannot be expended in the discovering and
curing of those conditions existing in the world, which could lead
nations to the brink of such destruction. How much better this
would be than neutron bombs or fallout shelters! May each and
every one of us meet at the Fiftieth!

[ 941 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HENRY WELLINGTON RUSSELL

HOME appress: 6 Broadview, Little Rock, Ark.

orFice appress: A. G. Edwards & Sons, 310 Louisiana St., Little Rock, Ark,

BoRN: Dec. 24, 1913, Arlington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937(38).

mararieD: Betty Ruth Dortch, Nov. 7, 1942, Scott, Ark. cHILpREN: Diane Dortch,
Dec. 17, 1943; Judith Hutchins, June 20, 1946; Mary Helen, Sept. 23, 1954;
David Wellington, Jan. 31, 1959; Thomas Steele, Aug. 25, 1961.

occupation: Investment banker; underwriting and financing of businesses,

orFices HELD: Director of several corporations including A.G.E. Capital Cor-
poration, an SBIC; officer or director, Arkansas Automobile Club (AAA),
Advertising Club, Cancer Society, Chamber of Commerce, Girl Scouts,
Kiwanis, Red Cross, United Fund and Community Council, Sales Executives,

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Little Rock; Little Rock Club; Harvard Club
of Arkansas, Council on Foreign Relations.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in trade journals.

JOINED Lever Brothers Company after graduation and worked in
Cambridge until drafted early in 1941. After several months was
sent to OCS at Fort Benning, where I was commissioned and sent
to Arkansas. While in Arkansas, I met and married my wife. Served
in Texas and Michigan before being sent overseas, where I was
assigned to the SHAEF Mission to France, first in London and then
in Paris, for a total of nineteen months. On V-E Day was returned
to Washington to work in the office of the Chief of Staff. Placed
on inactive status early in 1946 and returned to Lever Brothers.

After several months, decided that commuter travel was not to
my liking and that there really was something for me in the South.
Moved to Arkansas and joined a regional paint firm where I remained
ten years as vice-president. Formed a partnership to do management
consulting work and finally turned toward the investment banking
field, where I am tremendously busy and happy financing firms
throughout the country either by public underwritings or through
our affliated SBIC.

Although I do a good deal of traveling, I find time to enjoy the
best fishing, the finest duck hunting, the greatest people and the
most wonderful family in the world. In spite of my Boston accent, I
believe that I have been accepted by my southern neighbors and
have many wonderful friends. It is only fair to admit that my wife,
who is a native and a most accomplished portrait painter, has been
a tremendous asset. Our children, who range in age from college
to the cradle, are most happy in this area, as the elder ones who

[ 942 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have been to school and camp away from Arkansas are always
happy to return home.

I remain politically —a conservative; religiously —an Episco-
palian; financially —a poor man. No change in twenty-five years.

ERNEST JOSEPH RYAN

HoMe aporess: 1 Dennis Ave., Randolph, Mass.
orrice aporess: South Boston High School, G St., South Boston, Mass.
Born: April 25, 1915, Brighton, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; 8.M. (Boston Coll.), 1939.
maaniep: Mabel F. Sullivan, Aug. 26, 1945, Glens Falls, N.Y. cuitpren: Michael
E., July 25, 1946; Timothy J., Sept. 29, 1950; Dennis M., March 11, 1953.
occuPaTION: Head, Science Department, South Boston High School; mathe-
matics lecturer, University College, Northeastern University.

orrices HELD: President, North Randolph Club, since 1958, financial secretary,
Knights of Columbus, since t959; player agent, Randolph Babe Ruth
League, since 1959; secretary, Science Department Heads Council, Boston,
since 1960.

memBeER OF: North Randolph Club; Knights of Columbus; Harvard Alumni
Chemists; Boston College Alumni Chemists; Old Colony Boston College
Club; Science Department Heads Council; North Randolph Little League.

SINCE I have been blessed with three boys, I have been active in
Cub Scouts, Scouts, Babe Ruth League, Little League, etc. The
results have more than exceeded the time expended as I feel that I
have three well-adjusted citizens to show for my help. I fully be-
lieve that more people should consider their children first and their
career second.

I selected the field of teaching when I was an undergraduate at
Harvard, and I believe to this day that I made no mistake. The
monetary recompense is small but I feel that I have put many boys
and girls on the right road to success,

Everyone should believe in a Creator and live up to his particular
religion. Your religion shows you your purpose in life; and if there
is none, to what end do we aspire?

Politically, I vote the man who represents the party which I con-
sider represents the majority as well as the most enlightened mem-
bers of our society. I am neither a Republican nor Democrat in the
sense of the word, since I voted for both John F. Kennedy and
Dwight Eisenhower.

[ 943 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

WILLIAM AARON SALANT

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 34 Franciscan Drive, Chico, Calif.

porN: Aug. 10, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., stemma cum laude, 1937; A.M., 1941,

marrigD: Dorothy Griesbach, March 25, 1956, Lexington, Mass. cHiupren:
Peter, Sept. 13, 1957; Nicholas, July 12, 1961.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter S. Salant, ’33, A.M. '37-

OCCUPATION: Economist: free lance consultant.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; Chico Ski Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Foreign Trade Policy in the Business Cycle,” in Public Policy,
II, yearbook of Harvard Graduate School of Public Administration (re-
printed in Readings in the Theory of International Trade, American
Economic Association, 1949); “Saving, Investment, and Stability,” Ameri-
can Economic Review, May, 1956; “Taxes, Income Determination, and
the Balanced Budget Theorem,” Review of Economics and Statistics,
May, 1957.

ON leaving college, I started work as an economist in Washington,
forming a habit which proved hard to break as the years passed.
I spent four years in Washington, with a very good year at Harvard
Graduate School sandwiched in. Late in 1942, I joined the Army
and the OSS and went to London as a member of a small group,
mostly economists, which was working with the U.S. Air Force
based in England on the selection of targets for strategic bombing.
Although life was, on the whole, pretty comfortable, wartime Lon-
don did have its own hazards and hardships, of which under-cooked
Brussels sprouts were easily the most menacing.

A year later, I moved on to the Mediterranean, where another
even smaller group of us did the same sort of job with the Air
Force down there, first at a beach resort near Tunis, then at the
vast and charmless former palace of the Bourbons at Caserta, near
Naples, a sort of old-world precursor of the Pentagon Building.
The high point of this period was an expedition to Rumania, im-
mediately after that country pulled out of the losing side of the
war, to see for ourselves how much damage the Air Force had
done to the oil refineries at Ploesti. Arriving at Bucharest just after
the Germans had hastily pulled out and just as the Russians were
arriving in force, some in formidable-looking tanks and others in
ancient ox carts, we had the run of the place until the new occupiers
got things organized.

After the war I spent close to three years in the State Department,
working on the economic side of German occupation policy. Al-

[ 944 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

though exciting at first, this turned out to be a frustrating Cipe rence,
and shortly after the Marshall Plan came into operation, PE movest,
with some relief, to the ECA, which was administering it. [stived
there for five years and two changes of the agency's name. |

In 1953, I left Washington to teach economics at Brander Uno-
versity, which, in case anybody hasn't heard, is converent!y he
cated in Waltham, close enough so that I could live in Cambentire,
use the Harvard squash courts (where I found out that a half howe
is a lot longer than it used to be twenty years carher), and hove
an occasional meal in Kirkland House (where the undergraduates
seemed a lot younger than they used to, and some of the titers
seemed pretty juvenile too).

After a slow start, my family life began to move rapully. J pot
married, we expanded into a comfortable oldish house on boty of
grounds in Huntington, Long Island, and our first son, Peter, wos
born. He was joined last summer by Nicky, who ts my roomate,
since his crib and my desk share a room, and who is making as
sounds as I write this.

My working time has been divided between writing on my own
and consulting work in international economics, partly for pros ate
organizations, such as the Committce for Foononuce Development,
more recently for the government, including the Council of Poo
nomic Advisors. This means spending some time in Washington
again, which is awkward in a way because a couple of monthe aco
we moved to Chico, California, a very pleasant ansil town in the
Sacramento Valley. So far, we like it very much. Plow at works
out in the long run I shall be in a better posinen to report iy antler
twenty-five years.

JEROME CHARLES SALTZ

HOME ADDRESS: 6449 Whittier Blvd. Los Angeles as, Calif,
BORN: Oct. 5, 1916, Roxbury, Masa.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mara

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19}3-19}7. DEcEEES: AB, to1?, tem (Tufes € 43 5, by ys
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Physician.
mMemarr or: County Medical Society.

THE vital statistics reported above summarize my carers. wo

practising medicine and living in Los Angele Ma wile fe fev
that all my classmares have achieved there groals,

[94]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

WHEELER SAMMONS

HOME ApprEsS: R.R. 1, Box 305, Chesterton, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 333 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 1, Ill.

BoRN: May 23, 1914, Chicago, Il.

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Ill.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., mag7a cum laude, 1937.

Marriep: Jeanne East, Feb. 1, 1936, New York, N.Y. cumpren: Nancy Ratcliffe,
July 13, 1938 (Mrs. Hawke); Richard Webbe, June 18, 1943. GRANDCHIL-
pREN: Ralph Richard Hawke, April 8, 1958; Christopher Alan Hawke, June
10, 1959.

occupation: Self-employed as publishing and direct mail advertising consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant publisher, A. N. Marquis Company, 1946-51; secretary
and assistant to publisher, 1953-56, president, director and associate pub-
lisher, later (to March, 1959), Marquis-Who’s Wha, Inc., Chicago; director,
Adult Education Council of Greater Chicago.

MEMBER OF: Press Club, Chicago; Harvard Club of Chicago; Association of
Artists & Craftsmen of Porter County, Indiana.

AFTER a short fling as a journalist of sorts with an ill-fated publi-
cation, National Consumer News, New York, joined the family
business, the A. N. Marquis Company (now Marquis-Who’s Who,
Inc.), Chicago, publishers of Who’s Who in America and all its
various appendages, in 1938, where I remained until March, 1959,
except for service as a desk admiral in the Naval Reserve, 1942-45,
and a brief fling in the printing business. 1951-53. In December,
1958, when my family lost the long drawn-out lawsuit over control
of Who's Who etc., which ensued upon my father’s death in 1956,
I remained as publisher for a couple of months; then the new man-
agement and I had an inevitable parting of the ways and I was
detached as publisher, although being retained on contract as a con-
sultant. Having had the appellation “consultant” thrust upon me,
as it were, I decided to become one full-time and hung out my
shingle as “independent publishing consultant.” In that capacity I
have supervised the publication of two 500-page membership di-
rectories for the American College of Hospital Administrators,
Chicago, and have done a great deal of direct mail advertising work
for Who’s Who and for others, including Lincoln’s New Salem
(Ill.) Enterprises, Inc. The latter, an affiliate of The Abraham
Lincoln Book Shop, Chicago, not only got me immersed in the
Civil War but also in the unlikely business of selling Civil War
Centennial gifts and mementoes by mail order, this resulting from
getting out 4 mail order catalog for another affiliate, American

[ 946 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

House, which now has its “warehouse” in my basement in Chester-
ton, Indiana. Anyone for a battle game — or Confederate cigarette
lighter?

With well over two years behind me since my “detachment” from

Who’s Who, I can now say, in retrospect, to my opponents in that
long, bitter battle over proprietorship of the “Big Red Book,” sin-
cerely, “Thanks much!” Not only did the severance give me the
opportunity once and for all to put the rat race behind me; it gave
me the impetus, albeit over a year later, and the situation, for es-
caping once and for all from suburbia (Park Forest, lll, where |
was a “pioneer” in the days before the organization men took over
and was involved in everything under the sun from editorship of
the volunteer weekly newspaper to executive-ship in the Lattle
League, not to mention various shades of politics). My escape was
to a delightful remodeled farm-house — beautifully unfunctional
with basement, attic, nooks, crannies, etc., and a forty-foot living
room! —in the Indiana dune country. My home is my office,
trips to Chicago being once or twice a week, and also the place
where my wife can indulge her green thumb and penchant for cat
raising — at last count we had ten! —to her heart's desire, what
with two country acres to do it in. Shortly I shall qualify as a
Hoosier philosopher — and be utterly content!

Meanwhile the kids have thrived: Nancy, in between countless
jobs in offices, hospitals, and as a Chicago version of an otf-Broad-
way actress, having produced two handsome, bouncing grandsons,
and Richard, having managed to keep his marks up w ‘hile starriny
in three sports, especially baseball, made the grade to Stanford
where all’s well so far (certain subtle efforts to influence movement
to the Eastern seaboard instead were tried, but his cement-headed
father took him to the Yale game in ’60 instead of '58 or '59!).

That’s it, except to mention that my chief contact with Harvard
remains, as always, ex-class and roommate Chuck Reiche of Con-
necticut whom I see off and on and with whom I keep up a lively
correspondence which has led to the collecting of his Rabelaniin
epistles as my chief hobby, my hope of some day achieving Lancs
fame resting on being Boswell to his Runyon!

NATHANIEL SALTONSTALL HOWE SANDERS, J&.

MAILING ADDRESS: % U.S, Consulate, Lima, Peru.

(947 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

FREDERICK WADDINGTON SANDS

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Bayard St., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESs: United States Rubber Co., 1230 Ave. of the Americas, New
York 20, N.Y.

BorN: Nov. 3, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1937.

MarrieD: Carmen Ana Torres Gonzalez, Sept. 14, 1936, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
CHILD: Frederick Waddington, Jr., Oct. 27, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Eliot Sands, ’28, M.B.A., 31; Kenneth Fillman Sands,
"39 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Environmental health consultant, Industrial Relations, United
States Rubber Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Sigma Alpha Epsilon Alumni Association of New York,
1950; chairman, Metropolitan New York Section, American Industrial Hy-
giene Association, 1950; general chairman, executive committee, Rubber
Section, National Safety Council, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow);
American Chemical Society; American Public Health Association; Ameri-
can Industrial Hygiene Association; British Occupational Hygiene Society;
Royal Society for Health; Industrial Medical Society of Uruguay; Sigma
Alpha Epsilon; Publicity Lodge No. 1000, F. & A.M.; Harvard Club of
New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Ventilation of Wire Impregnating Tanks, Using Chlorinated
Hydrocarbons,” with Drinker and Yaglou, Journal of Industrial Hygiene
and Toxicology, Vol. 20, June, 1938, “Toluene Diisocyanate, Engineering
and Medical Control of Exposures in Polyurethane Foam Manufacturing,”
American Industrial Hygiene Association Quarterly, December, 1957;
“Evaluation of Carbon Black Exposures in a Uruguayan Rubber Factory,”
Proceedings of the XIll International Congress of Occupational Health,
New York, 1960.

EXACTLY thirty years ago, in June of 1932, some of us met for the
first time during the 25th Reunion festivities of the Class of 1907.
I recall that, as one of the children of ’o7, I was deeply impressed
with the activities, and the experience was stimulating. I also recall
that I thought the “old man” must be really old — twenty-five years
out of college. Now, in practically no time at all, here we are,
ourselves in the same predicament. I can hardly blame my son if he
feels the same way about me.

My career began with the training I received under Professors
Drinker, Hatch and Yaglou, at the Harvard School of Public Health,
Department of Industrial Hygiene, where, for a year, I assisted in a
laboratory course in sanitary air analysis. In 1938, we moved to New
York City, where I accepted a position as industrial hygiene chemist

[948 ]

el

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at the Laboratory of Industrial Hygiene and Toxicology of the
Fidelity and Casualty Insurance Company of New York. In tyy:,
I moved again, to the United States Rubber Company, with whom
I have been connected ever since, in the capacity of industrial
hygienist. Since the company had no formal health program power
to this time, it gradually became my responsibility in subsequent
years to develop a comprehensive company-wide health and preven.
tive medical program, together with all the related programs such
as toxicological research and consumer protection. I have had to
travel extensively, if not almost continuously, during these past nine-
teen years, to all company locations throughout the United States
Canada, Europe and South America. Keeping up with new de wolop.
ments has been a major problem. Products of the company have
been changing rapidly; technological changes take place every day,
new and exotic chemicals, unheard of a few years ago, are coming
into commercial use; radioactive materials and the problems of the
missile and space age complicate the protection of the induserul
worker as well as the public. But these almost overwhelming
developments — amounting to an industrial revolution — serve asa
tremendous stimulus to us in the field of industrial health ta make
corresponding advances in health protection.
Now, as for family life, Carmen and I married young. We enjoved
together many wonderful years, and hope for many more. The
many attractions of life in New York City were new to both of us
We were especially fascinated by its cosmopolitanism, During the
war, Carmen was active with the Office of Censorship and bree, in
1945, joined the Secretariat of the United Nation, where for a
number of years she took part in the problems of its formanon and
growing pains. But all of these years were childless years, We
were gradually, but with difficulty, reconciling ourselves to the
situation. Then, after sixteen years of marriage, our first (and enty)
son arrived in 1952. This must be something of a record’ Su.tdenty
our whole way of life changed. We moved out of the city, bre to
Great Neck, Long Island, and later, in 1956, to Lars hinear, New
York. (I am now a confirmed New Haven commuter.) Put the
growth and development of our son has become eur man neces
We now find ourselves deep in P.T.A., Cub Scouts, ete andere
wonderful childhood experiences through our son.
Prior to the birth of our son, we had made a number of mo
Europe together. Carmen participated in the twa Gener! Ve
sessions of the United Nations in Paris in 194y% and ryan Ebs ; we

4%

& &

of

[949 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

roblems to look into for the United States Rubber Company. We
had some delightful days in Spain. In recent years, however, our
travels have been limited mainly to very frequent trips to Eastham,
Cape Cod, where we enjoy family vacations. We have also become
interested in a real estate project in the Cape Cod area.

Finally, as for hobbies, when I find the time, I devote a little to
gardening, particularly the growing of roses. We all do a lot of
reading. I would like to have more time for music, for I enjoy the
piano.

. MAURICE SAPIENZA

HOME ADDRESS; 3481 N. Hackett Ave., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE ApprEss: General Electric Co., X-ray Dept., 4855 Electric Ave., Milwau-

kee 1, Wis.

BORN: Oct, 10, 1915, Irvington, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Irvington High School, Irvington, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Cu laude, 1937; LL.B., 1940.

MarriepD: Virginia Farrell, Oct. 25, 1941, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1947); Mary

~ Elizabeth Shurtz, Feb. 14, 1948, Honolulu, Hawaii. cumpren: Alice Marie,
April 5, 1943; Maurice, Jr., Sept. 5, 1948; Maureen, Feb. 11, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Thomas Sapienza, ’34, LL.B., ’37.

OCCUPATION: Counsel, X-ray Department, General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Senior Class Officer (Class Poet), 1937; permanent secretary, Har-
vard Law School Class of 1940; president, University Men’s Club of New
Jersey, 1941; Rationing Attorney, Price Attorney, Enforcement Attorney,
Special Hearing Officer and Trial Attorney (successively), Office of Price
Administration, 1942~45; Assistant U.S, Attorney for the District of Hawaii,
1945-48; Deputy Attorney General, Hawaii, 1948-50; lecturer, Business
Law, University of Hawaii, 1947-50; president, Democratic Precinct Club
(13th Precinct, qth District), Honolulu, Hawaii, 1948-50; committeeman,
Oahu Democratic County Committee, Honolulu, 1950; president and na-
tional committeeman, Young Democratic Clubs of the Territory of Hawaii,
1948-50; vice-chairman, Democratic Central Committee, Honolulu, 1950;
president, Democratic Precinct Club (39th Precinct, zd District), Hilo,
Hawaii, 1956; Hawaii County Committeeman, 1956; Judge, Circuit Court,
Third Circuit, Hawaii, 1950-55; president, Hilo Country Club, 1957; chair-
man, World Brotherhood, Hawaii County Chapter, 1956; president, River-
side P.T.A., Hilo, Hawaii, 1958; secretary, Kaahuumann P.T.A., Honolulu,

1959; chaplain, Inner Guard, Tiler, B.P.O.E., 759, Hilo, Hawaii; secretary-
treasurer, Harvard Club of Hawaii, 1947~49; secretary, Waikiki Yacht Club,
1947; Senate Attorney, Thirtieth Legislature, Honolulu, 1959; trustee and
secretary, Honolulu Sailors Society, since 1959,

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Wisconsin; University Club of Milwaukee; Mid-
Pacific Country Club; B.P.O.E., 46, Harvard Law School Association;

[950 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard Law School Council; American, Wisconsin and Hawai Bar Awo-
ciations; American Arbitration Association; New Jersey bar.

pusuications: “This is V-J Day,” 1945.

IF I were asked who had the most influence in shaping my life, I

would unhesitatingly say: first, my father, for his perseverance in

insisting that whatever I did, I would try to do as well as was within
my capabilities; second, my brother John, for his unfailing awistance
when needed, for his wise counseling when appropriate and for his

idance by example, and third, my wife Mary, not only for her
wonderful love and companionship, but also for her uncanny atulity
to keep my feet on the ground whenever I was tempted by my
allergic imagination to try a flight into some illusory orbit. These
three and a series of fortunate circumstances deserve the credit for
the modest success I have had in my career to date.

Nothing in life is permanent. Some things just last longer than
others. I have been enjoying, to the brim, every cupful of expert:
ence. Each one has been interesting, challenging and rewarding.
Association in private law practice with the late Honorable Arthur
T. Vanderbilt taught me that the practice of law is, in ewenee,
service to my clients, to my community and to my country. My
experience in the Office of Price Administration gave me my firse
contact with the manner in which our governing agencies rule our
daily lives, and I learned that they are as good or as bad as we allow
them to be. Prosecuting law violators, as an Assistant United States
Attorney, taught me to be wary of the rosy fog that surrounds some
people. Advising government agencies, as a Deputy Attorney
General, afforded me the opportunity to define boundaries for their
actions and thus exercise a guiding influence on them. Scrving ava
Judge of a Court of Record indelibly impressed on me the fact that
there are two sides to everything and that the prevailing sufe wil
depend upon the rules that are applicable at the tine. My present

position as department counsel in General Electric is stimulatiny and
challenging.

My political views are those of a Democrat who believes a pat:
ticular program is not good or bad simply because it bears a Dero
cratic or Republican label. Much of our choice has tradironaly
been the lesser of two evils.

My religious convictions remain personal and private. Pats rs
wear them on my coat lapel. Ido not tolerate the atter:peby arves *
to impose his religious views on me, nor dv LT iipose mune ea lh

I do not know what social convictions shouldbe. Nobucoayte. :

[ost]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

is a human being. There is good and there is bad in all of us. My

simple question is how much one outweighs the other. On the
answer depends my relationship.

All is not work! Much is play and fun. I am a golf addict, an
erratic bowler and a steady eater! Now and then I like to write

poetry, listen to music and watch, with wonderment, as my children
mature.

THOMAS STONE SAPPINGTON

HOME ADDRESS: 3546 Raymoor Rd., Kensington, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1025 Connecticut Ave. N.W., Washington, D.C.

BORN: July 19, 1916, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: St. Albans School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., Cwm laude, 1937; M.D4 1941.

marriep: Gretchen Geiser, Aug. 2, 1941, Oberlin, Ohio. cHmpren: Thomas
Stone, Jr., Jan. 13, 1949; John Frederick, Sept. 19, 1951.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in internal medicine, Yale Medical School, 1942-46;
instructor in internal medicine, 1948-50, associate in internal medicine,
1950-54, assistant clinical professor of medicine, 1954-60, associate clinical

professor of medicine, since 1960, George Washington University School
of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: American Gastroenterological Association; American Federation
of Clinical Research, D.C. Medical Society, American Society of Internal
Medicine; American Medical Association; Cosmos Club.

pusLications: A number of contributions to various medical journals concern-
ing investigations in metabolic disease, gastroenterology and endocrinology.

AFTER graduating from Harvard Medical School in June, 1941,
I married Gretchen Geiser, Radcliffe ’39. We descended to New
Haven for five years of hectic and amusing hospital training, inter-
rupted by nine months’ sojourn as a guest of the State of Connecticut
as a patient in a TB sanitorium.

In 1946 I was lucky enough to receive a fellowship from the
American College of Physicians for research in gastroenterology
under Dr. H. L. Bockus in the Graduate School of Medicine of the
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, In 1948 I opened an
office for the practice of medicine in Washington. I divide my time
between practice and teaching at the George Washington University
Medical School. My activities here have included consultantships
at Walter Reed Hospital and various other Army and Veterans
Administration Hospitals. As a consultant to the Surgeon General
of the Army, I was privileged to make a fascinating trip to Japan

[952 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Korea in 1952. Recently, I have been made chief of the Gastro.
intestinal Section of the George Washington University Medical
School and have been working to develop that department.

My wife and I enjoy a quiet family life —that is, as quict as
possible with two growing boys and one oversized poodle in the
house. Summer vacations have usually been spent in New Elampshire
enjoying mountain climbing, photography and golf. We are alwavs
delighted to see Classmates who come to Washington for anv

purpose whatsoever.

JOHN HOVLAND SARDESON

HOME ADDRESS: 315 Moore Ave., Leonia, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: National Council of Churches, 475 Riverside Drive, New York

27, N.Y.

BORN: July 23, 1915, Chicago, III.

PREPARED AT: Oak Park High School, Oak Park, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1937; A.M. 1938.

MARRIED: Betty Miskimen, 1942, New York, N.Y. (divorced tocg), Vivuan
Everson, May 26, 1956, Moorhead, Minn. cuicoren: Karen Flizabeth, Sep.
10, 1944; Sigrid Anne, Feb. 20, 1946; John Hovland, Jr. Feb. ag tast,

Kristin Marie, Sept. 4, 1959.
OCCUPATION: Director, Office of Finance, National Council of Churches

OFFICES HELD: President, Junior Chamber of Commerce, Ithaca, N.Y. toro ¢4,
Central Conference, United Lutheran Synod of New York, toto-44. ne-
tional adviser, Lutheran Student Association of America, 19¢0-¢2, toch 44,
member, executive committee, United Student Christian Council, toad 9.

MEMBER OF; New York Association of Fund Raising Directors.

PusticaTions: “The Kingdom of God and History”; “Further Reflcctsens on
the Kingdom of God”; “Justification by Faith in Paul", “The Dosenne of

Original Sin.”
ONCE again not only the scene but in a sense life's direction ine f
has shifted and the temptation is strong to do a “preeis” of thar
as-yet-undone first, and therefore autobiographical, novel as thou:h
three class reports have not already been printed. But they have ---
indeed, I spent a fascinating evening tracking known and unknesa
Classmates through the triad — and so this will be a sunple aftr

Others, I hope, will do more, even apologias.
About a year after the last Report, the Grand Union Compan,
a large food chain for which I had then worked about three meus’ s
in public relations, wanted to promote me (which was fine), tas fee
me to advertising (which seemed intriguing), and move ims fs.
and me to Syracuse, then after a while to Washingron, DC too

[953]

_aohuthitamioatimeniatataaempeitananiinitaieeti ___

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

probably to Albany. Then, if I had delivered — or more properly,
moved — the goods along the way, they intimated I would wind up
back at headquarters in East Paterson, New Jersey. Not wanting
the peripatetic life, I read the “Want Ads” and secured a job as one
of five associate directors of the Office of Finance of the National
Council of Churches. Within two months the director died and in
another month (June, 1958) I became director, a position I still hold.

The principal portion of my job is to secure gifts from individ-
uals, corporations and foundations to help support the varied ven-
tures of the Council. To accomplish this I travel some (I have
jealously kept Boston for myself so that I can attend the 25th), write
innumerable letters, prepare descriptive brochures and leaflets, super-
vise five associate directors and thirteen non-executives, and other-
wise keep fiendishly busy, and all for the kind of salary traditionally
paid by a non-profit organization, But I love the job, a happy
wedding of fourteen years in the ministry and a year and a half in
public relations in the secular world.

My family, augmented by a lively and good two-year-old, live
most contentedly in the well-settled, lovely and handy New York
suburb of Leonia, New Jersey. There are days when I continue to
feel I would rather have been Harry Emerson Fosdick or John
O’Hara, but essentially I have come to terms with the fact that I am
neither, and even with the twenty-five years which have elapsed.

IGNATIUS SARGENT

HOME ADDRESS: 2344 California St. N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lord Electric Co. Inc. 1725 I St. N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1914, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MaRRIED: Frances Moffat, June 17, 1935, West Newton, Mass. cumpren: Sophie
de A. Nov. 27, 1940; Michael A. Sept. 1, 1942; Andrew R., 2d, Sept. 5,
1944; Sara M., Sept. ro, 1948.

occupation: Manager, Washington office, Lord Electric Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Test pilot and sales manager, Luscombe Airplane Company,
Trenton, N.J., 1935-39; U.S. Air Force, 1940-46, 1951-54; vice-president
and sales manager, Wings, Inc., 1946-51.

MEMBER oF: Institute of Aeronautical Sciences; American Rocket Society;
National Aviation Club; Racquet and Tennis Club of New York; Quiet

Birdmen.

AFTER completing my sophomore year in 1935, I married and
[954]

pore

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

left college to pursue my interests in aviation. I joined the Luscombe
Airplane Company in Trenton, New Jersey, for whom I was a
test pilot and sales manager and was a party in developing the first
all-metal light aircraft for civilian use. In 1939, I was given my
wings as a pilot with the New Jersey National Guard and was called
to active duty in September, 1940, as a first lieutenant. In togt. I
was transferred to the GHQ Air Force at Langley Air Force Base,
Virginia, flying B-17 equipment. A week after Pearl Harbor, as crew
commander, I flew a B-17 via Africa and India to Java in the Dutch
East Indies where I joined the 19th Bombardment Group. For a
period of one and a half years, we carried on bombing misions
against the Japanese from Java, Australia, New Guinca, etc., return-
ing to the United States in 1943. From that period until I went on
active duty in 1946, I was involved in the training aspects of heavy
bombardment crews, ending up in the B-z9 program at war's end.
From 1946 to 1951 I was vice president and sales manager for
Wings, Inc., a fixed based operation outside of Philadelphia, prin-
cipally concerned with the distribution of Beach aircraft. [T remained
active as a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force Reserve. 1 was re:
called to active duty during the Korean War where | held the
position of branch chief in the Directorate of Plans, Headquarters
USAF, until I returned again to civilian life in 1954. Since that tine,
I have lived in Washington and held several positions involving the
representation of industry to the government, particularly invelved
with aviation and missile programs. In 1959, I was appointed man.
ager of the Lord Electric Company, Inc., Washington office, Tord
Electric Company, Inc., is very heavily 1 involved in installation work
with the Air Force and NASA in the missile effort and ether bare
government projects. I maintain my interest in flying by virtue
of a mobilization assignment as colonel in the U.S. Air Force Ss soya
Command at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland, and pilot my own
twin Cessna aircraft for business and pleasure.

ERIC DUTTON SAVAGE

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Hardwell Rd., Short Hills, N.J.

OFFICE Appress: 144 S. Harrison St., Fase Orange, N J.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937(J)); Meo. (Duke Ue ag.

lose)

_ L-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

marrigD: Lillian Hillyer Marsh, Sept. 12, 1940, East Orange, N.J. cumpren:
Eric Dutton, Jr., Oct. 2, 1944; Marion Fiske, Sept. 4, 1949 (adopted).

HARVARD BROTHER: William Halsted Savage, °41.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Grace Episcopal Church, Orange, N.J., 1954-57;
associate attending, Orange Memorial Hospital; assistant attending OP.D.,
Roosevelt Hospital, New York City; president, Essex County (New Jersey),
Heart Association, 1960-61; trustee, Far Brook School, Short Hills, N.J,

MEMBER OF: Academy of Medicine of Northern New Jersey; Essex County
Medical Society; Essex County Heart Association; New Jersey Rheumatism
Society; Short Hills Club; Mantoloking (New Jersey) Yacht Club.

WRITING a biography is a deflating task, except perhaps to the
eternal egotist. This I am not, so though to me my life has been
full, it would prove unexciting to many.

A four-year stint at Duke University School of Medicine added
an M.D. to my Harvard A.B. and I set forth to conquer disease.
(Disease is still with us.) I met Lillian Hillyer Marsh, niece of
Robert Hillyer of English A fame, at Harvard Summer School in
1938 and by 1940 had coaxed her to the altar. The outbreak of
war found us living in Tarrytown, New York, while I was interning
at Grasslands Hospital. Internship was, of course, interrupted, and
I entered the service. My vision was too poor for the Navy, so I
became an Army flight surgeon. The fortunes of war dictated that
I spend two and a half years shuttling around the U.S.A., in the
course of which we acquired a son, Eric, Jr., born in Sioux City,
Iowa, in 1944. My overseas assignment was in Dutch Guinea, a dull
but hardly hazardous lot. Lillian, at least, was pleased.

Military medicine does not sharpen one’s diagnostic acumen, so
that a postwar residency at Roosevelt Hospital, New York City,
was needed before starting the practice of internal medicine in
the Oranges, New Jersey. I am still at it and I love it.

Our family having stagnated at one offspring, we adopted a
daughter, Marion, in 1949 and so face the world as a family of four
plus assorted pets. We have lived for the past six years in Short
Hills, New Jersey, where we have been very happy.

My hobbies include sailing, skating, tennis, bridge and birding,
in none of which do I excel. I delve moderately into civic affairs,
having served two terms as president of the local chapter of the
Heart Association, and in various capacities have aided my church,
my children’s school, the Visiting Nurses Association and the Chil-
dren’s Aid Society.

My politics — Republican, my hopes—dashed, my confidence— |

|

[956 ]

et

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unshaken; my health—excellent; my goals—unreached, mv woh ~~
to greet you all i in 1987 and report that I am still doing business at
this stand.

EDWARD LAWRENCE SAXE

HOME ADDRESS: 79 Old Hill Rd., Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: CBS Television Network, 485 Madison Ave, New York 22,
N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 19373 M.BAq 1939.

MarriED: Bridget Anthea Gordon, March 2, 1946, Cranborne, Dorset, Frgtand.
CHILDREN: Andrew N. G., Aug. 12, 1948; Christopher EB. G. Dec. ar, tues.

occuPATION: Television broadcasting; vice-president, operations, proatuction
and distribution of television programs.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to treasurer, 1946-48, executive assistant, 19048 qa curt.
troller, 1949-54, CBS; vice-president and assistant to president, 1964-44 tae
president, operations, since 1956, CBS Television.

MEMBER OF: Radio & Television Executives Society; Society of Mogon Pxture
& Television Engineers; Society of Television Pioncers, Harvard Ruunee
School Association; 12th Army Group Association; Navonal Couretce-
Intelligence Corps Association; New England Society in the City of
New York; Harvard Clubs of New York and New Canaan, Bucks Lon.bon

WALTER GERARD SCHEER, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 75 Summit Rd., Port Washington, Long Iland, N.Y
OFFICE ADDRESS: William Scheer, Inc., 620 Fifth Ave, New York, NY.
BORN: April 19, 1916, Arverne, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.
marrigeD: Doris Albers, May 31, 1939, Great Neck, N.Y. costpar~ Ware
Gerard, 3d, Aug. 30, 1940; William Kenneth, Dec, 13, 1940
_ OCCUPATION: President, William Scheer, Inc. jewelry manufacturers

KARL ERWIN SCHEVILL

HOME Appress: 131 Alvarado Rd., Berkeley 5, Calif.

OFFICE ADpREss; School of Education, University of California, Berkeley a Os

BORN: July 9, 1915, Berkeley, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, DEGREFS: AB, 1917, a. (Uriv. of Ca cee oe.
1938; PHD. (ibid.), 1948.

4

[957]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

maraiep: Janis Kent, May 25, 1938, San Francisco, Calif. cittpreN: Katharine
Louise, Oct. 5, 1939; Margaret Marie, June 17, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Associate director of teacher education, Secondary Department
of Education, University of California.

puBLIcATIONs: Contributed chapter on Spanish and Portuguese literature to
World Through Literature; articles on foreign language instruction:
California Schools and California Journal.

ATTENDED University of California, 1933-34 — Alpha Delta Phi.
Harvard, Potter Prize in Spanish Literature, A.B., 1937. Glee Club
and Choir Teacher, Fountain Valley School, 1938-40; Spanish De-
partment, University of California, 1942-49; San Diego State College,
1949-51; St. Mary’s College, 1951-52; Department of Education,
University of California, 1952; associate director of teacher educa-
tion, Secondary Department of Education, since 1960.

JOHN JAMES SCHIANCA

HOME AppRESS; 27 Franklin St., Thompsonville, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration, 95 Pearl St., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1915, Thompsonville, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Enfield High School, Thompsonville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(39).

Marriep: Stella Mary Skomro, April 12, 1947, Chicopee, Mass, CHILDREN:
Geraldine Ann, Jan. 22, 1950; Mark Anthony, Aug. 17, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Adjudicator, Veterans Administration.

OFFICES HELD: Recording secretary, since 1937, member, board of directors,
since 1948, Knights of Columbus; CYO Adult Sponsor, since 1945; director,
Veterans Service Center, Thompsonville, Conn., 1945-46, VFW Service
Office, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus; Holy Family Retreat League, CYO;
Veterans Committee; Veterans of Foreign Wars,

I HAVE had little or no career since leaving Harvard. I held odd
jobs until World War II came along. I became a member of the USS.
Air Force in 1941, where I rose to the dizzying heights of technical
sergeant as a tail gunner on a B-24. I took my basic training in Miami
Beach, Florida, and attended radio school at Scott Field, Illinois, and
gunnery school at Fort Meyers, Florida. Upon completion of my
courses at gunnery school, I was retained as instructor and then made
chief of the weapon division. All the while OCS proved an elusive
target. I finally requested overseas duty and was made a tail gunner
on a B-24.

We flew our missions from Africa, Sicily and the mainland until
one day, while over Blechammer, Germany, phftt, and those of us

[958 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who survived found ourselves guests of the Third Reich — first in a

hospital and then in one of their “rest” camps. Not satisfied with

our accommodations, some of us took leave of our hosts in the mi-

dle of the night (and without saying good-by). After a game of
hide-and-seek, which covered most of Czechoslovakia and lower
Germany, we joined the partisans, who informed us that General
Twining had been contacted and that he was sending in plancs to
pick us up (marijuana smokers, we thought). However, lo and be-
hold, two B-17’s and fighter escort picked us up in Banska Bystrica,
Slovakia, and flew us back to Allied control and General Twining.

I finished my tour of duty at Westover Field, Chicopee, Masu-
chusetts, where I met the girl who was to become my wife and the
mother of my two children. In 1945, after my discharge from scrv-
ice, I became director of the Veterans Service Center, Thompson.
ville, Connecticut, from where I became an employee of the Vertcer-
ans Administration, holding the position of contact representative,
assistant contact officer, and finally, adjudicator. I enjoy this work
immensely. :

I am a practical Roman Catholic and am active in the atfairs of
the church as much as time will permit. I have been an adult sponsor
of the CYO for several years and enjoy working with children.

I have two children who are students in St. Joseph Parochul
School, and who enjoy helping me do their homework. Our family
life has been a full and happy one and I wouldn't trade it for anv-
thing. My golf game is fairly good — in the low ninctics and EF stul
wield a pretty good tennis racquet. I enjoy reading, and ama stamp
collector of sorts. I probably haven’t made much of a mark in this
upside-down world of ours, but I have been fortunate and have a bee

for which to be thankful.

IRVING PAUL SCHILLER

HOME ApprEss: 67 Elm St., Lynbrook, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Acme Cotton Products Co, Inc, ag5 Fifth Ave. New Yor’ 04
N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193371937. DEGREES; A.B, 1937; aM, (Uiuw. of Noe Caro
lina), 1939.

MarriED; Vera Halper, Sept. 27, 1942, New York, N.Y. ciiteers Dee.
July 2, 1945; Janet M., Feb. 24, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Sylvan Schiller, "ys, ura, °)%

[959 ]

1 vt.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occupation: Sales manager, Hospital Division, Acme Cotton Products Com-
pany, Inc., surgical dressings.

OFFICES HELD: Captain, United Nations Chess Team, 1948; treasurer, Staff Com-
mittee, United Nations, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Dad’s Club, Lynbrook High School; Harvard Club of Long Island.

puBLICATIONS: A few articles on records management in American Archivist
and Business Historical Quarterly of Harvard Business School; chapter on
the records of the League of Nations in a Guide to the Diplomatic Ar-
chives of Western Europe, 1959, University of Pennsylvania Press.

OUR first assignment in English A many years ago was auto-
biography and the “D” is vividly recalled. Still, encouraged by the
probability of more tolerant readers, I begin.

Immediately after college I spent a year at Chapel Hill to continue
in the field of American history and learn about the rebel version of
the Civil War. Received an A.M. and reinforced my opinion that
it was good that the South lost the Civil War.

Went to work in the National Archives for a few years before
going into the Army, June 6, 1944, D-Day, and it’s on record that I
predicted the invasion would take place when I should be inducted.
Moved up the ranks from private to buck sergeant; served in the
Infantry, in the E.T.O., for a year and a half; also wrote a mono-
graph, as a military historian, on the logistics of the Twelfth Army
Group. The experiences of a military historian and a rifleman were
both edifying, especially the latter.

Next came a six-year period of employment in the Secretariat of
the United Nations — at Lake Success, New York, Headquarters,
and Geneva, Switzerland. Those were wonderful, exciting and
exhilarating days. Participation in the growing pains, the trials and
tribulations of the United Nations international staff was a rare
privilege. After the U.N., I was self-employed; built up a medical
supply business with particular emphasis on electronic equipment.
At the end of six years, the business was sold and I joined the firm
with which I am now associated, as national sales manager of the
hospital division.

Outside interests have changed to some extent but I still play
tennis awkwardly, irrationally, avidly and actively, Intellectually,
have gone from chess, to the military history of the Civil War, to
existentialism, to Ancient Greece. I’m even studying ancient Greek;
progress is slow but I’m continuing. I find the spare time when
commuting and traveling.

A consuming interest in Greece can be expensive when one must
see the country and its ruins first hand. Last summer, spent the

[ 960 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

entire four weeks’ vacation on archeological tours through Greeve
and Asia Minor. Now, quixotically planning a second trip, ale
nurturing the vague intent to use this information some day by

teaching in a good private (secondary) school.
As for the inner man, the conflicts persist; seem to be growing

more tolerant, more dogmatic, more impatient, more avuncular,
more contentious, more agreeable, more aloof, more social and more
reckless — all at the same time. Don Marquis once wrote, “You
cannot understand, nor won’t until you get to be forty-seven of
forty-eight, the continual gasping hurrying sense that they are not
started yet, the big things.” Thus, on this cheerful note, I close.

DANIEL BOONE SCHIRMER

HOME AppREss: 17 Gerry St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1915, Greenwich, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Asheville School, Asheville, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; A-M. (Boston Univ.), tar.

marriep: Margaret Fellows, March 15, 1941; Greenwich, Conn. contpacs:
Audrey, April 11, 1942; Abigail, May 2, 1944; Joseph, July a, 104%
occupation: Employed in the printing industry.

EARL GEORGE SCHMIDLE

HOME aAppRESS: P.O. Box 678, Connellsville, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Back Creek Lumber Co., Box 796, Connellsville, Pa.

BORN: Feb, 14, 1915, Kingwood, W.Va.
PREPARED AT: Connellsville High School, Connellsville, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1033-1937-
MmarriepD: Ada M. Clark, April 27, 1940, Pittsburgh, Pa.
OccUPATION: Manager, Back Creek Lumber Company, wholewlere

WILLIAM HENRY SCHMIDT, I

BorN: March 3, 1915, Washingron, D.C. parents: Henry Donovan Se hens ts,

Annie Payan.
PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1937.

piep: July 15, 1942, Chestnut Hill, Mass.
t

SCHMIDT was elected captain of the track team, vice preatoore
Phillips Brooks House, chairman of the Freshinan Jubilee Car oo,
Tercentenary Marshal, and a member of the Cla Day Cer

[ 941 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

He also was a member of the Freshman Football Squad, the Instru-
mental Clubs, the Union Committee, and the Red Book business
board. After graduation he became a salesman for the Atlantic
Coast Fisheries with offices at 4 Fish Pier, Boston, and served in this

capacity until he became ill. He died after a prolonged illness and
was survived by his parents.

FREDERICK WILLIAM SCHNEIDER

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Westminster Rd., West Hempstead, Long Island, N.Y.
BORN: Sept. 7, 1915, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Technical High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; S.M. IN ENG, ADMIN. 1940.
UNMARRIED,

occupation: Retired aeronautical engineer; presently securities trader, self-

employed.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of New York; Surf Club of Quogue,
New York.

YOU know, one receives a terrible jolt when he starts to tell of the
earth-shattering deeds that he presumably might have accomplished
during the past twenty-five years and then cannot think of even one
which is mildly worth mentioning. In any event, here are the salient
facts of an extremely uneventful existence. |
September, 1937: Returned to good old Cambridge, and after
much struggling managed to obtain my Master’s degree in engineer-
ing administration. Academically, Pm afraid I was no ball of fire.
As for extracurricular activities, however, I’m proud of the fact that
I probably was the first graduate student ever to sail in a national
intercollegiate regatta (only because no one realized I was not an
undergraduate until the boats were pulling away from the dock).
I’m also proud of the fact that I probably am the only man at
Harvard ever to have sailed on a Princeton team against Harvard!
September, 1940: Attended the Graduate School of Aeronautics
at New York University until June of 1941. Although I suppose I
am biased in believing Harvard is the greatest, from my experience,
the Guggenheim School at New York University can take a back
seat to none.
July, 1941: Started work at Grumman Aircraft Engineering Cor-
poration in Bethpage, Long Island, New York, and remained there

until retiring in August of 1958. During my early years, I spent
most of my time as a stress analyst on the Avenger torpedo bomber,

[ 962 ]

caer cep nt ITE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an airplane we like to believe had more than a small part in hoki:

the Japanese. Later, I was lucky enough to become structures

project engineer in charge of the stress analysis and structural des: <1
of the Albatross amphibians and triphibians, the standard air rew ue
airplanes for our armed forces. This latter position, which | held
for my last ten years at Grumman, was particularly inspiring since |
felt that I had at least a small part in saving people's lives instead of

helping to snuff them out.
August, 1958: retired from Grumman Aircraft. Since then I have

gradually put a hobby to work until now I am sclf-cmployved as a
securities trader. This is an occupation which is very conducive te
ulcers and somewhat analogous to playing the horses, Ie does how.
ever, provide one with time to do a bit of traveling and the miny
other things one cannot do when holding a steady position. T would
also like to say that stock trading can be a much more hicranve
occupation than engineering. I can only say that an engineers of
scientist in this country is a most underpaid and unappreciated
person.
Since comments have been invited concerning work! atfairy ete.
I would like to express my thoughts on a most controversial subreat
long-range bombers. As a famous comedian once said, “ANT know
is what I read in the papers.” However, I only hope that our
President and Secretary of Defense, both Elarvard men, know what
they’re doing in impounding the extra money which Congress tote
for these airplanes. Somehow the holding back of funds for these
most essential weapons, especially the B-70, scems to be the wros ¢
answer to Russia’s nuclear tests. Such an act appears mest uns re,
especially when it was done against the advice of mose of our ley-s-
Jators, our top Air Force generals, and our top military CUpe res,
The pros and cons for the B-70 have been argued back asd fores

on innumerable occasions. I can only say that Pl hate to be ders
in any of our coastal cities without proper protection if inthe ne
few years our enemies should send over a squadron of princes cor
parable to the B-70 equipped with missiles of the Pound alos es
Skybolt type. Perhaps we do have a secret means foe peercey
them. Perhaps that and not monetary considerations war tie ¢
reason for cancelling the F-108. If not, a battle-res fy Bose
at least be employed as an interceptor as wellavalons casce te |
If we have no form of protection ayainse hich ater! Neg. or
bomber attack, it is surely not only long Peanve tines po
powered submarines that could devastate us

( 943 J

oo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HOWARD FRANKLIN SCHOMER

HOME AppRESS: 5740 Kimbark, Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5757 University, Chicago, Ill.

BORN: June 9, 1915, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Oak Park High School, Oak Park, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., summa cum laude, 1937.

marrieD: Elsie Pauline Swenson, March 23, 1942, Chicago, II]. campren: Karin,
May 26, 1944; Mark, Nov. 3, 1947; Paul, June 5, 1949; Ellen, Feb. 13, 1957.

occupATION: President, Chicago Theological Seminary.

AFTER thirteen years in Europe, returned to the United States and
theological education in 1959. As president of the International
Fellowship of Reconciliation, my main concern is maintenance of
peace with justice. Most baffling experience to date . . . watching
my teen-agers prow up.

(Schomer’s wife writes that he has gone to India to attend the
General Assembly of the World Council of Churches.)

STANLEY CARTER SCHULER

HOME AND OFFICE AppREss: Cat Rock Road, Cos Cob, Conn. —

BORN: Feb. 28, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

marrigp: Elizabeth H. Meriwether, May 7, 1938, Louisville, Ky. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Ashley, March 27, 1941; Miranda Blake, March 12, 1944; Cary
Meriwether, Sept. 23, 1946.

occuPaTion: Free-lance writing, publicity.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. John’s Episcopal Church, Stamford, Conn.

MEMBER OF: Horticultural Society of New York, Greenwich Garden Center;
Stamford Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Home Freezing for Everyone, with Lura Jim Alkire, 1951;
American Home Kitchen Planning Book, 1961; Lighting Your Home
Grounds, 1962; The Book of Gardening, associate editor, 1962; miscel-
laneous articles for Saturday Evening Post, McCall's, Better Homes &
Gardens, American Home, House Beautiful, House & Garden, American
Weekly, Nation’s Business, Family Circle, etc. ,

TWENTY-SEVEN years after departing from Harvard to try my
hand at serious writing, I am finally doing just that. In the interval,
I allowed — even encouraged — myself to explore such byways as
newspaper reporting (Birmingham, Ala., Post), trade paper editing
(Electrical West, San Francisco), magazine editing (House Beauti-

[ 964 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ful), publicity (General Electric), home building (alo GE) an.
advertising (Kenyon & Eckhardt).

By and large, the byways were fun, remunerative and education!
But it is infinitely better to be your own boss. Yes, you do work
harder. But to do pretty much what you want to do when vor
want to do it with the people you want to do it with; to work a
home; not to have to commute every day; to be able to sneak ou:
to enjoy the golden retriever pups my wife raises — TP recommend it

Admittedly, I am not 100% in the free-lance business. Publieity
is enjoyable, too, especially when you have as clients such nee
people as the Whirlpool Corporation, the Commonwealth of Ken.
tucky, the United States Mineral Wool Company. But the writin:

comes first in my affections if not always in the amount of tune
given it.

The one problem is that I have set number one daughter a bat
example: from Sweet Briar she will probably head into the same

business. (Anyone who does is crazy.) Numbers two and three
however, may be more sensible — I hope.

Looking ahead, I speculate only whether Booz Wanon would
ever let me come back to finish junior and senior year. (Or dul I
long ago ask the College to cancel that leave of absence? )

RICHARD EVANS SCHULTES
HOME AppREss: 46 Hewlett St., Roslindale, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Botanical Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Maw

BORN: Jan. 12, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, Curt laude, 1017, AM. tuit, rem,
1941; M.H. Chon.) (Univ. Nacional de Colombia), 19¢}3.

MarRigD: Dorothy Crawford McNeil, 1959, Boston, Masa. caatnaew Re bard

Evans, 2d, Dec. 26, 1959; Neil Parker and Alexandra Ames (twine), Jans +4.
1961.

occupation: Botanist: curator, Botanical Museum, Harward Univeruey. reer aes hy,
plant exploration, teaching, administration and museum evhihe work

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Harvard-Radclitfe Chapeer, Sigena No

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences (fellows, Lineeen Se
ciety of London (fellow); Colombian Academy of Baact, Pius af end
Natural Sciences; New England Botanical Club (presmtene:, Seaucry ue
Economic Botany (council member), Svaemanes Awestanern Pownhon
Cuban Society of Botany; Colombian Association of Agrnennices (cise
Society of Tropical Soils Science, Meucan Socety af Botany, Angers
Association of Botany, Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales det Cuter, Bere

(965 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

DAVID ROBERT SCHWARZ

HOME ADDRESS: 633 Fenimore Rd., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schwarz BioResearch, Inc., Mountain View Avenue, Orange-
burg, N.Y.

BORN: March 28, 1917, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1937; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Jeanne Lasser, Jan. 1, 1939, White Plains, N.Y. CHILDREN: Susan, April
15, 1942; Jane, June 25, 1945; Judith, June 1, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President, Schwarz BioResearch, Inc. manufacturers of biochem-
icals and radiochemicals.

OFFICES HELD: Chemical engineer and technical director, National Grape Cor-
poration, Brocton, N.Y., 1938-40; variously manager, Industrial Develop-
ment Research, and vice-president for Production and Research, Schwarz
Laboratories, Inc., Mount Vernon, N.Y., 1940-59, director, since 1952;
president and director, Schwarz BioResearch, Inc. since 1959; licensed
professional engineer, New York State, No. 23780; councillor, Association
Consulting Chemists and Chemical Engineers, 1957-60; consultant and mem-
ber, Advisory Panel on General Sciences, Office of Science, Department
of Defense, since 1958, Defense Department liaison member, National Re-
search Council, since 1959; member, NRC sub-committee on biochemical
criteria, 1958, 1959; director, Westchester Section, American Chemical So-
ciety, since 1961; chairman, Education Committee, 1954-56, trustee, 1956-62,
Jewish Community Center, White Plains; associate chairman, Rye Neck
Citizens Committee for the Public Schools, 1948-50.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; A.A.A.S.; Biochemical Society (Eng.);
New York Academy of Science; Institute of Food Technologists; Ameri-
can Society of Brewing Chemists, Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various papers, articles and patents on yeast derivatives and bio-
chemical preparations, especially pertaining to nucleic acids, co-editor of
Symposia on Glutathione, with S, Colowick et. al., Academic Press, 1954.

EVERY man makes his own hash, with or without poached egg,
but why he should be asked to publish the recipe is not clear to me.
The resulting compendium is not likely to put the Cordon Bleu
out of business. Here’s my chef d’oeufs (sic),

Biological science and technology is my primary professional
concern. Except for three years as a Naval Reserve electronics
officer (1943-46), my entire career has been devoted to research,
development, and production related to some aspect of modern
biology. First, for two years I did process development and food
plant design for a firm which subsequently purchased the Welch
Grape Juice Company. Since then I’ve worked primarily at develop-
ing and producing biochemicals.

[ 968 ]

2STH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Schwarz BioRescarch, the firm which PT have healed ene a owes
formed in September, 1959, had been for nearly twenty Vea pee
viously the Fine Chemical Divison of Svhwart Eatecsce a 6
family concern founded by my great-grandfather, Anton Shoes,
in 1867. Although we make over age compounds we ae bese
known for our preparations related to the nuvlew acety  Ube a
substances in the living cell are Fesponuble for the peneta eovts
and the chain of events which converts tha conte wite the pers ret
array of enzymes and other chemicals through whah the eel dere
with its environment and duplicates nell, We are cpeqa iy prod
of the contributions we've been able ta make to baue teacareh bs
supplying many of these compounds with radioactive tary bes rose
these have proved to be extremely pow erful and el: gant tee be
gaining new insights into the intricacies of hfe prowess

Our firm has been growing rapidly, and PE have been haeee se @ fe
time growing with it. Since we make tools for furciarnental cea aca’
our associations with the growing edye of broleyaal wane ace
close and stimulating. Many new lines of uwest:c ation are epee ¢
up. The result is an atmosphere of excitement and creatnety whey
is extremely contagious. Astonishing progres has been poate toe g
the last twenty-five ycars in undermtanding some of the mane fa ate
mental biological relationships As these, wna hin head ue a bnet ts
possibilities for understanding and controling bussa belogy,
seems to me we're going to be faced with wene weperee eed
value judgments about what to do with thr baowle tee UE:
over the philosophical and social unphe atoms of theue shore bogeenrs
intrigues me and tends to keep me out of wore tice haf

From time to time ve served as a conuieane of pawl ree las
on problems of local of national mvterese related te poy pote nal
experience. Most recently thes has involved wene afesery work fe
the Department of Defense on reveacch pesitese wp baka!
science. From this I've begun to get a beeree appreacen ph ed
skills required for public adininatrateny and peccee Poreed of
lambasting burcaucrats and polituny we weld he well eee

a
and businessmen to devote more thourht andamerry te beow te gee
the good ones we've got on the job and attra tower Oh et
with a bricfcase piving advwe em orelaterty esc feud ees ges

uscful), but the real track ve the clay ters! be ere er ys prrbge es

into effect and uses your tag money sod rome nee 6’
Harvard seems to be duns vate clare no: ee one ot fog pea
ment these dave Rare ae’e a eafe bee ehist : goeedrnse ed,

[ute]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

are busily enticing away as much or more talent to commerce and
industry.

I’ve also been interested in education, both secular and religious.
For the local public schools, ’ve served on curriculum and school
building committees and made one disastrous try at running for
election as school trustee. At the Jewish Community Center in
White Plains, I’ve been on the Education Committee for thirteen
years. A few attempts have been made at leading discussions about
science and religion, since I feel rather strongly that the latter must
come to terms with the former if it is to become again a creative
force in our culture as it has been in other periods of history. On
this subject, it would seem that our children are a good deal more
fun and livelier to deal with than their parents.

Within our own household, dealing with both the children and
their parents is great fun. The egos bounce about like rubber balls,
generally with enough elasticity so that nothing gets shattered in
a collision. I do not pretend to understand my three daughters, but
my wife, Jeanne, is a sympathetic and perceptive interpreter able
to convey the supportive notion that I may some day learn to. This
keeps me trying and in a happy frame of mind. Our oldest, Susan,
is now a sophomore at Wellesley, which has refreshed a good many
pleasant memories of her mother’s undergraduate days on the same
campus. To oblige us in enhancing the verisimilitude, Sue has been
investigating Harvard assiduously — even to the point of attending
the summer school last season. Jane and Judy are respectively a
junior and freshman at Mamaroneck High School, where there are
any number of interesting (and interested) boys and a seemingly

endless series of homework assignments. This combination presents
some difficulties, but we're managing to face them. The girls are
certain that the boys are far more interesting and stimulating than
the assignments. There are times when I agree with them — an
indication that my own rebellious nature has not been entirely
tamed,

For a lazy man, there is no surer way to connubial bliss than to
marry a hard-working and efficient wife. If, in addition to these
pioneer qualities, she is endowed with intelligence, sensitivity, and
charm, it is probably more sensible to try to create the illusion that
one deserves these blessings than to go through life in doubt and
uncertainty. Anyhow, that’s what I’ve done and it seems to be

working fine.
A sage named Judah ben Tema said that at forty a man should

[ 970 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attain wisdom and at fifty be able to give counscl. All of us have
passed forty and fifty is not so far away. Perhaps, when this volume
is in hand, I will be able to learn from the rest of you what I should
have been doing to attain that wisdom and probity ascribed to our
stage of life and thereby do better in the next twenty-five years.
I’m hoping at least for some titillating variations on the art of making
hash.

CHARLES ERNEST SCHWER

MAILING ADDRESS: 3 Lathrop Ave., Westfield, Mass.

AUSTIN WAKEMAN SCOTT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1502 Cascade Ave., Boulder, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Colorado School of Law, Boulder, Colo.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1916, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; L1-B. cum Lud,

1940.
marrieD: Claire MacKrell, June 26, 1943, Coral Gables, Fla. cauto: Stephen W,

June 19, 1953-
HARVARD BROTHER:. Gordon Kendall Scott, ’38, LL.B. "41.

occupation: Professor of law, University of Colorado.

OFFICES HELD: Associated with Palmer, Dodge, Barstow, Wilkins & Daviq Boston
law firm, 1940-42, 1946; active duty, U.S. Navy, 1942-46, asistant profesor
of law, 1946-50, associate professor of law, 1950-55, profewor of law, sime
1955, University of Colorado.

MEMBER OF: American and Colorado Bar Associations; American Law [oserute,
Harvard Law School Association of Colorado (secretary-treasurer); Naval
Reserve Composite 9-6.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in law journals and encyclopedias; chapters in law books

AFTER college came three busy but stimulating years at the Harvard
Law School, whence I graduated in 1940. A summer vacation spent
at a big New York law firm after my second year at Law Sheol.
although it was a valuable experience, decided me to say en my
Boston after graduation to practise law. Thus I became a law clerk
at Palmer, Dodge, Barstow, Wilkins & Davis (as it was then knows)
and enjoyed the experience of working there under lawyers of ¢
finest sort. For a four-year period after Pearl Harbor U served as ag
officer in the Naval Reserve on active duty, mostly in the feof ef
anti-submarine warfare —as an instructor at the anna >

[971]

eens

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

warfare school at Key West, as executive officer and commanding
officer of a subchaser, and as secretary of the Atlantic Fleet anti-
submarine warfare unit. During my Key West days I met a young
lady from New York who was then working for Pan-American in
Miami, and a year later (in 1943) we were married.

After the war I returned to Palmer, Dodge intending to settle
down for a long stay in Boston. But a chance came in the fall of
1946 to teach law at the University of Colorado in Boulder, which
city both my wife and I had earlier visited and liked. We accepted
and have been here ever since, except for one year away when I was
a visiting professor at Vanderbilt in Nashville. At Colorado we
think we have a fine small (about 180 students this year) law
school, populated with good students and a hard-working faculty.
As a law student at Harvard I may have looked down my nose at
other law schools; but since that time my horizons have broadened
considerably, and I now realize that there are other law schools
doing an able and conscientious job.

I teach courses in several legal subjects, but my principal affections
are for criminal law, in which I have tended to specialize, and the
law of trusts; the latter I particularly like because it gives me a
chance to boast about my father, a professor of law at Harvard for
over fifty years, who is the great authority on trusts, as well as the
best law teacher of them all.

In addition to teaching his classes, a law professor has an oppor-
tunity to do something for law and the legal profession, with the
aim of strengthening the administration of justice. In my case, with
my professional interest in criminal law, this has meant (besides
writing about the law) such things as helping to draft rules of
criminal procedure for Colorado at the request of the Colorado

Supreme Court, aiding in the defense of indigent defendants in
criminal prosecutions, and answering questions on criminal law
raised by Colorado judges and lawyers and even by inmates of the
penitentiaries of Colorado and other states. (One inmate of the
Jackson, Michigan, state prison wrote me that he had read a criminal
law article I had written and found it to be “of genuine instantment”
—TI took this to be a compliment —and did I know of any other
cases standing for the proposition cited in footnote eight. This letter
brought home to me the fact that smuggling a hacksaw into prison
wrapped in a loaf of bread is old-fashioned; the modern method is to
smuggle in a law book.) Two years ago I was appointed by the
federal district court in Denver to aid in the defense of seven

[972]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Colorado Communist leaders, who were without means to pay foe
legal assistance, indicted for conspiracy to violate the Smith Act
which forbids teaching and advocating the violent overthrow of the
government. After a seven weeks’ trial the defendants were all con-
victed; but we appealed their convictions, prepared bricfs and
delivered oral arguments, and in the end (after two years’ endeavor)
the federal appellate court reversed their convictions. Thus a law
teacher need not altogether abandon the practice of law.

During my Colorado years I have kept up an active interest in
the Naval Reserve, serving for almost a decade as commanding
officer of a reserve unit here and going on a cruise (sometimes a
dry land cruise) for two weeks each summer. I have at the moment
a mobilization billet aboard some ship, but I am hoping that world
events, as well as advancing age, will operate in such a way as to
prevent my having to fill this billet.

By way of recreation and exercise, I play tennis, squash or
badminton quite regularly on the university courts; but if I canner
secure any opponent for these pleasant enterprises, I am apt to go for
an evening run around the track which circles the football eld.
In the summers I have climbed some of the Colorado mountains
near Boulder, of which several are over 13,000 and a few overt 14.000
feet. My eight-year-old son and I are hoping to get sleeping bays
for Christmas this year, for we are planning to go on some over-
night hikes together next summer — following our return to Boulder
from the Twenty-fifth Reunion activities in Cambridge.

DAVID WINFIELD SCOTT

HOME AppREsS: 561 Baughman Drive, Claremont, Calif.

OFFICE ADpREss: Art Dept., Scripps College, Claremont, Calif,

BORN: July 10, 1916, Fall River, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Webb School, Claremont, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1938. DEGREFS: A.B. Ctemt Laude, ry (yh. a
(Claremont Grad. School), 1940; Mura. (ibid.), 19g0; prem (Uiiv, of Cal.
fornia), 1960.

MARRIED: Tirsa Lilia Saavedra, July 10, 1947, Pomona, Calf. anutnaxs  bocse
Margaret, Dec. 19, 1952; Edith Elizabeth, July 14, 1948.

occupation: Professor of art, chairman of Art Departinent, Senppa Col. ee

OFFICES HELD: President, Pomona Valley Art Awocianon, tye) ah Gate 6
Watercolor Society, 1952-53; member, board of govermory Pace Gone
Council for Latin American Studies, 1957-40,

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; College Art Association, Art Phatonscaeuf % 0!
ern California,

[973 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

pusLications: “Miguel Covarrubias,” Encyclopaedia Britannica; “Orozco’s Pro-
metbeus,” College Art Journal, 1947.

AFTER graduation, I spent a year at the Art Students’ League in
New York, and enjoyed two summer visits at the Tiffany Founda-
tion estate at Oyster Bay. The following year I attended the Clare-
mont Graduate School, studying painting and preparing to teach art.
At the outbreak of the war I was conducting a variety of painting
and drawing courses at the junior college in Riverside, California.
I was assigned to the photography school of the Army Air Forces
at Lowry Field, and shortly after completing the course I found
myself headed overseas. By the end of the war I was a captain,
engaged in liaison and intelligence work in photo reconnaissance —
and I had visited England, North Africa, Italy, Sardinia, Corsica,
and France. Living in Europe and Africa for three years headed me
in the direction of art history, and when I returned to Claremont to
study painting under the G. I. Bill, I was asked to teach art history
at Scripps College. I have been at the job — with variations and
interludes — ever since.

(Sample variations: work on the staff of the Claremont Graduate
School and as director of the Summer Art Institute of the Claremont
Colleges. Sample interludes: study and research in Europe, 1950-
51, 1957, 1961; study at the University of California, Berkeley, 1955-
56.) |

Painting continues to be one of my major concerns, but it has to
battle for time with the demands (and attractions) of college, family
and research. My wife is from Panama, and we share an enthusiasm
for Latin American and Spanish culture. This has led to trips to
Mexico, Central and South America, and Europe — and to the study
of such fields as modern Mexican painting and medieval Spanish-
Languedocian sculpture. My current focal point is the Church of
Saint Sernin at Toulouse; Tirsa’s concern is with a truly creative
method of “second language teaching” in the elementary schools.
Those contrasting poles set up some interesting currents, and we are
concerned with much that goes on in this complex world. But I
find myself little tempted to enlarge on my convictions on such
occasions as the present. When my feelings really demand expres-
sion, I drop everything and go back to painting for a few days.

HUGH FORBES SCOTT
LAST KNOWN Appress: 4875 N. Magnolia Ave., Chicago qo, Ill. (Lost.)
[974]

S

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OLIVER KENNARD SCOTT

HOME ADDRESS: 437 E. 13th St., Casper, Wyo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Casper Clinic, 815 S. Center St., Casper, Wyo.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1937; M.D. 1941.

marriED: Deborah Ann Hubbard, July 4, 1942, Elizabethtown, N.Y. citoars:
Charles Kennard, Aug. 19, 1945; Hustace Hubbard, Sept. 21, 1947, George
Cranch, Jan. 12, 1950; Clifford Belcher, April 12, 1961.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Cranch Scott, Jr. "34, 5-M., "36.

OCCUPATION: Pediatrician.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor of Pediatrics, Colorado Medical School, state chairman,
Ciuzens for Eisenhower, 1956; member, Casper City Council, 1957-44
Wyoming Youth Council, 1955-57; chairman, Dairy Committee, Natrona
County Farm Bureau.

MEMBER OF: Nuttall Ornithological Club, Wyoming Audubon Society (first
president); American Academy of Pediatrics.

PUBLICATIONS: Regional editor, Audubon Field Notes.

AFTER graduation from the Medical School and an internship at
the Peter Bent Brigham in Boston I spent about four years in Uncle
Sam’s Navy Medical Corps, the highlight of which was a six-months
tour of duty as C.O. of a preventive medicine unit in Greece in 1944.
I then moved west to Cleveland for a residency in pediatrics and
then to the mountain west to become the first pediatrician in active
work in Wyoming. After a short time in practice in Casper I started
the Casper Clinic which now amounts to eleven doctors in vanious
fields of medicine.

Extracurricular activities have remained in bird-wartching and
natural history with some politics thrown in. For those interested,
my life list of continental U.S. birds now amounts to 537. A few
years ago we acquired a small run-down, overgrazed, rugged ranch
of something less than 6000 acres astride the old Oregon Trad on
which we are trying to restore native grasses and build a protratite
enterprise. Caring for this piece of real estate has been all the
physical exercise I need and more too,

The other half of the story begins with a blind date with a pol
from the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton at the wuge
Harvard-Princeton football game. We shortly became eng iced at
then married the following year. Our family, of four boys has hove
us on the jump. Their education in the broad sense havtakenus fr:
Maine to the Olympics and from Glacier to Brownseilte Ps. 4
packing summer camping trips in the mountains give usb

[975 ]

—__— L_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

pleasure. We deeply enjoy the relative open spaces of Wyoming,
and try to be sympathetic with those poor devils who have to

live
in the humid overpopulated East. .

PAUL WINSLOW SEARS

HOME ADDRESS: 242 E. Charleston Rd., Palo Alto, Calif.

oFFick appress: Lockheed Missile & Space Co., Sunnyvale, Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 4, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marriep: Nancy Burbank, Jan. 21, 1949, Palo Alto, Calif. certpren: Stephanie
Clark, June 6, 1950; Jonathan Winslow, Dec. 7, 1953; Frederick Burbank,
Aug. 7, 1955; Amanda Prince, March 8, 1961.

OccUPATION: Industrial engineer, Lockheed Missile & Space Company.

MEMBER OF: Society of Mayflower Descendants; Palo Alto Republican Assem-
bly; First Troop, Philadelphia City Cavalry; Foothills Swimming and
Tennis Club; Harvard Club of San Francisco.

WENT to Columbia Summer School after graduation and took
courses in accounting. Then to work in the Philadelphia office of the
certified public accounting firm of Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Mont-
gomery from September, 1937, to February, 1941. While there I
lived in Chestnut Hill in a bachelor establishment with a group of
twelve others (including Tony Faunce) — “Sidetrack Manor,” by
name. The congenial atmosphere of “Sidetrack” disintegrated ab-
ruptly in February, 1941, when all of us were called into various
branches of the service. |

From February, 1941, to March, 1946, I was on active duty, first
in the federalized Pennsylvania National Guard Cavalry and a year
later transferred to the Air Corps. Saw stateside service in Indian-
town Gap, Biloxi, Miami OCS, Fighter Command School at Orlando,
San Diego, and San Francisco. Then overseas in May, 1943, and
duty in New Caledonia, Fiji (mostly), Hollandia, Leyte, Mindoro,
Clark Field, Okmawa, Tokyo, and home in November, 1945.
Joined the Reserves upon separation and am still in it, in as inactive
a capacity as possible in the 936sth Air Reserve Squadron in Palo
Alto.

From 1946 to 1948, I was still single and with Gillette Safety
Razor Company in Boston and living in Wellesley with my family.
Engaged in the summer of 1948 to Nancy Burbank (Palo Alto),
and I moved west in December, 1948. Got a job with an insurance
company in San Francisco, and we were married January 21, 1949,

[976 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Palo Alto. Lived in Sausalito for the first two years and since then
have been in Palo Alto. We have four children, Stephanie, Jonathan,
Burbank, and Amanda, ranging from eleven years to ten months. Aim
presently working with Lockheed Missile and Space Company in
Sunnyvale as an industrial engineer. Several Harvard people art
Lockheed but don’t know if anyone else from our Class there.

Life consists of many things — getting up at staggered intervals
from 6:30 to 7:00, children in bed with us in the morning, Congre-
gational Sunday School, Republican precinct work, an eight-minute
commute in the morning, Nancy taking the children to the Palo Alto
Clinic for periodic check-ups, a car with a broken fuel pump which
cost $25 to fix (the $25 that was not going to be spent that month),
a day at the beach in Carmel, Monday night Reserve meetings, Christ-
mas morning with all the presents (early), pigeons, guinca prs
weekly trips to the dump and the impossibility of not also going to
the duck pond and the yacht harbor in the immediate area, a quick
trip to the hospital at 3 a.m. (now nine months old), Midsomer
Night’s Dream and Boston Pops Concert (both at the Stanford
Amphitheater, obviously not at the same time), three days at Disncy-
land, Lockheed (classified), an evening of bridge with friends, rounds
of Christmas parties, an occasional evening in San Francisco (very

occasional), snow on the top of Mount Hamilton, swimming Ies-
sons for the children, chicken pox, a broken TV set, Saturday after-
noon football games on TV in spite of urgings to the contrary,
Nancy’s commercial art work, discussions at odd but frequent tines
and with many people re the monstrous bureaucratic socialism wilted
us by one and temporarily perpetuated by the present one (beth
Harvard, unfortunately), cutting the grass, painting the house with
pauses for a cold beer in the heat of summer, the rainy (not snows )
season, ad infinitum. In summary, simple but very, very enjoys atic

HOLLIS MACKAY SEAVEY

HOME ADDRESS: 5109 Duvall Drive, Washington 16, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Association of Broadcasters, 1731 N Se, NAW, Waid,
ington, D.C.

BoRN: Nov. 23, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Anne Loomis Munger, June 17, 1943, Dayton, Ohio. Gutoure hae
ine M,, July 27, 1951; Hollis Mackay, Jr. June #7, 1955, James BoM Las
1960.

[977]

_—_—__—__—— L_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

occupation: Manager of government affairs, National Association of Broad.
casters,

OFFICES HELD: President, Radio & Television Correspondents Association, 1952-
53; chairman, Guilt Edge Guys (investment club), 1961.

MEMBER OF; National Press Club; Congressional Country Club.

‘WHY concentration in college in the Romance languages should
lead to a career in broadcasting, I shall never know. But it did.
After preliminary skirmishes in Niagara Falls (no honeymoon!)
and Oklahoma City, the campaign moved to Washington where the
troop(s) have been since 1946. First, network news operations with
dealings with all the interesting sources in town. Campaigning with
Dewey in 1948; with both Eisenhower and Stevenson in 1952; the
coverage of the White House during Truman’s last term. Then a
switch to lobbying with the Clear Channel Broadcasting Service,
attempting to improve radio service throughout America. Two
months of real enjoyment in this assignment, serving as an industry
observer at a meeting in Mexico City where our government nego-
tiated an agreement with the Mexican government on the allocation
of radio frequencies and where I learned (at Acapulco) that I had
no proficiency with water skis!

Brief ownership (1959-60) of a radio station (WCUM, Cumber-
land, Maryland), when I saw the problems involved in operating a
broadcasting facility and came to appreciate the beauty of western
Maryland. Presently engaged in spearheading the broadcasting in-
dustry’s effort to sell its story to the Congress and the administra-
tion, under the N.A.B. leadership of LeRoy Collins, former governor
of Florida (whose presence makes the job much easier). .

Hope that the good Anne and I can revisit Europe where we had
a pleasant stay in 1958. Any classmates with availabilities in Fiesole,
please note!

Music lessons, Cub Scouts, Girl Scouts, etc., etc., keep us (par-
ticularly ber) busy. Although the chairman of the handicap com-
mittee is crooked and determines that my handicap is only eleven, I
occasionally make a dollar or two and, if not, make it up on the 19th
hole.

Look forward to seeing everyone at the 25th, if I’m allowed out
of my fallout shelter.

[ 978 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN J. SEEGER

HOME ADDRESS: 424 E. 89th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fieldston Lower School, Fieldston Road, New York 71. N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1914, Berkeley, Calif,

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MarRIED: Eleanor Paur, June 18, 1941, New York, N.Y. cuitoaen: Anthony,
June 29, 1945; Katherine, Feb. 17, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Seeger, ’41.

OCCUPATION: Principal, Fieldston Lower School; owner and director, Camp
Killooleet, Hancock, Vt., children’s camp.

MEMBER OF: National Speleological Society; American Camping Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles in The Grade Teacher, Camping Magasune
and school magazines.

TAKING stock, there were four years in the unmarried state. Two
were spent in B, Altman & Company, learning a new commercul
world. I finally left when assistant credit manager. The second two
were spent getting excited and trained in the field of education. |
worked at Manumit School and Camp as counselor, built two tennis
courts, ran the shop, taught English and music. This seemed far
more worth while.

The next four years were marriage and war, parallel. I was now
the seventh and eighth grade teacher at Manumit. I filed as a con-
scientious objector with my local Draft Board, had to resign my
job after Pearl Harbor, left Mrs. Seeger there as a teacher. To get
training for an ambulance unit, I volunteered to work in the New
York Hospital as an orderly. When civilian ambulance units were
forbidden abroad, I continued at the hospital in the ward, glad to
sacrifice something while my friends were sacrificing so much. Mrs.
Seeger got a job teaching in New York. The Drafe Board left me
there for two years, then gave me a 4-F.

As the war drew to a close, I went back to education, tea hers
at Dalton School. My first child was born. I became fascinated wir
group dynamics and psychology, was co-director of Tronwood, as
Harrison, Maine. Then in 1949, Mrs. Seeger and [bought our ows
camp (which we just finished paying for last vear) in Vermort
Here we could have as much stimulation and imaginagen as t+
child could digest and handle, and each child could have fie “be ut
summer” within our large family life. T gradually became ays!
teacher. My second child was born. Mr. Sceyer pave vy!

f -«

teaching to run the family and winter camp othee. Anbthe c !

[ 979 ]

_—_—_—_—— L_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

few years I have shifted to administration, am the principal of Field-
ston Lower School in Riverdale. I have returned to college at New
York University, get my A.M. this year in elementary education,
I am fascinated with what a child needs to learn, and how he learns,
Teachers are still artists, but science is contributing more and more
to their efficiency.

MITCHELL SHAFFER

HOME ADpDRESS: 246 Fuller St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Auburn Curtain Co., 8-10 Williams St., Roxbury, Mass.

BORN: June 16, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MarrieD: Anne Frank, June 28, 1942, Boston, Mass. cumpren: Gilbert Raphael,
April 16, 1945; Bennett Ansel, Sept. 15, 1946; Marcia Sharon, Oct. 12, 1950;
Judith Barbara, July 2, 1955.

occuPATION: Sales manager, supervisor of designing and selling, Auburn Curtain
Company, curtain and drapery manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Congregation Chevra Shas; director and life mem-

ber, Boston Lubavitz Yeshiva; treasurer, Boston Lubavitz Yeshiva Brother-
hood.

OUTSIDE of the years 1942-45, when I was engaged in war work
at Fore River and Bethlehem-Hingham Shipyards, my working
career has been spent in the design, production and sales of curtains
and draperies. My married life has been a very busy and happy one.

About fourteen years ago, Anne and I became actively interested
in the Boston Lubavitz Yeshiva, a Hebrew day school founded about
eighteen years ago. This institution has become the prime force
behind our social activities. In addition to other duties, I am cur-
rently treasurer of the brotherhood, chairman of this year’s “ad”
book and secretary of the Samuel J. Bernstein Dinner Committee.
This committee is planning our annual fund-raising banquet under
the general chairmanship of George Alpert, president of the New
Haven Railroad. Mr. Bernstein’s renowned son, Leonard Bernstein,
is to be our guest speaker this year.

Anne’s time is taken up with the school as a director of the
P.T.A., treasurer and director of the sisterhood, co-chairman of the
“ad” book and supervisor of the school lunch program.

Our interest in this establishment continued to grow year by year
as the school continued to add higher grades. We watched the
Yeshiva progress in eighteen years from the humblest beginnings

[ 980 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

into a magnificent institution of learning with full elementary and

high school courses, under the supervision of the School Depart-

ment of the City of Boston.

We have observed the boys and girls studying here as they de-
veloped into fine young men and women of exemplary character,
with excellent religious and secular training. They display a whole-
some, friendly, helpful attitude toward their neighbors and a cheer-
ful, secure approach toward life. They have sincere faith in the
Almighty and face the future with hope and confidence. They take
themselves seriously and are determined to be good, useful American
citizens.

Today, the Yeshiva has an enrollment of about 300 full-time and
100 part-time students. Members of two graduating classes are now
attending colleges of their own choosing. Two boys of a junior
class of four have just been cited as semi-finalists in the Nanonal
Merit Examinations. In the sophomore class, four girls and seven
boys were also awarded certificates for outstanding achievement in
the National Educational Development Tests.

Fach one of our four children has been educated at the Yeshiva,
starting, in turn, at the pre-kindergarten level. The training they
have received is so superb that we are very pleased with the results
of the years of voluntary work we have given to this school, My
sons and I attend services together every day and have become a
vital support of the morning prayer group at our Congregation,

Son Gilbert, now a senior, is an outstanding scholar. Ele is a
semi-finalist in the National Merit Examinations and has applied for
admission to Harvard in the fall of 1962. His chicf ambition ts to be
a nuclear physicist. Son Bennett, now a sophomore, displave re:
markable talent in the field of music and would like to make hit
his life’s work. He will be ready for college very soon, Daughters
Marcia and Judith, are bright, studious girls who pursue their stucbes
avidly and aspire to college training to prepare them for profesional
careers.

As we look back, Anne and I are very proud of the accunpth.
ments of the past. As for the future, it is our dream to see stanfic fs
of scholarship and records of achievement established at the Boney
Lubavitz Yeshiva which will serve as an example and insparation foe
all Hebrew day schools throughout the country.

Hobbies: gardening, number painting and putterinys,

[981 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PHILIP ANDERSON SHAFFER, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1844 Brigden Rd., Pasadena, Calif,

porN: March 3, 1916, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1937; PHD. (California
Inst. of Technology), 1942. |

marrieD: Beverley Corthell, Feb. 19, 1938, Pasadena, Calif. cHmpren: Philip
Anderson, 3d, Jan. 10, 1939, Nancy Jane, Aug. 23, 1943.

occupATION: Consulting physicist.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Association for Computing Machinery,
Altadena Town and Country Club.

PuBLications: Technical papers in scientific journals, many classified technical
reports from military research; reports on consulting projects.

UPON leaving Harvard in 1937, I went to Cornell as Baker Lecture
assistant to start praduate work in chemistry. At the end of the
fellowship, I went on to Caltech to continue my studies with Pro-
fessor Linus Pauling. Meanwhile, Beverley, the girl I had escorted
to all Harvard dances, had gone to California by way of Stanford
(as a biochemist-secretary), and in February, 1938, we rejoined in
Pasadena and were married. Graduate studies, teaching, child raising,
and laundry occupied most of the next few years. I had just attained
my doctorate when one of the wars came along and our efforts
were diverted to “war research,’ most of it involving thoroughly
nasty chemical warfare agents. |

Since my thesis had been written on the application of computers
to molecular structure, and J had done consulting on machine com-
putation for the aircraft and oil industries on the side, my chemical
characteristics waned, and I began to live the professional life of a
physicist and mathematician. In 1946, I started to work for the
U.S. Navy as a mathematician, in charge of scientific computation,
and ended up, in 1953, in charge of a military operations research
group. After getting bored with paper work, I diverted again to
my true love, computers and computation, as a designer and user
of electronic computers and data-processing equipment in a small
electronic instrumentation firm. My consulting practice started in
earnest when I went on my own in 1956; it continues to the present.
For several years we also manufactured and sold a novel electronic
device called “waveform translator’ under the name TRANS-DATA.
Both the device and the company name have now been sold. Most
of our work is in the area of theoretical engine¢ring, applying mathe-

[ 982 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

matical and physical understandings to advanced design in electronic
instrumentation and information handling fields.

Meanwhile, back at the house, we had acquired two fine children,
many cats (seriatim), and recently a miniature silver poodle (who ws
Boss). From 1949 on, our happiest family activity has been camping
in the Sierra and the many national parks. We try a little light
backpacking on rare occasions, but mostly we seem to eat. While
I have acquired pounds, Beverley has developed addcd prowess.
Since our children are now away: P.A.S. 3d (Andy) got his SB.
from Cal in mathematics, and is now lieutenant (j.g.), engines officer
on the aircraft carrier, USS Bennington, CVS-20; Nancy is a fresh-
man at the University of California (Berkeley); Bev has taken up
golf and keeps us both busy trying to figure out where to stow the
trophies. I have taken up golf in self-defense and, of course, find it
a greater psychological hazard than any other I know, My golting
success lies, apparently, in the distant future.

Now as to my convictions. I am happy to report that I have noe
even been caught yet.

Best regards to my Classmates and especially to kindly, tolerant,
long-suffering Bill Bentinck-Smith.

DEAN SHAFFNER

HOME ADpREsS: 440 Heights Rd., Ridgewood, N_J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Broadcasting Co. 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York,
N.Y.

BoRN: April 3, 1916, Boise, Idaho.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marriep: Mary Dudley Bull, Aug. 24, 1947, New York, N.Y. ourpary: Susan
Dudley, March 24, 1952; Anne Alison, July 8, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Felix Ira Shaffner, ’25, A.M. '26, PH.D. "33.

occuPATION: Broadcasting; director of sales planning, National Broash acing
Company Television Network.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Radio-Television Research Council.

WE continue to find this suburb of the big city a remarkably picse-
ant community — even more so than our previous lovationy Boos:
lyn Heights and the Village, which we also like very much, [t<
school system is first-rate; the atmosphere is relaved, open as}
friendly; all four of us enjoy the growing-up process here.

My department in the NBC Television Network writes acd po -
duces a wide variety of presentation material, inclahiot bee ks

[ 983 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

sales promotion pieces and large-screen visual presentations to de-
scribe NBC-TV programs to agencies, clients and affiliates. The
hardest to sell, of course, are those of the type that television snobs
(and the FCC) say there should be more of — but they didn’t hap-
pen to watch the one that was on last night.

In making any summary of My Life and Attitudes, perhaps what
stands out most strongly is a feeling of astonishing ]uck that my par-
ticular dot in time has spanned these particular decades. Surely
never before could one have witnessed such change and achievement
in so brief a time. I remember battery radios (the big early ones,
that is), and my first crystal set, in the twenties. Today, through
color television, we have twice seen Picasso in the actual creative
process and have twice seen “Macbeth” in color, magnificently en-
acted on the very Scottish heath so many millions have imagined. I
first came east in 1930, a train trip of four or five days. In December,
1961, the four of us flew from Los Angeles to New York in three
hours, forty-one minutes, a new west-to-east commercial record at
that time. This month John Glenn circles the earth in less than
ninety minutes, And, of course, the speed of progress and discovery
in countless other fields, such as archeology and medicine, has been
just as amazing. Who knows — maybe on the next try, I’ll even fix
that door knob.

ROBERT ELLIS SHALEN

HOME apprEss: 25 Sutton Pl, S., New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Equitable Life Assurance Society of US., 1285 Ave. of the
Americas, New York 19, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1916, Holyoke, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., summa cum laude, 1937.

MaRRIED: Marcia Heatter, April 26, 1941, Brewster, N.Y. CHILDREN: Cynthia
Ann, Oct. 19, 1942; Peter Brock, July 23, 1946; Stephen Henry, Oct. 24,
1950.

occuPaTION: Actuary.

OFFICES HELD: Associate actuary, Equitable Life Assurance Society of U(S.;
chairman, Cash Sickness Sub-Committee, Hospital Insurance Association of
America.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries; New York Actuaries Club.

MY first ten years after 1937 were spent in getting a family started
and in getting through the examinations of the Society of Actuaries,
in spite of the interruptions produced by World War IL

In 1952 the insurance company I was with sent me to Houston,

[ 984 ]

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Texas, as actuary of their new office there. We thoroughly enjoved
living in Houston, but after two years I was sent to another new
office in Jacksonville, Florida, and shortly thereafter decided to
return to New York for a job which involved getting a new life
insurance company started. In 1957, after three years of strugvle, |
turned the job over to my more optimistic associates and went to
work as a group insurance actuary for the Equitable.

Our apartment is rather quiet this year with my daughter
Cynthia, a junior at Smith College, away at the Sorbonne. Peter,
the scholar of the family, is a senior at high school and has already
read more books on higher mathematics than his father ever did,
while Stephen, aged eleven, has demonstrated a remarkable nose for
business by permitting the neighbors’ dogs to accompany him on
his afternoon walks at twenty-five cents per walk.

Last summer we all drove through Europe with Cindy. exposing
the unsuspecting populations of several of our NATO allies to six
weeks of some rather frightful efforts to speak their languages. We

loved it, though.
We are looking forward to seeing you all in June!

JOSEPH SHARE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Seward Ave., Beverly, Mass.

BORN: April 13, 1914, Salem, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. mragna cum laude, 1939, Mma,

magna cum laude, 1939.
mMarriep: Mildred Barbara Cutler, Oct. 19, 1941, Beverly, Mass. contp: Ned

Elliott, July 16, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Neil Elliott Share, ’64.

occupation: Owner, wholesale distribution firm dealing primarily in the sate
of leather and allied products to shoe manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of the North Shore; Plarvar.J
Business School Association; Harvard Business School Awouution of
Boston; 210 Associates; B’nai B'rith; Temple Beth Abraham, Branstess

Associates.

AS I look at the series of reminders in front of me signed first bs
William Bentinck-Smith, then JV. Bentinck-Smith, and fina! hy by
Bill Bentinck-Smith, I cannot help but feel thae the Perseverance
which he is demonstrating here in his current undertaking ts qhara
teristic of Harvard, and that this is the very quality which oe
Harvard the great institution it is.

[985 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

It is not easy to condense twenty-five years into two pages, but
I will try to do so.

My business career started in 1939 when, after having graduated
from Harvard College and the Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration, I entered the field of retailing with Jordan Marsh
Company in Boston. Having majored in accounting and business
administration, retailing was somewhat of a mystery to me, and it
took a while to put the parts of the puzzle into their proper positions. :
However, after a while the puzzle began to take shape and I was
on my way. The formula— one portion of luck and one portion
of hard work.

Having been led to believe all through my educational career that
I was going to set the world on fire, I had to go through a period
of major readjustment before I found out that the flame was going
to be only a flicker, and that I was going to have to settle for a

much less important position on this earth than I had anticipated.
I think it is safe to conclude that I have made this adjustment, even
though it took a very long time to do so.

Although I did not succeed in setting the world on fire, that
madman, Hitler, did accomplish this very deed, and as a result I
spent the years from 1942 to 1946 with the U.S. Army. Drafted
as a private, 1 emerged as a captain. Although I know that this
war service was necessary, I cannot help but feel that these were
very unproductive years for me and my family during my prime
productive years, and I certainly hope that the generations following
us may be spared the conditions which are brought on by wars.

After returning to civilian life, I entered an era of restlessness
which has not yet subsided. I was determined to get into my own
business, and for the past ten years I have had my own firm engaged
in the sale of leather and allied products primarily to manufacturers
of shoes. To any of my Classmates reading this who are in the
market for leather, please do not hesitate to write, phone, or wire.
Prompt service is guaranteed.

In a few brief words, to anyone who has not experienced the
trials and tribulations of conducting a small business, I can only ex-
press my regrets. Everyone should have this experience in order
to learn how to count his blessings. I can only say that I have learned,
and that while the problems are many, the benefits are also many.
In my opinion there results a “Peace of Mind” status which can

outweigh any and all disadvantages.

The greatest single thing that has happened to me during these

[ 986 ]

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

twenty-five years was my marriage to my wife Mildred (Radchife,
’37). With her outstanding personality, she has the capacity to make
friends instantly and to keep them forever. Back when the going
was rough she established the ‘Doctors Laboratory Service,” per-
forming blood tests for the local doctors. We found that both of
our incomes were needed to keep up with the rising cost of living
and to provide for Neil’s college expenses.

We are deriving a great deal of pleasure from our son Neil, who

achieved his ambition and was admitted to Harvard College last
year. He is currently a sophomore majoring in biochemistry, and
on his trips home or through Mother Bell’s lucrative medium we are
able to keep up our contact with Harvard College and college life
in general.
' Our hobbies and tastes are fairly simple. We enjoy good music,
sports and friends. We like to swim, play tennis (less and Iess each
year), a little golf, boating, hand ball, bridge and gin rummy. We
are close enough to Boston to take in some of the Harvard football
games as well as the plays and concerts available there.

We are looking forward to seeing all our Classmates at the sth
Reunion and hope that they will enjoy being with us as much as
we shall enjoy being with them.

I would be remiss in closing this report if I did not include two
final thoughts. First, I hope that I shall be able to take as much
time in filling out my portion of the Fiftieth Anniversary Report
of 1937 as I have taken on this one. Secondly, I want to thank
publicly my good friend and distinguished Classmate, Dr. Perry
Culver, whose unceasing efforts and continuous advice have helped
me through life’s weighty problems all during these perilous vears.

ROBERT FRANKLIN SHARP

LAST KNOWN AppreEss: P.O. Box 4523, San Francisco, Calif.

SHARP has been carried as a “Lost” man on our records since 1944.

BENJAMIN SHATTUCK

HOME ADpRESS: 327 Franklin St., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: B, F. Shattuck Co., 327 Franklin Se. Newton 4, Mass.
BORN: Sept, 23, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass,

[ 987 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937:

marrieD: Mary Ellen Durfee, Feb. 23, 1940, Columbus, Ohio. CHitprEN: Peter,
Sept. 14, 1945; Christopher, Oct. 22, 1951.

occupaTION: Advertising consultant.

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, Newton United Fund Drive, 1955; director, Newton
Boys’ Club, 1956-59; Alderman, city of Newton, 1956-6o; member of the
corporation, Newton Savings Bank; president, Newton Conservators, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Brae Burn Country Club; Annisquam Yacht Club; Rolls-Royce
Owners Club; Waban Neighborhood Club.

AFTER reading about the achievements and activities of our various
Classmates over the years, my career seems a little prosaic since I can
list no great contributions to the sciences, arts, politics or mankind
in general. |

In spite of this lack of glamor, however, no one can say that my
wife and I haven’t been busy — we're raising two strapping boys,
making contributions to various building funds, serving on numerous
committees and generally trying to live a well-balanced, somewhat
old-fashioned life.

Naturally, there are many things that concern us about the world
today and the shape of things to come. To a very great degree, it is
“bigness” that frightens us — “big” government, “big” unions, “big”
business, “big” money, “big” status symbols. Bigness, we believe,
threatens our freedoms, our culture and our values.

But these are our private worries. I doubt whether we'd trade
these past twenty-four years for a platinum mine in our own back
yard. My previous reports have detailed our beginning efforts in
advertising, our war years, the birth of our children, our various
home sites and our travels.

We've done many of the things we wanted to do — achieved
many of our dreams and ambitions, At this, perhaps the half-way
mark, there are still new worlds and new dreams ahead. At the
Fiftieth, we'll have some of them to ponder.

EDMUND WELLINGTON SHAW

HOME Appress: Middle Road, Southboro, Mass,

BoRN: Feb. 1, 1916, Framingham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1936-1937.

Marrigp: Barbara Spooner, July 18, 1938, Framingham, Mass.; Mildred B.
Genthener, May 4, 1956. cHmpren: Edmund Wellington, Jr, June 21,
1939; Merrill Challis, Nov. 10, 1941.

occupation: Banking.

[ 988 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD PEARCE SHAW

HOME ADDRESS: 962 Island Rd., Victoria, B.C., Canada.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Confederation Life Association, 604 Yates Se, Victoma, BC,

Canada.
BorN: July 17, 1915, South Bend, Ind.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.
MARRIED: Joyce Frankland Herring, Dec. 13, 1943, London, England. campers:

Susan Ann, July 17, 1944; Penelope Jean, April 26, 1950.

occuPaTION: Life insurance — representative, Confederation Life Await.
FROM 1935 to 1940— Canadian Bank of Commerce. Frem tygo
to 1960 — Royal Canadian Navy; various ranks and apporntinents
from sub-lieutenant to lieutenant commander; latterly in command
of HMCS Oshawa and commander of the i2th Fscort Squadron
(CANCOMCORTRON 12) and in command of HMCS Susservale and 4th
Escort Squadron (CANCOMCORTRON 4). Travels — from Murmansk
and Malta to Tierra del Fuego and Tasmania, with various stops
in between.

Since 1960 — life insurance, which I enjoy.

Convictions — speeding — once.

My formula for our mutual salvation: God hath made of one
blood all nations of men and we are His children, brothers and

sisters all.

ROBERT HALLOWELL SHAW

HOME ADpDRESS: 134 Main St., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Baird-Atomic, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: July 20, 1914, Groton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: $.B., Ctmt laude, 19°.

MargiED: Cornelia C, Bailey, May 6, 1939, New York, N.Y. caitperw Gin Bi,
Sept. 9, 1941; Susan B., Dec. 6, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Shaw, °28.

occuPATION: Chief mechanical engineer, Baird-Atomic, Ine, manuifatorees of
scientific instruments, firm docs government work.

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, Concord Chorus, Concord Red Crees,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston (former membert, Pharvard Cfo 04
Concord; Audubon Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional scientific papers.

AFTER twenty-five years, you would think that there woul tte a
great deal to write about, but as TE review these sears Prot e.

[oS |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

a few outstanding events — graduation, marriage —-an occasional]
change of job — helping bring up two lovely daughters. I suspect
that I should be classified as a dull, conventional middle-of-the-
roader, but within this framework I find that I’ve had a full, busy
and rewarding life.

First, my business career. I started work at sixteen dollars per
week as a helper in a sheet metal shop. After taking some evening
courses, I joined Raytheon just before the war as a mechanical
engineer. I worked there throughout the war, designing radar
antennas and other gadgets. In 1946 or thereabouts I joined a
Boston firm of consulting engineers, Graydon Smith & Company,
where I worked for five years, becoming a junior partner. After a
brief stay at Clifford Manufacturing Company of Waltham, I
joined Baird-Atomic, Inc. of Cambridge as mechanical engineer
in 1955. Iam presently in charge of the mechanical engineering de-
partment in the Research Division, a group of about eighty people.
This keeps me busy 8:15 to 5:15 daily, and then some. Much of
the work involves the design of satellites for the military — all very
fascinating and secret. .

Next, my family — wife and two daughters, twenty and seven-
teen. Jill, the elder, is now at Smith, and is spending her junior
year abroad at the University of Geneva. Susan graduates from
Concord Academy this spring, and thinks she wants to go to
Wheaton or Colorado.

Hobbies — as a family, we ski in the winter, mostly in New
Hampshire and Vermont. Both daughters are now very good —
much better than I — but will still ski with me occasionally. In
the summer we play tennis and golf and race our “Sailfish” with
other members of our local yacht club. On the more sedentary side,
I have turned into an avid bird-watcher.

I travel a fair amount on business, mostly to the west coast, but
our only family trip has been a skiing vacation in Switzerland. We
hope to travel more after the children complete college.

Politically, I’m normally Republican, but switch occasionally.
The way things are going, I think I'll soon be an Independent, as

I’m not very happy with either party.
Here’s to the next twenty-five — hope they'll be as good as these!

[ 990 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM SHELMERDINE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 115 Coolidge Hill Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nutter, McClennen & Fish, 75 Federal Se, Boston ta, Masa

BORN: June 8, 1916, Providence, R.I.

PREPARED AT: Summit High School, Summit, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1937; LLB. 194

MarRIED: Juliet Upson, April 6, 1942, Newark, Ohio. cHitparn: Cynthia Wy,
Jan. 7, 1949; Nancy B. and Susan C, (twins), April 25, t9s4

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in Nutter, McClennen & Fish.

OFFICES HELD: Director and vice-president, Delbrook Engineering, Inc. urwe
1954; trustee, Mount Auburn Hospital, Cambridge, Mass, ance tace,
trustee of several private charitable foundations.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts, Middlesex and Boston Bar Associatuin,
Annisquam Yacht Club; Cambridge Club; Cambridge Skating and Tenrus

Club.

THE vital statistics above fairly well tell the story of the past twenty-
five years: three years of law school, nearly twenty years of practice
with the same firm and of life with the same wife, the growth of «
family, and continued residence in Cambridge. Almost forgetten are
four years of active (Boston, New York, and Bermuda) duty in the
Naval Reserve, and eventual retirement as a licutenant commanter.
More vivid are the recollections of the problems and pleasurce of
office and home, clients and family, colleagues and fricnds

The field of taxation has been the main arena of legal combat, with
frequent forays into the related areas of corporate, trust, and probate
law, and occasional participation in bar association committce work,
panel discussions, and lectures, at institutes, forums, and the lke.

Cambridge is a very stimulating community, providing a remark-
able combination of the metropolitan and the small town (ie. Elie
vard Square), as well as continuing associations with the academe
fraternity. An exceptional wife, three delightful daughters a chal:
lenging professional career — who can ask for more?

JOSEPH STANLEY SHEPPARD, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ApprEss: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mac.

BorN: April 21, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Kearny Eligh School, Kearny, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.8. 1957; AM. tg19.

MARRIED: Virginia M, Snow, June 28 togt, Boston, Mase cncoeew Jon 4
Stanley, 3d, April 16, 1943; Daniel Snow, July 34, 194.

HARVARD SON: Joseph Stanley Sheppard, 3d, 65.

[990]

_—_—___— L_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HARVARD BROTHER: David Parker Sheppard, ’4o.

occupaTION: Teacher, private secondary school; director of music; organist,
choirmaster.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Hedding (N.H.) Camp Meeting Association, 1955-57;
member, Visiting Committee, Music Department, Harvard University,
1960-61, 1961-62: director, SBEBSQSA (Marlboro, Mass., Chapter).

MEMBER OF: American Society of Composers, Authors & Publishers (ASCAP);
American Philatelic Society.

puBLicaTions: Composer, arranger of about fifty choral compositions published
by Boston Music Company, R. D. Row, Summy-Birchard, B. F. Wood,
G. Schirmer; St. Mark’s School Choral Series, published by Boston Music
Company; various choral works in collaboration with John Jacob Niles
(folk music, old American hymnody); author: “Aural Accuracy,” a tape-
recorded course in elementary ear-training,

THREE months out of Harvard, with diploma (in Latin) clutched
in my hot fist and armed with an almost incredible naiveté, I deter-
mined to crash that stronghold of American popular music, New
York City. A music education at Harvard, plus much fruitful extra-
curricular musical activity during those four years, had persuaded
me that I was ripe for the big city — and vice versa. A year-long ap-
prenticeship in various fields— stock boy in a music publishing
house, arranger and pianist for various dance bands, sheet music
arranger for a Titan of Tin Pan Alley—convinced me that my
music education had just begun. So back to Harvard for an A.M.
My only recollections of that year are a diet of beef pot pie and
coleslaw at the old Georgian on Dunster Street, and doing the music
for a Pi Eta show.

A half-year teaching job at the Holderness School in New
Hampshire seemed to indicate that secondary education was not
for me, so back to Cambridge for another half year of what amounted
to private tutorial with a grand old man, Edward Burlingame Hill,
of the Music Department. A great teacher, I thought; perhaps
there was something to this teaching business, after all.

In 1940 I was visited by two perceptive men of great persuasive-
ness: Howard Abell, music director of Milton Academy, and E.
Francis Bowditch, then headmaster of the Park School, Indianapolis.
Against my better (?) judgment, they convinced me that teaching
was for me — this time at Park. A two-year stint there, during which
I certainly learned more than I taught, was highlighted by my
marriage to a musical New Englander, and the resulting desire to

get back East, closer to home.

The opportunity came in the summer of 1942. New England

[ 992 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

looked good in September, and the new position as music director

at St. Mark’s School in Southboro, Massachusetts, provided tre-

mendous opportunity. During the past twenty years our lives have

been inextricably woven into the fabric of St. Mark’s—and we
would not have it otherwise. The timeless challenge of helping
young people grow intellectually, spiritually and emotionally has
not lost its appeal. And the church-school atmosphere of learning
— with God at the center, instead of man — has enriched our lives
in countless and perhaps nameless ways.

Our summers have centered about a modest self-built cottage in
Hedding, New Hampshire. There I have been able to indulve a
hobby of woodworking and have built up a sizeable summer bun-
ness in cottage construction and repairs. During World War Il
years, school vacations were occupied by directing summer farm-
labor camps for young people, and school-term evenings were de-
voted to musical therapy work for the Red Cross. Other summers,
away from the usual business, have been spent in directing choir
schools, being organist and choirmaster for various church con-
ferences and further study at several universities.

Non-school interests have centered around philately, woodwork-
ing, barbershop singing and directing, amateur musicals (many with
librettist and poet John Witherspoon, ’37), and composing and
arranging. Published music is confined to about fifty picces — ail
choral, specifically designed for the secondary school level. In
1959 I became a member of ASCAP. My good wife concentrates
on painting and decorative design, and the two boys, both musicians,
are already talking of becoming schoolmasters. My etforts to dhs-

suade them are, I’m afraid, rather gentle.

ALFRED SHERRARD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 305 Washington St, Alexandria, Va.

BORN: Oct, 21, 1915, Swampscott, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., magna Curt laude, tyr, a dt. (Oebon
bia Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Edith Hyslop, Nov. 23, 1947, Washington, D.C,

occupation: Writer, self-employed.

MEMBER OF: American Economie Association,

PUBLICATIONS: “Advertising, Produce Variation and the Danity ef Bene a,
Journal of Political Economy, April, tyst.

*

THE hero of my work-in-progress writes the followrss po ta

[ 993 ]

_ L

‘HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

brother, @ propos the Tenth Reunion of the Harvard Class of 1937:
“Dear Joe,

“Dorcas sends her love. So does T. C., of course. Aggie doesn’t
seem to be speaking to you at the moment, and I wouldn’t want to
take the responsibility of conveying her affections without authoriza-
tion. I’m spending the weekend with her-—and for what an un-
heard of reason! Tenth Reunion of the Class of 1937. Brass bands,
cavorting at Chatham Bars, tours of the Yard, strange earnest
seminars on all the problems of mankind (but I haven’t been able
to sit through any of these), too much to drink, affable effusive
old bosom friends whom I never really knew. It impresses me that
the names come back; but nothing else does—for the sufficient
reason that there wasn’t anything else.

“I don’t know what I think of this. I guess I’m enjoying it in a way.
But what is it all about? Everybody seems a bit guilty, as if they
were expected to justify themselves. I am a happy man, I am a
successful man, I am a loving husband and a patient father (or maybe
a loving father and a patient husband comes closer to the tone).
You might think they were boasting, but it doesn’t sound that way.
Apologizing. Explaining. It all sounds terribly evasive, too. And
there’s something about the insistent unwillingness to be serious that
strikes me as fishy. Sure, this is a festive occasion, and who wants a
death’s head at the feast? I'd believe that if the ‘How am I doing?’
tone weren’t so damned pervasive. (Jack Darmstadter was saying
something about ‘preening ourselves’ and ‘adolescent prancing’ at
dinner last night. Well, maybe adolescent prancing isn’t as joyous
as it looks, either, but that isn’t what Jack meant.)

“Sour grapes, Joey? I don’t know. You tell me...”

The difficulty of communicating anything of importance im-
presses me more and more. I am not now speaking mainly of my
writing — that is the unavoidable struggle of any writer and always
has been, I suppose. But on less demanding subjects, I have the feel-
ing that there is almost a tacit agreement to pretend to agree on all
sorts of matters where we don’t — or not to talk at all about what
we don’t agree on or what really troubles us.

I have a nasty awareness these days both of my own mortality and
of the fact that the world itself is not as perdurable as one had
assumed. Most people are lonely, I suppose, but we all spend a good
deal of energy concealing ourselves from one another. Quite
understandably! There are perfectly good practical reasons for not
wearing your heart on your sleeve. Fiction can bridge the gap.

[ 994 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Fictional characters can reveal themselves, if the author is able tw
manage it, in a way that we are not able or willing to do in ordinary
life.

Yet there is a tendency for literature to be considered as a
specialty like engineering, interesting to its practitioners (including
critics and teachers) and of some presumed social uulity (we have
to keep up with the Russians, don’t we?) but of little direct personal
concern. ‘he Socratic ideal, that an unexamined life is noe worth
living, is not the breath of our lungs — even though it may be cited
in a certain kind of institutional advertising. Anyway, [think it
just as valid as it ever was.

But first, of course, one has to survive. Perhaps writers don't
always recognize either the importance or the difficulty of that.
So a Twenty-fifth Anniversary toast all around: Ict’s keep things
going! Businessmen, run your businesses! Rulers, shoulder your
burdens! Fathers, raise your young! Golfers, golf! Swimmers
swim! Thinkers, think! Writers, write!

THOMAS SHERWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 2487 Wenatchee Lane, Cincinnati 30, Ohio.
BORN: Aug. 28, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937-

MARRIED: Lillian Louise Badtram, April 18, 1947, Anchorage, Alaska, conto:
Emily Linda, July 23, 1955.

SHORTLY after graduation, I passed the written section of the
State Department Foreign Service Exam and found myself in Wash-
ington confronting the Oral Examination Board. Their verdict was
that I should not only fail, but be given a grade sufficiently low te
discourage any future attempt, because in their considered epeven
I was “a typically provincial New Englander, totally untic for bfe
in the outside world.” Ironically, I've scarcely revisited New Pos:
land since.

Finding myself unemployed in Washington in t9y9, Tliifted aor
a job with the war-time British Purchasing Commision, and tiene ¢
into Aviation Cadets and seven years as a Navigator, Dwasrsare. t
in 1947 in Anchorage, Alaska, to Lillian Badtram, an Towa galbtet
met as a Wave. We escaped the Air Corps by enrollies in ader 3
Trade School in Phoenix, and I was employ ed there, for iave aut
work by Procter and Gamble in 1948.

[995 ]

— LL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

We spent the next ten years abroad, where I was successively
assigned as comptroller of the P & G subsidiaries in Indonesia, the
Philippines and France. Emily Linda, now six, was born in Paris, and
that dictated a return to the U.S. We have been settled in
Cincinnati the past four years, where my chief extracurricular
activities are stamp-collecting and spectator sports, especially those
on which one can bet.

HAROLD JEROME SHIRLEY

HOME apprEss: 46 Lakeview Ave., Yonkers, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 Lake Ave., Tuckahoe, N.Y.

BORN: June 14, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1937.

marrizD: Helen Chrusciel, Dec. 31, 1951, New York, N.Y. caitpren: Laurence
Wayne, Feb. 20, 1953; Diane Yvette, March 2, 1956.

occuPATION: Manufacturing; owner.

MEMBER OF: LR.E.; A.E.S.

puBLications: Miscellaneous articles in audio engineering, Journal of the Acous-
tic Engineering Society, Radio & Television News, Radio-Electronics.

PANIC button or no panic button (being pushed by Bill Bentinck-
Smith), I do not feel particularly disposed toward writing an auto-
biography at this time. The broad implication of that statement
may be meaningful enough to those who wish to try to analyze it.
For those of a less analytical turn of mind: I happen to be in the
depressive phase of the cycle, the principal reason being that my
marriage of nearly ten years is in the process of dissolution. Those
of you who have been through this particular mill know what a
painful — even traumatic — experience this is. To those of you
who have not been through it — may your number remain large. If
I had it to do all over again —I would. The reason, of course, being
the existence of two children whom I adore and cherish.

I make my living as a manufacturer.and distributor. I manu-
facture phonograph needles—diamond and sapphire —and dis-
tribute allied items. The phonograph needle business was very
lucrative when I drifted into it, almost by accident, about ten years
ago, but by the time I learned most of what one needs to know to
be successful in the business world, the whole industry was well on
the way to committing mass suicide via the well-known price-
cutting route. Today prices at all levels — retail, wholesale, and
manufacturing — are down to ten percent or less of what they

[996 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

were when I first started. Even allowing for the facts that in the
beginning the margins were unusually high and that manufacturing
costs have been reduced through volume production techniques, at
will be obvious to most that a drop of ninety percent in price levels
must have a disastrous effect on profits. Yet, though I am pretty
well “locked in” this business (as are all my compeutors), 1 am by
no means pessimistic. I have exclusive U.S.A. rights to diamond tps
made by a new process which promises to achieve very substantial
cost reduction, production of which on a large-volume baus 1s
scheduled for the near future and which could mean eventual success
in this field — possibly even a startling success, for it is a mulu-
million-dollar market. Another beacon on the horizon is an invention
I have been working on for over a year and which is almost ready
for production. This is a universal replacement item in the phono-

raph accessory field which replaces several dozen diferent inh-
vidual models. Since national sales run into several millon units
annually, this could prove to be a gold mine.

It is a constant source of dissatisfaction to me that I am unable
to get regular exercise as I used to in my younger days. The long
hours that I have to put in, plus the absence of a nearby gyn, are
the cause — or rationalization — for this situation. A paral com
pensation has been found recently when I enrolled in a class tn shin
and scuba diving. This I find most interesting and look forward
to indulging in this new form of recreation in the summers. [ast
summer I found time to learn to water ski and found that hizhly
enjoyable, too.

I wonder if any of the other Classmates will comment on the
bomb shelter crisis the country is undergoing now. Since this
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report will be read in retrospect: for
many years to come — at least one hopes that our civilization has
many viable years remaining — it may not be amiss for one Copy.
dent to remind readers that in the year 1968 a great debate raced
throughout the nation on the subject of bomb shelters To bald
or not to build —and if to build, who should build them ict.
viduals or the government? After much reading, listening, waty lsc +,
and introspecting, I find myself in the “ant” camp, i suppere it
would make for interesting reading in the future if | were ta pret.
the outcome. But I'd only be guessing — so PH paw up the eh as -

to make like Nostradamus.

I think [ll wind this up by reporting on what Dread tie. os. a
I feel that this provides one good clue at least toa pore eee va

[ 997 ]

_ L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and interests. So—steady diet of: The New Y. orker, Saturday
Review, Harper's, The Independent, Playboy, Fantasy, and Science
Fiction. And, of course, numerous trade and technical journals such
as Electronics, Audio Engineering, etc. Intermittently: Life, Reader's
Digest, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, Standard & Poor's Outlook,
Very few books —just not enough time. I feel strongly impelled
to take one of those Rapid Reading Courses.

WILLIAM SHEA SHRADER

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: R.D. 1, Middleburg, N.Y.

BorN: Nov, 29, 1915, St. Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Norwalk High School, Norwalk, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., 1937; M.B.A. (Siena Coll.), 1951.

MarRIED: Claudia Munsell, Dec. 31, 1940, Guatemala City, Guatemala, CHILDREN:
Claudia, March 3, 1942; William, Aug. 17, 1943; Robert, April 15, 1945; John,
Oct, 28, 1946; Charles, March 15, 1949; James, Dec. 15, 1950; Marianne,
May 11, 1952; Michael, June 18, 1954; Josephine, Oct. 2, 1955; Donald,
Dec. 28, 1956; Catherine, June 7, 19583 David, May 1, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Andrew Shrader, ’41.

occuPATION: Owner and operator, construction company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Town of Broome Civic League, 1949-52; committee
chairman, Boy Scouts of America, 1958-59; chaplain, American Legion,

1960-62; Democratic Town Committeeman, 1961; Democratic County
Committeeman, 1962.

MEMBER oF: American Legion; Democratic Club; Reserve Officers Association;

Town of Broome Civic League; Community Rod and Gun Club, Town
of Broome Volunteer Fire Department.

puBLicaTions: “The I.U.E. and the ULE. at the Schenectady General Electric
Plant.”

AFTER graduation I spent a year in the purchasing department
of Electrolux, Inc. Not liking this too much, I signed up as a
Thomason Act officer with the Regular Army at Fort Ethan Allen,
Vermont. At the end of that year, I joined the Chicle Development
Company in Guatemala; spent a year in the jungle as field manager
and two years as assistant general manager to Mel Dubiel. Was
married in Guatemala City in 1940, to Claudia Munsell, and our
eldest daughter was born there. Went into the Army in 1942, as a
second lieutenant; had field artillery training at Fort Bragg, North
Carolina; was battery commander of a 105-gun battery and of
headquarters battery of the 102d Division. Then was given civil
affairs and military government training in the German area and
language at Stanford University and later in Japanese area and

[ 998 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

language at the Universities of Virginia and Yale. Served oversess
in New Guinea, Philippines, and Korea with the 7th Division and
the Americal Division, as labor officer of the Civil Affairs Unit.
Separated from the service as a major in 1946. Went into Reserve,

had several tours of temporary duty in G-3 Section of First Army
Headquarters at Governor’s Island, Fort Jay, New York, up to
1949. In the meantime, started the Shrader-Cresencio Company
(exports and imports), doing business mainly with the Philppine
Islands. Around 1951, this business had just about expired after
several close calls with Lady Luck. I then logged the timber off
most of my property in upstate New York with the idea of dividits
it into building lots and selling it. I then intended moving west
and engaging in some form of ranching. I had just received my
Master’s degree in business administration from the Graduate School
of Siena College, and my family consisted of two girls and five bevs
Instead of going west, however, I got into defense work as a quality
control supervisor with the tank (M-47) production program of
Americal Locomotive Company, Schenectady, New York. After a
year and a half there, I went to the Pratt & Whitney Division of
United Aircraft in East Hartford, Connecticut, as an experimental
inspector in the jet engine program. After a year and a half, I lefe
to start my own construction company, building and remetelies
houses, building dams, and currently fallout shelters.

My family now consists of twelve children, eight bevs and four
girls. T'wo of the older children are now in college. The bovs ail
show ability in running; one of them won the Eastern Interscholisoes
in cross-country, sponsored by Fordham University at Van Court.
Jandt Park in 1960. I have hopes you may hear of some of then in
the 1964 Olympics. In closing, I have a theory for statieysin
Gorham Brigham to investigate. If he checks, he will nore that
the cross-country and track men have been very protic (Plaves,
Marcy, Duchesne, etc.). It must be the stamina they develope!

P.S. I am thinking of entering the Boston Marathon this apo
for continued stamina.

LEOPOLD SHUMACKFR, I

HOME apprEss: 510 E. Brow Rd. Lookout Mountain, Tenn.

OFFICE apprEss: Hq., 32d Air Div. (32CIG), Oklahons en
Oklahoma City 45, Okla.

Born; Aug. 17, 1916, Chattanooga, Tenn.

[999 ]

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: Baylor School, Chattanooga, Tenn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.
UNMARRIED.

occupaTIoN: Chief warrant officer, Air Force.

I AM a chief warrant officer in the Air Force in which I’ve served
over eighteen years. I am not married except to the Air Force,
I specialize in military personnel, and am now the personnel inspector
for the Inspector General, 32d Air Division, which is responsible
for air defense of the southeast and south central parts of the
country. This is one of the best jobs I’ve had, and fortunately I’m
not trying to win a popularity contest. [’ve served overseas in India,
China, Austria and Newfoundland; and on this side in Baltimore,
Colorado Springs, Atlanta, Newburgh, Lookout Mountain, Atlanta
again, and now Oklahoma City. Once while passing through Boston,
I revisited Harvard Yard in moonlight and was flooded with ghostly
memories and wild regrets and longings. How much more I could
have learned, if only I had abided by your placid pragmatism instead
of reaching out for certitudes! Perhaps my next overseas station
will be the Moon, and I can achieve detachment.

The Air Force demands service. That I have given. In spare time
[ve devised a true phonetic script. Though I doubt it will ever be
adopted, its beauty and precision have given me much pleasure.

HENRY WILLIAM SIEGEL

HOME ApprEsS: 67 Valentine Rd., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 118 Bowdoin St., Dorchester, Mass.

BORN: July 18, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. (Middlesex Medical
School), 1942.

MarrigD: Pauline A. Dvlinsky, March 21, 1941, Boston, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Temple Shalom, Milton, 1949-58.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society; Nor-
folk Medical Society, American Academy of General Practice.

AFTER graduating I attended Graduate School but found labora-
tory life and petty politics too restrictive. Then I found a job as
instructor of physiology at Middlesex where 1 bogged down due
to army drafts, etc. Mine was the eighth name drawn in our uni-
versal lottery. I received an M.D. degree and after hospital train-
ing I entered the Army Medical Corps. Here I served an undis-

[ 1000 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unguished term until 1946, as a captain. Then I entered the general
practice of medicine which I found to be very samulaung and re-
warding. I am still in general practice and now find it less saumulic-
ing and more demanding.

The more pleasant interludes since graduation have been the fre-
quent trips my wife and I have taken at home and abroad.

EDWARD LEWIS SILBERBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 141 E. 33d St., New York 16, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 112 W. 34th St., New York 1, N.Y.

BoRN: April 24, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MARRIED: Janet Kopelman, July 9, 1961, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: Manufacturers’ representative for apparel —all types of children’s
wear, and women’s and men’s skiwear.

MEMBER OF: Port Norfolk Yacht Club; Whiz-Skiers Club.

PAUL HOWARD SILBERT

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Seaview Ave., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: David F, Silbert & Co., Inc., Grain & Flour Fxchange, 127 Muck
St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 25, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937, DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarRiED: Alice Fox, Feb. 5, 1950, Providence, RI. cautparn: Frances Jane,
March g, 1952; Edward F., Aug. 13, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leo Silbert, ’28, M.B.A., '30.

occuPATION: Flour distributor; part owner, David F. Silbert & Co, Ine.

THERE were a few other possibiliues after graduation, buc I te-
cided to join the family flour business with my dad and brocher, VWs
work still includes regular short sales trips plus occasional toys
to our flour mill sources. Can truthfully say: “Have been threo oh
the mill.”

A few years after becoming a flour merchant, TF deculed wos
practical bakery experience might help, so T joined a chain balers
in one of their local plants. This work was completed ina vere ae!
proved a wise interlude.

One hobby which has always maintained an interest fer ne 5.
amateur radio, During the "yo’s I spent a few yeary warts agora’

[ 1008 J

el

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

equipment manufacturer. It was too much radio and almost no
hobby, so I returned to the flour business.

Alice and I spoil our children, Frances Jane, nine, and Edward,
eight, but we cannot do otherwise, because we were spoiled, too.

We'll gladly take the same blame given all parents, by all children,
for subsequent neuroses.

Alice and I also do our very best to keep up with the present
fast pace of everyday living without missing the basic and more
leisurely pleasures. The secret today is to do this if you can, in
order to be around for more reunions. See you at the 25th, I hope.

EDWARD BALL SIMMONS

HOME ADDRESS: Converse Point, Marion, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard-Times, New Bedford, Mass,

Born: Feb. 14, 1914, Baltimore, Md.

PREPARED AT: Gilman School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937,

MARRIED: Margaret Stone Hardwick, Sept, 23, 1938, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:

Hardwick, June 8, 1940; Margaret, Jan. 20, 1942; Lauren, Aug. 6, 19453
Edward, Jr., Aug. 30, 1948.
HARVARD SON: Hardwick Simmons, ’62.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bradford Simmons, °34; William Emmett Simmons, ’40;
Julian Simmons, ’42.

occupation: Newspaperman, editorial and political writer.

OFFICES HELD: C.O., Naval Reserve Division 1-22, New Bedford, 1945-493 secre-
tary, 1949-59, chairman, 1960, Marion Republican Town Committee; trus-
tee, Friends Academy, 1950-55; president, Harvard Club of New Bedford,
1956-58; area chairman, Program for Harvard, 1958-6o.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Delta Chi, Boston Madison Square Garden Club, Kittansett
Club,

PuBLICATIONS: The Lodge-Gossett Plan (NEA Handbook).

THE hazard of a thumbnail autobiography — for consumption by
one’s peers — at this pause in life is, it seems to me, in the task of
pinpointing the present, to find a place of departure for the trip
back, and for a look ahead.

I am reminded of the story about Rhode Island’s patriarch of the
U.S. Senate, Theodore Francis Green, who was surprised by a
hostess examining a parcel of invitations. “Looking to see where
you go next?” asked the hostess. “No, m’am, I’m trying to find
where I am,” said Green. The senator is not alone ‘ in- his dilemma.

On a glorious fall day, the upper forties find me in a cluttered
office typing this out. Unlike some of our big-city colleagues, I have

{ 1002 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

no secretary. My desk and an adjacent table, bookshelf and fie

cabinet reflect the disarray and variety of the hfe of a newspaper-

man who is trying to keep pace with his job, life and four children
away from home running up bills.

It would be fine to be confident that progress has been my mun
important product, but that is difficult to prove in the world of tvpe.
One hopes he has retained the curiosity that led him into the pro-
fession, and perhaps the writing content has improved. But there
aren’t many glossy titles in newspapering; there is nothing over mv
door but my name, and the implication that the occupant is but a
well-seasoned reporter.

However, recognition has come lately in rather a bachdoor
manner. I am, on this October date, defendant in a $500,000 libel
suit filed by the head of a State Government division. He is presently
under investigation by a Grand Jury, a probe touched otf by an
article I wrote. On a more legitimate front, I was honored to re-
ceive several years ago the national award for general reporting
from Sigma Delta Chi, the newspaper fraternity, mostly for an intce-
view with the surviving Sacco-Vanzetti jurors.

Newspapering on a small city daily is never dull. Ours ts an
aggressive paper with an eye on the national and international scene
more than on the local. For me it has meant moving about for
stories in every possible category, including all national polneal
conventions. As probably the Classmate living closest to Jack Ken-
nedy, one of our “constituents,” it has been. my good fortune to
know him well, and he has publicly given me the credit for his firse
election to the U.S. Senate, the first Bunyanesque stride in his amuys-
ing career.

More than most, perhaps— we are paid for it — newspaperinen
are concerned with the world around us. Mv contacts have mate
me rather a pessimist. Each year I encounter less of that’ ‘founda s
father” philosophy we like to extol, and less resemblance to
government it bequeathed us. Somewhat like the world anself, tt ¢
United States has become a grab-pot, with cach minority cloner *
for its share, disregarding the effect it might have on the wetfire, t¢

eace of mind and tomorrow’s security for the whole,

Enforced mediocrity and conformity are the hostase pode!
“liberal,” not to the conservative. I much preferred the Vo> _
McCarthy to the Age of Schlesinger, and brinkiminship tothe
Nation’s postponement of crisis. (Slow here, Simmons, yout
son in the Marine Reserves. )

[ 1003 ]

_____—. L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

This has been the routine for the last fifteen years. Before that
it was six years in the Navy and, after leaving college, two years
on the Baltimore Sun.

Well, men, suppose we had to do it over. I think I might try the
law, but I would never change where I live, or the inhabitants or
pursuits enjoyed on the premises. My wife is getting prettier, slim-
mer and dressing more spectacularly these days, which certain inti-
mates have told me is a dangerous sign. However, I choose to believe
it is because finally I have been able to beat her in tennis and almost
in golf, and she is taking up the slack in more feminine pursuits.

We live the year round in a summer resort and, since we take
vacations in winter, that makes for strenuous living when the sum-
mer invasion begins. But there is a real inner pleasure and solidity
to living in a small community and knowing everyone from the
telephone operators to the town officials, with THE doctor just
around the corner, and golf and tennis and boating just around
another. (Not to mention fifteen minutes’ commute to work.)

I have discovered, and maybe a few others have, too, that it has
become a profession all of its own to raise children. It never oc-
curred to me that the sane, hard-working, clean-cut attitude toward
life that I possess and my wife to a lesser degree — would not
automatically be inherited by our loved ones. I have taken up
psychodrama, I believe it is, to find out why my quartet don’t
have a zealous desire to emulate their father, but insist instead —
as I am positive I did not do with my father — on doing everything
just the opposite to the effective course recommended by him.

I am taking no chances on the younger boy and have rushed him
off to boarding school at the tender age of twelve. However, it
has been my experience that private schools are not as interested in
working overtime with the willing but methodical student as they
formerly were. I may have to tutor him myself.

The girls? Now there’s something that I always felt knowledge-
able about. I flatly predicted doom for the elder and sent her to
New York to find out in a hurry. So she landed a swell job, with
banker’s hours, and spends weekends tooling around with Yale
boys. The younger girl may have taken a shine to me and no doubt
will encounter one hardship after another.

Like my brother Bradford, I offered son Hardwick a chance to
go to the college of his choice, but I would pay his way through
Harvard. I really believe that the old place has meant a great deal
through the years; perhaps it is a sort of inner source of confidence

[ 1004 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of having, at least once, done something constructive. It is not
only a bond among those of us who attended together, but hinks
one with the past and the future. Harvard has, in a sense, given
me a feeling of continuity and one of obligation, too.

ARTHUR SAUL SIMON

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Riverdale Ave., Belleville 9, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Research & Development Laboratories, 2113 MuCarctee
Hwy., Newark 4, N.J.

BORN: Dec. 30, 1915, Roxbury, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Rita Lane Brandt, Dec. 17, 1946, New York, N.Y. ciutpars: Werly
Jill, Oct. 5, 1950; Rand Franklin, May 29, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Boris Simon, ’35, EDD., ’53.

OCCUPATION: Chemist; assistant supervisor, synthetics division, industrial pair

' manufacturer.

AH, the logic of it all! Starting as a French major in Cambrilve, I
naturally wound up as a paint chemist in New Jersey. Three more
years with my company and I shall be awarded a gold watch.

On December 15th, my wife Mady and I celebrate our fiftcent'y
anniversary. Mady, a beautiful and charming Viennese girl has
an unquenchable zest to live life to the fullest (like Alexander Kins.
also Viennese). She gets us both involved up to our necks in atl
kinds of movements. Of course, our goals include higher educa-
tion for Wendy, eleven, and Rand, eight. We trv to maintiin a
degree of sanity in a more and more insane world. Yex we joinest
the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy.

Things I deplore: (1) The failure of my colleague i by Woasthiscton
to pursue his avowed goal of universal disarmament with me uaine
vigor that he displays in pursuing the Cold War and pushinys the
useless fall-out shelter program. (2) The fecling of he!plesness bs
the American people before the threats of war. Their conepicet
head-in-sand attitude regarding politics and international aifaew ae!
their increasing drive for material things alone, (3) The watejvet!
desire to conform — and its corollary, the relative diappe inane of
dissent.

Things I applaud: (1) The recent reaw akening amet oo
students to world problems. Ie recalls the lively thirties pt:
days and represents a prerequisite for a healthy dlerearaey baD
Jack Paar flailing the lying press.

[ 1005 ]

_—_____— L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

My recent coronary occlusion has reduced my physical activities
to walking my boxer and golfing. “They” even took my beloved
ice skates from me, at least temporarily, I'm gradually improving
my golf game even though it means missing sleeping late Sunday
mornings.

A good movie, a good play, a good lecture still afford us moments
of pleasure. Good books satisfy my need to seek the truth,

STANLEY SKERSTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 260 S. Harrison St., East Orange, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Benjamin Moore & Co., 134 Lister Ave., Newark, N.]J.

BORN: July 12, 1914, New Bedford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Bridgewater High School, Bridgewater, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Chemist; section chief, Development Division, Central Labs., Ben-
jamin Moore & Company, manufacturers of protective coatings, paint and
allied products.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; New York Society for Paint Tech-
nology; U.S.P.S. (Northern New Jersey); East Orange Lodge No. 208,
F. & A.M.; First Unitarian Church of Essex County, Orange, N.J.

IN company with many others, am so concerned about the future
outlook for man and his civilization in these uncertain times — how
to cope effectively with current, apparently overwhelming, world
problems?!

For diversion from the more serious aspects of life, as time per-
mits, enjoy hobbies of golf, bowling, fishing, travel, photography
and boating (e.g.—last summer included navigating round trip
to Cape Cod from mid New Jersey shore).

Church, lodge and professional technical activities all come in
for a sizeable share of available time.

DOUGLAS SLOANE, IV

HOME Appress: Pleasant Valley Road, Amesbury, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Towle Silversmiths, 266 Merrimac St., Newburyport, Mass. 3
Charles D. Briddell, Inc., Crisfield, Md.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1913, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937- DEGREE: A.B., 1937(38).

marriep: Rosemary Washburn, April 2, 1937, Chelmsford, Mass. CHILDREN:
Penelope, March 2, 1938 (1. Larry Nace, July, 1961); Diana W., July 14,

[ 1006 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1939 (7. Richard Wheeler, November, 1959); Douglas, sth, Dec. 98. tae,
William A., March 19, 1945. GRANDCHILDREN: Richard Wheeler, Jr. Sepe.
15, 1960; Elizabeth Wheeler, July 11, 1961.

occupATion: Silverware manufacturing and marketing, director, vice-presiicet
and treasurer; cutlery manufacturing, director, treasurer and clerk.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of trustees, Cathedral of the Pines, Rindge, N It.
1946-61.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Connecticut (hfe meim-
ber); St. Andrews Society, New York City; National Association of
Accountants; American Management Association; Audubon Society,
American Yacht Club, Newburyport, Mass.; Old Town Country Club,
Newbury, Mass.

puBLicaTions: Articles in Hardware Retailer and New England Hardware Deal-
ers Magazine.

IS the grass greener in the other fellow’s backyard? Should you ask
me, I would have to reply negatively. And my experiences since
my emancipation in 1937 bear me out. At Harvard I had majored in
pre-architectural studies — sub-majored in pre-medical courses.
What a contrast! But the Great Depression had dried up the family
fortune, so with sheepskin in hand to woolskins I drifted. I set out
to become a wool merchant in Boston town. This was short-lived
when the bottom dropped out of the wool market in October,
1937. What to do? You'd never guess it. Public accounting. A
kindly old gentleman — dean among certified public accountants in
Boston — put up with me for three years. At his urging, I attended
the Bentley School of Accounting and Finance — evenings — five
long years. Through a quirk of fate, and the help of the Internal
Revenue Department, I was successively made a partner, then a
treasurer, in a pump sales and engineering company that furnished
ninety-five percent of all the rayon and nylon fabricating pum
used in America. From rags to, well almost, riches.

Uncle Sam’s Navy called on us to build a facility to manufacture
special hydraulic equipment for use on warships. Yours truly were
to Washington. With facilities contract No. BS-1t in hand, Pte.

a manufacturing plant, equipped i it, employed the people to oper ite

it, established all of the operating procedures, wrote the prostates
contracts, became general manager. Yes, we won an F. OV ‘J Day
came — Fastern Industries of New Haven, Connecticut, purchae!

control of our company and moved me to the home of the —.
treasurer and director of a vastly growing industrial enter
Shortly thereafter, I became listless, shifted my focus to wh
and ultimately retailing.

[ 1007 J]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

I joined the Bronson & Townsend Company of New Haven, one
of New England’s most progressive hardware and housewares dis-
tributors, and became vice-president and general manager. Eight
years later I joined the Bigelow & Dowse Company in Boston in a
similar position. Well, I'd no sooner straightened out the wholesal-
ing industry in New England and made a mark on retail hardware
and department stores when I heeded a call to return to manufactur-
ing — and silverware at that. I confess, though, that ] haven’t had
much success in making good copies of silver-backed certificates,
During this time, I attended evening classes at M.I.T., Boston Uni-
versity, Northeastern — and even Yale. About now I’m beginning
to get the urge to write a book.

So much for me! I have been blessed with a wonderful and most
understanding wife and with four (I’m proud of them) grand
youngsters. We have always planned our extracurricular activities
together, shared vacations and holidays as a group, and tried to
grow together. Our two daughters are married. We have great
hopes for the two boys — Harvard, Harvard, and Harvard.

ANTHONY NELSON SMITH

HOME ApDDRESS: 2309 Watkins St., Raleigh, N.C.

OFFICE appress: P.O. Box 989, Raleigh, N.C.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1914, Fall River, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1947-1950. DEGREE: A.B., 1937 (50).

MarRIED: Ann Shattuck, June 12, 1953, Bristol, N.H. cHrLprEN: Barbara Mason,
March 5, 1955; Charles Edward, Aug. 20, 1956.

occupation: Casualty insurance; branch manager.

MEMBER OF: Raleigh Civitan Club; Raleigh Country Club; Carolinas Society of
C.P.C.U.;, Harvard Club of North Carolina. .

AFTER freshman year, 1933-34, I was unable to continue until a
grateful Uncle Sam made it possible in 1947. For a while, was
oldest living undergraduate. Diploma awarded in 1950 bears signa-
ture of Classmate Robert B. Watson. My father, Charles E. Smith,
"95, was only member of his 55th Class Reunion with son in graduat-
ing class. Am still economically with Class of 1950, though chrono-
logically with 1937.

We live with reasonable comfort in a fairly quiet development and
are trying to raise our boy and girl similarly to our own upbring-
ing. We differ more in degree than in substance with local religious

[ 1008 J

=

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attitudes but more in substance than in degree with local political
beliefs.

pE VEAUX OLMSTED SMITH

HOME ApprEss: Llewellyn Park, West Orange, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, N.Y.

porN: Feb. 9, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Associate of David Rockefeller.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Harvard Advocate, Cambridge, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Wall Street Club and Rockefeller
Center Lunch Club, New York City.

SINCE last report, there has been a change in my employment. The
pharmaceutical firm with which I was associated, both before and
after the long hiatus of five Army years, was sold. This ended a
pleasant family interest which had started with the firm's founding
by my great-grandfather in 1844. The year of the salc, 1958, was a
happy one for me. Forsaking the world of effective and ethical nos-
trums, I was invited by David Rockefeller, ’36, a friend of many
years, to join him as an associate. He is president of the Chase Man-
hattan Bank.

However, my work is basically outside the bank, and has turned
out to be agreeable as well as rewarding. Some of my responsibil.
ties are peripheral to a long-time interest in architecture, and con-
cern planning and urban renewal in New York City. The two
centers of focus are the financial district around Wall Screct and
Morningside Heights, the acropolis overlooking the Hlushen at
116th Street. As a citizen, I am somewhat encouraged by the com-
petence and dedication of many individuals in public agencies as
well as what can be accomplished in the private sector throu
cooperation with public personnel.

The last five years included a good deal of traveling, much of it
revisiting familiar sections of Europe. Among more interest *
new places were the USSR in 1958, Istanbul, Beirut and Carre ra
1959, and Cuba and Guatemala in 1960. These latter visits prove!
that projection through reading or even pictures do nee socher
Having mentioned travel, I do not find it inconsstene te edo
Candide’s wise words “Il faut cultiver notre jardin”

[ 1009 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

REGINALD HEBER SMITH, JR.

HOME AppREss: 21 Arbor St., Wenham, Mass.

oFFice appress: Cambridge Trust Co. 1336 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge,
Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 8, 1916, Maplewood, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933—1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B., 1940.

MarrigD: Nancy Rice, July 18, 1942, Beverly, Mass. cutLprEN: Joan Hammond,
Feb. 15, 1943; Reginald Heber, 3d, May 13, 1947; Francis Warren, March
24, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Currier Smith, Bus, Sch., 1939-49.

occupation: Banker; assistant trust officer, Cambridge Trust Company.

orFices HELD: Chairman, Board of Zoning Appeals, Wenham, Mass., since 1936;
director, Manchester Electric Company and Nantucket Gas & Electric

Company, since 1956; treasurer and director, Cambridge Civic Symphony
Orchestra.

MEMBER OF: Mosaid Lodge, AF. & A.M., Danvers, Mass.; Curious Artificers,
Wenham, Mass.; Boston Society of Security Analysts, Boston; Boston Chap-

ter, Inc., American Institute of Banking, Bass Rocks Golf Club; Eastern
Point Yacht Club, Gloucester, Mass.

AFTER graduation I went on to Harvard Law School. In those
days it was easy to get in, but a bit harder to stay there; I was lucky
and graduated in the Class of 1940. Next came a year in New York
working on the tax problems of the Beneficial Management Com-
pany. It was a good job, but Uncle Sam wanted my services more
and he prevailed in the end. I stalled long enough to pass the
Massachusetts and New York Bar exams. The Monday following
Pearl Harbor, I received my orders to report to camp, I was sworn
in as a member of the New York Bar, and the country declared war
on Japan. I have often wondered about the cause and effect relation-
ship.

My part in the war effort was peaceful. After basic training, I
found myself at Chanute Field studying advanced calculus to be-
come a weather forecaster. The instructors were able to overcome
my ignorance of math by rousing me from bed at 2:00 a.m. for
six months, A few months of practice in the States and then I was
on a boat bound for an unknown destination that turned out to be
India. In the fall of 1943, I arrived by Jeep at a base known as
Misamari and remained there until the A-bomb settled everything
(for the time being). India was a pleasant place. Our scenery was
magnificent, with mountains Over 20,000 feet high in the background.
Our outfit had several good bridge players. The Japs left us alone

[ 1010 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

while we worked to fly gasoline over the Hump to China. We fired
no shots in anger.

The end of the war brought me back to Boston, reunited with
my wife and daughter. I wanted no part of city living, belicving
strongly that dogs and children should not be raised in the city. We
settled down in Beverly which was a fairly rural place in those days.
In the course of time our two sons came along, and we had out-
grown our house. In 1952 we began searching and found a big old
place in Wenham with five acres of land, which in turn ran into
a large area of forest and swamp. We have been working hard
here since that time; there is much lawn to mow, many Icaves to
rake, and the never-ending problem of snow on a four-hundred-
foot drive. Still I have the country that I love, the open lands and
the forests. I'll stay here.

After the war I joined the Boston Legal Aid Society as a saall
attorney, remaining there for nine years. Doing something for
those who could not help themselves was satisfying work. Were I
of independent means, I would have stayed on permanently. Fare
intervened at a time when I was seriously thinking of opening my
own law office in Salem or Beverly. I was offered a position in the
trust department of the Cambridge Trust Company, back at Har-
vard Square again. I accepted and have been very happy with my
decision. Oddly enough, the work of a trust ofhcer has many
features of practice at the Legal Aid. True, our main problem is
the management of funds entrusted to us by our customers. These
same customers, however, are human beings with human problems
and they turn to us for assistance. No trust department could lave
long if it should forget this. Cambridge Trust Company specializes
in being a personal bank where the customers are friends. In adie
tion to administrative work, I have specialized in security analy us
and the making of investments; exciting when your ideas work out,
not so happy when they don’t. A very pleasant life apare from the
tendency of the state and federal governments to create new, more
technical, more complicated, and more insoluble tax forme and
problems. I wonder how it is possible for an untrained perven to

prepare a tax return with any degree of accuracy. The good aspects
of my job far outweigh the bad, and I am proud and happy to be
associated with the Cambridge Trust Company. ,
Family life is most important to me. Joan graduated froin AY Soe
Academy last year and is now a freshman at Barnard, the tre cf
the family to leave home. Rex will finish junior high thivvear, act

[ r011 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

much of my spare time is spent in visiting prep schools for his
further education. Francis carries on in his own way; he is the
happiest one of the family and nothing ever bothers him. In addi-
tion, we have Herbert, who is a large black shaggy dog, and two
cats who are becoming rather portly with age. Right now, Nancy
and I are engrossed in the children; get them all through school and
perhaps we'll have a bit of time for ourselves.

My activities center in Cambridge and Wenham. In Cambridge,
I work as a director and treasurer of the Cambridge Civic Sym-
phony Orchestra. Wenham is still a quiet country town, but it is
growing. I have been chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals
for the past seven years; we have kept growth orderly, which means
we will stay a country town a few years longer. Also mixed up
in Cub Scouts— there are many times when I wonder why, but
most of the time I enjoy it. I have been active in the Unitarian
Church in Beverly. I served on the Parish Committee for five years,
ending up as chairman. There were a couple of years of teaching
Sunday School, and now I am chairman of the Ushers’ Committee.
These activities can keep the telephone ringing at my house.

Not too active in sports. Summers, Nancy and I play golf, or
rather she plays golf while I play at it with vague dreams of break-
ing one hundred. In the winter, Rex and I go to the ski resorts of
New Hampshire as often as possible for a bit of skiing. I don’t
do that well either. A lot of hobbies; model railroading with a
dream empire slowly taking shape in my basement; a bit of photog-
raphy; tropical fish are still around the house. My favorite activity
—donning old clothes and boots to hike through the woods and
swamps around my home with my dog. No matter how deep the
snow or how hot the summer sun, there is a never-ending fascination
to hiking to the lake or through the forest in the hopes of finding
new sights and the fresh beauties of nature.

WILLIAM VICK SMITH

HOME AppRESS: 28 Garey Drive, Chappaqua, N.Y,

oFFice appress: IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown
N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1916, Dallas, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., summa cum laude, 19373 A.M
PH.D., 1941.

Heights,

*s 1939;

[ ror2 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRRIED: Jeanette L. Pedersen, April 18, 1941, West Medford, Mass. cruto
Jeanette Aurelia, Feb. 16, 1945.

occuPATION: Physicist; senior staff member; manager of general phywcs group
in solid state science department.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant and associate professor of physics, Duke Univeruty,
1946-51; professor of physics and department chairman, University of
Delaware, 1951-56.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society (fellow); American Association foe the
Advancement of Science (fellow); Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Ni, Sigrna Ri
Sigma; Pi Mu Epsilon.

PUBLICATIONS: Microwave Spectroscopy, John Wiley & Sons, Inc, toss. co
authored with Walter Gordy and Ralph F. Trambarulo, numerous arty les
in various scientific periodicals and several chapters in Microwave Mag-
netrons, McGraw-Hill Radiation Laboratory Series.

I AM a second-generation physicist and I have had the unique ex-

erience of receiving an A.B. in physics only one year after my
father obtained his Ph.D., also from Harvard. Thus even my under-
graduate life had the added color of hobnobbing with Dad's Texan
graduate school friends and indeed my first job, for one year before

embarking on graduate school studies (also Harvard), was on a

geophysical oil prospecting crew in Texas.

Pride in my profession has probably been the main unifving
theme in my career. That is, I maintain that science — and, in this
generation, physics in particular— shapes our destiny and is ar
once a technical and a cultural force. Also that scientists can and
do pursue many varied careers in university, industrial and govern-
mental environments — and often in all three. Thus I have corm.
pleted a full circle — or spiral — of careers, starting as an industrial
physicist-engineer at Sylvania in Salem (fluorescent lamps) in tygt,
and for the last five years I have again been with industry — this
time IBM. In between, in roughly five-year intervals T have been
a radar scientist at the wartime MIT Radiation Laboratory, a un:
versity professor and researcher at Duke, and a department chaste
man at Delaware. (The five-year period was broken by a us
months’ interlude in industry again at Raytheon at the endiof Worlt
War II.)

Romance ripened into love halfway through my graduate whine!
years, and into marriage in that year of world crix, tyyt. VES
lovely blue-eyed brownctte is now an equally lovely platy
blonde. We have lived in three states, owned (sequentially
houses and, including local moves, moved an averave of anes every
two years in our twenty years of marriage, No woadlee Jauserig
hair has grayed!

[ 1013 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Our lovely brunette daughter Vicki, sixteen, a high school senior,
is the hub around which our life turns. And one of its more notable
whirls took place last year, which we spent abroad in Holland. I
was “exchange scientist” for IBM at Philips in Eindhoven — and
Vicki attended, and enjoyed, an all-Dutch Hogere Burger School in
the town of Helmond. It was a noteworthy year. But of course we
are glad to get back to our home and friends again.

RICHARD SNYDER

HOME apprESS: Route 3, Box 204, Carmel, Calif.

orFice Appress: U.S. Army Human Research Unit, P.O. Box 787, Monterey,
Calif,

BORN: Sept. 19, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1937; PH.D. (Mass. Inst. of
Technology), 1953.

MarRIED: Winifred Lindley, June 1, 1946, Wellesley Hills, Mass. CHILDREN:
Judith Gail, May 29, 1951; Deborah Joan, Jan. 17, 1953; Douglas Richard,
June 4, 1954; Martha Kathleen and Thomas Marshall (twins), June 23, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bruce K. Snyder, °35.

OCCUPATION: Social psychologist; research scientist for Human Resources
Research Office, Division of George Washington University, operating
under contract with the Department of the Army.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Education, Carmel Unified School District,
since 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; Western Psychological Asso-
ciation.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical reports only.

THIS is written in Rome. A sudden and unexpected business trip
to Germany has brought me the opportunity — business completed
— for a brief vacation in Italy. As I write, the sunshine of a beautiful
Sunday morning pours through my window, and the church bells
are ringing outside. After many previous procrastinations, it is only
the thought that my Harvard brothers might otherwise be deprived
of my “life,” which keeps me indoors at all. ‘

If anyone, in June of 1937, had suggested to me what I would
be doing in 1962, I would have been the first to deny the plausibility.
I counted myself lucky in the barely post-depression June to have
found a good job. From the Boston office window of a long-estab-
lished paper manufacturing firm, Hollingsworth & Whitney Com-
pany, the future looked fairly clear; and there I worked, for the
most part contentedly, until the war. Even after Pearl Harbor, I

[ torg ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

continued there, with more responsibility but less contentment, until
October of ’43, for a bad left eye had kept me from the Navy,
where I really wanted to be; and it even kept me, for a time, from
the Army. I did, finally, make it into olive drab and, ultimately,
into the Air Force Statistical Control Division. V-J Day found me
on Guam. Itching to be home, but unwilling to wait it out on that
Pacific Isle, I succeeded in transferring to “the Strategic Bombing
Survey, spent an interesting couple of months in devastated Tokyo,

was discharged a corporal in February of ’46.
I returned briefly to my old job, but it was clear by then that

paper manufacturing was no longer for me. In September of thae
year, I entered graduate school with the Research Center for Group
Dynamics at M.LT. After three years at Tech, I went to the
University of Michigan’s Institute for Social Research, still partly
a student, but beginning to “pay my own way.”

Win and I had been married in June of 1946, and it was her de-
voted, and hard-working, support, with an assist from Uncle Sam,
which saw us through graduate school days. It was not entirely easy
to be a student again after such a long lapse, but we did finally make
it. In Ann Arbor, with course work behind, life was, some of the
time a bit more relaxed, and our three years there were very pleasant
ones, Judy arrived at the beginning of the third year, the only
“Easterner” in the bunch, although Debbie was well on the way by
the time we left. After Deb, Doug and then Tom and Martha came
in quick sequence; and when the last turned out a “doublee” it
seemed for a while almost too much. For Win, it was certainty lke
jumping from the frying pan into the fire. This year, for the first
time, all five are in school; and while not blind to the hazarnts of
teen-agers, at least we can look forward to different pret ferns

We live in a “garden spot,” work with congenial colleazues on
interesting problems, mostly at present concerned with communi a-
tion and control problems in large organizations, [I am quite deep!y
involved as a member of our local Board of Fducation, read a bee,
hike a little, work sporadically on an apparently never-ending hese
remodelling.

Politically, my views have become increasingly liberal since
lege, which may be a reversal of the usual trend. Since Worl! Wi sf
II, I have been an unregenerate Democrat, and even Mirte.d be
a few years back with the idea of entering politics in an active wae

Like almost everyone else, I am appalled by the increase r ee”
plexity of world problems, would like to bury my headiae’

[ 101s ]

_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

but can’t do it. Beside me as I write is a local English-language dail
with a headline “‘N-War May Result From Mental Disorder.” The
implied suggestion that it could result from anything else seems
to epitomize our time. My most important wish is for the success
of the many Harvard men and others, in Washington and elsewhere,
in their efforts to move the world a few steps toward sanity.

RAYMOND SOBEL

HOME ADpRESS: 159 Dorffel Drive E., Seattle, Wash.

OFFICE appress: University Hospital, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle 5, Wash.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1917, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Poughkeepsie High School, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; MD. (New
York Univ.), 1941.

Margigep: Alma Watson, 1947, New York, N.Y. cHi~preN: Michael, June 18,
1949; Jonathan, Oct. 26, 1952; Andrew, Jan. 18, 1955; Patricia Mary, Feb. 2,
1960.

occupation: Associate professor of psychiatry and pediatrics, director, Division
of Child Psychiatry, University of Washington School of Medicine.

oFFIcEs HELD: Chief psychiatrist, Hawthorne Cedar Knolls School, 1952-57;
attending psychiatrist and assistant clinical professor of psychiatry, Colum-
bia University, Babies Hospital, 1954-60; member, Westchester County
Community Mental Board, 1957-60; member, board of visitors, Westfield
State Farms, Bedford, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: American Orthopsychiatric Association; American Psychiatric
Association; Academy of Psychoanalysis, Academy of Child Psychiatry;
American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (diplomate): American
Board of Child Psychiatry (diplomate); William A. White Institute of
Psychiatry.

PUBLICATIONS: Mainly in the field of child psychiatry and the problems of
adolescents.

HAD I submitted this report in 1960 it would have read something
like; “Currently settled firmly in New York’s suburbia with my
wife Alma, three boys in school, a swimming pool in the backyard
and a Jaguar XK 140 in the garage; actively practising child psy-
chiatry and adult psychoanalysis with some part-time teaching at
Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons.”

Two years later 1 find myself in the Pacific Northwest heading
up child psychiatry at the University of Washington School of Medi-
cine with fewer possessions and in a different tax bracket. The
dislocation has not been easy and the change from the independence
of practice to the organizational demands of a medical school has

[ 1016 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been probably the most difficult adaptation I have had to muke »
far. 1 have learned that the academic life is not ivory-towered. |
have been in more contact with the community and my fellow
physicians than ever before and it has been most salutary. The pase

year and a half has been spent in organizing a training pregram for
psychiatrists who wish to specialize in the diagnosis and treatment
of emotional disorders of children. My work has included research

as well and I am currently working on newer treatment methods in
which the entire family is involved as a group.

Looking back over the years, I find major changes in direction
to be characteristic of my life. For example, I left Elarvard to be-
come a surgeon but ended up in psychiatry during the war as the
result of an article I wrote on combat fatigue as scen from the
front line. Because of this I was appointed division psychiatrist for
the 34th Division and for the next two years stay ed in the combat

zone in Italy where I saw over 6,000 patients and first described
a military neurosis which I gave the rather unscientific name, “The
Old Sergeant Syndrome.” I stayed in the lines so long that 1 began
to develop the “Old Psychiatrist Syndrome” (and subsequently |
learned that I had been under artillery fire for over 600 davs), but
fortunately the war ended before I became another statistic. A fter
a period in which I was, among other things, the Town Major of
Turin, I returned home to finish my training in psychiatry and to
study psychoanalysis at the William Alanson White Institute.

I met my wife while I was a resident in psychiatry at Bellevue
Psychopathic Hospital in New York and she was at Columbia gee-
ting her A.M. in nursing education. For the first two months of our
Marriage we had to live in my office due to the houung shortage,
and Alma had to leave every morning by nine so that I could uve
the couch for my first patient! Eventually, home and office were
separated and have stayed that way ever since. Further tramny
in child psychiatry followed on my psy choanalytic work amd st
was five years before I could count on an evening free of commie:
ing to New York City for classes or seminars,

For some time we lived in a rather rural and isolared ecenon of
Westchester County but finally moved to “rurban” Chappaqua
where the last two children were born. The suburban bre was
pleasant, active and enjoyable but at the same time the uryre fee teach
became more demanding. Finally, in my mid-forties P mate the

decision — not without protests from the family — and evenrcr’
accepted my present appointment.

[ 1017]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

We now live in a rambling Victorian house overlooking the lake
with foggy morning vistas and the jagged mountain ranges seen
in clear weather. As usual, pets of all varieties continue to harass
me. Life is harder but less complicated, more demanding yet less
urgent. Our daughter Patty, the “do-it-yourself grandchild,” is

totally spoiled by her three brothers but seems to wear it well and
is a source of unmitigated pleasure for us all.

+ FRANK MORRIS SOMMERS

BORN: June 11, 1915, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Charles Leissring Sommers,
Rosa Davidson,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937. |
piep: Aug. 23, 1940, St. Paul, Minn.

AS an undergraduate Sommers played on the Lowell House foot-
ball team during his sophomore year and also participated in House
squash and House golf. After graduation he entered the family

wholesale dry goods firm, G. Sommers & Company in St. Paul. He
was survived by his parents.

SHELDON CHARLES SOMMERS

HOME AppREss: 9402 La Jolla Farms Rd., La Jolla, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scripps Memorial Hospital, 464 Prospect St., La Jolla, Calif.

Born: July 7, 1916, Indianapolis, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Park School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1937; M.D, cum laude,
1941.

MARRIED: Edith Briggs, Nov. 9, 1943, Bizerte, North Africa.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Warren Sommers, ’39,

OCCUPATION: Physician (pathologist), chief of laboratory, Scripps Memorial
Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Society of Pathologists, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; eight medical organizations; Nu Sigma Nu.

SINCE we moved to California only a few months ago, the past is
presently clearer than the future. Anyway, a pathologist enjoys
a good postmortem. The last twenty-five years split almost exactly
into two halves; training in medicine and the practice of pathology.
Thirteen years of preparation included five in the Army, where
learning to survive in a hostile environment was a good background
for the last eleven years in academic medicine in Boston.

{ 1018 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Medicine now revolutionizes almost every five years, we have
passed from an era of a few effective drugs and operations to one
of an overabundance, and the physicians who are the pathologies
clients depend increasingly upon laboratory assistance. If one keeps
a broad interest in disease processes and a hobby of investizitive
work, there is a lot to do. I have about 150 publications now and
am finishing a book on gynecology with Lang Parsons (M.D., °37).
unless it finishes me first.

Like many, we came to California for opportunity, since in La
Jolla there is a chance to build something unique in American
medicine and biology. It is all too new to evaluate yet. In the mean-
time, the benign climate, a longer skiing season, as well as relicf
from the pressures of a big city and the repetitive drudgery of
teaching medical students are all to the good. Art and wine are
two other prescriptions that seem beneficial.

HAROLD HOWARD SONIS

MAILING ADDRESS: 1172 River St., Hyde Park 36, Mass.

CHAUNCEY ROBERT SOUTH ORTHI

HOME appress: Allen Road, Salt Point, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Fulton Ave., Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B4 1937; M.D. (Columbia Univ), rags.

MarRIED: Mary V. McManimen, April 6, 1945, Cherbourg, France. cutesy
Rose Marie, Jan. 11, 1946; Diantha, July 24, 1948, Marjorie, March a4
1950; Mary Virginia, March 18, 1951; Chauncey Robert, Jr. Aug. 14, tocg,
Michael, May 15, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Frederick Southworth, °31.

occuPATION: Physician — urologist.

OFFICES HELD: Attending urologist, Vassar Brothers and Se. Francis Plogure’s
Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; consulting urologist, Castle Point Veterans Aduiciseegy.
tion Hospital, Hudson River Strate Hospital, Wassaic Stare Sitewd a}
Northern Dutchess Health Center, Rhinebeck, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, American Urological Aue cio.
American Board of Urology; Mid-Hudson Surgical Socety, Mot EE, too,
Harvard Club. °

SINCE the last Report there have been no reat chances tae fo.
There have been no new children, we continue to live in theca:

{ 1019 )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

which we have grown to love. The children have developed a great
interest in riding and fox-hunting.
My profession has continued to prosper and since the last Report,
I have taken in a partner and we have built our own office building.
If the next twenty-five years continue as well, I shall have no
complaints.

* WILLIAM STUART SPAULDING

BorN: Aug. 9, 1914, Prides Crossing, Mass, parents: William Stuart Spaulding,
88, Katrina Fairleigh.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

MARRIED; Angela Maggi, May 4, 1942, New York, N.Y.

DIED: Sept. 28, 1961, Diisseldorf, Germany.

wivow: Mrs. William Start Spaulding, Le Colombier, Gstaad, Switzerland.

SPAULDING died after a brief illness in Diisseldorf, where he
was attending a race meeting in which his racing stable was partici-
pating. Most of his life was spent in travel, much of the time in
Europe, and, although he attended Milton Academy, he received a
large part of his preparatory education abroad.

A man of independent means, he was much interested in writing
and research. After College he took graduate work at the University
of Lausanne in philosophy and psychology and also traveled and
studied in India, where he was fascinated by the religious and philo-
sophical background of Indian culture. During the war he served
with the Office of War Information and other agencies as both a
writer and public relations officer. In recent years he and his wife
developed a stable of thoroughbred racing horses.

The Spauldings made their home at Le Colombier, Gstaad, Switzer-
land. Spaulding was survived by his wife.

GRAHAM KINGSBURY SPRING

HOME appREss: 233 N. Hanford Ave., San Pedro, Calif,

OFFICE appress: Lock Hardware & Supply Co., 815 E. Washington Blvd., Los
Angeles 21, Calif.

BORN: July 26, 1909, Newington, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1937; A.M. (Univ. of
Southern California), 1952.

[ 1020 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Monica M. Jurczyk, March 31, 1942, Petersburg, Va.
OCCUPATION: Salesman.

VITA mea ob Deum et familiam et universitatem et patriam ait
MCMLAXI fuit tucundissima.

FRANCIS CHARLES STACEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 259 Moraine St., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: American Mutual Liability Insurance Co, Wakeficld, Mass.

BORN: April 8, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.B-A, 1939.

MARRIED: Patricia L. Ritchie, Nov. 25, 1948, Southbndge, Mass. crupars:
Kedric Alan, Jan. 25, 1950; Pamela Jane, May 8, 1954; Sherulan Lee,
March 13, 1956; Jeffrey S., June 25, 1960.

occupaATIon: Insurance; general analyst, Data Processing Systems, Amerwan
Mutual Liability Insurance Company.

OFFIcEs HELD: Captain, U.S. Army Reserve, resigned 1952; member of faculty,
Northeastern University, since 1956; member, since 1957, chairman, Fulu-
cation Committee, Bay State Chapter, Systems and Procedures Awociatun,

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Insurance Company Golf League
(vice-president).

PUBLICATIONS: “Impact of Electronic Computers on Inventory Control,” now
in process of publication.

KENNETH GORDON STANLEY

HOME ApprEss: 313 Fifth Ave., Belmar, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: National Association of Manufacturers, 2 E. 48th Se. New York,
- NY.

BORN: Aug. 21, 1916, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Summer High School, Holbrook, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: A.B. (Colby Coll.), 1939.

marrieD: R. Doris Peterson, July 5, 1941, Brooklyn, N.Y. cantomes, Peo e
Doris, July 14, 1942; Ronald Gordon, May 6, 1945; John Theestore, May 4.
1954.

OccuPATION: Program director—New York and New Jersey, Nariemal Nea.
ciation of Manufacturers,

OFFICES HELD: Past commander, American Legion Post 191, New Jere. pot
president, New Jersey Young Republicans foe Driscoll, Mea’e Booetcc:
hood, Belmar, N.J.; past secretary, Central New Jersey Untorarcce
Association; past chairman, Monmouth County Young Kepullear 2°
chairman, Boys’ State American Legion, Monmouth County, forowe «
intendent, Senior Sunday School, First Presbyterian Church, Polo, ‘ef

MEMBER OF: Twenty-five-year member of Alpha Tau Omega Bare

[ oz: )

_—_——_—_——_—_ L-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Welcome and best wishes to all members of the Harvard Class
of 1937.

PHILIP CLAYTON STAPLES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 12124 Gravelly Lake Drive, Tacoma, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pennsalt Chemicals Corp., 2901 Taylor Way, Tacoma, Wash.
BORN: Sept. 18, 1914, Ardmore, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 1935-1937.

marrieD: Eleanor Philler, Dec. 27, 1941, Bryn Mawr, Pa. cump: Eleanor S.,
Dec. 27, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Chemicals; assistant to vice-president.
MEMBER OF; Tacoma Golf and Country Club; Philadelphia Club.

IT is probably some sort of notable distinction that I am still em-
ployed by the same corporation that hired me in July of 1937.
Whether good or bad, I know not. Have been with Pennsalt
Chemicals Corporation since graduation. Held many jobs and lived
many places — too many to list. Mostly in sales positions. Am now
involved in many management duties on Pacific coast. It has been
an interesting life, however, and I’ve had the luck to live pretty
much all over the country. This leads to many friends in many
places and, I hope, an appreciation of America and all those people
who try to keep us going. Oddly enough, after a brief tour in the
Army out here in 1942-43 where our daughter was born in an
Army hospital, we've returned some twenty years later. It is a
magnificent place to live— with so much to do that even those
native to the area never quite get around to all of it.

As a physical asset Harvard seems far away, and I own with shame
that I haven’t strolled through the Yard for many years. I expect
to correct this come June, but should this be impossible for any
number of reasons, the College and our Class will remain just as
much with me.

In these fine hustings an eyebrow will rise very slightly from
time to time when Harvard gets into the conversation. Perhaps a
couple of elections in our time cause this. Or perhaps it’s the
insulation of the Rockies from things so impractical as Latin A.
But never have I run into disrespect.

[ 1024 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROSS POTTER STAPLES

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Willow Farm, Norton Avenue, Easton, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1915, North Attleboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1033-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LLB. (Univ. of Virginia), w4r.

marrieD: Carol J. Davin, June 19, 1949, San Diego, Calif. camtoren: Timothy
Ross, Sept. 29, 1951; Virginia Ross, Sept. 16, 1955; Danicl Davin, July ¢,

1957+
OCCUPATION: Farming; farm owner.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, North Attleboro Republican Town Committee, tos i-
52; president, Attleboro Area Council of Churches, 1960-61; trustee, Cen-
tral Congregational Church, Attleboro Falls, 1946-48, 1952-56; member,
Executive Committee, Norton Singers (Gilbert and Sullivan).

MEMBER OF: Old Colony Harvard Club; Bristol Lodge, AF. & A.M. North
Attleboro. -

PLEASANT years at University of Virginia Law School observing
the Virginia gentry led to a conviction to settle someday on a farm.
This conviction was reinforced after bobbing about on the high
seas roaming the world on destroyers in World War Il. So when
the opportunity arose in 1946 to purchase a going dairy farm |
seized it, and since then converted it to the raising and markeung of
turkeys and turkey products. It’s common knowledge that farming
in New England i is not the path to riches; it does not provide y aches
unless one is lucky enough to have friends with yachts. It does
have intangible compensation — perhaps the greatest of which is
time to be near the family and give close supervision to the up-
bringing of one’s children.

My wife, as a member of the Wheaton College faculty, sees that I
don’t decline into a state of peasantry by lining the wally some-
times the floors, with books on psychology and social behavier,
which I stumble upon and read for intellectual excrene. “Thanks
to her, an intellectual atmosphere permeates our home.

Although my business is not in a highly organized outtie mose of
my hobbies are — bridge in a duplicate club, bowling in a leasue,
singing in a Gilbert and Sullivan group. My golf remains as un.
organized as my business, however; instead of joining the cuuntes
club set I occasionally ask a few cronics over to swat the ball ovee
our pastures and ranges.

If this sounds like a playboy’s life I have painted the wrone poo
ture — it’s much tougher than eating out of the pubbe tree oe Vt
Washington or being errand boy in some huge corporate went

My interest in religion is more practical than theelogral Tens

[ 1025 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937 ;

is to do some good for his community, as effective a way as any is
to join in the efforts of some church which is doing good work.

FRANK HOLT STEDMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 233 Bolling Rd., N.E., Adianta 5, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Conway Publications, Inc., 2592 Apple Valley Rd., Atlanta 19,
Ga.

BORN: July 29, 1915, Milwaukee, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Big Spring High School, Big Spring, Texas; Taylor High School,
Taylor, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1937.

marrigD: Beth Hiley Hall, June 7, 1952, Milledgeville, Ga. cumprEN: Frank
Holt, 3d, March 22, 1954; William Hansell, Oct. 18, 1957; Roland Hiley,
Nov. 11, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Senior editor, Industrial Development Magazine.

MemBeR oF: American Industrial Development Council; Association of American
Geographers; YMCA, Muscular Dystrophy Association of America; various
choral groups.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, The Administrative Subdivisons of Japan — gazetteer
and atlas; numerous articles in Industrial Development Magazine, “Organiz-
ing for Community Industrial Development” (U.S. Chamber of Commerce
pamphlet). ,

IN Atlanta since early 1960; prior to that, either in or on leave from
Washington, D.C., from 1941. In Washington, I was first in the
Army at Fort Belvoir — the Engineer School — and later in various
government jobs until 1955 — Office of Strategic Services, Depart-
ment of State, and Central Intelligence Agency. Thereafter, I was
on the staff of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States. We
had two years in London (from 1953 to 1955) and our eldest son was
born there. :

Prior to the war, I spent two years at the University of Chicago
and another after the war at the University of Michigan, doing
graduate work in geography — primarily economic and urban. My
work since has been involved with foreign applications of these
fields while with the government and since then with domestic appli-
cations.

For the magazine I write mostly area reports on states and cities,
covering their present development in manufacturing and pointing
out the facilities they offer for further expansion. Recent ones have
been on New York, Massachusetts, and East Texas, and I have got
as far afield as Maine and Seattle. We also cover Canada and are

[ 1026 ]

L

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

beginning to go really international. Our audience is manufacturers
and some of you may read us.

We had sweated out school integration in Arlington, Virginia, be-
fore coming down here and arrived in time for the end of massive
resistance in Georgia. Many of you will probably have followed
Atlanta’s very commendable record through this year's crisix, Mv
wife is Georgian in background but Floridian in upbringing, so Cus
is not really a return for her. Actually, we find Atlanta quite stima-
lating but we still feast our eyes on Christmas cards of Washington
and London friends who are now stationed in Khartoum, Teheran,
and Hong Kong.

Our eldest boy has been diagnosed as a possibly arrested case © rf
muscular dystrophy; he walks normally but does not min or jump
and labors on stairs. The third one shows some early signs of the
same condition. If any of you are involved in secking out the cause
and cure, more power to you. My wife is teaching school this year
and we don’t get out a lot, but we go occasionally to a discusion
group concerned with world affairs and play some bridge. We go to
the Episcopal cathedral nearby, which is too large to prov ide any

feeling of intimate personal contact except to the most awihious
communicants, which we are not. During the warm weather we
go a lot to a lake near Milledgeville where Beth’s family has a place.

I used to bicycle a lot and still do. In both Washington and Lon-

don I frequently commuted that way. No other sports except our
efforts at water skiing. I read odd bits of history — mostly Toynbee
and Gibbon lately — and scatterings of other things, such as Mich.
ener’s Hawaii. Haven't yet searched out any small choral group here,
although we had a fine one in Washington and would enjoy doers it
again. As a moderate liberal, I am reasonably satisfied at the wav
things are going at home, though the unemploy mene bul: we ts listress
ing. I certainly do not regard the Area Redev clopment: Addoinsste ae
tion as any major contribution, but I see no reason to be espe’
alarmed about it. Internationally, I look for the common market ts
remake the economic and political shape of things, mostly i eur
favor, and try not to get my hopes too high for a major sphtin tt ¢
Communist ranks.

[ 1027 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ERNEST WILCOX STEELE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 112 E, Eighth St., Scott AFB, Ill.

BORN: Feb. 2, 1915, Coshocton, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1937.

marrieD: Mary M. Murphy, Jan. 23, 1943, Earlington, Ky. cro: Mary-Louise
W., Aug. 28, 1948

occupation: Colonel, U.S. Air Force.

MEMBER OF: Phi Mu Delta.

THE telling of a military career can be quick and to the point.
Drafted as a private, basic training in the States, the Pacific in
World War II, five years out as a civilian with the Air Force, re-
called for Korea, four years in the Pentagon, four wonderful years
in Wiesbaden, Germany, and now a very rewarding and very proud
tour at Scott Air Force Base, Illinois, with the Military Air Transport
Service. On top of worrying about the pilots and crew, as other air
commands have to do, we have planes, each carrying one hundred
and more soldiers day and night. mars has a magnificent safety and
reliability record, and I hope you will excuse me for the pride I have
in the small part I play in this “fly anywhere, any time” operation.
Anyone for the “Congo”?

Of course, along with the career is a wonderful marriage to Mary
Murphy of Arlington, Massachusetts, and watching. . .? cajoling
. . » threatening. . .? or just plain loving. . .? our daughter, Mary-
Louise, as she grows up. Can any Dad stay ahead of a teen-age
daughter? She learned to ride and jump horses in Germany. So
what have I now? A horse? Me? In the Air Force? If I meet you
in outer space, with a currycomb in my hand — it’s good for meteor-
ites, you know. Sorry I won't be there for the Reunion, but let’s all
have a grand Fiftieth.

JOHN LLOYD STEGMAIER

HOME ADDRESS; 1222 Stafford Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE appRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: July 13, 1915, Middleboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Kingston High School, Kingston, Mass, Wilbraham Academy,
Wilbraham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1937.

marrizp: Daphne Yuki Shaw, Sept. 18, 1946, Washington, D.C. cHtcprEeN:

[ 1028 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

David D., Dec. 22, 1947; Cynthia A., Feb. 17, 1950, Gail R. Now. ay. race,
Louisa C., Dec. 19, 1957.

occuPaTion: Foreign Service Officer, Department of Srate.

MEMBER OF: American Foreign Service Association.

LAST September I completed fifteen years as a Foreign Scrvue
officer, an achievement which I sometimes feel should stand high in
the annals of human endurance. Due to the nature of my work, |
have grown somewhat ill at ease when composing any unclawitcd
statement and hope that I shall be forgiven if my comments seein levs
than completely forthcoming.

My first four years after college can best be dismissed as a perunt
of experimentation, the random nature of which was typitied by mv
first job. This was in the cost accounting department of a large (and
still flourishing) corporation, and consisted mainly of unsuccessful
attempts on my part to get the same answer when adding up two in-

credibly long lists of figures. Predictably (and mercifully ), mv
employment was of short duration. Other endeavors included Ife
insurance (no sales) and prep school teaching. (Other people's
children can be amazingly repulsive.) For one short span T enjoved
success as a cranberry picker and a digger of clams and sea worms tn
Plymouth Bay.

I spent the war mainly as a flying instructor, including a stint with
French cadets. With my somewhat less than masterful command of
their language, things often got pretty murky in the niche air over
Alabama.

Good luck was with me when I took the Foreign Service evans
after the war; it was also with me in meeting a wonderful purl to
whom both I and the thought of Foreign Service life were appeatin
We were married in September, 1946, and departed for Shanehartwe
months later. The next July she miraculously survived ceretral
meningitis after a hasty evacuation to a U.S. Navy hospital shop nt
north China. When she was strong enough, we were transferred ta
Montreal, where our son was born the following December.

In addition to a year of Japanese language at Yale anda three-
year assignment at the department, my other posts have bees Rete,
Nagoya (in charge), and Tokyo (political reporting), Durer
current academic year I am assigned to the department's ar
Officer Seminar, which consists of a first-rate review of fore 4

policy problems facing the nation and includes a mumber oft
within the U.S.A. and one to an arca of personal intere.e ever 6.

Despite the jibe at the beginning of this starcment, the Pee:

[ 1029 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Service has for the most part proved an interesting and satisfying
career, It is, however, tough financially and not for those who re-
quire serene and leisurely lives. My family has had to change its
place of abode no fewer than twenty times in fifteen years; long
tense periods of working fifty to sixty hours or more per week
(plus heavy social schedule) are commonplace in the Service. None-
theless, I would not hesitate to recommend it to young men interested
in foreign affairs, especially if they have (1) strong physiques and
a good digestion, and (2) a tidy little sum socked away for “the
exigencies.”

I have no philosophical or moralistic comments to make but expect
to let go a real blast twenty-five years hence.

LESTER SIMON STEINBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 945 Little Neck Ave., North Bellmore, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stonehill Sales Corp., 156 Chambers St.. New York, N.Y.

BORN: May 3, 1916, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937, DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Pearl Mendelsohn. curpren: Richard Henry, Feb. 11, 1944, Robert
Allen, May 18, 1946; Daniel Seth, Feb. 21, 1957.

HARVARD SON: Richard Henry Steinberg, 65.

OCCUPATION: President, Stonehill Sales Corporation; vice-president, D. C. Alvin
Corporation, Perry Packaging Company, all firms concerned with the
manufacture, packaging and distribution of industrial tools.

TWENTY-FIVE years after graduation I suppose it is customary
to reminisce and to observe how rapidly the years have flown by.
Of course, we need only to look about us, at our families, at the
College itself, to see that much time has really elapsed since 1937
and we might as well admit that our premature gray hair is no
longer premature.

As for me, an early career in New York as a music arranger was
terminated by the war and service in the Army. I managed to reach
the exalted rank of second heutenant; whereupon the enemy decided
that it was time to quit. Upon regaining my civilian status I found
myself completely incapable of returning to music as a profession.
I was already married to a most beautiful young lady and the father
of a handsome son. I decided then to enter the industrial tool busi-
ness as a manufacturer and distributor and have remained there for
the past fifteen years. We now have three fine sons and Ricky,

[ 1030 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the eldest, is now a freshman at Harvard. He was an outstandin 2
student and athlete in high school but we have been particularly
proud of his unusual dedication to children afflicted with cerebral
palsy and muscular dystrophy. He has devoted practically all of
his free time for several years to the Cerebral Palsy Center at
Roosevelt, New York, and is determined to seck a career throush
which he might help these children.

Our interests at home are rather varied and lean gencrally toward
music and art since my wife is an accomplished artist and my second
son, Robbie, is a talented cellist. He is also an excellent student
and we hope that he will be a member of the Class of 1947. Our
youngest son, Danny, is not quite five. He arrived cleven years
after we thought that our family was complete and has been great
fun and a constant joy. I heartily recommend this medicine for
that tired and worn-out feeling.

The remainder of our time seems to be taken up with normal
suburban community problems. We seem to be constantly em-
broiled in bloody battles for more and better schools, libraries and
such. I can occasionally find time for a few sets of tennis but mose
of my physical exercise is devoted to running for the morning
train. I can still make it — most of the time.

HENRY ZIEGLER STEINWAY

HOME ADDRESS: 141 E. 72d St., New York, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Steinway & Sons, Steinway Place, Long Island Gity 5, N.Y.
BORN: Aug. 23, 1915, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.
MarRIED: Polly Zinsser, Aug. 25, 1944, Great Neck, N.Y. cantpars: Witoan
Theodore, June 2, 1946; Daniel Knowlton, Dec. 15, 1947; Kate Davi pity
19, 1950; Henry Engelhard, Sept. 19, 1952; Susan Zinsser, April tg. ty 6%
HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Davis Steinway, °35.
OCCUPATION: President, Steinway & Sons, piano manufacturer.
OFFICES HELD: Director, National Piano Manufacturers’ Awswciation, wee tia
American Music Conference, since 1954, National Music Confereme, awe
1958, Manhattan Life Insurance Company, since 1941,

SINCE graduation I have been active in the family-owned as]
controlled piano manufacturing company of Steinway A Sern we’
three years out for service with Uncle Sam as enlisted ean e -
C.LC., from 1943 to 1946. My company makes pianos ty Nero
Long Island, and Hamburg, Germany, with company vewne bce”

[ 1031 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

establishments in New York City, London, England, and Hamburg
and Berlin, Germany.

The piano business has suffered a long-term shrinkage over the
years, as competition from other forms of family amusements, from
automobiles, movies, radio and, in later years, TV, has inevitably
moved the piano out of its former place of glory in the parlor.
However, since the war, there has been an uptrend in interest in
music, especially as it is becoming more important in all public and
private education, with the result that pianos have enjoyed some-
what of a comeback as more amateur music is played and listened to.

The problem of whether a small family-owned concern interested
in only the quality end of our market can survive here and all over
the civilized world, I still find interesting. The rebuilding of our
foreign branches has also been interesting and requires, fortunately,
occasional trips to Europe of all too short duration.

We have raised, or are in the process of raising, a family in New
York City, which becomes more complicated each year, but is
helped by summers in Sherburne, Vermont.

As the newspaper headlines get a little worse each day, one some-
times wonders what the future will be, but like so many others, we
just go along from day to day, hoping some miracle will occur to
remove the threat of atomic disintegration.

Harvard of the early thirties seems a long time ago, but I am
looking forward to June, 1962, to take another look at Harvard and
assure myself that others too have got fat and grey with the passing
years.

THOMAS WILSON STEPHENSON

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 3857, Greenville, Wilmington 7, Del.

OFFICE AppREss: E, J. duPont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington 98, Del.

BorN: Aug. 8, 1915, Winston Salem, N.C.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; A.M., 1938,

Mmarrigp: Elizabeth Hall Forster, May 24, 1941, Germantown, Pa. CHILDREN:
Thomas Fleetwood, Feb. 11, 1942; Nancy Hall, Dec. 9, 1944; Susan White,
Nov. 17, 1947-

HARVARD SON: Thomas Fleetwood Stephenson, 64,

HARVARD BROTHER: James Henry Stephenson, "41.

occupation: Manager, Publications Division, Public Relations Department,
duPont Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Delaware; co-chairman, Program For

[ 1032 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard College, Delaware; member, board of trustees, Chiliren’s Elome,
member, board of managers, Friends School, member, board of directors,

Y.M.C.A.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Delaware, Wilmington Country Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Co-editor, Du Pont— The Autobiography of an Amerwan Ea.

terprise.

WHEN the Class of 1912 paraded in June, 1937, I recall thinking
that its members had done little to improve the country’s lot. As
I now look back over the past twenty-five years, I cannot sce that
the Class of 1937 has done much better. For one, I cannot pein
to any notable contribution.

Still and all, I have been blessed by survival, by an eminently
satisfactory family and good health, and by a large measure of
material benefits. Perhaps my major disappointment is that I have
not given more in return.

My life since 1937 has, I suspect, been fairly typical. Whule in
college, I reported for Boston newspapers, and I continued this while
taking an A.M. during 1937-38. A year on the city statf of the
Boston Herald, and I returned to Harvard for almost two years of
athletic publicity and administrative work and further study.

In February, 1941, I joined the public relations department of
du Pont, and there, except for twenty-seven months as a naval are
intelligence officer (1943-46), I have labored since. My work bas
been in the vineyard of greater understanding and support for larye
business enterprise. Dealing with ideas and intangibles, it is weil
nigh impossible to evaluate the results of such an etfort. It's
enough to say that if industry does not advocate its idcay it wal
lose by default its scramble for public favor.

Libby’s and my three children are our great joy. Tom is a sophe-
more at Harvard, majoring in history and athlcucs. We are fiiiow-
ing the football and baseball teams with renewed interest. Nang
goes to college — hopefully Smith — next fall. Susic isa high wheel
freshman who frequently takes a set from me in tennis.

My community activities have centered around youth: cheese or
of the Y.M.C.A. for ten years; trustee of Children's f lome for fifteen
years; a manager of Friends School and very much engrossed evi

five-years, $2.5 million development program, chairman of ¢ ¢
Delaware Lawn Tennis Association Junior Development Peoort
which provides summer instruction for 2,000 girl and boys, as!
sustained involvement in Harvard and Frxreter acuviniex parr:
larly in fund-raising and helping worthy candulites for at: .

[ 1033 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Associations like these help keep me en rapport with our children,
sustain a youthful outlook and bring lasting satisfactions.

My active sports are tennis and squash — — doubles in each about
three times a week. My other leisure activities are reading, a mini-
mum of yard work, and vacation travel to Europe and a favorite
resort in Georgia. My political interest is intense but largely aca-
demic; perhaps it will provide a second career when I retire from
business. For the last two years, Libby and I have had the frustra-
tions and rewards that go with building a home. The serene view
from our terrace, however, inspires faith and hope for the years
to come.

RICHARD MARTIN STERN

HOME Appress: 56 Old Western Hwy., Blauvelt, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Brandt & Brandt, 101 Park Ave., New York 17, N.Y. :
BorN: March 17, 1915, Fresno, Calif,

PREPARED AT: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MarkiED: Dorothy Atherton, Dec. 20, 1937, Los Angeles, Calif.

OCCUPATION: Free-lance fiction writer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Mystery Writers of America, Inc., since 1961.

PUBLICATIONS: Short-short stories, short stories, novelettes and serials (some
ninety in all) in most of the mass circulation magazines; The Bright Road
to Fear, Ballantine, 1958, Suspense, Ballantine, 1959; The Search for Tab-
atha Carr, Scribner’s, 1960; These Unlucky Deeds, Scribner's, 1961; More

Things in Heaven (tentative title), scheduled for publication by Scribner’s
early in 1962.

ARE the early years of the Stern career of interest? Then must I
speak, with amusement, with some satisfaction and pride, and with
some shame but no embarrassment, of digging graves, of digging
ditches, of driving a truck, of running a dehydrator platform mak-
ing grapes into raisins, of doing newspaper and radio publicity, of
attempting to peddle world’s fair exhibits, of starting as junior
clerk on the night shift at Lockheed Aircraft in the fall of 1940
and of leaving five years later with the rank of manufacturing
engineer and, presumably, a future of some kind waiting for me if
I chose to stay.

I must speak too of writing, because this is the thread that runs
through the entire saga — of stories written back in Cambridge,
and later in New York, in San Antonio, in Los Angeles, in San
Francisco, in Modesto, in a mountain cabin in the San Bernardino

[ 1034 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

range, in Carmel. They came to nothing, of course, as did the two
novels: one written in two weeks in a San Francisco apartment,
one written in three months in that mountain cabin. I was learnins
my trade, and there is no pay for the period of apprenticestyp.

I sold my first story to This Week magazine in April of 1543.
By that time too, with not quite a year and a half of experience in
the building of aircraft, I was night project coordinator on the
entire P-38 fighter project; which seems incredible to me now and
seemed pretty far-fetched then. The second story sale a few months
Jater was to the Saturday Evening Post. Then Collier's. And then
the Post again .. (When you work swing shift and get home at
three in the morning after staying to coordinate with graveyard,
then if you get up at ten you have an hour to work at writing be-
fore you go back to the plant to see what the day crew has been
up to; later, when you switch to days, you get up at four-thirty to
get that hour’s work in. It is best if you have a wife who can, and
will, take dictation, as mine did.) Those were the early years

I left Lockheed and that presumptive future late in 194¢. The
decision, as always, was a joint one. We would take our chances
at free-lancing fiction, which meant then, and sull means now, no
regular paychecks, no assignments, no grants from foundations Te
is a stranger life than some.

] am an artisan, if you will, a manufacturer, a craftsman, a profes-
sional, an anachronism — your choice. I sell no servicex merely
goods manufactured out of thin air and day dreams, and when the
buyer says no for whatever reason there is no recourse. “The eco
nomic Jaw is not that of supply and demand, but rather that of

_ feast or famine, and there are no possible predictions er even loreal
expectations — and if you say this is a ridiculous way to hve, why,
I have no argument. Nor have I any temptation to change.

In sixteen years we have moved around some. (The theory that
writers can live wherever they choose ts, for obscure reaweny al:
most completely fallacious. Almost.) We have lived in Calter s,
in New York, in Haiti, in Pennsylvania, in Spain, in Peanwe, vy
Austria and now back in New York again in the first heue we
have ever owned. We'll be off again somewhere in not tar he +
but we don’t know where and we don’t know when andiwe stout
even know for how long because, as I have said, mo predicteocs a +
possible.

Hobbies? Dot gardens. I play some golf, Tawi atthe fy
as a matter of therapy —a Spine operation back asrgge We

[ 1035 ]

ee —_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ride bicycles. We collect and use recipes. We read. We listen to
music. We talk. I argue. We are not teetotalers, but we have
reached the age when we treat martinis with respect. We were both
born Republicans; we are now, and have been for some time, reg-
istered Democrats. My religious thinking consists entirely of won-
dering what all the shouting is about and why man should ever
have found it necessary to create a god in his own image.

I started writing books about four years ago, although I still make
our living from magazines. Possibly from here on the emphasis will
be more and more on books; I don’t know. I’m still learning my
trade; in another twenty-five years, if I am still around, the learn-
ing process will still be going on. There is no retirement age.

ROBERT JAMES STEVENSON

HOME apprESS: 411 Beechwood Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE apprEsS: Internal Revenue Bldg., Washington 25, D.C.
BORN: Dec. 6, 1917, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB., summa cum laude, 1937; A.M., 1939;

LL.B., 1949.
marriep: Mary Johnston Davidson, July 16, 1949, Washington, D.C. cHILDREN:

James Westcott, Oct. 30, 1950; Thomas Towne, Oct. 19, 1953; Jean
Terhune, Sept. 11, 1956.
OCCUPATION: Tax attorney, Treasury Department.

I AM kept busy at the office with interesting, responsible and digni-
fied work and am busy and happy at home with my wife, three
children and a newly-acquired dog. The acquisition of a dog has,
of course, forced us to seek extra space, so we are planning the
addition of two bedrooms, bath and recreation room to allow the
dog more room in which to roam.

Greetings to all members of the Class of 1937, particularly those
who are fellow club members in the human race. May they age as
slowly in the next twenty-five years as they have aged in the past
twenty-five.

THOMAS GREELY STEVENSON

HOME apprEss: 494 Cutler Rd., South Hamilton, Mass.

oFFice appress: Van Dusen Aircraft Supplies, Logan Airport, East Boston,
Mass.

porN: March 14, 1914, Boston, Mass.

[ 1036 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1937.
MmararieD: Mary Stoneman, July 14, 1943, Manchester, Mass. cotirpasw. TD hiwres
Greely, Jr., Dec. 8, 1944; Robert H., 2d, Oct. 25, 1940, Joha Gy Sept. pa

OCCUPATION: General manager, in charge of New England area, Van Dries
Aircraft Supplies, wholesalers of aircraft supplies.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Boston, Myopia Hunt Club, Elamidleon, Vice
MY existence over the past fifteen years has been extremely seden-
tary. Living in Hamilton, Massachusetts, and working in Boston
should not cause any undue interest amongst my claymatcy but |
like it here and I doubt very much whether I could ever be tempted
to move.

Following the war, during which I was married to an Engloh git
I met in Newfoundland, I got into the aviation business and am stil
with it. Although not making very much money, I do lhe ta work
and have no immediate thoughts toward retirement. Days of are
spent working around my place, playing golf during the summer,
and otherwise relaxing as most other people do. Frankly, if Thad te
live the last twenty-five years over again, I would want them much
as they were with the exception of such obvious things as the wae
and my failure to work harder in college.

Once a year, usually in April, I take off for the West Indies in
recent years the island of Tobago. This is something I realy heh
forward to as it seems to cure all the depression created by New
England winters. As far as other matters go, I get more and mere
frustrated over the modern inability to obtain common sctvices vie!
as someone to cook, fix the television set, or look after the Unter.
I am sure that the socialistic trend of our government since tyyy hie
convinced most people that the performance of any menial task tv a
form of social degradation.

On the whole, however, I have very little to complain of anda bk
to be grateful for, and I look forward to the next twenty-five wears
with considerably more confidence than I had in ty}7.

ROBERT ARMSTRONG STEWART, JR

MAILING ADDRESS: 244 S, Spalding Drive, Beverly Phila, Cab €

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HARRY FARNUM STIMPSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Common St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 175 Albany St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass, .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia),

1941.

MaRRIED: Margaret Lewis Byrd, June 27, 1942, Winchester, Mass, CHILD: Harry
Farnum, 3d, June 30, 1944. ;

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Sutton Sumpson, ’ 27.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Stimpson Terminal Company, industrial and com-
mercial real estate; trustee and broker.

OFFICES HELD: Member of bar, District of Columbia, 1943, Massachusetts, 1948;
president, 1953, trustee, 1953-55, Noble and Greenough School Alumni As-
sociation; member, Town of Dedham Finance Committee, 1955-56; mem-
ber, National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.

MEMBER OF; The Country Club, Brookline; Tavern Club; Wianno Club; Oyster
Harbors Club,

AFTER graduation from the University of Virginia Law School, my
interest in international relations led me to take a job in Washington
with the State Department. This, of course, was cut short by the
war, which found me in the Navy in Air Combat Intelligence in the
Pacific. After the war it seemed logical to go back to Boston to the
practice of law. By 1952, however, I found myself again enmeshed
in government. My four years in the State House in Boston were a
colorful, educational time. No one could ask for a finer man to work
for than Mr. Herter, or a job more ‘interesting than that of chief
secretary to a governor. Thus I was happy to go on to Washington
with him when he became Undersecretary and later Secretary. of
State. Here the hours were also long but stimulating. My wife and
I both enjoyed Washington tremendously as a place to live. We
particularly liked the chance to meet people from all over the coun-
Our last period with the Government commenced in September,
19§9, when I had an opportunity to go to Paraguay as ambassador.
To live in an entirely different part of the world under interesting
conditions was a great experience. Now, after the usual “dignified
departure” which people make with administration appointments
after elections, we are settled again in Dedham. I have returned to
commercial and industrial real estate, which has been our basic
family business for a long time.

Looking back on my years in government I would say the great
need is for more qualified people to go into it on a full-time basis or

[ 1038 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to devote part of their time to it all the year. The stronger beh
“parties are the better off we shall be as a nation. In foreign atta
I’m optimistic we shall get tougher and more realistic as we gun
“more experience. -

JAMES CLIFTON STONE, JR.

HOME apprEss: Indian Hills Trail, Louisville 7, Ky.
“OFFICE ADDRESS: 1223 Heyburn Bldg., Louisville 2, Ky.
BORN: Aug. 25, 1914, Louisville, Ky.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-37. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.
MaRRIED: Faith Elizabeth Abbott, Nov. 20, 1940, Lexington, Ky. Outpars:
James Clifton, 3d, Nov. 18, 1942; Paul Abbort, Dee. 6, 1934.
’ HARVARD BROTHER: John Mason Brown, ’23 (half-brother).
OccuPATION: Manufacturers’ representative.
MEMBER OF: Pendennis Club and The Arts Club (both Louisville, Kyi), Deer
ville Country Club; Louisville Chamber of Commerce.

AFTER graduation I worked for about a year for Corn Protuces
Company as a salesman in central and eastern Kentucky out of
Lexington — my home.

From trying to push Karo syrup down people's throats [switched
over for a short time to a summer job with the Gallup Poll, intce.
viewing strangers concerning the Chandler-Barclay senatorial rice
This was most interesting and non-lucrative, and by the tune Pha
gone broke I had met a cross-section of mankind from sitew als
philosophers to plain screwballs.

Then, since we had a tobacco and livestock farm in the centzal
Kentucky area not far from Lexington, I took some courses in the
Agricultural College at the University of Kentucky and became very
much interested in farming — and still am today.

In 1940 I married Faith Elizabeth Abbott and gota job itbecss
ton with the Standard Oil Company of Kentucky == first in a wry e
station, then as a combination salesman-bill collector in and aroust
‘Lexington, and then in the industrial lubrication departnient of t «
Kentucky division of the company in Louisville, Kentucky. Sei>!
ard Oil of Kentucky operated in five southern states ar eiat ¢
with home offices in Louisville.

In 1945 I left the Standard Oil Company and went to week f
my father operating the farms, and continued on in thie es:
until after his death. I then went into a family-ors ciated be 4
business in Louisville and have remained in same todare Pre,

[f row)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

in the Kentucky area the Fairmount Glass Corporation of Indianapo-
lis, Indiana; the Ladish Malting Company of Milwaukee, Wisconsin;
and the F. N. Burt Carton Company of Buffalo, New York.

Faith and I have two boys: James C. Stone, 3d, and Paul Abbott
Stone, nineteen and fifteen respectively. Jim is a freshman at Trinity
College, Efartford, Connecticut, and Paul is at the Aquinas Prepara-
tory School for Boys here in Louisville.

Politics-wise, I am a registered Republican, but would feel no
compunction at not voting the straight party line. For hobbies, we
very much enjoy getting out on the Ohio River in our outboard
motor outfic weekends for swimming, skiing, etc.——the boys han-
dling the skiing department. I used to play a little tennis and golf, but
a scmi-bad back more or less took care of those activities.

To conclude, life has been pretty good to me and mine. Of course,
if I could rub the lamp and live it all over again, I would do some
things differently — like most — but taking it by and large, I'd let
the status remain quo.

MYRON KAY STONE

Home Aporess: 11 Heathcote Rd. Scarsdale, N.Y.

orricg anoress; Designers Knitting Mills, Inc. 1407 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BorRN: March 26, t914, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19}3-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1937.

Marriep: Natalie Lewis Gordon, Feb. 6, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Elizabeth
G,, Feb. at, 1942; Pamela G,, Jan. 23, 1944; Randall D, Aug. 21, 1950.

HARVARD BRoTHER: Irving Avrom Stone, °36.

occuPaTION: Vice-president, in charge of sales, Designers Knitting Mills, Inc.,
manufacturers of ladies full-fashioned sweaters.

orrices HELD: Director, 1944-48, secretary, 1948-50, Temple Israel Brotherhood,
Boston; secretary, Boston Chapter, 1946-50, director, 1950-58, American
Jewish Committee; member of board, Governor’s Massachusetts Council
for the Abolition of the Death Penalty, 1948-56; chairman, Volunteers for
Stevenson, Newton, Mass. 1952; chairman, Democratic Board Committee
in Newton, 1954-56; director, Westchester Chapter, American Jewish
Committee, 1961.

MEMBER OF: Mr. Afansfield Ski Club, Stowe, Vermont; Harvard Club of West-
chester; Scarsdale Ski Club; The Town Club, Scarsdale.

OUR Class Secretary is breathing down my neck for an account of
my life of the last twenty-five years. This is unnerving enough, but
my neighbors are discussing fallout shelters, and the Russians are

[ 1040 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

testing bombs. Here I am trying to remember what happened be-
tween 1937 and 1961.

Before the Second World War I went into the leather business
with my father and brother. I sold leather to shoe factories in the
eastern half of the United States, doing a considerable amount of
traveling. In 1941 I married and took a honeymoon trip to South
America, after which we bought a house in Chestnut Hill and settled
down to start a family. Our life became involved with the affairs
of the community, and we fully expected to spend the rest of our
lives there. Our three children were born there and as the children
began to grow up we seemed even more firmly rooted in New
England.

My eldest, Betsy, went to the Putney School in Vermont; Pam,
our second child, was at Beaver Country Day; and Randy, our
youngest, was at Browne and Nichols School. Natalie was deeply
involved with “Women on Wheels,” a Democratic women's group
in Massachusetts. We were summering at Magnolia, skiing in North
Conway and Franconia, belonged to the Theatre Guild and sub-
scribed to the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and were completely
immersed in life in Boston.

I meanwhile became involved in the manufacturing of ladies’
sweaters in Puerto Rico and was spending an increasing amount of
my time in New York City. One day it dawned on us that I was
commuting to Boston weekends, and living there no longer made
any sense. We thought of moving, but having lived in the one
house since we were married and never having moved, it didn’t
seem possible that we could uproot ourselves.

One day in May, 1959, we decided that we had had enough of
living from weekend to weekend and that since my busines hepe
me in New York City most of the week, we should live there. Two
out of three of our children objected strenuously to the city, and
we compromised on Scarsdale. Even though I am a reluctant corm-
muter, we so enjoy our life in Scarsdale that I am now grateful t
them for having kept us out of the city.

We bought a large old house with three and one-half landheaped
acres, and I have so much gardening to do now that IT am tbuav at-
most all of every weekend pruning, planting, etc., and have let's
time for anything else. Randy and I still do a great deal of shan’
during the winter months.

Betsy is a sophomore at Radcliffe. Pam is @ senior at Scars!.'+
High and Randy is at Fox Meadow School. I am grateful tous |

[ 1041}

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

finished college when I did. From what I have seen of the work
expected of Betsy, and after Pam explained “modern math” to me,
I doubt that I could meet today’s educational standards. I am
happy to report, however, that I am completely comfortable with
Randy’s fifth grade homework.

Since leaving Boston we are much less involved politically than
we were there. Being a Democrat in Westchester is rather frustrat-
ing at best, and we find that, no longer living in the vicinity of the
state capital, our political activities are negligible, except during a
presidential campaign, when the old fervor returns. One of the
many pleasant features of living in the New York area is to be able
to read the New York Times as your local newspaper. Another is
being able to go to the theatre all during the season rather than a
few weeks when a Broadway play comes to town.

I find life interesting and exciting and hope that the international
bad tempers can hold themselves in check for at least twenty-five
more years, so that we can all continue to enjoy the kind of world
to which we have become accustomed. 2

CHARLES MOORFIELD STOREY, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Gloucester St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: June 11, 1914, Brookline, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 19373} MDvy 1943.

MarRIED: Polly Forbes-Johnson, May 28, 1938, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1958);
Sheila Mills, 1958. cHrtpreN: Susan Veronica, May 10, 1940; Anderson,
March 1, 1947; Elizabeth Moorfield, Sept. 19, 9485 Charles mals June 14,
19595 Mary Stuart, Sept. 16, 1960. ;

OCCUPATION: Physician.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee for New School, Essex, Mass.; member,

board of directors, Cambridge School, Weston, Mass.; instructor, Boston
University School of Medicine, Student Health Service, Boston University,
administrative director, Boston University — Boston City Hospital Child
Guidance Clinic, director, North Shore Mental Health Center Clinic,

Salem, Mass.

AFTER graduating from the Medical School, I crossed the street to
the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, where I found the atmosphere and
the work of an intern on the medical service far more fun than I
had ever imagined it could be from my experience as a medical
student. This satisfying year all too soon came to an end, and was
immediately followed by entry into the service, with assignment to

[ 1042 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

various small Coast Guard unity ashore and atteur, men's ps re
North Aclantic. While it led to a nearly one hundred perucne ceca.
tion of medical activities, i¢ did not turn out to be hall Leber ng
winter storms, a chance to get a glinpse at chee tance of the \ ee
Age culture of the Eskimo, check by jow! with the wartuce Qeoees
can and European culture, skiing, fishing, shooting, and photic ats
stand out in my memory now as being as welcome as they weee yy.
expected, and just as irrelevant to the Alhed cause whah bed tony
being there in the first place.

On discharge, I returned to complete a reudency tn intcenal mets.
cine, only to forsake it for a closer acquaintance with the phen ace cs
of psychological medicine. More readencicy a pant pots eva psy -
chiatric clinic, the first nervous visit of the int nervous patent avin
private office followed in duc course. The quite usual pesca es
which one person secks something from another bevormee beet
complicated and endlessly varied in the special setting of pave testis
practice, and my observation and participation uv it have ee ae’
fed my family but have also instructed, frustrated, and diverts fre
daily.

Although the professional side of life takes up mane ef my oe
and energy, the best, albcit the bricfer, part of bite haa been wits ty
wife and children. The latter, five in number, range fron twenty -
one years to fifteen months in age, and [note with warpene tit ie
doesn’t seem to make much difference how many hur.tce they bese
successfully overcome, the outcame of ther next arp wesc pot ae
important at age twenty-one as did the first, hteral, cepa twenry pers
ago. My eldest child, Vv eronica, having decnled, after tam yeace of
the Rhode Island School of Design, that making Cera s wena te
be her calling, now proves her capability and wdepen tere ehy ae
porting herself as a secretary and havi ing in Ca! Lfornsa Va ay At
at Weeks Junior High in Newton, Mawachuwtry bat seat war
the cockles of the old man’s heart by winning the wun proce wo
a demonstration of metabohun, while at the ese Goce prow fhe
self to be an equally excellent hockey plaver. Pliraterts, af Woe
School in Boston, plans on becomming ateaher sub hae ae ors ate
make it possible, while Charhe, at thirty manta werateless ft owe f
driving a bulldozer. Mary Stuart, at fittees cance’ a me er ee!
ful stage where she can yuce way “Pda aed Tha ab ot es
and needs no other skills besale hee wes'e tee gharen Boe fo.
gratifying her imperious demands Last Gill we tea teu res
lest to Fagland to we thet Prjtish pot Peace a eee

[ toon ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

cerned had a vacation which we shall long remember and oft repeat
we hope.

PHILIP ALBERT STRAUS

nose arnerss: a2 Mohegan Rd, Larchmons, N.Y.

oven apoares: Neuberger & Berman, 130 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

wan: March, tag, New York, N.Y,

paepaasy At. Fieldseon School, New York, N.Y.

VEARS IM COLEsem: 19)5-19)7. pean: ae, magna cum laude, 1937.

maaaieo: Lynn Grow July 17, toy New Fairfield, Conn, cutpren: Philip
Albert, Jr, July aa, tggt; Donald R, May ts, 1953, Katherine B, July 3,
ty64.

occUpaTio’, [ovestment banking, partner, Neuberger & Berman.

orewns orto Viwe-preadent and director, Guardian Mutual Fund, director,
Febical brekiston Bund, governor, Rhodes tg Clas, Western Long Island
Soand.

sicstage of; Beach Powe Club, Cary Athletic Club, Bankers Club.

A BRIPF spell in the textile industry turned out to be a prelude to
twenty-four years in the investment business with time out for
World War Il, where [ served an inconspicuous role as a sergeant
in the Fifteenth Aur Force, Italy. The combination of theoretical
economics and the practical experience of successful poker playing
at Elarvard convinced me that a career in Wall Street would suit
my talents, The changing patterns of economic development pro-
vide a constant challenge in the handling of investment and specu-
larive funds and afford opportunities to develop new techniques.

My wife, a former teacher, and I have become increasingly
interested in the educational needs of our times. Between us we
have attempted to help such institutions as the Bank Street College
of Fdueation, the Fieldston School, our local public schools and
others helping underprivileged or troubled children.

Skiing and sailing are the favorite sports of my family. It has
been a lot of fun in the Last two years building up a new racing class
for the Rhodes 19, a fiberglas sloop. We all enjoy the ski trips and
sailing trips with the children,

Since our marriage, my wife and I have traveled extensively.
High spots for us have been Florence, Marrekech, Katmandu and
Ankor-Wart, and likewise skiing the Austrian Alps and the Aclas
Mountains,

[ 1044 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS STRYMISH
HOME ADDRESS: 15 Indian Ridge Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Mobile Book Fair, 1980 Centre St. West Rox-

bury 32, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; ED.M. (Boston Teachers Coll.),

1939-
marrieD: Beatrice Forman, Aug. 17, 1947, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Judith,

Dec. 23, 1951; Mark, April 13, 1954; David, July 14, 1956.
occupation: Book wholesaler; owner of business.
MEMBER OF: Newton Squash and Tennis Club.

ALBERT BUCKINGHAM STURGES

HOME ADDRESS: 1091 Arden Rd., Pasadena, Calif.
porn: Nov. 2, 1914, Coronado, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.
marriep: Molly Alger, Oct. 30, 1937, San Gabriel, Calif. cumpren: Molly Dela-

field, March 14, 1939, George David, March 28, 1941; Ann Buckingham,
Feb. 23, 1945.
occupaTiION: Management of Honduras j properties.
MEMBER OF: Valley Hunt Club, Pasadena, California.
MY career since graduation scarcely warrants biographical effort.
Conventional employment includes three years in insurance, six
years with Consolidated Engineering (now Electrodynamics) and
three years with Explosives Research Corporation, in that order.

Most of my traveling was done prior to graduation, marriage and
the acquisition of a family. A leisurely wedding trip through the
Canal back to the East Coast resulted in an unexpected (and only)
Harvard Reunion which included the 1937 Harvard-Yale weekend.
One business trip to Washington and numerous junkets to Central
America on personal business complete my postgraduate travel
history. A growing family and a beach house in Santa Barbara
have been deterrent factors.

During the last decade-plus, my occupation and preoccupation
have been largely concerned with the fortunes and misfortunes of
property in the Republic of Honduras. That story would requiie
a long chapter. It has often been discouraging (gross unslerstare-
ment) but always interesting. Present liquidation proceedunssy a
gratifying and prospects for the future encouraging.

My politics: Conservative. My religion: Inactive Ppiscep ts

[ 1045 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

My salvation, if any, will be attributable to my family who are all

active in the church. My elder daughter is fully employed as
director of religious education.

Although a qualified pessimist by nature, I have experienced ; a
most enjoyable quarter-century, due largely to a fine family. Varied
interests and general good fortune have also contributed. If given

the opportunity to repeat I would follow basically the same blue-
print.

JACOB SUGARMAN

HOME ApprEss: 25 Wilshire Drive, Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: John Irving Shoe Corp., 119 Beach St, Boston, Mass.

porn: Aug. 24, 1917, Rochester, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. —

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1937. “

MarRIED: Gertrude Bornstein, Nov. 23, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Bonnie,
Jan. 8, 1944; Richard Arthur, Aug. 6, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president and women’s shoe buyer, John Irving Shoe
Corporation, women’s shoes — retail chain — national distribution.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Temple Sinai, Sharon, Mass.; president, board member,
Fachatat Investment Club, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Nantascot Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Nantasket, Mass.

VARIOUS jobs since graduation; last six years with John Irving
Shoe Corporation, previously merchandise controller with company.

Daughter Bonnie now attending Barnard College, Class of 1965.
US. Army, 1943-46.

+ MANUEL SUGARMAN |

BORN: Sept. 13, 1914, Boston, Mass, Parents: Samuel Sugarman, May Cohen.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1937.
MaRRIED: Florence Dana, Oct. 16, 1946.

piep: Dec. 1, 1949, Wayland, Mass.

AFTER graduation from Harvard, Sugarman became associated
with his father’s wholesale paper business and also built a business of
his own. As manager of the Leonard Tissue Company in Cambridge,
he traveled throughout New England. He was survived by his wife.

[ 1046 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM JOSEPH SULLIVAN

HOME ADDRESS: 69 Arborway, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hardware Mutuals, Park Square Bldg, Boston, Masa

BORN: June 2, 1916, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. Cun laude, 1937, tam (Beaton Cac?

1942.
UNMARRIED.
OCCUPATION: Attorney, Hardware Mutuals.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Catholic Alumni Sontabey of Pe nt-on,
AFTER struggling through the depression and finishing lw shun
in 1942, I accepted an offer from Uncle Sam to participate my Waorlt
War II. This job lasted four exciting years, of which two and a ha’f
were spent in the Mediterranean area and included the North
African and South France operations. I was finally rebased as a
lieutenant, USNR.

Next came five years of managing a furniture business in Benton
and this was followed by a brief stint with stockbrokers Meercl
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith. I found that watching the tape was
a nerve-wracking occupation and decided I didn’t want to be arount
when or if another bear market returns, so I went back to my Jes!
training and have been in my present capacity the past ni ne Veare
but trust I'll have something to report along this line by ne later ¢ thas
the Fiftieth. One hobby ts continuing a poker game witha grey uf
Classmates which began around 1936. Naturally 2 ihaty cui tal
benefits flow from these evenings spent with such learned gulisacoet
Finally, I enjoy reminiscing about my college days but aa Lee £

glad they were spent in less frantic times,

JOSEPH GUY SUTTON

HOME appress: 61 Brown Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

orFice appress: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc, gor Madion Ave, New Vora an % Y

BORN: Feb. 22, 1915, Nashville, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Facter, N Uf.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 193}-19}7. DEGREES: AB, 191%, AME, 8 gb.

MarriED: Elcanor Ferrin, July 14 tov Swarelale, NY (foe ety
Blinn, Feb, 26, 1956, Scarale, N.Y. cnatvens: Dasg fee tae ee gy
Joanne, Sept. at, 1949.

occuPaTION: Director, College Department, Alfred Whos tt.

(soy? ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

1 SPENT almost thirteen years with the Macmillan Company (New
York) as territorial man and finally science editor. In 1957 I went
with the London Macmillans, known here as St. Martin’s Press,
and directed their college department. In 1958 Alfred A. Knopf
called me to do the same job for him, and I have been at it ever

since,

CARROLL JUDSON SWAN, II

Home Apoares: gh Heather Lane, Wilton, Conn.

veri anoarse: Meda scope Magazine, 920 Lexington Ave, New York 17, N.Y,

pay: Nov. #3, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y.

parpansn at: Loonus School, Windsor, Conn,

YRARG UM COLERGE: 1004-1917. DEGRFE: AB, 1937

Manan: Margaret Perry de Raismes, June 22, 1940, Flushing, N.Y. cyrpren;
Karen Perry, June yo, ryy4, Cathy de Raismes, Jan. 3, 1954.

me cUpation: Journalist, managing editor, Media/scope magazine.

orn te neta: Awocute editor, managing editor and editor, Printers’ Ink maga-
tine, senior client service evecuave, Market Research Corporation of
Amerwa, managing editor, Medsa/ scope magazine; private to staff sergeant,
US, Army, preadent, Pine Island Camp, Belgrade Lakes, Maine.

ate vtara O86: Elonorary professional member, William H. Johns Chapter, Alpha
Delta Sigma (professional society for advertising men); Harvard Club of
New York, Pr Fra Society, Seventh Regiment Veterans Association.

puanicarions: Wobick Ad Pulled Best, Funk & Wagnalls, 1951; Tested Advertis-
ing Copy, Printerv Ink Books, t9¢5, coneribuaons to Printers’ Ink, Media/
scope, Coliier’s, Encyclopedsa Americana, Advertisers Weekly of London,
Fiyland, dsverican People's Encyclopedia, Year, two-time winner of Jesse
Neal Award for Business Journalism given by Associated Business Pub-
lications.

YOU'LL graduate from college, turn around, and it'll be your 25th
Reunion.” That's what the old man said; and he was right!

It is, and | am — the old man (yet!) to two fast-growth daughters.
That young chick T met and married after college has taken to
calling me “Pop.” My middle has a most middle-aged sag. But it
Was only yesterday that...

Does it seem so little ame to the rest of you? Of course. No
new phenomena. But what did I do with the time? What did the
rest of you do with your time? Books like these are both fascinat-
ing and traumatic.

My turn-around has been spent mostly as a business journalist —
reporting, writing, editing material for publishing in business maga-
zines. The only flights out of this engrossing pastime were as a G.I.
in World War II, and as a pitchman in the research business for a

[ 1048 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

couple of years. In both cases I beat it back “home” as soon as I gor
a chance.

My beat as a journalist is the advertising field — currently as man-
aging editor of Media/scope. This is a “professional and technical”
journal that is read monthly (and read well the researches tell us)
by the purchasers of advertising in magazines, newspapers, TV’,
radio, outdoor, business publications, and other media. We are
their information service, presenting various analyses of manage-
ment methods, techniques, trends, data, etc., that can be applied by
our readers in their work.

We think of our magazine as a serious and significant service to
a business that has great social and economic influence in our so-
ciety —a business whose considerable expenditure ($12 billion a
year) is invested in anticipation of creating at least three times that
amount in new business — in addition to keeping our many markets
humming with repeat purchases by old customers of the goodies
that make up our high standard of material living.

Advertising is a very interesting part of the business world. Being
an analyst and reporter in this area is a lot of fun. It pays almost
enough to live in the style to which me and the wife and kids would
like to become accustomed.

I’m proud to be both an adman and a journalist, two fields where
an individual’s production is so public that it pays to be more
honest than in almost any other walk of life. (Vance Packards
Schlesingers and Toynbees who suggest otherwise just don’t know
this territory.)

Other things I find prideful twenty-five years after college are:
marrying Peg; the birth of my two daughters, Karen and Cathv,
campaigning for a better school in Thornwood, New York; win-
ning a couple of journalism awards, two books about advertising, a
home now in Wilton, Connecticut; army service as a humble G1;
behaving in general, I hope, like a Harvard man should (however
that is).

My family is currently the principal diversion. Our home is quite
a gathering place for children, dogs, bicycles, injured birds, parenty
cats, squirrels to bury, tadpoles in the spring, caterpillars in the
summer, leaves in the fall, and every now and then even a stray
Harvard man. It’s a noisy, happy place —a little beat-up, but we
like it that way — having convinced ourselves that these chil!

infested years are but a short span and to be enjoyed pell-mell wi:'c
they and we last.

[ 1049 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

My hope is that the next twenty-five years will be as full for me
—and for you — of the wonderful world around us.

WILLIAM FRANCIS SWANN

HOME ApprEss: 181 Valley View Crescent, Rochester 17, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastman Kodak Co., 343 State St., Rochester 4, N.Y.

BORN: July 1, 1914, Chevy Chase, Md.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937-
marriep: Carolyn Zwick, April 12, 1941, Rochester, N.Y. CHILDREN: William

Lawrence, Feb. 12, 1943; Daniel Charles, July 22, 1945; Sarah Jean, May 22,

19§0.
HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Paul Swann, 41, 5.M., '43.
OccUPATION: Sales Manager, Special Sensitized Products Sales Division, Eastman

Kodak Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Technical Division, Photographic Society of America;
Cub Scout and Boy Scout committees, Junior Chamber of Commerce;
church committees.

MEMBER OF: Optical Society of America, American Astronomical Society;
American Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow); Electron
Microscope Society of America; Photographic Society of America (fel-
low); Society of Photographic Scientists and Engineers; Society of Photo-
graphic Instrumentation Engineers; Society of Motion Picture and Tele-
vision Engineers; Parents Forum, P.T.A.; Ridgemont Golf Club.

MY days at Harvard are very hazy after twenty-five years. On the
other hand, the time with Eastman Kodak Company here in Roches-
ter, New York, seems to have passed all too quickly. When I first
joined Kodak, I was with the Research Laboratories. In 1944 I
transferred to the sales office where I have been ever since.

Over the years I have been involved in just about everything
that a family man with two boys and a girl can get argued into —
Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, P. T. A., Parents Forum, Junior Chamber
of Commerce, to say nothing of many scientific societies,

My hobbies over the years have also been varied, but the one
hobby that really started during my Harvard days, skiing, is one
that I probably enjoy more than ever. I have become more cautious
as the years go by, but I can still ski better than my eleven-year-old
girl For many years I owned a thirty-six-foot sailboat, but as the
children grew up they seemed to want to use the boat as a diving
platform rather than as a sailboat, so I shifted to an outboard with

water skis.
One boy is in college, the second is a junior in high school, and

[ 1050 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the girl is in the sixth grade. I have no regrets and na come oy
and hope I will be around for the Fiftieth.

ALBERT GIBBY SWEETSIR

HOME appRESS: 4q4t Locust St., Edgewood, Pittsburgh 1&, Ps.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Duquesne University, Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

poRN: Oct. 16, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mav.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB, 1937; atBa. (New York Uren),
1942; PH.D. (American Univ.), 1961.

marrieD: Ruth Janet Whitney, Sept. 5, 1953, Arlington, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of finance and chairman of the Dypacenene
School of Business Administration, Duquesne Univeruty.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; Amencan Amusistiendt of Urs
versity Professors, Edgewood Club; Harvard. Yale-Panceton Olib of Peeve.
burgh; Harvard Clubs of Western Pennsylvania and New York City.

puBLicaTIons: Financing Goods, a text and reference book, tot, Hand Lvsre
Secured by Field-Warebouse Receipts, tgg-page booklet, igtt. Pisve 04
Financing by Sales-Finance Companies, 33-page booklet, igg*, book tee
contributed to Journal of Marketing, Octuber, 1997, on John UL Pretern ''¢
Using Public Warehouses; book review contributed to Jowrmsd of Fister. a,
March, 1962, on Reinhardt & Shultz’s Problems in Credits amd Cole, srsne

FOR eight years after college I continucd with evening gratuste
study i in the fields of economics and business, financing this by work.
ing for Manufacturers Trust Company, the Civil Acronautay Board
and American Aviation Magazine, this provided, in etfect, Laer ators
experience in business. Since 1945, full time has been devoted to
teaching, with the exception of a couple of years in whieh | wees
and published my own book in the arca of buunew name A
sequel is due any year now.

NORRIS POOLE SWETT

HOME Appress: Gun Mill Farm, Bloomfield Canna.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 676 Farmington Ave. Hartford ¢, Conn

BORN; Aug. 12, 1914, Elartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Masa

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB, 1y)7, ER MEL Boe tee iaw Ye
Univ.), 1946.

mMarriep: Sarah Rutledge Supplee, June 34, Hata Parte: | Fa eis seu e
Jonathan Norris, July 35, toqt, Claudia Rucetye, Vay as, babe
June to, 1948.

HARVARD 8ON: Jonathan Norrie Sweet, “64.

[1058]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Plummer Swett, ’32.
occuPATION: Physician.
MEMBER OF: Various medical societies,

AS I try to write this I realize that it is easy to look back and find
all kinds of reasons and explanations for the course of my life, many
of them not very flattering to me, but I am just as helpless in under-
standing what the deuce I am doing now as I was to understand
what I was doing twenty-five or twenty or fifteen years ago. It
amazes, and sometimes silences, me when I get to talking with my
children about their plans for present and future activity. In this
sense I have stayed young, or should I say stupid? It seems that I
have drifted through all the major decisions, pretty much unaware
of the implications, or else there haven’t been any major decisions.
Still, there have been some decisions that were really my own: the
decision to marry, and whom, was mine, and this I take pride in,
the decision to have children was a deliberate one, never regretted
in any respect; but all of us have made these decisions, so I claim no
special credit for them. I have not regretted the decision, made five
years after college, to go to medical school. These are the only
decisions I can think of that I made myself: wife, family and work:
this is (these are?) my life,

Politically, I believe in the greatest good for the greatest number,
but I tend to vote to protect my own property interests; this has
never restricted me to one party, although nationally I have usually
been Democratic, locally Republican. Internationally, I am for
the notion of world government, and through the United World
Federalists I have tried to support that aim, far-reaching, or far-
fetched, as it may sometimes seem. | am in favor of eliminating many
states of our United States: there is too much duplication of effort,
and confusion; I'd start by coalescing the small eastern states. And
while I think of it, another thing I'd do would be to make the New
Haven Railroad a tax-supported institution, on the basis that it is
a public necessity; then I would make all rides on it free, to reduce
the expense of printing and selling tickets, I believe that on this
basis the line would have enough additional use to reduce materially
the problem of motor traffic and highway construction, with re-
sultant public savings equal to, or exceeding, the cost of operating

the railroad.

It’s hard to distinguish my hobbies from my duties because a lot
of the house and yard work I do is a necessity, but also a tremendous
source of pleasure. My flower garden, with lettuces interspersed

[ 1052 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORE

among the marigolds, satisfied my craving for the combunaien «ef
beauty and utility. Sometimes I think my excitement in airs.
the growth of a few little plants touches on the simple mua tf
My other hobby has suffered recently from neglect, but the waa
of our house are laden with my paintings, all for sale, but soteow
none has been sold. I expect to do a lot more painting in my polten
years.

Now I am satisfied to get through each day, and make enon ss
money to get the children educated; they are somchow the wlunare
interest, both yours and mine, young people everywhere.

CHARLES JULIAN SYMINGTON, JR.

HOME apprEss: 6 Whitney Lane, Rochester to, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 950 Ridge Rd., Webster, N.Y.

BORN: March 4, 1915, Short Hills, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREES: A.B, 1937(36); Ba, sta. CUrev. of (Cam
bridge), 1938.

marrieD: Mary Jo Finucane, Oct. 4, 1946, Rochester, NY. crutregs Pieters
Gay, Sept. 7, 1947; Kathryn Lee, Aug. 27, 1940, Charles Finenet, Noe ty
1957.

OCCUPATION: Photographic business.

FOLLOWING two years at Trinity College, Cambridge, | woeket
with a Chicago advertising agency unul the Navy cansht ep wish
me. After five years in the Navy I spent a short persad ay Cans fa
then got married and have spent the last fourtcen yeary in Ros he cere,
New York, working in various phases of the photnyr aphic aatastey
Hope to have more to report by my Fifticth.

ARTHUR SZATHMARY

HOME AppREss: 41 University PL, Princeton, NJ.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 321, 18-9 Hall, Pronecton Uriverury, Peaeernia ‘|

BorN: April 10, 1916, Quincy, Mase

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Maa

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DFGRFES: AB, Mees Swe heeds nya? ee rs
PH.D. 1943.

MarriED; Elaine Jane Woronock, Sepe. a0, tage, Carstenty< Yew
Robert, Jan. 22, 1945; Helen, Oot. aA tore.

OccuPATION: Associate profewor of phiksephy, Prrwerin Uocverurs

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Awewiaten. Niner. ect a es
thetics,; Phi Bets Kappa.

Rk bye aie 4

of & oe

[ rosy]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PUBLICATIONS: The Aesthetic Theory of Bergson; The Scholar, the Critic and
the Layman; “Bergson,” in Encyclopedia Americana; articles in learned
journals,

GREETINGS from the Tower. It doesn’t seem that long, perhaps
because I’ve simply wandered from one university to another . .
Where to begin?

There was that period when I wondered about continuing my life
of crime in the theatre. After all, hadn’t I hammed brilliantly for the
HDC, and directed plays at Adams House? And wasn’t the first
thing I did after Commencement to direct an exotic play at the
Cleveland Exposition? But after doing the rounds in New York for
a few weeks, I decided on the life of learning. (I remember how Pro-
fessor Perry argued me into it “It’s the best possible life for a poor
man.”) After a year of graduate work a Sheldon Travelling Fellow-
ship, and I immediately made a reservation on the Normandie. But it
was 1939, and when I heard a description of the situation in Paris, I
got on the Cuba Mail Line and went to Mexico (there was little to
learn in philosophy; but I did study harmony and “musical aesthet-
ics” with a Spanish composer — and I learned Spanish, and started a
sub-career in idol-hunting and amateur archaeology).

Back to the indignities of degree-getting, while working as teach-
ing fellow and tutor, and the beginning of my teaching career, which
happens to coincide with the beginning of my marriage — naturally
to a philosophy student at Radcliffe, now an abstract—expressionist
painter. Then, and this does seem very long ago, the Pacific part of
the war. (A friend called up to pant, “They’ve landed on Oahu!”
“Where the hell is Oahu?” asked I, little knowing. .. .)

Then I entered the Navy, with waivers, of course (underheight,
underweight, overbite), and at the Japanese Language School at
Boulder took a course designed in the ’20’s for training diplomats.
This gave me control of much elegant language, but didn’t help
much when I was finally faced with the problem of explaining to an
illiterate fisherman why his boat was torpedoed. Most of the time

on Hawaii, I was in charge of wounded prisoners. Then, the need-
lessly loud termination of the official war, and my first and last ex-
perience of political power: on Tinian, as chief of police, defense
attorney, prosecuting attorney, or judge, as needed.

It was, needless to say, difficult to leave all this glory to return to
the second beginning of a career — this time, by a series of accidents,
at Columbia. I began once more to wonder about our version of a
class of intellectuals, and thought of that ex-classicist fellow officer,

[ 1054 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who shouted when the news of the Bomb came, “Whee, we've done
it!” Then my skepticism was increased after teaching in that ficoos
humanities course (the first weck .. The Miad two hours followed
by an objective exam, the second weck . . five plays of Newtyioa)
and in a few surveys of philosophy. But after a few yeary | was te.
leased from that and invited to Princeton. Here, 1 am fortunate ts
be able to work in three areas, philosophy of art, humanincs (a dter-
ent version), and in the creative arts program (writing, painting, ant
sculpture) which I figurehead. The students are bright anf ative —
we still enjoy the luxury of small discussion groups, and seme rs
courses are neither required nor practical, the students for (he rust
part come for the right reasons (the few who come for culture ean:
not be avoided).
Now, as I obviously must conclude, I do confess to an ecgacenal
twinge of conscience! Perhaps I should be doing something more
useful than contributing to the cultivation of the privileged Pee-
haps I should be working for the betterment of mutual undersess.t-
ing with Japan. Perhaps I should take a vacation from the Tower
and work for the Alianza para el Progreso, Perhaps wl, But teat.
ing happens to be what I most enjoy, and despite the fact that there
is too much of the corporation atmosphere in the Academy, and that
increasingly, philosophy professors look lke insurance sslcuven, |
am convinced that Perry was right.

PHILIP TABFR

HOME AppRESS: Nonquitt, South Dartmouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Francis Associates, Marion, Mass.

BoRN: March 1, 1915, New Bedford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MARRIED: Virginia Warren Baird, May 29, 1917, San Dhegn, Calf emu sece
Virginia Amos, Sept. 22, 1938 (me. CS. Wogel, Je, July go spies, Bg.
Jr., May 22, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Francis Associatey conulong ergewars, tresescee Dis
Sippican Corporation, designers and manufmeurees of welled RYN dew
packaging of electronics for misules and «pace.

OFFICES HELD: Registered engineer, Mawachuwery Conogcrs ne, Boecte font
Vermont.

MEMBER OF: Certified by National Board of Regueeret Boag eece
ASHRAE, Harvard Club of New York, New Bathoe dD Va seb fhm:
sutta Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers before matenal meenic gy of Mi gp te

hoot

[ toss ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

technical articles in Aviation, Business Week, Steel Horizons, Electronic
Equipment.

SON, Philip, Jr., is a junior at California Western University.

HERBERT TABOR

HOME apprEss: 4 North Drive, Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Institutes of Health, US. Public Health Service, Be-
thesda 14, Md.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1918, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREES: AB., Magna cum laude, 1937; M-D., magna
cum laude, 1941. .

MARRIED: Celia White, April 8, 1946, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Edward, April 30,
1947; Marilyn and Richard (twins), July 3, 1949; Stanley, Jan. 18, 1954.

occuPATION: Physician, chief, Biochemical Pharmacology Section, National In-
stitute of Arthritis and Metabolic Diseases,

MEMBER OF; American Society of Biological Chemists; American Society of
Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics.

PUBLICATIONS: Various scientific publications in Journal of Biological Chemistry,
American Journal of Physiology and similar scientific journals.

AFTER graduation I attended the Harvard Medical School and
graduated in the Class of 1941. After a period in the Harvard
Department of Biochemistry with Dr. A. B. Hastings, I interned in
medicine at the New Haven Hospital (Yale Medical School).

In January, 1943, I was commissioned in the U.S. Public Health
Service. After a short period at the U.S. Marine Hospital in Boston,
I was assigned to the U.S. Coast Guard as a medical officer on the
USS Duane. This ship was an escort vessel for the North Atlantic
convoys.

My next assignment was to the National Institutes of Health in
Bethesda, Maryland, where I am still located. My work has been
concerned with laboratory studies of various subjects of biochemical
and pharmacological interest. These have included the treatment
of burns and traumatic shock, the metabolism of histidine, histamine
and other imidazoles, certain aspects of folic acid metabolism, and
the biochemical and physiological role of certain natural polya-
mines. I am also a member of the editorial board of the Journal of
Biological Chemistry.

For the past thirteen years we have been living in Bethesda, a
suburb of Washington, D.C. Our children consist of a fourteen-
year-old boy, twins (boy and girl) of twelve, and a boy of eight.

[ 1056 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+k CHARLES MEREDITH TALBOT

porn: March 27, 1914, Brookline, Mass. parents: Max Lowell Talbee, ‘ot Kove

Meredith.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1934, 1935-1938. DECREE: 5.3. 1937(}8).
MARRIED: Carlotta Haines, March 28, 1942, San Francenecu, Cali
Peter Haines, Dec. 7, 1942; Charles Meredith, Ore. 1a, rggh, Carkera bove,

Feb. 4, 1948; Susan Bernard, May 19, 1950.
pieD: Jan. 2, 1954, Beverly, Mass.
wipow: Mrs. C, Meredith Talbot, East Corning Street, Beverty, Ve
TALBOT attended the Harvard Business School and the Stanford
Business School, after which he worked with the Ameriwan Trust
Company in San Francisco. He enlisted in the Marine Corps in tags,
attained the rank of major, and went to the South Pacine with the
Second Marine Division. He had served as district chairman ef the
Beverly Red Cross, director and vice-chairman of the Reverly Coss.
munity Fund, and had been a member of the local Civil Defense
organization. He was a member of the American Legion, Chanter
of Commerce, Republican City Committee and was a formee alter.
man. He held membership in the Harvard Club of Poston and the
Myopia Hunt Club. He was also a director of the Masachsierre
Heating Corporation. He was survived by his wife and chi.tren

evereh one Ww

LEONARD ALLAN TARLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 436 Main Sc. Lewiston, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: B. Peck Co., Lewiston, Maine.

BORN: Feb. 17, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Maw.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Jeanne Curclop, June 20, toga, Brookline, Mace cacrpecse
Jan. 11, 1945; Jennifer, March 15, 1948, Foka Avg aa ty:4) Stes

ys Eg ek

*. ?

%

12, 1958.
OccUPATION: Retail merchant, division manager, teaty t+ weer MPa’ bee

pany.
TWENTY-plus years in retailing tend to mel! oether ga pe
tive, yet each scason has its own excitement, uv ewn news
prewar years of training in Filene’s Basement were ners ot!
lengthy term in the Coast Guard. Trains Chace fe the
didn’t shorten the war, but a varicty ofuneiualatee ir.
give a sense of purpose. The return to the pictos of Ws

[ sos7 ]

i

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Street made the Coast Guard years seem like a vacation. A transfer
to this northern outpost of Filene’s in 1959 brought a change in pace
and way of life. The mountains are closer for climbing, the music
farther for hearing; the everyday amenities of the city take advance
planning, our close-knit family life takes on increased importance.

Living in a State that all too often won’t admit its own back-
wardness can be frustrating, but the sparse population gives an im-
mediacy and personal touch to problems that we never felt in subur-
ban Boston. Urban renewal, water pollution, mental health facilities,
school curricula, the effect of tariff changes — all the conversational
clichés of the city become of vast personal importance. With our
family stretching from nursery school through the land of the
college boards, our activities have been strongly centered in the
educational field, and when we leave, it will be satisfying to know that
Lewiston will never be the same.

FREDERICK BOURNE TAYLOR, JR.

HOME appress: Mitchell Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Concord Foundries, Div. of Scott & Williams, Inc., West Con-
cord, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 9, 1915, Greenfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936, 1937-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1937(40).

MaraigD: Ellen Bryden Weston, Nov. 17, 1939, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN: Fred-
erick Bourne, 3d, June 25, 1943; Hoyt Weston, Feb. 1, 1946.

occupation: Concord Foundries.

THEODOR TEIMER, JR.

MAILING appress: P.O. Box 121, Willcox, Ariz.

LEONARD PRINCE TENNER

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Manchester Center, Vt.

poan: Aug. 27, 1916, New York, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937.

MaAaRIED: Sue Burton, Sept. 27, 1953, New York, N.Y. cumpren: Ellen Patricia,
June 1, 1959; Arthur Everett, Aug. 23, 1960.

occupation: Innkeeper.

[ 1058 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER twelve years in the nursery and landscaping buunes, t
moved my family to Manchester, Vermont, to semi-retire. To keep
self busy, and income adequate, decided to start tiny restaurant anf
ski lodge. Promptly found myself working harder than ever before
Named the place, in a crazy moment, after our Newfoundland dbo.
Oliver, and have been answering screwball questions ever since,

CHESTER EDWARD TENNEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Morton Rd., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fieldcrest Mills, Inc., 99 Chauncy Sc. Boston, Mas.
BORN: June 19, 1913, East Brainuree, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.
marrieD: Phyllis Churchill, Feb. 20, 1937, Cohasset, Masa. cantpasw. Barbora

Anne, Jan. 16, 1939; E. Gilman, Sept. 21, 1941.
occupation: Northeast district manager, Ficldcrest Mills, Inc.
MEMBER OF: Milton-Hoosic Club; Castine (Maine) Golf Giub.

THE past twenty-five years have been spent trying to keep my bead
above water, raise my family, and possibly have them benefit fron
all the errors of omission and commission that I have made.

Both of my children graduated from Milton Academy, with rey
daughter going to Goucher College in Towson, Mary land fron
which she graduated this past June. She is currently living in Reston
and working for IBM. My son is now a sophomore at Efotart
College in Geneva, New York.

My business career more or less began with the General Blectsw
Company; later, I entered public accounting work with Barrow,
Wade, Guthrie & Company, which subsequently merged with Peas,
Marwick, Mitchell & Company. About 1948, | changed to Lens,
Inc., manufacturers of fine china, as northeast dirat mani -ee
About 1954, having bought a boat which needed seme weer, |
contacted a friend of mine with Ficldcrest Milly Inc and rurea def
buying sheets, I joined them as northeast district ma: a of f.'!

crest manufactures towels, blankets, sheet. automane Blisters be!
spreads, shower curtains, and bath rugs The pace ug te aeeea yes
have been hectic but rather satisfying inthae Bach tireiein des <4

much larger factor in the northeast.
My hobbics have been golf, sailing, and bowls»

[ oso]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

+t EDWARD CAMERON TENNEY

BoRN: July 16, 1915, Pei Tai Ho, China. parents: Albert Seward Tenney, Helen
Schulte.

preparen aT: Carteret Academy, West Orange, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936, 1937-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1937(38).
marrieD: Phyllis Tenney, June, 1943, Washington, D.C. cro: Mary Adams,
June 7, 1944.
pieD: Nov. 1, 1944, in Burma.
TENNEY left Harvard at the end of his junior year, returning in
1937-38 to take his Bachelor’s degree as of the Class of 1937. He had
originally intended to engage in biological and medical research, but
what he called his “‘36~-'37 rustication” changed his mind. After
obtaining his degree, he spent some time taking a trip across the
country by racing bicycle and then joined the editorial staff of
Newsweek, a position which he held at the time he entered the serv-
ice. He enlisted as a private at Fort Dix, New Jersey, on October 28,
1940, and in June two years later was commissioned second lieutenant
at Fort Benning, Georgia. Before going overseas he was stationed
both at Georgetown, Delaware, and at Fort Meade, Maryland. He
died while on duty as a first lieutenant in the Infantry. Prior to his
illness he completed a long mission into the jungle and he was in
combat throughout the Myitkyina campaign in Burma. He is
buried in the U.S. Military Cemetery in Calcutta. He was survived
by his wife and daughter.

KARL SIDNEY TENNEY

HOME appress: 4 Huron Rd., West Acton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Shawmut Bank, 542 Commonwealth Ave., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1915, Arlington, Mass.

preparep aT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

‘YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marrieD: Ruth G. Stockdale, June 6, 1941, Belmont, Mass. cHiwpreN: Linda
Luise, Dec. 17, 1942; Deborah Ann, Oct. 2, 1947,

occupation: Banking; loan officer.

OFFICES HELD: Councilman, 1953-54, alderman, 1955~56, City of Augusta, Maine,
chaplain, 1957, marshal, 1958, senior steward, 1959, junior deacon, 1960,
senior deacon, 1961, Bethlehem Lodge No. 35, AF. & A.M.; secretary,
Motor Vehicle Registration Board, State of Maine, 1960-61.

SINCE 1937, my life has been a placid one, possibly because I
[ 1060 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

just chose to make it that way. Anyway, before graduation I went

to work for the National Shawmut Bank in Boston. After a coupte

of years, I decided I disliked the big city and went to New Haven
to work for Devonshire Financial Service Corporation, servicing
National Shawmut Bank loans. New Haven was too metropolitan,
too, so in 1941 I requested and received a transfer to Augusta, Maine,
which I shall ever refer to as God’s Country.

When Uncle Sam got down to the bottom of the barrel in to41.

I joined in the war effort. After a year’s rough tour of duty at the

University of Maine and in New York City, Philadelphia and Mian,

I was sent to the China-Burma-India Theatre. The good taxpavers
gave me a Cook’s Tour of South America, Africa and Awa. Two
years later I completed my trip around the world and returned to
Devonshire Financial Service in God’s Country. I reopened the
office in Augusta and have been traveling, skiing, swimming and
hunting this area until the time of this writing, October of 1941.
Working has been omitted from the last sentence as the so-called
work has been mainly a pleasure.

This week, I am returning to the National Shawmut Dank in

Boston, as a loan officer. As I still enjoy rural living, my home will
be in West Acton. The change of location and this new phase of
banking will, I hope, be good for me and will knock me out of my
complacent attitude.
_ My family life has been happy also. I married Ruth Stockdale,
whom I met in high school. We have two daughters, Linda, the
elder one, now attends Fisher Junior College in Boston, Debbie ts in
junior high and is looking forward to the adventure of changing
schools.

Back in 1952, I decided that a man should have some intcre.t out:
side of his family and vocation, so I entered politics on a mad
scale. Two years on the Augusta City Council and two more years
on the Board of Aldermen taught me how well, not how baty,
municipal affairs in Maine are conducted. Following thiy U searte
through the chairs in the local Masonic Lodye and had teactict
senior deacon when I regrettably had to resign because of t'¢
change in location.

Politically, I consider myself a liberal Republican of a concrete
tive Democrat. Name tags mean little to me, but Ptry to vicw ens
issue on the basis of the facts pertaining to that one base. Dates coos

with most economic theorists because they fecl they have as € -
facts and can come up with a definite conclusion, but thes e+

[ 1061 }

__d

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

the most important factor, human nature, or more aptly, the
frailties of human nature,

And on the latter aspect, I feel I know whereof I speak. Not one
of our friends ever expected my family and I would ever uproot
ourselves and move out of Maine, and yet that is what we are doing.
My conclusion: if a man or his friends cannot tell what one man is
going to do, how can these theorists predict what we are all going
to do?

WALTER E. vB. TESCHAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1441 Vallejo St., San Francisco 9, Calif,

Born: July 7, 1915, Milwaukee, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Shorewood High School, Shorewood, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: AB. 1937; M.F.A. (Yale Univ.), 1940;
PHD. (Stanford Univ.), 1962.

marrieD: Muriel Stowe (divorced 1945).

occuPATION: Professor and editor (sideline: theatre).

OFFICES HELD: Professor of speech and theatre, University of Missouri, 1942-453
director, Pasadena Playhouse, 1945-47; associate, Al Grossman Agency (TV
casting); professor, Dillard University, New Orleans, 1958-59; representa-
tive, Neve Corp. 1959-61; editor, Bridge Crossings, San Francisco Terri-
torial News, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Tau Omega.

PUBLICATIONS: Great Figures of the Early Viennese Comedy (theatre annual);
San Francisco Territorial News; Bridge Crossings; endless editorials, etc.

SINCE that June of 1937, nothing has stood still. Teaching and
commercial theatre, television and radio, opera production, study,
writing and travel have consumed the years but not the spirit. A
recent sojourn in Vienna as guest of the Austrian government was
spent in research on Franz Grillparzer, dour chief poet and drama-
tist of Austria; I learned a great deal about Austria! Students of my
first teaching years bring their grandchildren for me to behold; I
don’t believe it. Harvard taught me to know and to teach what I
know; I suppose I never stopped learning and teaching: whether I’m
reportorially “covering” a night club opening, or lecturing to
“senior citizens” on the graphic arts, I still learn and still teach. I
suppose some of this was part of what induced me to become in-
volved during the Hungarian Revolution (?), fairly safely ensconed
on the Austrian side of the border . - “fairly,” because a bullet
or two whistled past my fleeing posterior, Beyond that, I look for-
ward to tomorrow.

{ 1062 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SIDNEY WARREN THAXTFR

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Bowdoin St., Portland, Maine.

orFice AppreEss: Linnell, Perkins, Thompson, Hinckley & Thaater, tgs Mid te
St., Portland, Maine.

porN: April 21, 1914, Portland, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., 1937; LLB, 1940.

marrieD: Willamain Cranmer McPhee, Sept. 25, 1942, New York, NOV. com.
prEN: Sandra McPhee, July 19, 1943; Sidney Se. Felix, Now. ta toes,
Philip Schuyler, March 3, 1947; John Cranmer, May tq toga

occupaTION: Attorney-at-law; partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Attorney, assistant secretary, Diclectric Products Frg:neeriu-g
Company, Inc.; attorney, director, Greater Portland Chamber of Can:
merce; chairman, Portland Republican City Committee, 1947-49, Cumber.
land County Republican Committee, 1949-53, Maine for Enerthowser
Committee, 1952, Maine Delegation to Republican National Convenemn,
1952, Maine Citizens for Eisenhower Committee, 1956, member, Mave
Republican State Committee, 1952-56, New England Council, mee:ter,
Corporate and Tax Law Sections, American, Maine State and Cumerteod
County Bar Associations; member, Maritime Law Awocunon of Unieed
States; corporator, Maine Savings Bank, Maine Medical Center, profews,
Portland University Law School, 1947-61; director-treasurer, Portland
Players; director, 1952-55, president, 1955-56, Portland Sawicty of Act.

MEMBER OF: Fraternity Club; Portland Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various legal articles, some in Portland Unrernty lare Krirs

AS I look back on that day in 1937 when we lefe the sechided baits
of Harvard, I can hardly believe what has transpired in my eral
world. It seems only a short time ago, but [ have been marriet al.
most twenty years, have a daughter in college, a son about to go tif
he can get in) and two more boyss on their way.

After graduation from college, I went on to three yeary at the
Harvard Law School from which I graduated in toga Dhad bart
made a start in my chosen profession, as an awociate in the Eeov ef
Chadbourne, Wallace, Parke & Whiteside in New York City, wie!
was called out on active dury in the Navy. Ac thie tiene, ae tn fae,
war clouds hung on the horizon and few of us televed tat we
would ever again lead a normal family life. Ispent Efteer tect ee
the USS West Point (now SS America) ferrying troops lovee
world. In November, 1941, we were part of a convey ass ce fee
transporting a division of English troopa ta the UEt le bart
days after Pearl Harbor, eight transporty coche eacruvers a Pee:
cruisers, all flying the American flag, arrived iy Cape Poa s,s

Be

to the amazement of the South Afficana We were teers de
[ 1043 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

bay, India, and on January 30, 1942, landed our troops in Singapore
under constant high level Japanese bombing. Fifteen days later,
those troops were all either prisoners or dead. In June, 1942, I met
my bride-to-be and in September, two days before I reported in to
Submarine School in New London, we were married. After three
years in Submarines, including several successful war patrols, I re-
turned to my home town to commence the practice of law, starting
off at the handsome salary of $2,500 a year, one-third of what Uncle
Sam had been paying me.

J am well satisfied with the choice I then made. I did consider
New London, Connecticut, New York City and Denver, Colorado,
but here in the ever-changing climate of Maine, I have found con-
tentment, a measure of security and the good life. Our family spends
its summers on an island in Casco Bay (Cushing Island), from which
I commute to work by boat in twenty minutes. Almost every winter
weekend finds us schussing down the trails of Sugarloaf Mountain,
Maine, and in between times, we find a fair amount of cultural ac-
tivity in our fair city of Portland. |

I enjoy my law practice which fortunately has grown with my
family responsibilities. Although practice in a city of this size is
necessarily somewhat general, I do specialize to some degree in ad-
miralty, tax, corporation, trust and probate law. As the years have
gone by, our firm has grown and capable younger men have come
in to share the burden of work.

If I had the chance to do it all over again, and were just now gradu-
ating from Harvard College, I don’t think I would make a single
change.

EDWARD MILLER THAYER

HOME AppRESS: 2600 Handasyde Ave., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ApprEss: Scudder, Stevens & Clark, 1200 First National Bank Bldg., Cin-

cinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1914, Cincinnati, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Fxeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

Marriep: Carolyn Warner, Jan. 10, 1942, Cincinnati, Ohio. cumpren: Ellen
Russell, April 20, 1943; Mary Miller, Jan. 15, 1945; Carolyn Warner, June 5,
1948, Edward Miller, Jr., Dec. 25, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Abbot Thayer, ’34,

occuPaTION: Investment counselor; senior consultant, Scudder, Stevens & Clark.

oFFicks HELD: Treasurer, Endowment Fund, 1946-61, secretary of the vestry,

[ 1064 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since 1960, Christ Episcopal Church, vice-president, Cincinnatus Aswxa-
tion, treasurer, Babies’ Milk Fund; president, Buckeye Club, tgs7. direetye,
Travelers Aid of Cincinnati; member, Finance Commitee, Fpecopal
Diocese of Southern Ohio; director, Harvard Club of Cincinnan, membe«r,
Standing Committee, Bexley Divinity School, governor, Univeruty Club.
MEMBER OF: Flistorical and Philosophical Society of Ohio; Cincinnan Country
Club; Camargo Club; Columbus Club.

WITH a copy of H. M. Pulham, Esquire on one side and the last
three reports to the Class of 1937 on the other, I sit down to com-
press the tale of the twenty-five most exciting years of my hfe inte
a page Or so, trying not to sound as dull as Marquand’s hero.
The period began glamorously with a trip around the work,
mostly in the company of Harvard classmates, ranging from the
well-traveled routes of Europe to such exotic places as Srinagar in the
Kashmir and Macassar of the Celebes. After a year and a quarter,
it was delightful to be home again, but there soon followed an
inevitable letdown as I unsuccessfully tried to adjust to a mercenary
existence. After several false starts, I finally found my niche in
investment counseling with a local firm that recently merged with
the respected firm of Scudder, Stevens & Clark, an impressive combi.
nation.

With three teen-age daughters, an eleven-year-old son, and an
active wife, my family life is eventful, never restful, bue fulnlling
my greatest expectations. Ellen is a freshman at Stanford, and
Mary is in school in New York, with the youngest two still at home
with us. As H.M.P. would say, “In religion | am an Fpwscepalisn,
in politics, a Republican.” I play golf in the summer and squash
in the winter. I haven’t been a runner-up in anybody's bumping
tournament for three years or twenty-five years, but I did win a

Class B tournament two years ago. Last week bursitis of something

invaded my elbow, so I now have a good excuse against challenges

from any of you old men.

In the winter, my wife and I seem to go all out for rehyiouy cive,
and political activities. The hours these consume leave herle tine
for hobbies, but I imagine that the reasons for keeping on with
them lie beyond a firm conviction that responubilites go with
privileges. After all, a man who could run crow-country could
stand anything. I guess I must just like keeping busy. Sex alebeniots
like H.M.P. I can say “the latchstring is always out for any mens
ber of the Class,” I won't guarantee that anvone will be herne uerle ve
you call early in the morning. So here we are. In my younger has a

[ 1065 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

I thought that the years of the Twenty-fifth Reunion would bring
with them relaxation, slippers, and a drink by the fire. But the race
is still on, and this is a distant dream to be realized perhaps by our
Fiftieth Reunion.

VICTOR NAPOLEON THERIOT |

HOME abpress: 47 Lincoln Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: J. C. Penney Co., 330 W. 34th St., New York, N.Y.

BorN: Dec. 15, 1916, Galveston, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Ball High School, Galveston, Texas. —

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1937.

marrieD: Lorraine Helmrich, Aug. 17, 1940, Bronxville, N.Y. CHILDREN: Victor
Napoleon, Jr., April 9, 1943; Christopher, March 13, 1947; Elaine, April
3, 1951; Suzanne and Winston (twins), June 10, 1952.

occupation: Merchandise business; head, Work Clothing Purchasing Division,
J. C. Penney’s New York executive office.

MEMBER OF: New York Athletic Club; Bronxville Marching and Chowder Club.

IT’S difficult to review a span of twenty-five years with any degree
of philosophical calmness when Junior is borrowing his next month’s
allowance, the twins are loudly practising for their new school play,
and the dog is barking at the Encyclopaedia Britannica salesman
pounding on the door. This does not even consider Mama who is
expounding something about neglectful husbands who write bi-
ographies instead of taking care of the long-neglected “fix-it” list.
“Tis amazing how a man can collect so much in a relatively short
time — life was considerably less complex j in June, 1937.

Today, with a big family, it is a major project to take a ten-day
vacation. Yet in 1937, being unencumbered and fancy free, it was
easy to sneak in a trip around the world. Living happily out of a
well-worn knapsack and traveling on a series of odoriferous freight-
ers, it took twelve months to complete the circuit. The timing was
good too — everyone nice and friendly — not a shot fired!

After the wonders of Europe, the Near East, the Far East and
Japan, I settled down to become a serious young business man on
Wall Street. The market was so bad in those days — and the
guesses so poor — that I decided that I would be happier in a dif-
ferent type of business. After a short time with Procter & Gamble

as a territory salesman, I switched sides of the desk and became a

trainee in the buying department of the J. C. Penney Company in
New York City.

[ 1066 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Then the trouble at Pearl Harbor came. Into the Air Force to
become an eager “fly-boy.” Ten hours in a Piper Cub abruptly
ended my career in the sky, when the unreasonable instructor
curtly announced that the Air Force could do without pilots who
couldn’t spin a plane properly. After a series of stops in Texas, New
Mexico and even Cambridge at the Harvard Business School as an
officer candidate, I ended up in Washington in Headquarters of the
First Air Force. The Army interlude lasted for three years — then
back to civilian life, and a return to Penney’s where I have now teen
for almost twenty years.

The J. C. Penney Company is one of the largest retailing organiza-
tions in the country, having more than 1,700 stores throughout the
nation. I find the merchandising business fascinating, full of challeng-
ing situations. Hleading the work clothing division for the entire
company calls for a great variety of endeavors. In addition to buv-
ing — personnel problems, training of buyers, sales planning, ad-
vertising, promotion, market and product development, there is
also a quota of travel to factories from Georgia to California, and
sales meetings in various parts of the country. At times, pressure ¢an

et a bit hectic, but I’m proud to report a retained sense of humor,
a lack of ulcers, and a tremendous liking for the merchandising career.

Family-wise, I’ve been blessed with a wonderful wife, despite her
proclivity toward making an excessive number of “Darling, when-
are-you-going-to-fix-it?” lists. Her major fault is her preference for

dancing over deer hunting, but I suppose any gal who has raised five
cherubs deserves a break in the routine once in a while.

It must be the vitamins — all the kids are big and tall. Young Vie,
Jr., is in Scarsdale High and will hit college next year. He's a Y geel
three and a half inches taller than Pop, so some discrectness must be
used when disciplining. Christopher, number two boy, is in ors
Prep School as a freshman. Tall, lean and lanky, Kit is full of ent
humor and is our star student. I would be happier if our fiese dae
ter, Elaine, looked more like her mother and less like me. Elowever,
other parents assure me that her appetite will diminish and bee te
year-old enthusiasm for playing tackle football with the bows wo!
evaporate as time gocs on. Our twins, Winston and Suzan aor

full of nine-year-old joy of living —one big happy Gate hood
ang!
Golf has been neglected in favor of family foortath bates a”
baseball, overnight hikes, zoos, cookouts, 7 hankeriv ins pan bey gf
assorted father-son and father-daughter activities Suen eg

[ 1067 )

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

un peu difficile (French for pain-in-the-neck), but in all honesty, I
wouldn’t trade it for the world.

Favorite hobbies are fishing and hunting. Then there is garden-
ing — an acre in Westchester with apple trees and crab grass. I try
to take a weekly swim at the N.Y.A.C. pool to keep in fighting trim
for the daily 7:07 (that’s a.m., boy!) into New York. Once in a
great while, we get into the city for dinner, the theatre, and an
occasional cha-cha at the Waldorf — especially. if there is a hunting
trip planned for the next weekend.

Vacations, of course, are another hobby. My frau and I try to
steal off once a year for a week or two alone without the brood.
These trips have taken us to Sea Island, Bermuda, Nassau for swim-
ming and Canada for skiing. One of these days we hope to get to
Jamaica, and we also find ourselves looking hopefully at the European
travel folders.

Locally, we get involved in the usual charity work, such as collect-
ing for the Community Fund and a variety of other drives. I have
coached a number of years in the grammar school basketball league.
In politics, we still vote straight Republican.

All in all, life seems very full. With an interesting job and a large
family, it’s not a question of what to do with one’s time, but it’s a
problem of how to get the time to do all the things that need doing.

CHARLES HENSCHEL THIERIOT

HOME ApprEss: Chicken Valley Road, Locust Valley, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Carlisle & Jacquelin, 2 Broadway, New York 4, N. Ye

BorN: Dec. 1, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Julia Macy Potter, Sept. 11, 1945, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1960).
CHILDREN: Charles Henschel, Jr. Feb. 16, 1947; Julia Dick, Sept. 23, 1948;
Frances Thornton, May 25, 1953; Cary N. Potter, May 15, 1939 (stepson).

OCCUPATION: Partner, Carlisle & Jacquelin, Odd Lot Dealers, New York Stock
Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Village of Matinecock, Locust Valley, N.Y., since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club; Piping Rock Club; Meadow Brook Club;
Beaver Dam Winter Sports Club.

BACK in the fall of 1937, armed with an A.B, degree and a knowl-
edge of nothing, I set out to offer my services to any forward-look-
ing advertising agency. No takers, Finally, R. H. Macy & Company
agreed to take me on as a sales clerk. Three years later, with the

[ 1068 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

draft board breathing closely, I left my job as an assistant buyer in
R. H. Macy — learned to fly, bought a plane and flew to Amariito,
Texas. Pearl Harbor Day found me busily instructing in the Gavilian
Pilot Training program, and thence I was frozen untl early i451.
I then joined the sth Ferrying Group Division of the Air Transport
Command in Dallas as a civilian ferry pilot. Shortly thereafter was
commissioned a second lieutenant and finally wound up in early
1944 in the China-Burma-India Theatre jockeying C-44s across
the infamous “Hump.” The usual Air Medal and D.F.C. I stopped
at first lieutenant and bid adios to the Air Force in late 1945.

Meanwhile, having married in September, 1945, 1 returned to
New York and went to work as a broker with the firm of Carlile
& Jacquelin, the leading Odd Lot brokerage house (there are only
two) on the New York Stock Exchange. I became a partner in
1951 and there I remain to date.

Outside of a fairly routine life mixed with a certain amount of
travel, my hobbies include skating, skiing, swimming, golf and

flying.

JOHN SPENCER THOMPSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2929 Indian Wood Rd., Wilmerte, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: North American Company For Life, Accident and Pleaich
Insurance, 209 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 4, Ill.

BORN: July 27, 1915, Glen Ridge, N_J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1937.

MarRizD: Elizabeth Ayers, June 11, 1949, Columbus, Ga. cuitp. Blasters

Spencer, March 30, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: David Mitchell Thompson, °45.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president and actuary, North American Company Foe Cale,

Accident and Health Insurance.
OFFICES HELD: Actuary, New York Life Insurance Company, tyi¢ 40, vee

president and director, North American Company Foe Life, Nccutest acd
Health Insurance, since 1960, North American Accilene busca Cree

pany, since 1960.
MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries; Chicago Actuarial Club, Plarvard (1.5 of

Chicago.
MY interest in actuarial science as a carcer dates frory shortt, afe ¢
graduation and, except for a five-year interruption camel by Woo!
War II, has continued ever since.
The typical concept of an actuary is probably thacefaract-

[ 1069 ]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

cal technician who sits in an ivory tower, devoting his entire time to
the calculation of premium rates and the like. It is true that the
actuary is responsible for the technical details of insurance operations,
but his responsibilities do not stop there. The actuary really has the
broadest possible responsibilities in the management of insurance
programs, extending not only to all lines of insurance but to practi-
cally every phase of insurance company operations. I have found
my work in actuarial matters to be very rewarding and have not the
least regret that I entered the life insurance field twenty-five years
ago.

World War II now seems quite remote when we consider all that
has taken place in the world since V-J Day. My tour of duty began
almost a year before Pearl Harbor, It started with an assignment to
the Adjutant General’s Department on Governor’s Island. In 1942,
I obtained a transfer to the Army Air Force and served as navigator
in, successively, the Air Transport Command and the 2oth Air Force.
I feel that my assignment as a navigator was perhaps the most fasci-
nating job that I have had to date,

On returning to civilian life in 1946, I rejoined Metropolitan Life
and in 1950 moved uptown to New York Life, where I served as an
actuary for about ten years, At New York Life, I had the fortunate
opportunity of working on the development of the company’s health
insurance operations when it was decided to expand into that field
in 1951. As a result of this assignment and the many industry-wide
problems that have characterized the health insurance business, I have
taken part in the activities of several committees representing the
entire industry. In 1957 and 1958, I had the privilege of serving on
the Advisory Committee on Health Insurance established by the

Superintendent of Insurance of New York. In 1960, I left New

York Life and moved to Chicago to direct the insurance operations
of the North American companies.

Looking back on the last twenty-five years, I would say that the
most important events of the post-graduate era have been my mar-
riage in 1949 and the arrival of our one daughter, Betsy. Both have
been as near perfect as is possible,

Our decision to move to Chicago after a lifelong residency in New
Jersey was a most difficult one to make. However, our experience
in Chicagoland during the short period that we have lived here has

shown that we shall love our adopted Midwest just as much as the
East. We have not as yet had an opportunity to become involved in
civic affairs to any great extent, except for Beth’s Junior League

[ 1070 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and church activities, but I am confident that we can look forward
to increasing our participation in the future.

CHARLES THORNDIKE

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: Reservoir Road, Meredith, N.H.
BorN: Feb. 2, 1914, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935...
marrieD: B. Annalee Davis, April 19, 1941, Concord, N.H. cups: Charles

Emerson, March 17, 1945; Townsend Davis, Nov. 18, 1947.
HARVARD BROTHER: Townsend William Thorndike, ’35.
occupation: Manufacturer.
OFFICES HELD: Leader, Doodlebug Four H Club, 1955, 1956; committee chairman,

Boy Scout Troop 55, 1960.

THE Harvard Alumni Bulletin did such a bang-up job three years
ago that I can’t help starting with the following portions from “Dvll-
maker In The Woods”:

“Beating a path to the door of Charles Thorndike, ’37, the world
leaves Route 3 two miles south of Meredith, New Hampshire, and
follows a dirt road to its very end. There in a brick house a century
and a half old the Thorndikes oversee the production of the in-
imitable Annalee Dolls; and when they look up from their work
their eyes travel down their valley to rest on the White Mountains
thirty miles to the north.

“The world would have found Thorndike there seven years an,
but not Annalee Dolls. Thorndike’s operation was then the proatuc-
tion and merchandising of hatching eggs. After a dozen suceewful
years at this, Thorndike saw his specialty slipping off its proticalte
rate of $1.15 a dozen, and he got out of the business. Into the breach
leapt his wife, who had made dolls as puppets are made — of felt anf
wire and paint and imagination — years before her marriage. With-
in weeks skiers, fishermen, dancers, athletes and anccls appeare. fous
the Thorndike house — all ten inches high and all at length chrotene
the Annalee Dolls. And shortly the dolls took over the whole
floor of the ancient brick house.”

We are now engaged in a great factory-building proyran ty
February, 1962, we shall start operations in the new prefaty woe!
structure, exploiting with greater than ever efficiency our tes
markets for dolls: the Xmas line of elvesy, angels and Sannin a!
characters for display made to any size and description.

[ 1071]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

We love New Hampshire and are finding more and more time to
join our sons in skiing, boating and camping.

CARROLL ANDREW THROENSEN

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Sheffield Rd., Melrose, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 25, 1913, Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

marrieD: Dorothy Lacey, July 3, 1940, Lowell, Mass. CHILDREN: William T,
Nov. 21, 1942; Karen A., Oct. 18, 1945.

occuPATION: Territorial salesman, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company.

THERE has been little change in my status since my last report. I
am still employed by the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company in the
uneventful role of territorial salesman. .

My charming wife Dorothy has gracefully escaped the usual
penalties of aging and remains today quite the same svelte girl I
married twenty-two years ago. My son William, now a robust and
quite mature young man of nineteen years, is in his freshman year
at Northeastern, striving to master the many requirements of a very
difficult mechanical engineering course. My daughter Karen, just
turned a very sweet sixteen, labors through the demanding curricu-
lum of a junior at Melrose High School. Both of these offspring find
it so very difficult to put into proper balance the serious pursuit
of culture, which naturally comes from conscientious school study,
and the good life or social enrichment which comes from the many
diversionary pleasures that are zealously sought by all teen-agers
their respective ages. What few gray hairs come to their parents are
the result at one time or another of having attempted to set that
scale in balance and for having failed more times than not. |

Since having been elected to the vestry of Trinity Episcopal
Church in Melrose, two years ago, notwithstanding the fact that I
was a declared Democrat (of all thing), strangely enough my golf
game has improved immeasurably. This improvement was due,
no doubt, to the new controlled seriousness that I learned to display
between tee and cup.

My whole family is Harvard-minded and looks forward to the
glories of the 25th Reunion. We shall attend en masse.

[ 1072]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS NEWMAN TILESTON

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Virginia Rd., Pleasantville, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pleasantville Public Schools, Pleasantville, N.Y.
BoRN: Oct. 13, 1916, New Haven, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; A-M., 1939.
MarriEp: Odette Roy, June 5, 1946, Nantes, France. crutpaen: Henry, March
20, 1947; Charlotte, May 15, 1949; Thomas, Oct. 24, 1951, Anne, July ta,

occuPATION: Supervisor, Foreign Languages, Pleasantville Public Schools.
AFTER graduation, a year in Paris, then back for a year of graduate
work. Three years of teaching various subjects in a small private
day school in New Haven. Drafted in the fall of '42; landed in
France in August, ’44, with 94th Infantry Division, released from
service in January, 1946; returned to France forthwith for a wed-
ding. Two years of teaching various things in private schools
followed by five years of teaching French at Hamulton College.
Quit teaching in 1953 to have a go at selling insurance, returned to
teaching in the fall of 1958. Took the year 1959-60 otf to prepare
(sic) for public school teaching. In July, 1960, summering on the
Cape, looking for a job teaching advanced high school math, stum-
bled into present position.

Present position too time-consuming to permit stylistic narrative
— involves invention of curriculum and supervision of teachers in
a French program for 1400 children in grades four through twelve
Advanced Placement — much original work required, and reas
of mimeograph paper — text-workbooks for grades four to uv fin-
ished, now being revised; same in preparation for grade seven, anu.
taneously, Advanced Placement program being written for grates
ten to twelve. Intellectually very sumulating.

EDWARD AIDAN TIMMINS

HOME ApprEss: Keystone Heights, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1730 N, James, Rome, N.Y. Harry gorgth Scrape Weg
(SAC), Griffin AFB, N.Y.

BORN: July 19, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

mMarRIED: Carrie Lou Williams, Florida State Coll. for Women, yg Ss
1945, Gainesville, Fla. compres: Paula Jane, Aug tA type, Bleach Me.

[ 1073 ]

%

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937
Jr, Feb. 16, 1951; John Francis, May 31, 1953; Laura Irene, Dec. 27, 1958
(died in infancy).
occupation: Lieutenant colonel, USAF, Chief Operations Planning, 4039th
Strategic Wing (SAC).

PUBLICATIONS: Free-lance and Air Force publications, occasional semi-technical
articles.

TO account for my stewardship, I must skip back and forth between
several military and non-military careers, none particularly outstand-
ing in personal success and none with any disastrous consequences.
The first was a four-year stint as a reporter for the old Boston Post,
a grind of leg work, long night hours, rewrite duty, and out-of-town
trips. For a bachelor, which I was, it was a fascinating challenge, a
practical education with pay, and an invaluable exposure to count-
less ways of life and living. :
While developing a news feature about Air Corps entry require-
ments soon after Pearl Harbor, I volunteered myself as an aviation
cadet. My combat exposure came near the end of the war in the
Pacific. I was a radar bombardier on B-2gs striking Japan from the
Marianas. Eventually, by being in the right place at the right time,
I was separated alive, unharmed, and married. To newlyweds, the
“night side” of the newspaper didn’t seem to offer enough to-
getherness, so we went into small business in Keystone Heights,
Florida, not far from her home in Gainesville. A partnership in a
nursery and landscaping business kept me busy, but outdoors, for
the next three years. On the side, there was a little free-lance writing
and plenty of swimming and bridge. .
Then back to the military. Though I was recalled to active duty
with the Berlin airlift, I landed back in the bomber business. A
short tour in B-36s and six months of special schooling brought on
my assignment to the first jet bomber squadron in the Strategic Air
Command. I’ve been with the long-range strike team ever since; from
free-fall bombs to long-range air-to-ground nuclear missiles. I’m
closing in on twelve years of jet bomber time, including the early
years when our accident rate was higher than our combat rate in
B-z9s. As one of the early birds, 1 have been active in testing of
equipment, tactics, and procedures now used SAC-wide. Incidental
distinctions include being the navigator of the first combat-ready

B-47 crew and the first to navigate a combat-equipped jet bomber
across the Pole.

I still fly in round-the-clock B-52 flights, but my prime responsi-
bilities are now in the direction of operations, The team of which I

[ 1074]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

am chief prepares, plans, briefs, and conducts the execution of a‘
missions assigned our wing. Since the last Class Report, 1 was
tendered and accepted a regular commission and have commutted
myself to a career featuring variety and security. We have hved in
the Adirondacks and Sierras, in the corn bele and among the bavous
and have seen duty from Africa to Alaska to England and Japan.
Presently, we are anticipating three years in Spain, Eventually, we
hope to pack up our antique glass and silver, golf clubs and watce
skis, and reoccupy our lake house in northern Florida. We shall be
close to the university but off the beaten path. And we'll be busy re-
finishing furniture and grafting camellias.

ANTHONY SAMUEL JOSEPH TOMASFILO

HOME aApprEss: 10 Glenburnie Rd., West Roxbury 31, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: S. J. Tomasello Corp, 598 Columbia Rd. Dorchester 25, Maw

BORN: March 2, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; 12-8. (Norheauern Uris),
1941.

MarRiED: Annadith Walsh, Oct. 4, 1941, Boston, Mass. cuipagw; Anthony
Samuel Joseph, Jr. Dec. 26, 1952; Nancy Elinor, Aug. ag tog, Robert
Gerard, April 16, 1956.

occuPATION: Road building contractor.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer and clerk, since t9jQ, vice-prewdent, une
1958, S. J. Tomasello Corporation, secretary, Woodland PRM Wee Roe:
bury Home Owners Association, 1941-45; director and treasures, Plone
for Italian Children, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varuty Club, Harvard Bigs:
neering Society; Boston Bar Association, Boston Socicty of Cavd Fegineete,
New England Road Builders Association, Cathule Alumna Salary,
Italian-American Charitable Society; Gridiron Club of Phiaton, Charice
River Country Club.

REMINISCING about the past twenty-five years brings one fice
home to me. I must have a one-track mind. T have worked foe
only one company, have had only one wife, and have Iwed ay en's
one house, since getting married. T have not made any great ences
bution to humanity; neither have TI done anything to being shane te
anyone. I guess that I would have to be claaiticd awa solid (a bece
fat now) citizen.

In 1937, I joined the S. J. Tomascllo Corporation, an Paice eo
time have built hundreds of streets for the Cary of Pucci a ft
surrounding citics and towns. [have made many frends ia be oo

[ 1075 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and I am conceited enough to think that I have built up a reputation
for fair dealing, and am well thought of by the people for whom I
have done work.

In 1941, I married my wife, Annadith, and we have had twenty
years of happiness. For many years, we had no children, but, in
1953 we adopted Chipper, and then, in 1955 we adopted Nancy.
Miracle of miracles! In 1956, Robert was born to us. We now have
a wonderful, albeit very young, family. They say that children
keep you young; if so, I shall be young for a while yet.

I am still quite interested in athletics, and every fall I lose my voice
at Harvard Stadium, while cheering for our football team. About
twelve years ago, I started playing squash at the Harvard Club
and am still at it. I have been captain of the D team for the past
seven years, and now I am looked upon as the old veteran by the
young fry. I am happy to report that there are still quite a few
that I can beat. A year ago, I started playing golf, and this past
summer, I played a great deal. I really love the game, even though
it is very frustrating.

For many years, I played a considerable amount of duplicate
contract bridge, but lately I have been only playing for the Harvard
Club in the Neighborhood Bridge League. I also took part in
amateur theatricals for a few years, and, believe it or not, became
typed as an Irish character actor.

About a year ago, I became treasurer of the Home for Italian
Children in Jamaica Plain, and have become very interested in
this charitable work. It takes a great deal of my time, but I feel
that whatever I can do is for a good cause, and is therefore time
well spent.

Looking back on the past twenty-five years, I do not know
where they have gone. All I know is that I feel the same as I did
when we graduated, and I hope this feeling continues for many
more years. :

GEOFFREY BARTON TORNEY

HOME appress: Owls Head, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Knox County General Hospital, Rockland, Maine.

BoRN: July 13, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937(38); 8.m. (Yale Univ.), 1953.
Marriep: Miriam Peterson, April 7, 1951, Chestnut Hill, Mass,

[ 1076 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Johnston Torney, ’41.

occuPATION: Hospital administrator.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Gloucester County TB and Health Association. tots-
60, Knox County Chapter, American Red Cross, 1961.

MEMBER OF: American College of Hospital Administrators, American Pospiral
Association; Maine Hospital Association, Owls Head Grange, Rockland
Rotary Club; Appalachian Mountain Club.

AFTER a relatively short exposure to the banking busines I
labored for most of the period up to 1951 with the Bethichem Srecl
Company’s Ship-building Division. Much of my time was spent
with planning, scheduling, and coordinating work on ships under
construction. In 1951 I found myself a wife. Changed into the
health field, enrolling in the hospital administration course under
the Yale Department of Public Health.

The latter part of 1952 and 1953 found me doing ficld work and
acting as administrative assistant at the Newton-Wellesley Hospital
in Newton, Massachusetts. For the next six years, I was administrator
of the Underwood Hospital in Woodbury, New Jersey, a com-
munity rapidly becoming Philadelphia’s suburbia. In January, tof.
I became administrator of the Knox County General Hospital in
Rockland, Maine.

My wife and I seem to keep busy working on our old farmhouse
and on our land which extends to the shore of Penobscot Bay.

In retrospect, the past twenty-five years have passed quickly,
with the domestic and international scenes changing in a way that
few of us could possibly have predicted when we were in college.

CARLTON WILLIS TOTMAN

HOME aApprEss: 43 Lorena Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: United Shoe Machinery Corp, Beverly, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1915, Winthrop, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREE: Cert, (Wentworth Inse.), togs.

MaRRIED: Florence M. Pautsch, April 21, 1937, Arcadia, Fla. contness Jobs
Howard, July 17, 1946; Mark Hunter, April 23. toyo.

OccUPATION: Assistant plant engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Directors, Wilmington Rotary Club, ehacer ay
Governing Body, Winchester Unitarian Church, Boy Scout Cercocce
(Troop 506). ,

[ 1077]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

+ DANIEL TOWER

porN: Jan. 11, 1916, Cohasset, Mass. parents: Gilbert Sanders Tower, Elizabeth
Collier. .

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1937; A.M. 1947.
MARRIED: Eleanor Winslow Crane, June 28, 1941, Richmond, Mass. CHILDREN:

Edward, ’64, Jan. 16, 1943; Julia Lincoln, June 25, 1945; Katharine Bird,
March 9, 1949; Elizabeth Crane, Oct. 21, 1952.
pep: Nov. 4, 1955, Providence, RI.

DURING 1937 and 1938 Tower studied in Belgium and Italy on
fellowships. Trained in museum work, he served as assistant to
the curator of the Addison Gallery of American Art at Andover
from 1938 to 1941. During the following two years he was director
of the Fitchburg (Mass.) Art Center. Returning from service in
World War II, he took the post of assistant to the director of the
Museum of Art at the Rhode Island School of Design. In 1952 the
Old Slater Mill Association named him as the first curator of the
historic Pawtucket landmark, the birthplace of the American cotton
industry.

He was a member of the First Unitarian Church in Providence,
and was for two years secretary of the Family Service Society in
Pawtucket. He was survived by his wife and children. His son
is now at Harvard and one of his roommates at Leverett House is
William Brooks Cavin, 3d, son of our Classmate.

BENJAMIN RICHARDS TOWNSEND

HOME ApprEss: Radnor, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Townsend, Elliott & Munson, 1600 Western Saving Fund Bldg.
Philadelphia 7, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa,

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., 1937; LL.B, (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1940.

mMarriED: Ethel Husband, Sept. 6, 1947, Nonquitt, Mass, cuitp: Paul, Oct. 11,
1944 (adopted).

occuraTion: Lawyer; parmer, Townsend, Elliott & Munson, municipal finance.

orFices HELD: Member, Section on Municipal Law, American Bar Association.

MEMBER oF: American, Pennsylvania and Philadelphia Bar Associations.

IN the age of megatons two plus two mean litrle. The foregoing
statistics indicate I was married to Ethel Husband (sister of

[ 1078 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Classmate Thomas Blair Husband, who kept her under wraps duc:
ing college) three years after Paul arrived. We were fortunate
enough to adopt Paul in 1958, and to be the boastful father of the
co-captain of the Upper Merion High School football team in bes
junior year is a feat I little expected.

EDWARD HOWARD TOWNSEND, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 22 East Blvd., Rochester 10, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 26 S. Goodman St., Rochester 7, N.Y.

BorN: Nov. 9, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; MD. (Columbia Univ), tage.

MARRIED; Virginia Lathrop Pack, Dec. 28, 1942, New York, N.Y. compere.
James Terlinck, Oct. 11, 1944; Margot Lathrop, Oct. 14 1944, George Rane
dolph, Feb. 11, 1950; Stephen Edward, Feb. 24, 1953; Virgina Pack, Avg at.
1957+

OccUPATION: Pediatrician; partnership practice, senior partner, Townwnd, Foe
-& Radebaugh.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Rochester Regional Premature Center, ance tact, om
founder, Rochester Health Forums, 1953-56, preudent, Brownesofe Pet.
atric Research Foundation, since 1955; chicf of pediatrics, Rochewter Gen
eral Hospital, since 1956; assistant professor, University of Rachewer S hood
of Medicine and Dentistry, since 1958; vice-president, Rochevece \taternal
and Adoption Center, since 1960; chairman, Section f, Drtret WO Upper
New York Strate), American Academy of Pediatrics, since tof, comseruttee
offices for the National Foundation, Rochester Councd of Sosa) Agere we
and several medical societies; trustee, The Harley School,

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics, Rochestce Pediateas Naty,
Rochester Pathological Society; Monroe County Medial Socseey, Amery.
can Medical Association; Pediatric Travel Club; Central New York Pet:
atric Club; Genesee Valley Club; Nantucket Yacht Qb, Plarvard Chit of

Rochester; Alpha Omega Alpha, Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Over fifteen papers, primarily in medical pournaly deal g word
the problems of prematurity, research in private practwe, the woe ef eore
biotics, pediatric education and public relations for the meshes al pe fevers,

SINCE 1937, life continues to be rewarding while luck, pros feo,
fate or what you will have been kind and coincidence a frien.

_ My entry into medicine can be traced dircethy to Pesee oa ge.
or more specifically Dewey's “The Corporation andity Reritie 7
Mal Watts, '37, returning on the New York, New lave & Plas
ford after Christmas 1936, observed my strustles ant wich brolet
disdain, our dour Scot bee me five dollacs PE coults'e yet 4
medical school. That was a lot of moncy in thee aay ae de ot.

[ 1079 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

and I can’t run away from the problem by hiding in a fall-out
shelter ready to shoot a fellow-man in need.

MELVIN ALVAH TRAYLOR, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 759 Burr Ave., Winnetka, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Chicago Natural History Museum, Roosevelt Lane and Lake
Shore Drive, Chicago, Ill.
BoRN: Dec. 16, 1915, Chicago, Ill.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.
marriep: Evelyn W. Shuman, Nov. 19, 1941, Winnetka, Ill. cumpren: Nancy

Frances, April 18, 1945; Melvin Alvah, 3d, July 20, 1953.
OCCUPATION: Associate curator of birds, Chicago Natural History Museum.

TRAYLOR has been in Northern Rhodesia, since the end of Sep-
tember, and will not return until April first. His wife sent in the
following:

“I can’t write his autobiography, but I can give you a few things
to use or not as you wish.

“He has been with the Chicago Natural History Museum (Field
Museum) since his graduation from Harvard. He did have a brief
fling at business during that time, with the Allied Barge Company
and Modern Toy Company, but decided to leave business to those
who enjoyed it and returned to the Museum.

“He was in the Marine Corps from 1941 to 1945, saw action at
Guadalcanal and Tarawa, was wounded at Tarawa and sent back
to the States, after two years overseas. He retired as captain (started
as private).

“He’s very active in the Winnetka Presbyterian Church — loves
to hunt and fish.”

ARCHER WILLIAM POWER TRENCH

HOME aAppress: Turtle Back Rd., New Canaan, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: The American Metal Market Co., 18 Cliff St. New York 38,
N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B., 1937,

married: Hope T. Humphreys, July to, 1948, Hyannisport, Mass. CHILDREN:
Deborah M., Nov. 25, 1949; William H., Nov, 26, 1950; Lee McK., Feb. 11,
1953; Lauren W., May 5, 1960.

[ 1082 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: President, publisher.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Associated Business Publications, vice-preudent, bler-
vard Club of New Canaan.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of New Canaan, Connecticut; New Canaan Winert
Club; Harvard Club of New York; Copper Club; Hyannisport Vache Club,
Saugatuck Shores Club; Duquesne Club, Pittsburgh.

MY daily life varies between a sense of accomplishment and mere
churning. Perhaps it’s the commuting four hours a day to New
York and back.

At any rate, we live in New Canaan in a contemporary glaw
house, which we built four years ago, and to which we added List
year for our fourth child, Lauren.

I find publishing a daily metal industry newspaper, American
Metal Market, challenging and stimulating. I also enjoy the opper-
tunity it gives me for occasional travel to several parts of the coun-
try. We also publish several other publications and directories for
the metal industry, including the monthly, Afetal/Center News, the
annual, Metal Statistics and bi-annual, Standard Metal Directory.

Outside of my family, my interests are gardening, sailing, skuny.
where I am improving; and golf, where I am not. [am vice-prew-
dent of the Harvard Club of New Canaan and active in the usual
gamut of community affairs.

RICHARD WHITE TREVASRIS, JR.

HOME Appress: Luteman Road, Cumberland, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 220 Baltimore Ave., Cumberland, Md.

BorN: March 12, 1915, Cumberland, Md.

prepareD AT: Allegany High School, Cumberland, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $8, 1937; ata. (Univ, of Maryland:,
1941.

marrieD: Marion Haney, Aug, 5, 1943, Miami, Fla.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allan Edward Trevaskis, "42.

OccUPATION: Psychiatrist.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Amencan Prychistre Aas ste

THE details of the family, educational, military, marital ant ys.
dustrial history have been adcquatcly documented tlhewhere fa
cept for minor traffic violations [ have a negligible cramutal gece t

Habits continue the same. The same job, the same wife, the es
house and the everlasting struggle to give Up smokin Phat. bas
been good. I am still correctly oriented as to me, place ao bper.
son. Memory remains clinically normal Retention and gecai as

[ 1083)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

still good enough to be a nuisance. As far as I know, I have no de-
lusions, no hallucinations and only a few minor paranoid ideas.

* ASHLEY GORDON TROPE

porN: April 13, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: Morris Samuel Trope, Anita
Gordon, ; .

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1937 (38).

MARRIED: Sally Osborne Hammond.

pieD: Nov. 25, 1945, over Northern Mindoro, Philippine Islands.

wiwow: Mrs. Ashley G. Trope, 30 W. Tenth St., New York, N.Y.

AS an undergraduate Trope was a member of the junior varsity
football squad for three years and of the track squad also for three
years, as well as serving on the business board of the Red Book
while a freshman. After experimenting for a year following gradu-
ation with the marketing of a coffee grinder equipped with auto-
matic time control, he entered the domestic heating field as a sales
engineer with the Quiet May Oil Burner Company, Staten Island.
Later he became assistant buyer for R. H. Macy Company. He was
also active with Squadron A of the New York National Guard and
did a considerable amount of flying toward a private pilot’s license.
He entered the Army Air Forces on May 28, 1940, after having
served as a second lieutenant in the 61st Cavalry Division, New
York. Sent first to Wright Field, Supply Branch, he then was
transferred to the 18th Air Depot Group at Patterson Field, Dayton,
Ohio. Later he was attached successively to the 334th Bombardment
Group at the Greenville Army Air Base, and the 21st Bombardment
Group, MacDill Field, Tampa, Florida. In 1942 he received a
Service Pilot’s rating which he held overseas. He left the United
States in January, 1945, and served in the Pacific area, winning
two commendations for drastically reducing the rate of “aircraft
grounded for parts” under his jurisdiction, His most recent assign-
ment was as AGP officer of a supply group under the 15th Service
Area Command, Neilson Field, Manila, He was killed when the
C-47 transport plane in which he was a passenger crashed into a
mountainside, shortly before he was scheduled to return home.
He was survived by his wife.

[ 1084 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID ALBERT TUFTS

HOME ADDRESS: 83 Shore Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Garcia & Diaz, Inc., 25 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

porN: Nov. 6, 1914, West Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B. 1937.

MaRRIED: Ida Florence Watters, May 11, 1941, Concord, NAL ontrers
Peter A., Aug. 12, 1943; David Albert, Jr. Sept. 8, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Operations manager, Garcia & Diaz, Inc, stcarmhip agenes and

operators, representing, in the U.S. steamship owners from varwus parts
of the world.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, vice-president, Sccamship Pferors af
Society of America; committee chairman, Boy Scouts of America, Troup
3, Old Greenwich, Conn.; director, International Moth Class Aeon,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Rocky Point Club, Ine, Ol Green.
wich, Conn.

IT seems there was a brief period between Icaving college ant
being caught up in the Reserves when a number of us took up
residence in New York in bachelor quarters attempting various
forms of earning a livelihood — insurance, publishing, secret servne,
steamship business and the like. One such residence was & spacious
top floor room next door to the Harvard Club where we were
looked after by a Filipino boy, which seemed the ultimate in hivury,
though we never saw him. At that time I started with the Atlin
Mutual Insurance Company, a staid old firm on Wall Sereet majeor-
ing in marine insurance but branching out into other fichdxs Plow.
ever, a broken leg while doing a little weckend ski racing bemuche
about a transfer to the firm’s Boston office, where it was consuteret
an easier hitch to work on crutches from the family heme.

This last move was very significant, for 1] was ably averted ty
work daily by my neighbor, Florence “Bunny” Watters alus an
ardent skier and a most pleasant traveling companion, Ae Cun cs
boiled up in Europe the Naval Reserve called. We were marred
and off to Port Arthur, Texas, to take over a Navy tis, thes
building. cS

Four years passed in the Navy. The first duty with the tus wee
in Newfoundland. This was followed by Anti-Sub Sheol in Via
where our first was born. Next came Destroyer Pacertt er’,
primarily in the Aclantic and in the company of groan! fcllowe wae
of the old school tic. The periodic returns ti home base and fies +
reunions made us realize we were a loe fuchicr than many oefere

When things wound up this-a-way, we went thite wes ac!

[ 108s ]}

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

at Pearl Harbor for pre-picket duty training with seemingly an
abundance of same old friends, I recall that possibly my concentra-
tion was on endeavoring to master the surf board. For it was out
beyond the breakers waiting for the next “just-right” one that
the news was blasted from the beach of final victory. The skies
that night over Pearl saw a tremendous display of rocketry, probably
the greatest since that tragic day when we came in.

So it was back to California, where I got the news of our second
born, and thence home to Boston to see what civilian life would
be like again.

I couldn't quite see going back to the old insurance company desk
again. Anyway, I started playing with boats at an early age and
decided to keep it up. I canvassed the available steamship com-
panies in Boston and took on a job with the Eastern Steamship
Company. Said company was changing over from wartime opera-
tions and winding up with the government. Only trouble was they
kept right on winding up, and by the second winter there was
nothing else left to do but to look for another job.

New York was the only opening unless it was going back to sea,

o I started with my present company, Garcia & Diaz, as claims
manager, then to operations department and manager. I guess I'll
never get tired of running ships. The complexities of cargoes and
shipping operations the world over will always fascinate me. Maybe
the true measure of my feelings toward the business is that when
things get most hectic, the business holds the most interest for me.

Family life really got started after our move to the New York

job. We were determined to keep one foot in New England, so
Old Greenwich, Connecticut, was our settling place and at this
writing we find ourselves still at the same homestead. Our life has
centered around the various activities of this delightful community.
The boys jomed Bunny and me at early ages in skiing, boating,
swimming and fishing, all within easy reach. The pattern hasn’t
changed too much except that I note from a previous Report I]
was recorded as saying the boys were passing me in the swimming
pool, whereas now I have to add they out-sail me in our small boat
races. Last winter I could still out-ski them — that is, the first half
of the season, anyway.

The Boy Scout Troop was a most important activity for us for

Six years with both boys working well up into the ranks, Pop

participating in overnighters and Mom always ready to help where

the men just couldn’t handle the situation. Scouting is among our

[ 1086 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

happiest memories. It is a builder of men at the most mualleatte

oint of a youth's life. The thrill is still there, as is the feeling of
fellowship on meeting the boys again with whom we were in

Scouting. The friendships between the fathers working with the

troop are no less solid.

Our family sailing program is rather difficult to describe. We
sort of live it and live with it. I recall first watching from the
club porch the fleet of small eleven-foot Moth boats racing in the
Sound and thinking, “They call that sailing?” But we were in it
soon and found racing single-handed in these small lively beats
against outsider, neighbor and family a most fascinating sport. We
built two of these, and all four of us race all summer long. After
a'month or so layoff we go into frostbiting through the spring to
start the summer season off again. The boys are sailing with others
in Lightnings, occasionally Stars, and other assorted craft and do
quite well since their skills were developed in the single handing
of the Moth boats.

'Memorable too have been our six family cruises, limited ta one
week out of each of the past summers and to these waters and
those to the East. Our cruise this past summer was omitted because
our elder boy won a sailing scholarship as a guest of the Roval
Vancouver Yacht Club and sailed in those waters.

Now that we have one boy, Peter, in Middlebury College as a
freshman and David, Jr. (who no longer likes the name Tuify) »
preparing for college two years hence, there seems to be another
big change in our family circle of life and one which promies to be
just as exciting. For the Fiftieth I hope I can still navizate those

racing marks and find my way down the open slopes.

SAMUEL SAUL TURESKY

HOME ApprEsS; 84 Wallis Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1537 Blue Hill Ave. Mattapan 26, Mfass,

BORN: Feb, 22, 1916, Portland, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Afass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES; AB, 1937, O.Ntp (Tufts Call), tage.

MARRIED: Barbara L. Proner, Nov. 23, 1952, New York, N.Y. contpase Aste
R., April 24, 1954; Jon David, May 6, tog, Robert J, Che ag yt
G., July 31, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Dentist.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor (research) of perintontolgy, Bute l
sity Dental School. |

[ 1087 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

MEMBER OF: International Association for Dental Research; Sigma Xi; Omicron
Kappa Upsilon; Foundation for Study of Cycles; Robert R. Andrews
Honor Society; Temple Emeth.

puBLicaTions: “A Histochemical Study of the Attached Gingiva in Pregnancy,”
Journal of Dental Research, 37:1115, 1958; “A Histochemical Study of the
Keratotic Process in Oral Lesions Diagnosed Clinically as Leukoplakia,”
Oral Surgery, Oral Medicine, Oral Pathology, 14:442-453, 1961, “Histologic
and Histochemical Observations Regarding Early Calculus Formation in
Children and Adults,” Journal of Periodontology, 32:7-14, 1961.

I FEEL that my intellectual, social and ethical ideals matured while
at Harvard and have served as standards and driving forces in my
life ever since. Perhaps this was especially so since, as an emotionally
immature Harvardian, I was surrounded by “giants” in these three
categories, both among my close student associates and faculty. I
still wonder, however, whether living in at a smaller college would
have provided more fruitful experiences than my daily commuting
to Harvard. |

After graduation, with honors, from dental school (Tufts, 1941),

and after four years in the Air Force (World War II), I opened
my first office near my home in Mattapan in 1946. In 1947 I had
the opportunity of associating with Tufts Dental School as a half-
time research assistant. My professional life ever since has been
divided between half-time research and half-time general practice.
It has been a happy and rewarding setup. I progressed from “re-
search associate” in oral pathology in 1947 to “associate research
professor” in periodontology in 1960. I have worked on problems
ranging from fluoridation to pregnancy changes and keratoses of
the oral cavity.

In 1952 I married Barbara after a courtship of three weeks. What
caught me were those big brown eyes, long black hair and philoso-
phies about “self-realizing hypotheses.” Now the eyes are generally
red from lack of sleep, the hair is short, and there is not much time
for philosophy. We have four boys, Andy, Jon, Robert and Philip,
ranging from eight years to three years of age. If we live long
enough, we may eventually get that girl. Life at home is a “male-
strom.”

At this stage in my life, time left over for hobbies after attend-
ing to the more urgent business of earning a living and bringing up
a family is not so much as I should like. Before the family came,
Barbara and I made an attempt at oil painting; now “hobby-time”

is spent either trying to break ninety-five on the golf course, or
trying to break even in the stock market. My chart analyses and

[ 1088 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cycle theories can be frustratingly fallible at the most inopportune
times!

Politically, I have voted for Democratic candidates for president
ever since my first visit to the ballot box. This does not mean that
I am convinced that our society is any less monolithic than that of
other countries, but I do feel that the common man is more apt to
get a “better break” under a Democratic regime than undcr a
Republican regime. I believe that economics plays too important
a role in our daily lives, and if the “rat race” could be de-empha-
sized people could live more ethically and peacefully with one
another, and could pay more attention to familial, cultural and
recreational activities. How to solve this problem is a difficult one.
I feel that there should be freedom of choice for the individual
within a more planned economy than we now have. This should
ease the burden of economic insecurity more than the present “dog

eat dog” setup.
I am looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

FRANCOIS TURNER

HOME ADDRESS: Sanatorium des Pins, Lamotte-Beuvron, Loire-et-Cher, France.
BORN: Feb. 8, 1915, Neuilly Seine, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Dominican Missionary.

I FEEL difficult to convey what my life can look like to an American.
I must explain I was born a U.S. citizen, and am now a subicet of
Pope John XXIII and of President Général de Gaulle, bue do noe
feel tempted to revolt.

What kind of bird can a French Dominican be? Some sort of
pinko (Time)? Some sort of monkish busybody? Not prectaly,
I hope. If a classmate happens to go sightseeing the chitesue fe bs
Loire, let him push a little east after seeing Chambord, and he wih
come to the center of the paradise of French hunters, where Uhapprs
to be.

My job? Mon job (the word is being adopted in the Bren’)
tongue)? A bit too manifold to my taste: chaplain ina hey te!
Bible lecturer, preacher, teacher of religion, confeswor, art ere
for a periodical (Catécheése), guide for American tourste iteie7-

by medieval churches .. . yes.
[ rosy }

~~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PHILIP GORDON TURNER

HOME ADDRESS: 172 Elm Ave., Burlingame, Calif.

orFice ApprESS: Harriman Ripley & Co., Inc. 1428 Russ Bldg. San Francisco,
Calif.

porN: April 18, 1915, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Kingswood School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

mMarrieD: Harriet E. Heames, Oct. 25, 1952, Detroit, Mich. cHmLpREN: Gordon
Philip, 2d, Feb. 24, 1956, Richard Heames, Nov. 30, 1957.

OccUPATION: West coast manager, Harriman Ripley & Company, Inc., invest-
ment bankers, in charge of office covering nine western states.

MEMBER OF: Merchants Exchange Club, San Francisco; San Francisco Bond
Club,

HAVING fallen under the spell of San Francisco early in the days
of World War II, I am now practically a native. I lived here for
five years, moved to Detroit for nine, and returned three years ago
to live in the suburbs. I spent almost fifteen years in the banking
business and am now west coast manager for Harriman Ripley &
Company, Inc., investment bankers.

The years have been good, over-all, to this grasshopper among
the ants of the Working Class. While the improvements have come
slowly, they have been worth while and deeply appreciated: One
beautiful and long-suffering redheaded bride; two male offspring
—daet., six and four—both of whom are redeemed from their
paternal heritage by having their mother’s grace and temperament,
and a sprawling neo-Grecian (early cheesebox) homestead — aet.,
over thirty-five in suburban Burlingame. These are supplemented
by the original shaggy dog who walks me every night whether I
like it or not.

While one misses the associations formed in youth, there is a
delightful zest to life in California. The pace is somewhat less hectic,
the weather allows for more outdoor use of leisure time, and there
are always many new personalities to meet and places to explore.
It is not quite as pleasant to review the past quarter-century in
terms of the general weal. Coming into adult life at a time which
at best might be described as chaotic—both economically and
socially — we were almost immediately thrown into active partici-
pation in a conflict which was only ended by opening the Pandora’s

box of nuclear fission, which was succeeded by fusion and now by
utter confusion, which the somewhat futile maunderings of the
Pride of 1940 are doing little to resolve and much to compound.

[ 1090 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

However, all in all, we have managed to survive and presper despite
such perils, and I believe can look ahead to another twenty-five

ears of hard work and good times, interrupted [ hope by con.
tinually less frequent alarms and excursions.

CHARLES EGBERT TUTTLE

MAILING ADDRESS: Charles E. Tuttle Co., Rutland V't.; 15 Fdogawa-Cha, Burkyo-
Ku, Tokyo, Japan.

BorN: April 5, 1915, Rutland, Vet.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB. miagna cum latte, 194>.

MARRIED: Reiko Chiba, Tokyo, Japan.

OCCUPATION: Publisher.

BEING born in a house full of books (at the moment some tgae=),

it is inevitable that the book world should capture most of mv

attention and it has. I have now been in Japan operating ututcr the

motto “Books to span the East and West” for almost sixteen yeara

We still are active in every possible phase of the book businew i-

cluding wholesaling, retailing, placing translation righty rare bees

magazine subscriptions, etc., but I have listed mysclf as a publicher

since this aspect has taken over most of my time.

The other major change since 1952 Is that we now stmk and
market our publications through agencies in London and Zura
as well, of course, as Rutland, Vermont. Elaving lived in Japan w
long now, once I get in Europe and am asked about my here,
I hesitate whether to say Tokyo or Rutland.

At any rate, there is no question about where I went to eo!
Tokyo more and more is getting to be on the main line of inter:
national business and tourist traffic. As usual, I look forward eo
seeing any Harvard man in this part of the work! and Cup there
may be quite a few at the time of the next Olympics tle bel bay

Tokyo in 1964.

JOSEPH FDWARD TYSZKA

HOME ADDRESS: 12 East St.. Ansonia, Conn,

BORN: June 2, 1916, Ansonia, Conn.

PREPARED AT: St. Johns Kanty Prep School, Frie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

Marriep: Elizabeth Karpinowich, Jan. a4, 1943. coiteene Blcgery A wets

[ ro91 J

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

21, 1942; Joseph E., Aug, 28, 1946; Edward M., Feb. 28, 1948; Michael F,,

July 21, 1951; Francis R., June 8, 1954; Richard, Feb. 16, 1956; Helen
Louise, Sept. 7, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Bondsman.
MEMBER OF: Polish National Alliance.

AFTER I left Harvard, I went into the liquor industry; ten years
later I entered the haberdashery and paint business; the flood of

1955 put me out. Later, I became a riveter at Sikorsky Aircraft.
Now I am working as a bondsman.

Entered the service in 1942; discharged in 1945. Married in 1942.

JOHN FREDERICK UIHLEIN

MAILING ADDRESS: 3318 N. Lake Drive, Milwaukee, Wis.

JOHN GARRETT UNDERHILL, JR.
MAILING ADDRESS: 1603 30th St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

PAUL LEDYARD VAN CLEVE, III

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Otter Creek Ranch, Big Timber, Mont.

BORN: Nov. 7, 1912, Big Timber, Mont.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

Marrigp: Barbara L. Knudson, Sept. 26, 1934, Minneapolis, Minn, CHILDREN:
Barbara Page, Aug. 17, 1935; Paul Ledyard, qth, Sept. 12, 1936; Michele
Davis, Jan. 2, 1941; Carol Perry, June 13, 1947.

occupation: Cattleman, Quarter horse breeder; owner.

OFFICES HELD: Director, National Quarter Horse Breeders Association, 1947-50;
president, Northern Quarter Horse Breeders Association, 1948-49; director,
American Quarter Horse Association, 1950-51; trustee, School Board,
1950-60; team tying representative, Montana Rodeo Association, 1960;
leader, 4H Club, 1946-51, and instigator of the Horsemanship Project in
the National 4H Program.

TIME slips up on a man. When I sat down to make this report, I
fully intended to say that things were just about as they had been
for the past five or ten years, but contemplation forces me to admit
that things have indeed changed. Me, for instance.

When a colt bucks with me now, I am so busy trying to stay
in the buggy that I haven’t time to try to show him the error of
his ways. I hunt the little bucks along the lower edge of the timber,

[ 1092 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

not the big boys way on the high ridges. When I rodeo, Toe. We
heels in team tying-——the heeler doesn’t have to get otf his horse.
In short, I find that I can’t do the things T used to, at lease ne

without effort.
Guess I’m getting old, but I wouldn’t trade the things Po lete

with youth for what I have now. My family is pretty we th grown,

Barbara is in her fourth year as a teacher; Paul, 4th, after four Veary
in the Air Force, graduates from St. Mary's College next spriins,

Michele is a junior in college; and Carol is a sophomore in bit
school. I’m proud of them all! My wife and I are doing what we
want to do, where we want to do it, and we are doing it touether,
so I can honestly say that I have everything that I want. [I'm a

lucky man!
I hope and pray that my children and youngsters hke them wil

be able to say the same in twenty-odd years, but I just don’t know.
A welfare state which conditions its people to prefer handoun to
decent work, which taxes the citizens to where initiative, tnagination,
and work are penalized, and which through those same taves has
lessened the integrity of Americans to where the general beef
that anything you can get away with is perfectly fine, why thats
a hell of a legacy to leave our children! It sure isn’t the wine
United States my forebears built, nor the United States in what
I grew up! So perhaps it is the fault of our generation, and if
I am ashamed to have let things slide to where mv younstcry
won't have the same independent, individualistic life I've had Vin
more than ashamed!

_ As far as Mr. Khrushchev, Red China, and the bomb are concerns |
—so what? An awful lot of people have been killed since the fr-t
human walked this earth, and in the end it’s all the same whet +¢
it’s a club, bomb, sword, or virus, and I sure don'e p! anon bute
any hole and hiding in it. Ah, well, enough of this Aftce at, € ¢
Ivy results were terrific! I'm hoping to make the Twenty '2%
if the winter doesn’t get too tough and if my boy's gratuito care
doesn’t conflict, and I’m eager to sce a lot of frends Phase: ue tes
for a long time. If I can’t make it, PM be there av spee ast

WILLIAM PAYNE VAN EVERA

HOME aAppress: 1907 Waverly Ave, Duluth, Afuan.
orFice appress: McCabe, Van Evera & Mundt, suo Torrey fot th
BORN; Jan. 29, 1917, Virginia, Afinn, | |

[ 1093 )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: Crosby-Ironton High School, Crosby, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B., 1940.

marriED: Mary Mecracken Congdon, Aug. 21, 1946, Duluth, Minn. cHitpren:
Katharine, July 2, 1947; Stephen William, Nov. 10, 1948; Gretchen, April
7, 1952; Emily, June 25, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Whitman Van Evera, Bus. Sch., 1940-41.

occupation: Attorney-at-law in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Duluth Symphony Association, since 1955; chairman,
Duluth Fair Employment Practices Commission, since 1956; chairman, Real
Property Section, 1959~60, vice-chairman, Tax Section, 1960, Minnesota
State Bar Association; director, Duluth Chamber of Commerce, since 1960,
president, Duluth Welfare Council, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: American and Minnesota Bar Associations; Kitchi Gammi Club;
Northland Country Club.

AFTER completing Harvard Law School, I took the Minnesota bar
examinations, and began practising law with a firm in Duluth, Life
has dealt me no great surprises. During World War II, I served at a
number of Navy training schools, and spent several months in active
places, such as the Marianas and Okinawa, during 1944-45.

Since the war, my modest law practice has grown increasingly
absorbing, and currently includes a number of interesting maritime
cases, which have resulted from the opening of the St. Lawrence
Seaway. My family absorb and thrill me. There isn’t very much
time left over during this stage for civic work, but I manage to
keep my hand in. Currently, we are trying hard to develop an
effective Welfare Council in Duluth.

As time moves on, I become more restless with things as they
are, and more concerned with the direction of change — concerned
that I should do more to affect the course of change. More often,
I feel called upon to express or defend an unpopular opinion. I -
think it important to do my bit in Republican politics, and my bit
should be larger. My family and I enjoy this northern wilderness
area, the canoeing, hunting, hiking, and skiing. The great popula-
tion growth of most of the country has passed us by. Wild life still
abounds, and I have come to know more of the ways of the deer,
the bear, the mallard, and the pheasant, and have (in Canada) bagged
a wild goose.

Professionally, I prefer an office practice to the rough and tumble,
but presently have a number of cases to try. I enjoy keeping in
touch with the younger generation by teaching a class in business
Jaw three hours a week in our thriving new University of Minne-
sota, Duluth, and by interviewing Harvard applicants.

[ 1094 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Soon our children will be telling us what's what. We hepe ey
will be well-schooled in the liberal arts tradition, so that Chev #
have tolerance for the old ideas, mingled with the enthusiasr Get
the new. They will, I think, be able to understand that ast renauey
anti-pollution measures, ancient history, and Africans are alk wt

ortant. So is Bill Bentinck-Smith’s deadline, so,
Till June —

KARL KELLER VAN SLYKE

HOME apprEss: 119 Whitehall Blvd., Garden City, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Franklin Ave., Garden City, N.Y.

BorN: Nov. 17, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $.B., 1937; MD. 1948. .
Marriep: Jean Conway Bibb, Oct. 9, 1949, Bristol, Va. ctrare: Linde Lee,

Feb. 8, 1951; Donald Dexter, Sept. 22, 1953; Peter King, Feb. & tots. Poul
Keller, Sept. 18, 1959.
OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Medical administrator, Hofstra College.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American Cotege of
Surgeons (fellow); Kiwanis (director); Cherry Valley Country Ch:ts.

GRADUATED Harvard Medical School in r9gt. Surgical intern.
ship at Peter Bent Brigham and Boston Children’s Plespitals ty
Boston. Then three years in the First Auxiliary Surgical Group of
U.S. Army. Five battle stars in European Theatre. After serve |
spent four years completing my training in surgery at the Mets al
College of Virginia. Since 1950 I have been in surgwal practac,
with my office in Garden City, Long Island.

In 1949 I married Jean Conway Bibb of Bristol, Virginia, Wark
our four children and my surgery, life is full and complete. Qhies
is the typical suburban life without the bother of commun o Mf,
medical administrative affiliation with Elofsera College anfiay more
than eight thousand students is a bonus of pleasure.

So these past twenty-five years have been orderly and the reco y
pleasant.

ALBERT EDWIN VAN WAGNSAIR

HOME apnress: 12 Harbour Rd. Barrington, R I.
OFFICE Anpress: Noyes & Co, Industrial Bank Biilg , Prowntene » Bd
BORN: Jan, 23, 1915, Newburgh, N.Y.

[ 1095 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: Poughkeepsie High School, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Margaret Virginia Libby, Aug. 31, 1940, York Beach, Maine. cui-
DREN: James Arthur, Feb. 3, 1942; Albert Edwin, Jr., Jan. 28, 1946; Alana
Libby, April 3, 1951.

occupaTION: Advertising agency; vice-president, account supervisor for Mer-
riam-Webster dictionaries, General Electric wiring devices, Brown &
Sharpe precision tools, Marlin guns.

MEMBER OF: Barrington Yacht Club, Barrington, R.L; Turks Head Club, Provi-
dence, R.I.; Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Barrington Players, Barring-
ton, R.I.; Advertising Club of Boston, Boston, Mass.

THE statistics above include a lovely wife, three vigorous children,
four progressive clients, a share in the ownership of an office of
fifty people, and a few miscellaneous leisure-time activities. Noth-
ing earth-shaking, but enough to make the days whiz by faster
and faster.

Twenty-five years! Certainly one could write at great length
about what has transpired. But let the statistics suffice; for as a
Latin poet so opportunely said: |

Why, even as I monologue on wisdom and longevity
How Time has flown! Spear some of it!
The longest life is brevity.

+ MONTFORD SCHLEY VARIELL

BoRN: July 3, 1915, Waterbury, Conn. parents: Arthur Davis Variell, Katharine
Schley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1937.

pIED: Sept. 14, 1940, Cambridge, Mass,

VARIELL spent two years after graduation at the Graduate School
of Arts and Sciences, intending to pursue a career as a concert
pianist. A scholarship fund in his memory was established at
Harvard under the will of his mother. Her bequest of $80,000 will
provide income for “one or more scholarships for music students
in Harvard University whose particular interest is the piano or the
written music therefor.”

[ 1096 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM VAUGHAN

HOME ApprRESS: 5 Page Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Baird-Atomic, Inc., 38 University Rd., Cambritge, Mass,

porn: Nov. 6, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

marriep: Dora E. Kendall, June 9, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced tacie.
Phyllis N. Bouchard, June 18, 1960, Cambridge, Mass. caitpag~: Wiican,
Jr., Feb. 21, 1944; Ellen Kendall, July 13, 1945, Frank Apthorp, June @ it.

occupation: Mechanical engineer, Baird-Atomic, Inc, optical and renting iy.
struments.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engincers, Socuty of Mota
Picture and Television Engineers.

I SHALL start with the present, since this is the happiest and texe
peaceful period of my life. I am happily married to a woolerful
woman, and have three fine children (by my previous marruce).
My work as an engineer is stimulating and interesting because of its
association with various fields which today are in the frontiers of
science. Also, I am at last living in that section of the world where
I have always felt at home.

The last two years were preceded by eight years (1951-49) of
residence in the hinterlands of Upper New York State. In Roahes-
ter, I worked for the Eastman Kodak Company which was an enrich.
ing and rewarding experience of association with people and projects
of unusual caliber.

From 1944 to 1951, I lived in Southbridge, Mawuchusetry ant
Woodstock, Connecticut. At the time I was emploved at the Amen.
can Optical Company where I acquired the bass for my prewst
interest in and knowledge of optical Instruments. Between tga
and 1944, I was a member of the U.S. Army Air Force, nent of
the time as a Link Trainer instructor for instrument fying byte
period between my graduation and the latter tour of wevue, 3
worked for the American Optical Company in the partis?
department and as assistant purchasing agent at the Spencer bas
Division in Buffalo, New York.

Although I admit that I have pursued my objectives py ane og
vague and haphazard manner, I fecl thae Lam ae lease wel ear!
way to accomplishment. I enjoy a very convenial ant h tow bog!
status. My children have a comfortable home and all ee os
ties they can take advantage of, and we all enjoy the pe _ tor,
the Atlantic Ocean, the Maine coast and the showcases bo:

[ 1697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

of New England. My recreation has usually centered around the
water (sailing) and the snow (guess what), while my hobbies are
mainly connected with bits of antiquity —old clocks and marine
items.

ROYALL VICTOR, JR.

HOME apprEss: McCouns Lane, Glen Head, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cravath, Swaine & Moore, 15 Broad St., New York 5, N.Y.

BorN: May 5, 1916, Yonkers, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1940.

MarRiED: Isabel Gardiner, June 24, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Royall, 3d,
Dec. 16, 1938; David, June 6, 1942; Isabel, Feb. 9, 19473 Evelyn Adele, Oct.
15, 1951.

HARVARD SON: David Victor, ’64.

HARVARD BROTHER: Martin Victor, "35.

occuPATION: Lawyer, partner, Cravath, Swaine & Moore.

“OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Greenvale School, 1955-61; trustee, Middlesex School,
1959-61; director, Metropolitan Opera Association; president, Syosset
School Board, 1950-52; notes editor, Virginia Law Review, 1939-40.

_MEMBER OF: Creek Club; Piping Rock Club; Beaver Dam Winter Sports Club;
Phi Delta Phi (Legal); Broad Street Club, New York State Bar Association,
American Bar Association; Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Law Review articles, Virginia Law Review.

I AM a corporate lawyer working in New York and sometimes on
the road —I might add it is hard work and always has been. It is,
however, to me at least, constructive and enjoyable work. For
those who may not have run into my particular breed of cat, “corpo-
rate” means business, financial, securities, corporations, SEC, anti-
trust and all that stuff.

After college, I attended Virginia Law School with my new
bride. J came to Cravath’s, as it is known in the trade, in the fall
of 1940. After a little more than a year, I found myself in the U.S.
Army: not to emerge until late 1945 — no medals but at least I was,

I thought, a good artilleryman in the s1sth Field Artillery Battalion
(155 guns) in France and Germany.

Back to the office after the war, I became a partner in 1951. I
am, and always have been, a commuter, living on Long Island, We
have two sons, one in Harvard and one in Yale. Our daughter is at
St. Timothy’s, outside of Baltimore, and we have but one left at

[ 1098 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

home — another daughter. As for my points of view, social and

political convictions, and so on, I will say only that Lama Reputsa-

can and do not buy Kennedy.

PETER ROBERT VIERECK

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Silver St., South Hadley, Mass.
BORN: Aug. 5, 1916, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: 8.B., summa cur Laude, toe, AM. bata.

PH.D., 19423 L.H.D. (Olivet Coll.), 1959.

MarRIED: Anya de Markov, June 26, 1944, Rome, Italy. canipass: Joho Aleus

July 7, 1946; Valerie Edwina, March 30, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Poet; professor of Russian history, Mount Holyoke College.
OFFICES HELD: Teaching assistant, 1941-42, instructor in German heersture, tutor,

History and Literature Department, 1946-47, Harvard Univeruty, ineructoe

in history, U.S. Army University, Florence, Italy, 1945; ssustane prolewse

of history, 1947-48, visiting lecturer, Russian history, tog%-a.. awusssre

professor of Modern, European, Russian History, 194%-$§. profewor, unce
1955, Mount Holyoke College; visiting lecturer on Amencan Culture, (Me.
ford University, England, 1953; Whictal lecturer in pocery, Library of
Congress, 1954; Fulbright professor in American poctry and civuiracnes,
University of Florence, 1955; Elliston Poetry Chair lecturer, Uruvecury of
Cincinnati, 1956; visiting lecturer, University of Calfornia, tg¢t, mercer,
executive committee, American Commirtee for Cultural Freedom, charcee
member, Committee for Basic Education; Guggenheim feiow, Rome,
1949-50; Rockefeller Foundation researcher in history, Germany, i944.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; Oxford Society, Pocery Ms cery

of America; P.E.N.; Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Clubs of New York and
London; Bryce Club, Oxford, England.

PUBLICATIONS: The Unadjusted Man, a New Hera far Amenicant, tart. Coe

servatism: From John Adams to Churckill, tg54, The Pevinncmca Tees
(poems), 1956; Afetapolitics: Roots of the Nau Mind, vysa, Tbe Tove
Witch, a poem and play, 1960; awarded: Tictjens Prise foe pewery, tast
Pulitzer Prize for poetry, 1949; Mose Disangunhed Abinoue Nwer fh
Horace Mann School, 1958.

PETER ROBERT VIERECK is one of two American pemete gto ey
by the State Department to represent the United Seatesin the Soot
Union at the invitation of writers of the Soviet Unie. water tes 3
of a two-year cultural pact begun in November, ayoy Berson
will give poetry readings throughout the Sovier Umonandwoli *

'

with Russian poets and writers. At the end of the wiat Vier oe

Jest Berlin f he Berlin Festi: Mee yh oge
go on to West Berlin for the Berlin Festival, a citreat
with possible political overtones.

[ PO) ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JOHN BENJAMIN VINCENT

HOME ADDRESS: 698 Creston Rd., Berkeley 8, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1915, Kalamazoo, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Western State High School, Kalamazoo, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

MarRiED: Irene Elizabeth Vongehr, June 22, 1940, Kalamazoo, Mich. CHILDREN;
Natalie Jamini, Sept. 30, 1943; Mary Bronwen, Jan. 14, 1947; Sandra Jen-
nifer, July 3, 1949; John Edward, June 16, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Haughton Vincent, *33.

occuPaTION: Photographer.

puBLicaTIons: Buddhist Cave Painting at Tun Huang, by Basil Grey, Photo-
graphs (color) by John B. Vincent, preface by Arthur Waley, Faber &
Faber, London and University of Chicago, 1959.

CONRAD VOLDSTAD

MAILING ADDRESS: 1262 Pleasant Rd., Wantagh, Long Island, N.Y.

AUGUSTUS BALDWIN WADSWORTH, JR.

HOME AppRESss: 239 Gladstone Rd., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp., Oliver Bldg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.
BORN: July 8, 1914, Albany, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1934.

MarrigeD: Grace M. Putnam, June 16, 1951, Rye, N.Y. camp: Susan Magoun,

June 21, 1955.
OccUPATION: Manager, Equipment, Construction and Raw Materials Depart-

ment, Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corporation,

A NATIVE of Albany, New York, I attended Harvard University
before joining the purchasing department of Ludlum Steel Corpora-
tion at Watervliet, New York, in 1935. After the merger of Alle-
gheny Ludlum, I was named purchasing agent of Watervliet Works
in 1939, a post I held until transferred to Pittsburgh in 1940.

After four years’ service in the Army, during which time I served
as a captain in the Corps of Engineers in the European Theatre of
Operations, I was appointed assistant purchasing agent for Alle-
gheny Ludlum at Brackenridge, Pennsylvania, until July, 1959, when
I was made manager, Equipment, Construction and Raw Materials
Department.

I am active in professional affairs, and am a past president of the

[ 1100 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Purchasing Agents Association of Pittsburgh. On the national level,
I was appointed chairman of the National Committee on Non Fer-
rous Metals of the National Association of Purchasing Agents. 1
just finished my term as vice-president of the Sixth District of the
National Association of Purchasing Agents and a member of the
Executive Committee.

J am married and the father of one daughter, aged six. I play
golf in summer and indoor tennis in the winter to keep in shape.
My hobbies are cooking and photography.

THOMAS CHARLES GORDON WAGNER

HOME ADDRESS: 201 W. Montgomery Ave., Rockville, Md.
OFFICE ApprEss: University of Maryland, College Park, Md., Litton Industees

College Park, Md.
BORN: Jan. 9, 1916, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, Columbia Univerury, New

York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $.B., 1937; aM. (Univ. of Maryland),

1940; PH.D. (ibid.), 1943.
mMarriED: Rita Catherine Marron, Dec. 26, 1942, Washington, D.C, capers:
Ann Margaret, Nov. 11, 1944; James John, Sept. 18, 1946; Daniel Gordon,

Nov. 23, 1947.
OccUPATION: Professor, Electrical Engineering Dept. University of Maryland,

consultant, Litton Industries.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; Eta Kappa Nu, Tau Beta Pi, Signa
Xi; Rockville Chess Club; Capital Dog Training Club of Washington, DC,
Porsche Club of America; Harvard Club of Washington, D.C, Sports
Car Club of America; Park Forest Swimming Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Amalytical Transients, John Wiley & Sons, Inc, New York,
1959; Electrical Communications Expertments, John Wiley & Sony be,
New York, 1952, with George F. Corcoran and Henry R. Reed, Proa ced.
ings of the LR.E., Vol. 39, No. 3, March, 1951, “The General Des gy of
Triple and Quadruple-Tuned Circuits”; US. Patent acigig¢. Preqaem y
Modulated Oscillator for High Carrier Frequencies, US, Parente a.tcogre,
Frequency Modulated Oscillator.

I LEAD a double life. I work and I don't work.

When I work, I teach radio engineering to the seniors at ¢ 4
University of Maryland and transients to the graduate waders I
supervise many graduate theses in electrical engineerin: cachy yeu?
The quality of the students has improved greatly ov cete vers
Iam a technical consultant for Litton Industries. “his pats. |
our team worked with NASA ina succesful rocket shot kee t
hydrogen and helium in the upper atmosphere, |

[ rt01 )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

When I don’t work, I’m busier, I suppose. For the past two
years, I’ve been driving in local and national sports car rallies. M
navigator and I have been very successful (my wife says, lucky!)
and have dozens of trophies to prove it. I play chess, but this
season I don’t think I have won my board in the Washington area
tournament once. For recreation this summer, my wife and I went
to the Porsche Parade at South Egremont and to the Rip Van Winkle
Rally in the Catskills. We were fourth over-all in the Parade and
eleventh in the Rip. Next year we may go to more national rallies.

Our children are as busy as we are. Ann has been accepted at
Radcliffe for the Class of 1966 under the early decision plan. Jim
and Dan are in tenth and ninth grades, respectively. They raise
pigeons and build models with jet engines. We have survived a
summer when they had over 200 turtles in pens in the back yard.
When Dan was ten, eleven, and twelve years old, his frog won the
frog jump at the county fair. Then they made a rule that con-
testants could be only twelve or under. He retired but he gives free
advice. It was about this time that he took up a serious study of
jets. Jets are just a little faster than frogs, and easier to control.
Jim is recovering from a misfired “bomb” that was constructed with
an aluminum tube filled with over 500 match tops, cut with the
pruning shears which will never cut roses again. The tube cut
his left wrist and severed two tendons of the thumb, The cast

came off today and now he has a lot of exercising to do.

GEORGE ALLAN WAITE

HOME appreEss: 238 Oakland St., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Biltrite Rubber Co., 22 Willow St., Chelsea, Mass.

BORN: July 4, 1915, Cambridge, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

Marriep: Gertrude Andrea Johnson, Sept 12, 1943, Wellesley Hills, Mass.
CHILDREN: Barbara Andrea, June 26, 1944; Martha Ellen, June 29, 19475
Judith Anne, Sept. 29, 1951.

occuPATION: Purchasing agent, American Biltrite Rubber Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Business School Association;
National Association of Purchasing Agents; New England Purchasing
Agents Association; Pequosette Chapter No. 135, O.E.S. (P.P.); Water-
town (Mass.) R.A. Chapter (P.H.P.) and various other fraternal associa-
tions; National Rifle Association (life member), and various sporting club
affiliations.

[ 1102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I LEFT the Hood Rubber Company, Division of the B. F. Goode h
Company, in 1959, and went with the American Biltrite Rutitce
Company, first as a purchasing agent in their Boston Woven Plne
& Rubber Division in Cambridge, and later at the home oice inv
Chelsea, Massachusetts, where I am at the present time.

Family-wise, the wife, my three more or less grown-up girly and
I are rabid out-of-doors New Englanders. Angling in the spring,
camping in the summer, gunning in the fall, and skiing in’ the
winter — all violently — with a large measure of indoor i ice- “satires,
skeet-shooting, tennis, and swimming thrown in. We are nuty on
the subject of the active life.

Socially, my previously active fraternal and sporting club athha-
tions have waned to the point of occasional attendance at best, Nee
that I lack interest; I just don’t have the time.

Time seems to be my primary problem. The older I get, the more
things I want to do, the more interests I want to indulge, and the
less time I seem to have in which to do them. If anvone has the
formula for lengthening the twenty-four-hour day, let me kao
about it. I’m genuinely interested.

HARRY LEONARD WALEN

HOME AppREss: 6 Floral St.. Newton Highlands 61, \fass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Needham Senior High School, Webstce Screct, Needs am, Mase

BORN: June 26, 1915, Winchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, Cur Laude, toys, AM. Hoel.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Rowe Benson, June 24, t919, Wee Somereice,
CHILDREN: Harry Benson, Nov. 8, 1941; Kimball Ferederwh, Bebo a. tvat.

Robert Leonard, Nov. 14, 1953.

occuPATION: Principal, Needham Senior High School.

LOOKING from the principal's office of Needham Ph Ne ral
out over the spires of the town and the rolling hills tov ar Werea,
I can also see in retrospect the growth of the pattern that bef fe
And I can look back over the quarter-century since Pfarvar fs

a feeling that this has been a full life in the way mov testo!
hero, Teddy Roosevelt, would have used the term, av besa ts
been rich and productive beyond my boyhood dean beer

I am grateful.
There was more than teaching during the fve yearsathea V5

[ troy ]

Xt 6 et.

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

NESDEC committees in the past; belong to ASCD, the Massachu-
setts Secondary Principals Association, the Schoolmasters Club, and
various other professional organizations. I am a member of the
regional interviewing committee for Fulbright and other overseas
fellowships. Articles have appeared here and there in professional
periodicals.

Hobbies have been many. Family camping, reading, and colored
slide collections have emerged as the constants, after sundry side-
lines such as marksmanship, skiing, horseback riding, and what have
you. We have spent the equivalent of a solid year following the
highways and forest roads of the United States and Canada, camp-
ing as we have gone, and from this have come a good family rela-
tionship and a book, The Family Travel-Camper, which has been
reprinted and then gone into a second edition since its appearance
in 1955, and currently is being serialized in the magazine Family
Camping.

I am as faithful as possible to the Monday Evening Essay Club in
Newton and to the Friday Evening Club in Boston; to the English
Lunch Club and to the Neighborhood Principals Association. I
belong to the Harvard Club of Boston, the Appalachian Mountain
Club, Dalhousie Lodge, A.F. & A.M., the Sons of the American Rev-
olution, the Canopy Club, the Admirals Club, and the Harvard
Coop, although I have not held any office in these.

Tam still living with my first wife and constantly amazed that I
made such a good choice in the first place. Ben, twenty, is a college
sophomore and headed toward the ministry at this point; Kim,
seventeen, is a high school junior with an eye cocked toward the
medical profession; Bobby, eight, thinks mostly of old cars, the

church junior choir, and making things, and all too little of his school.
The boys all treat their sire with kindly tolerance and are my greatest
source of pleasure. For all this, I am grateful.

NATHANIEL BRACKETT WALES, JR.

HOME appress: 200 E.. 78th St., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Metrodynamics Corp., 8 Westover Ave., Caldwell, N.J.

BoRN: Feb. 8, 1915, Detroit, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marriep: Agnes Adams, 1938, Morristown, N.J. (divorced 1946); Anne Peacock,
1953, New York, N.Y.

[ 1106 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Physicist; president and research director, Metrodynamics Coe
poration.

OFFICES HELD: Research director, Industrial Enterprises Inc, New York City,
~ 1940-47, Technitron Division, Continental Copper & Stecl Indusnies, Ine,
1959-60; president, Wales Laboratories, Inc, Morristown, N.J. 194° 95,
chief, Engineering Research Section, Piscatinny Arsenal, 951-53, assisearre
director of research, Monroe Calculating Machine Company, Orange, N J,
1953-59.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, University Club; Sigma Ni, Instrure
of Radio Engineers.
puBLications: Forty U.S. patents,

THE theme of my life has been invention in the physical scicnces,
and my incentive has been the heady feeling of elation at the moment
when one succeeds in manipulating nature to perform a new fune-
tion never before experienced. Perhaps another incentive has been to
catch up with my father (Harvard ’o5) who is still turning out

several patents a year at the age of seventy-eight, God bless him.

After graduation I spent one of the most enjoyable years of my
life in the scholarly and contemplative atmosphere of Princeton's
graduate school, studying nuclear physics and drinking beer. Blow
I wish I had stayed for a degree! But like a dog dropping his bone
in the water, I became enamored of a scheme for diamagnetically
extracting oxygen from the air and, leaving Princeton, spent @ yest
at Stevens Tech absorbing magnetic design from Professor Roters.

At this point I found myself married to the Radclitfe girl in my
life, a marriage that was to last only eight years. Then followed @
normally confused period in which I built a dynamic balancer for
the Torrington blower people, and a pari-mutuel computing toce
machine for a syndicate of sports.

Just before the war, I met a fascinating gentleman, Hart O, Rery,
who had launched both the Wright Brothers and the submarine
pioneer, Simon Lake. Through his machinations I found my s!f the
chief inventor of a new firm designing weapons and fuses for army

ordnance. The fuzing system of the super-bazooka was one of my
seventeen military products of this era,

After the war I opened an invention factory in Morristown which
prospered moderately for some years. At that time IT conccwest
the granddaddy of all the glow counting tubes now used in elec:
tronic displays. I wonder what happened to the $saan0 IBME post
me for it.

In 1953 I entered two new lives. I married Anne Pesce hk, whan
I love, and I entered the corporate trap in the form ef the Vecce

{ t107 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Calculating Machine Company. Here, over a period of six years,
I became the assistant director of research of the Electronics Division,
and invented for them the Synchro-Monroe line of EDP business
machines.

Like a rocket, the process of breaking free of the “corporate
trap” has had two stages: first, after Monroe, a year with the Techni-
tron Division of Continental Copper, and now, a brave new venture
with an old friend and colleague, Ben Grady, as partner, the Metro-
dynamics Corporation, which we have set up in Caldwell, New
Jersey, to make money and create technological wonders, in that
order.

Alas, they are tearing down our Gotham garden apartment. The
world is crumbling about our ears.

ALBERT HAYNES WALKER

HOME ApDpRESS: 610 Overbrook Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.

orFice apprEss: Maryland Casualty Co., 701 W. goth St., Baltimore 11, Md.

BorN: March 1, 1915, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

Margiep: Martha Bernice Nissly, July 21, 1945, Morristown, N.J.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president — Director of Bonding, Maryland Casualty Com-

any.

orriees ew: Member, executive committee, Surety Association of America;
member, Surety Advisory Committee, Association of Casualty and Surety
Companies.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Maryland.

ALTHOUGH I am deeply indebted to the Departments of History
and Music for much of the pleasure ] have derived from life, I must
acknowledge that it was the Bursar’s Office which first introduced
me to the subject which has afforded me a livelihood for twenty-
five years. As a condition precedent to becoming freshmen, we
were required to post surety bonds guaranteeing the payment of
term bills and similar mundane obligations. The elementary lesson
thus derived in practical suretyship, plus some theoretical points
picked up through reading The Merchant of Venice, were Harvard's
direct contribution to my knowledge of suretyship.

With the exception of approximately four years in the Field
Artillery, I have spent the entire period since graduation as a surety
bond underwriter for the Maryland Casualty Company in capaci-
ties ranging from trainee to vice-president and director of bonding.

[ 1108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Music is still my chief outside interest, and [am noe averse ts
doing a little reading on historical subjects — not to mention a Lee's
fishing, especially in Canadian waters.

EUGENE HOFFMAN WALKFR

HOME ADDRESS: 814 Braemore Rd., Boise, Idaho.

orFice appress: U.S. Geological Survey, 914 Jefferson Se
Born: March 28, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, NH.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. ct Laude, 194°,

1947.
marrieD: Mary Morris, Aug. 27, 1947, Stamford, Conn. cumperw Athi

Marris, July 8, 1950; Cynthia Rosanne, Oct. 14, 1992, Pamels Mov, Oke px

1955+
HARVARD BROTHER: John Baldwin Walker, Jr., °33, at-a-a. "32.

occupation: Geologist, Ground Water Branch, US. Geologwal Survey.

OFFICES HELD: Cubmaster, Pack 45, Boy Scouts of Amenca, unce tye

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America, Amencan Geograph al Seawety

PUBLICATIONS: “Andean uplift and erosion surfaces in Rolivia.” dewes. sa owe
nal of Science, 1949; “Ground-water resources of the Plophimmscce area
Kentucky,” 1956, “Deep channel and alluvial depouets of the Ohare Valev”
1956, “Quality of ground water in the Upper Snake River Baan, Efstus”*
1960, U.S. Geological Survey Report, “Reserves of ground w ster in bow a®
Journal of American Water Works, 1956, a number of othee usnilet ert toe
and reports.

AFTER graduation I worked as a miner in Anzona for more thay
a year, then as a laborer with the cajuns repairing Poournisna levere
for a while, and then surveyed in Texas until [had waved enon
to return to graduate work at Harvard. Two vears Lice when tie
war broke out, I went to Bolivia to work in the G9 money aot
stayed there for almost four years, largely surrounded by Qhiegh ous
Indians, whose fiestas I delighted in attending.

Returning to this country I gained my PHD. and thes ta
for three years at the University of Michigan, In tuga Powe:
work for the U.S. Geological Survey. Since then DP bave ¢
and written on underground water resources iv KRertec ks,
and now in Idaho, where Boise is a fine place to live, Phase ec. ,
tunity to do field work, and in lonely or in populate bares &
how the world was made, and engage in conversatn ey tee
lonely sheepherder, now with the farmer. or rang! oy

ee 4.
gorgeous skies.
Having married a handsome Vassar (°44) perk we nie haces

~ Bore, i ahaa,

AM, togi, Pia,

i
e

7

2
‘ff
é

fo.

e

[ tay ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

children who lead us out into multitudinous activities. While child-
tending I have learned to play the flute poorly.

Starting off as a conservative, my extracurricular education (still
in rapid progress) has steadily led me to become more radical. Im-
bued, as a geologist, with a feeling of the vastness of time and that
change is the essence of life, the mighty social changes now occur-
ring are to me but evolution still in progress—and desperately
needed to recreate the world, and they disturb me less than some of
the resistance they provoke.

I read very much, the new as well as the old, but keep turning
to my favorite philosopher, Thoreau, and my favorite poet, Whit-
man. My chief disappointment in life is that it does not furnish me
with enough time. Through work with my church (Episcopal) and
various community services, I find opportunity to help improve
the world a little.

CHEVES THOMSON WALLING

HOME AppRESS: 284 Upper Mountain Ave., Upper Montclair, N.J.

OFFICE AvpREss: Dept. of Chemistry, Columbia University, New York 27, NY.

BorN: Feb. 28, 1916, Evanston, Ill.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937; PH.D. (Univ.
of Chicago), 1939.

MarriED: Jane Ann Wilson, Sept. 17, 1940, Winnetka, Tl. CHILDREN: Hazel,
Sept. 12, 1941; Rosalind, Oct. 16, 1943; Cheves, July 2, 1946; Janie, July 26,
1948; Barbara, Oct. 7, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: William English Walling, ’28.

occupation: Professor of Chemistry, Columbia University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Association of Harvard Chemists, 1951-32; member,
Visiting Committee to Chemistry Department, Brookhaven National Lab-
oratories, 1956-58; visiting lecturer, University of Washington, 1958;
DuPont lecturer, University of Rochester, 1959; visiting lecturer, Humble
Oil Company, 1960; member, Advisory Board, Petroleum Res. Fund, 1958-
60; member, editorial board, Journal of the American Chemical Society,
since 1957; director, Gordon Research Conf., since 1961; director and vice-
president, Antigua Castor Enterprises, Ltd., since 1956; director, Samson
Fund, 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society, American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; Sigma Xi; Phi Beta Kappa, Thorndike Club.

publications: About sixty research papers, chiefly in the Journal of the Ameri-
can Chemical Society; several reviews; one book, Free Radicals in Solution,
John Wiley & Sons, 1957.

[1110]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER two years of graduate work at the University of Chicacy,

I began a thirteen-year tour as an industrial research chemise wat! be
successively, du Pont, U.S. Rubber, and Lever Brothers Company,
interrupted for a few months in 1945 by service as a technical aie
with the Office of Scientific Research and Development in Washiny-
ton. Although much of my work was stimulating and satifyiny, |
found myself casting an increasingly wistful eye toward the aca-
demic world, and, in 1952, had the good fortune to be appointed
professor of chemistry at Columbia University, where I have teen

ever since.
I find the teaching profession, at least as scen from a scicnee de-

artment of a major university, a marvelously satisfying, if demand-
ing, career. Research, teaching, university administranve problems
and external activities such as lecturing, consulting and serving on
various advisory bodies are each activities in which there is a hme.
less amount to be done, and which could, individually, take up any-
one’s whole time. How to divide the effort, keep everything tun-
ning, and still enjoy my family and occasionally get tine to think,
is a recurrent problem.

If I’ve tried to present myself as an overworked servant of hu-
manity, I'll next admit that my family summers in Jatfrev, New
Hampshire, where I manage to spend a reasonable amount of tine,
‘and that lectures and meetings take me — and sometimes wife and
children — to a number of pleasant places every year. So far we
have ranged from California to Moscow, and I'm “hoping someday
to make the Orient as well. Meanwhile, my family grows up, Uve
sent two girls off to college — Sweet Briar and Mr. Elo! voke ~-
and my boy has reached high school. By 1978 I should have the
whole crew educated. My hobbics include sailing, skiing. bikes,
photography, and whatever else I can find time for.

My relations with Harvard remain cordial, if rather profesaenal
Pve occasionally lectured in the Chemistry Department, anf veut:
ing friends there from time to time gives me a chance to keep aves
on developments in Cambridge. Politically, 1 suspect thae Poa
closer to the views of Harvard staff than to the majority of Plarwas!
‘alumni. In any case, my abiding hope is that good sense and nei
able calm will see us through the next few years, thatthe sect
_mutual suspicion through which we all view our nether we:
slowly thin, and that we can turn our attention increaas. tat”
important problems that confront mankind white there as

room on earth and something left to share.

[tear]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

RICHARD MacCLENNAN WALSH, JR.

HOME aporess: 11 Lakeville Rd., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
OFFICE Appress: Martin Co., Middle River, Md.

porN: May 1, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MarRigD: Virginia Beers Abel, Feb. 18, 1942, Narberth, Pa. (divorced 1954).
cuitp: Ellen Gormley, Dec. 13, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Gormley Walsh, '39, Robert Leach Walsh, ’s0.

occupaTIoN: Field service ~ production planning, Martin Company, aircraft
and missile production.

MEMBER OF: Retired Officers Association, Washington, D.C.; Pi Era Club;
Harvard Varsity Club.

SINCE I submitted my report some ten years ago, I have been chiefly
interested in aircraft production. My position requires much travel-
ing. My firm, like so many other business corporations, has changed
its face completely. These past fifteen years have been changing
times. We are no longer producing aircraft, but have swung com-
pletely over into missile work. Even the old reliable ppy has passed
away.

Ny daughter Ellen is now a sophomore at Hood College. She
seems to enjoy the field of international relations.

Since I was retired from the Army, I still maintain some liaison
with the Pentagon, but at a distance.

As a last thought — is it really twenty-five years ago?

HENRY SANDERSON WANN

HOME ADDRESS: 142 Queen’s Drive W., Williamsburg, Va.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Hq., U.S. Army Transportation School, Fort Eustis, Va.

BorN: March 30, 1915, Bradford, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937. - ‘

MarrieD: Georgianna Jane McNerney, Jan. 3, 1947, Lock Haven, Pa. CHILD:
Steven Charles, April 5, 1952.

occupation: Officer, U.S. Army; assigned as chief, Aviation Branch, Directorate
of Doctrine & Literature, US. Army Transportation School.

MEMBER oF: American Helicopter Society, Army Aviation Association of
America; Reserve Officers Association; Association of the United States
Army; Transportation Lodge, AF. & A.M., Fort Eustis, Va.; Scottish Rite
Bodies of Newport News, Va.; Nile Temple of Shriners, Seattle, Wash.

TO describe the events of the past quarter-century in terms of an

[ 1112 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orderly career pattern, determined in advance and planned fur
while in college, would be a neat and satisfying way of doing things
but such a pattern does not exist in my case. Having been intensely
interested in aviation since my early teens, and working in that in-
dustry and learning to fly during college vacations, 1 became aw
ciated upon graduation with the Piper Aircraft Corporation of Lock
Haven, Pennsylvania, and spent about four and a half years most
interestingly pursuing what I expected would be a career with that
concern. After a year learning the business in the factory and home
office, I progressed to the position of traveling district sales manayer
covering, in all, practically all of the country, working with the local
dealers, seeing the country and building up my first thousand hours
of flying time.

In the summer of 1941, with the clouds of war darkening the skv
and the nation strengthening its military forces, I was one of a
small group of civilian pilots who participated in the extensive army
maneuvers, demonstrating and proving the potential value to the
Army of light airplanes, particularly for artillery air observanon
and liaison duties. With the acceptance of the light airplane by the
Army, I went to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, as a civilian instructor to
assist in the organization and development of the Army's light
aviation program, and shortly afterward put on the uniform of an
artillery lieutenant. After two years at Sill, was assigned as aviation
officer of an artillery group, serving in Texas, Hawau and the
Philippines, and, after occupation duty in Japan, was released from
service in 1946 to return to my civilian employment.

Certainly no one in college had had less interest in any association
with the military than I, who shunned ROTC with the youthful
idealism of one who earnestly believed that war had been forever
outmoded in our enlightened era. (Now, with our 25th Reunion an
approaching reality, I find myself still in service, my attendance at
the long-anticipated Reunion conungent upon military requirements
and my retirement from active service scheduled to follow the Re:
union by slightly more than a year, barring unforeseen nulitary
developments.) After a year of postwar civilian work, and now
with a new wife, I found myself the unemployed victim of a finan:
cial crisis which beset the aviation industry and, in Occober, rags,
returned to “temporary” active duty — from which [T have nec
yet been relieved. The past fourteen years have been interest’
and varied, with two assignments in army aviation research act
development, four years in Europe, and a most challengens ao!

[r1t3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

fascinating tour of three and a half years in Japan, serving with the
Military Assistance Advisory Group as senior aviation adviser to
the Japanese Self Defense Force and concurrently commanding the
MAAG Flight Detachment, We returned from Japan via “the long
way,” stopping in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Europe, thus
demonstrating that the slogan “Join the Navy and See the World”
is as fully applicable to the Army. My present assignment is as
chief of the Aviation Branch, Directorate of Doctrine and Literature,
U.S. Army Transportation School at Fort Eustis, Virginia. AlI-
though I hold the rating of master army aviator, and have a total of
nearly seven thousand hours of flying, I’m largely desk-bound . . .
not by my choice, however.

For the past year, hobbies have been subordinated to the self-
imposed task of getting a little more education, and am now over
halfway through an off-duty course leading to an A.M. degree from
George Washington University — foreseeing the day when the two
additional letters may increase my value for prospective post-retire-
ment employment. Living in the vicinity of the restored colonial
town of Williamsburg is delightful, and offers many diversions and
unique features enjoyed by the entire family. The problems of
suburban living add spice and zest to everyday life, and the main-
tenance of an adequate lawn vies with keeping up with the young-
ster and his education as a further extracurricular activity. All in
all, life has been good to me, and enjoyable, although it has been far
different than I ever suspected twenty-five years ago. To the influ-
ence of Harvard and the Army must be added that of a wonderful
wife and a fine boy to help me look forward to the next twenty-five
years.

EDWIN McGREGOR WARNER

apprEss: 78 Main St., Geneva, Ohio.

BoRN: Dec, 3, 1913, Geneva, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Geneva High School, Geneva, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937- DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 19373 LL.B 1941.

MaRRIED: Kathryn Warner, cutLpreN: Arlene; Richard; Robert.

occupation: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Member, and former deacon, United Church; chairman, Town-
ship Zoning Commission.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club.

FOLLOWING college, law school, and starting law practice, were
two years in the office of Senator Harold H. Burton, one year in

[1114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

War Production Board, Washington. General law practice resumed
in 1946, at 78 East Main Street, Geneva, Ohio, the home town, north.
east corner of state. Residence, old farm, “Blackacre.”

Hobbies: antiques; potted plants, orchids, etc.; astronomy.

STURGIS WARNER

HOME ADDRESS: 3303 Macomb St., N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jones, Day, Cockley & Reavis, 1116 Ring Bldg. Washington
6, D.C,

BorN: Feb. 9, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 19373 LL.B. 1940.

marrieD: Hilda F. Sizer, April 29, 1944, Bethany, Conn. critpars: Mary
Hooper, Sept. 16, 1945; Edith Hill, Sept. 19, 1947, Sturgis, Jr. June 4 taco,
Roger Sherman, 2d, July 30, 1951; Faith Sizer, April 9, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Sherman Warner, Jr., ’31.

OccUPATION: Lawyer; partmer in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Attorney, Office of the Under Sccretary of War. toyo-ay.
attorney, Reconstruction Finance Corporation and later Asustant General
Counsel, Office of War Mobilization & Reconversion, 1944-44, prvare
practice of law with same firm, since 1946; adviser and counsel, DC
Board of Elections, 1955-60; counsel for both Democratic Central Com
mittee, D.C., and Republican State Commitee, D.C, 1940-61, director,
Washington Home Rule Committee, Inc., since 1956; member, Amerwan
Bar Association Committee on Mobilization and D.C. Bar Awswwiation
Committee on Legislation; vestry associate, St. Albans F piscopa) Church.

MEMBER OF: Washington Home Rule Committee, Inc.; Metropolitan Club,
Metropolitan Washington Board of Trade; American Bar Aqoration,
Bar Association of D.C.; Cleveland Park Club; West River Sailing Awa ia-
tion; Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; Harvard Law School Awociuaned

of D.C.

THE last twenty-one and a half years since law school I have spent
here in Washington, D.C., first as a government lawyer during the
war years, and for the last fifteen years in general private practice.
I am a partner in the Washington office of a firm which has a lire
office in Cleveland, Ohio.

We live with our five children in a rambling olf house iva fast
bling old part of the city (Cleveland Park), with a stream inthe te 4
yard and a general atmosphere of Grand Central Saanion. “Tas ¢ 4
and always has been a scarce commodity, and in recent years barter)
in critically short supply. This is cither because (4) there aes
work to do, (2) it is harder, (3) you try to do it berrer, (4) woof
haven’t hired enough juniors, (5) you take on more extrude

[ riig )

st

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

stuff than you used to do, because you think it is more important than
you used to think it was, (6) you have shot your bolt already and
the old man ain’t what he used to be, or (7) possibly a combination
of (1) through (6). I hope it is not just (7), but can report this
trend better at the Fortieth Reunion.

Travel, except for occasional business trips, has been confined
principally to a month in Mexico after the war, a month in Scot-
land a decade later, and a ranch and camping trip to the Rockies
a couple of years ago. Hobbies have been few, except for sailing in
Chesapeake Bay, which basically means (1) agonizing in the spring
to get the boat ready for summer, (2) agonizing in the fall to get the
boat ready for winter, and (3) agonizing in the long (eight-month)
sailing season because we are all too busy to go sailing. Next year
it’s going to be different — this has been true of next year every year.

Apart from the family and the office, my chief and continuing
concern has been with the basic working relationship between
Washington, D.C., as a city, the Congress, the executive branch of
the federal government, and the more than 750,000 people who live
here. This gets into the field of elections at once, because Washing-
ton had no elections of any kind for over eighty years and its citi-
zens have never voted in Presidential elections.

Things are better now. We got Congress to take the first step
in 1955, by authorizing elections of local party officials, which gave
us the chance to start building a city election system from scratch
and to run two elections—in 1956 and again in 1960. The next
step, and a much larger one, was completed in March of 1961, with
the ratification, by thirty-eight states and a two-thirds vote of both
Houses of Congress, of the Twenty-third Amendment to the United
States Constitution, which permits the citizens of the District of
Columbia to vote for the first time in Presidential elections. We
shall first vote in 1964, after a gap of 164 years. The next steps, which

I hope will be completed in my lifetime, will be to provide for the
election of some type of elected delegate or representative to the
Congress, and an improved structure of local government, so as to
provide a balance between local needs and federal needs, each ef-
fectively represented, which is not now the case.

My own part in all this merges into and becomes blended with
the work of many others. Despite the many frustrations caused by
the size of the operation, the small leverage which is available in any
community for matters of this kind, and the necessarily protracted
nature of any such program, it has been a source of some satisfac-

[1116]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion. I think that this is because (1) the operation is atirmative in
nature, being directed at the orderly improvement of a baswal'y
sound system of government to which we as a nation are irrevocalily
committed, and (2) its impact is concentrated on the very coo.
munity in which we live, although the forces which are necessary
to bring the changes about are national in scope — Congresuonal ac:
tion and Constitutional amendment.

The impact of all this on the world as a whole is not earth-shakites,
despite its philosophical overtones, but at that point you pump inte
areas of dispute on such subjects as the relative desirability of alters
native systems embodying various sizes of frogs, and their compara-
tive impact on various sizes of ponds in which they live. Such
debate is better suited for a bull session than for inclusion in this
report, which is already weeks overdue, despite the persistent and
repeated blandishments of our overworked and frustrated editor, to
whom our Class thanks are perennially due and unpaid.

THAYER SOLOMON WARSHAW

HOME ApDpRESS: 16 Carisbrooke St., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

BORN: May 30, 1915, Methuen, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, Cio laude, 1937; AMT, tht.

MaRRIED: Bernice Kepner, July 10, 1938, Cleveland, Ohw, canipare Pines,
Jan. 31, 1940; Shirley, Oct. 10, 1993; Margaret. May 4 toes.

occuPaTION: High School Teacher of English.

I UNDERSTAND that menopause in the male is a matter mush
mooted among eminent medical authoriucs, Well here's a little case
history to help science reach a decision.

In June of 1959, twenty-two years out of college and forty (oor
years old, I closed our family automobile dealerhip — with wtists |
had been connected (by an umbilical cord) since gradation, eerie
for hiding out in a defense plant during World War I an doies
rolled in the Harvard Graduate School of Faucation,

For the next two years [ renounced civilization for the olive grr
of Academe, while I took an accelerated underyraduare pear es
English and completed requirements for the A. MOT. ole vree OME,
fellow students were somewhat less than half my ate, sea
of fact, some of my daughter's classmates becaine mane Phas
tion was not without its humorous, as well as as fteeeu ie s

‘ir
[ rat? |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

three of the six graduation prizes. She is now at Barnard. For some
reason, probably susceptible of psychiatric analysis, neither gir]
even applied to Radcliffe, their father’s co-alma mater (or, Harvard
being alma mater, would Radcliffe be almus pater?). Our youngest
daughter, Maggie, has just started as a day student at Abbot Academy
in Andover. Bernice drops her off on the way to nursery school,
and by nine o’clock each day, every member of the family is once
more at school.

ABBOTT McCONNELL WASHBURN

Appress: Carl Byoir & Associates, Suite 300, National Press Bldg., Washington 4,

D.C.; 800 Second Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BorN: March 1, 1915, Duluth, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cur laude, 1937.

MarRieD: Mary Brennan, May 12, 1938, South Bend, Ind. cumpren: Abbott

Michael, Feb. 26, 1940; Daniel Norton, Dec. 15, 1942.

HARVARD sons: Abbott Michael Washburn, '62; Daniel Norton Washburn, ’64.
occupation: Government and public relations; vice-president, Carl Byoir &

Associates,

APPOINTED Deputy Director of the U.S. Information Agency by
President Eisenhower on November 30, 1953; served in that capacity
until March, 1961. Awarded the Distinguished Service Award by
USIA in September, 1960.

Previous to this, served in the White House as deputy to C. D.
Jackson, Special Assistant to the President for Psychological War-
fare. Was also Executive Secretary of the President’s Committee on
International Information Activities. This Committee, appointed by
the President in January, 1953, was charged with surveying the cold
war effort of the United States. Its recommendations, delivered to
the White House in June, 1953, formed the basis for the creation
of the Operations Coordinating Board of the National Security
Council, the reorganization of the overseas information program
and establishment of the U.S. Information Agency as an independent
agency.

In January, 1952, named national director of organization for
Citizens for Eisenhower, with headquarters in New York City.
Served in this capacity until General Eisenhower's return to the
United States in June, at which ime became chief of correspondence
at the Denver campaign headquarters, Later served as a member of

[ 1120]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Mr. Eisenhower's staff at the Commodore head puartery a Now

York City.
On leave of absence from General Mills Inc. durin rye ast

1951, served as executive vice-chairman of the Crnade for breed.
working under General Lucius D. Clay. In this capacity. “os
instrumental in the establishment and dedicauon of the Werld
Freedom Bell in West Berlin, on United Nations Day, Onteter as.

1950.
From 1937 to 1950 associated with General Milly foe. Sb

neapolis; as manager of the company’s Department of Publig Metvacs
from 1946 to 1950. During the war was with the Navy and Orn

WILLIAM WAITE WATERS

BORN: Sept. 18, 1916, Miller, S.Dak. panesrs: Glen Myere Watery, Carian

Waite.
PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB, Ctr bande, tg)", thm, Upat.

pieD: July 29, 1942, Kano, Nigeria, Central Africa.
AS an undergraduate Waters made a notable all-round revert
winning his numerals in baseball, and playing junior waruty Daweh,
freshman and House football, rugby and squash. Tle was accitse
business manager of the Crimson, and a member of the S.sort See
ciety. He held a John Harvard Scholanhip, was awariic.f p [eur
during his freshman year, and received hiw AB. wath dines ean
He studied during the year after graduation at the Lemtoa Steed
of Economics, and then attended the Harvard Paw Sohant ple was
a former captain of the Harvard Rugby Chib and one of the tess
which won the eastern championship for Circe wayne tines
In 1939 he was awarded the Bochner Trophy foe the plavet wt
demonstrates the best qualities of play and sportunant

He entered the service at Fort Snching, Vinson, ee AS ee
19gt, was transferred to Camp Roberta California, ast thes wcuet
at Turner Ficld, Albany, Georgia, where he teceoe tho wee at
at Morrison Ficld, Florida, before bers asccne foe the ban,
Command in Africa. Ule died from ajar eeceise fins g Dos
crash while on active duty ferrying a besten ta Ge Paco bp
asa licutenane, AAF, and navigator ivethe Ave] feecertls oy

[tose]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

TRA ALEXANDER WATSON

HOME ADDRESS: 2880 Isabell St., Golden, Colo.

OFFICE appress: Bureau of Reclamation, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colo.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1915, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937.

marrigD: Blenda Burrell, Nov. 5, 1938, Albuquerque, N.Mex. cumpren: Alan
Ira, Sept. 14, 1941; Alexa Louise, Nov. 26, 1944.

occupation: Chief, Economics Branch, Office of Assistant Commissioner and
chief engineer, Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Department of the Interior.

MY first job after graduation was a training position with the
United Pueblos Agency in Albuquerque. It was an exciting change
to move from the green hills of New England to the fascinating
combination of Indian, Spanish and Anglo cultures in the desert
lands of New Mexico. For four happy years we enjoyed the “Land
of Enchantment” until in December, 1941, I received orders to
transfer to the Rosebud Sioux Reservation in South Dakota. My
wife and I and our three-months-old son were driving north to the
new job when we learned that the President had announced the
onset of war. .

At Rosebud my task was to route Indian labor into war-support-
ing activities, but I soon enlisted in the Navy Language School at
the University of Colorado and became a Japanese translator, serv-
ing in Hawaii, Okinawa and with the fleet along the Asiatic coast.
Our daughter was born while I was overseas,

In 1946 I resumed federal service with the Bureau of Reclamation
regional office at Billings, Montana, followed by several years in the
Commissioner’s Office in Washington, D.C., prior to my transfer to
Denver in 1954. .

Alan is now a sophomore at the University of the Pacific in
Stockton, California; and Alexa will enter Colorado College in
Colorado Springs next fall. The principal hobby of our family for
the last six years has been the Lakewood Westernaires, a riding club
with a year-round program of parades, rodeos, and horse shows.
We also enjoy pack trips and camping in the Colorado Rockies.

When I first went to the Southwest, I found it refreshing to
discover that people were judged in terms of their capabilities and
performance rather than by their family history or economic and

academic background, Now, however, an increasing materialism
seems to be wearing away some of the virtues of the former forth-
right social values. A generation ago we left college to find jobs in a

{ 1122]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time of economic depression and impending war. Today the neve

eneration faces a world of uncertainty and peril. We have pase
successfully through turbulent times, and we hope that our children
will do the same.

ROBERT BLAKE WATSON

HOME ADDRESS: §60 Concord Ave., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4 University Hall, Cambridge 38, Mass.

Born: Dec. 14, 1913, Wellesley, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

marrieD: Pauline Blodgett, Jan. 31, 1942, Falmouth Foreside, Maine. cont reas.
Gail, July 13, 1943; Jeannie, Nov. 20, 1944; Peter Thacher, March a4 toes,
Joanne, April 18, 1951; Robert Blake, Jr. Dec. 29, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Dean of students, Harvard College.

OFFICES HELD: Class Agent, since 1938; member, Harvard Fund Council 104+-

51, 1960-62; past president, 1953-55, director, Douglas A. Thom Chinw
for Children; past president, 1957-60, member, executive commuttee, Reb-
mont Day School; trustee, Beaver Country Day School, since tgq>, member,
Diocesan Department on College Work, Episcopal Church, ume toe,
member, Boston Nursery for Blind Babies, since t9¢q, Benton Chi tren’s
Service Association, since 1960; trustee, Mount Auburn Hospital woe
1960; vice-president and director, F. L. & J. C. Codman Company.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Kittansert Club, Marion, Mass, Shanrg Ciob

of Boston.

IF Fate had played its hand differently and there hadn't been Worl!
War II, I often wonder what I would be doing now, My guce in
that I would still be in the banking business, probably wich the
Morgan-Guaranty Bank and living in a suburb of New York Crew.
I say this because I considered my first job after graduation with
J. P. Morgan & Company to be everything that coull be dearet
Why switch jobs when one is happy in his work and Icave bebint
many close friends? Therefore, I think it reasonable ta assure |
would still be there. But Uncle Sam didn’t see it that way antente Jf
this happy association. And so it was that I was cated ter active slits
as a Reserve ensign in July, 1940.

My first assignment was to an old four-piper, USS Plopewe a1
gunnery and torpedo officer, After three months ef “acura
patrol” in the North Atlantic and a short Navy Yard evectant we
received orders to proceed to Halfay with instructions te tna
ship over to the British under the terms of the Lend bene Veo >
ment. The Hopewell had been designated avone ofthe tiny Wo!

[0033]

ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

the day-to-day operations of the College, with extracurricular
activities including athletics and with discipline if it is serious
enough to involve outside authorities. I haven’t yet found anyone
who ever envied me, yet I thoroughly enjoy my work, headaches
and all, and there are few days that I don’t look forward to return-
ing to my messy desk in 4 University Hall. As for the home front,
my worthy and capable partner and I are the parents of five active,
healthy children ranging from eighteen down to nine. We know of
no greater responsibility. The budding of these young hopefuls has
been for us a fruitful source of interest. What more could anyone
ask for?
I am also connected with two business enterprises: One, F. L. &
J. C. Codman Company in Rockland, Massachusetts, manufacturers
of buffing and polishing wheels, of which I am vice-president and
director; the other a Massachusetts trust called Polly Watson, which
was sct up by my wife in order to design and sell women’s apparel,
with an emphasis on originally decorated sweaters, dresses, and suits,
For the past ten years we have summered on Cape Cod. My vaca-
tion usually consists of following the kids’ activities and devoting
considerable time to cultivating a large vegetable garden, working
on the house, and an occasional round of golf. These I find necessary
diversions from deaning, as | must confess that each year, after nine
months of dealing with human problems, I need a chance to let off
steam. By the time September rolls around, I’m ready once again
to tackle the daily problems of a college dean.

WILLIAM JOHN WATT

HOME aporEss: 603 Fernfield Circle, Wayne, Pa. :

orrics avpress: N, W. Ayer & Son, W. Washington Square, Philadelphia, Pa.

porn: April 28 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.

prepared at: Iona School, New Rochelle, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1937.

Marriep: Jeanne Marie O'Brien, Jan. 15, 1949, Larchmont, N.Y. CHILDREN:
William John, Jr, Oct. 4, 1950; Robert Charles, March 15, 1952; Paul
Kevin, March 30, 1955; Richard Francis, Oct. 31, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Hurley Watt, '32.

occupation: Advertising.

IT’S probably a sign of old age, but sometimes I like to feel that I

graduated in 1947 and not 1937. My thought process goes something
like this. After spending five of my first eight years out of college
in the Army, it was not untl 1947 that I really got settled in business.

[ 1126]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Then, being the cautious type, I never found the right girl until 1949

with the result that the fifties were taken up witnessing the arrival

of my four red-headed boys. And now into the soaring sixties, I

am faced with many of the same teen-age problems that most mem-

bers of the Class of ’47 are facing and with whom I have frequent

contract. The only catch is that my graying hair and lack of agility
belie my youth,

In actuality the years immediately following graduation were
both interesting and instructive. After taking a one-year whack at
Harvard Medical School, I spent two years trying to become the
world’s greatest salesman. The draft board soon put an end to that
in early 1941 and, of course, the one-year draft stretched out to a
five-year hitch. Three of these were spent in Australia and New
Guinea, where I acquired a real fondness for Australians (including
a group of “diggers” in Brisbane with whom I played rugby as a
member of the Queensland All-Star Team). Eventually, in January,
1946, I was separated from the service as a captain with a fund of
knowledge in signal communication which I have long since forgot.

Since that time I’ve been involved with various aspects of the
marketing of packaged consumer goods, primarily in the drug
field. Through 1950 I was with the sales department of Vick
Chemical Company and since then have been with an advertising
agency, N. W. Ayer & Son. Vance Packard to the contrary, I

find my work interesting, thought-stimulating and varied.

Five years ago we moved from New York to Philadelphia and
took up residence overlooking Valley Forge. This has proven to be
one of the best decisions I could have made since, by contrast with
New York living, things around here are much less harassed. In
fact, working at Ayer in Philadelphia provides an opportunity,
somewhat rare in the advertising field, to review most situations
objectively and with due deliberation in order to come up with the
right solution without pushing the proverbial “panic button.”

In addition the proximity of some truly beautiful country within
thirty minutes from the center of town provides a wonderful escape
— something that becomes increasingly important to me every year
as my family grows up. In fact, as my four boys mature and gee
involved in community affairs, I too have got involved. The past
six months provides a good case in point. It all started lase Mav
when three other fathers and myself speculated on how fine it woul!
be if our boys had an opportunity in the area to play orginice.!

football. Well, one thing led to another and before we knew it.

[1127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

there were ninety boys under twelve and between sixty-five and a
hundred and ten pounds wanting to play football and willing to pay
ten dollars for the privilege. I was saddled with the job of running
the operation, including getting the necessary personnel, equipment
and money. It took a lot of time but eventually we equipped and
fielded three squads, persuaded a number of ex-Ivy league stars to
coach, and had each squad play eight regulation games with similar
teams in neighboring towns. This resulted in innumerable “con-
flicts” both at business and at home, but all in all it was a lot of fun,
both for the boys involved and me.

Now, to come around to my original point of departure, can you
blame me for wanting to claim membership in the Class of 47?

MALCOLM STUART McNEAL WATTS

HOME ADDRESS: 600 El Camino Del Mar, San Francisco 21, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 909 Hyde St., San Francisco 9, Calif.

porn: April 30, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Trinity School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.D. IQ4I.

MARRIED: Genevieve Moffitt, July 12, 1947, Piedmont, Calif. campren: Pauline
Moffitt, Dec. 8, 1948; Elizabeth Forbes, Oct. 21, 1950; Malcolm Stuart
McNeal, Jr., July 3, 1952; James Kennedy Moffitt, March 20, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Fairfield Watts, 39 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, San Francisco Medical Society,
since 1953, San Francisco Heart Association, 1953-58, American Social
Health Association, since 1957, United Bay Area Crusade, since 1957, San
Francisco Homemaker’s Service, since 1958, San Francisco Association for
Mental Health, since 1959, San Francisco Cancer Society, since 1961;
assistant clinical professor of medicine and acting dean, University of
California School of Medicine, since 1956; president, San Francisco Medical
Society, 1961; trustee, Cathedral School for Boys, since 1960, American
Society of Internal Medicine, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Physicians;
American Society of Internal Medicine; American Federation for Clinical
Research; Association of American Medical Colleges; American Associa-
tion for Advancement of Science; American Public Health Association;
California Academy of Medicine, California and New York Academies

of Sciences; Pan American Medical Association; American Geriatrics
Society, American Academy of Political and Social Science; Harvard
Club of San Francisco; University Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several publications in professional journals.

THE first ten years following graduation were expended in Harvard

[1128]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Medical School (four years), internship in medicine at Bellevue

Hospital (one year), Army of the Unired States (three and a half

years of duty as medical officer with anti-aircraft units on the

Pacific Coast), residency training in internal medicine at the Uni-

versity of California School of Medicine in San Francisco (one

and a half years), and many trips across the San Francisco Bay bralve

to Piedmont. These latter culminated in 1947 by bringing the gael

over to San Francisco to live happily ever after.

In 1948 we settled down to the way of life which has perited
ever since. This has been a pleasant blending of procreation, carn.
ing a living in the private practice of internal medicine, teaching in
a medical school, and sometimes overdoing medical politics ‘and
community activities related to education, health, and human wel.
fare. During the last five years, administrative duties at the medical
school have been added, with a particular responsibility to help plan
the future development of the San Francisco campus of the buryeon-
ing University of California.

A long-standing interest in science, people, and the role of the
human individual in this world has crystallized in a concern with
the profound and growing effects of the scientific revolution upon
the American way of life, particularly as they relate to the financing
and distribution of medical care. Here questions of scientine
progress, economics, and individual freedom and responsability cue
be resolved by my professional colleagues who are sull unshitied in

the diagnosis and treatment of the new social, economic, and po-
litical problems as they affect medicine. These isucs are important
They are the issues of the American way of life vis-a-vis the cece:
nomic and political systems to which we stand opposed. Ie werss
quite possible that under these complex preswures the demos tate
process, either in desperation or in confusion, may abandod te
concept of individual freedom and responsibility only to fad tat
the very things which are responsible for the phenomenal pre cre.
which has made American medicine and the American wav of [fs
the envy of the world will have been lost. This is a great pretty
and a great worry. I certainly think it should worry more peo
than it seems to.

Like every other member of our exubcrant Chis, I h weleosias
steady decline since graduation. Entropy i Iweelentlon dy es
Hopefully, we have gained some in wisdom and alaen, e [lon aae
for our lost, misspent, and wasted youth, which we ames bos
should have been misspene and wasted more We cots es

[ tazg J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

what we had when we still had it. But there are comfortable ad-
vantages to the peaceful decline—a loving family, improved

roceries, excellent wines, and a nice warm fire — and an increasing
faith in the evolutionary process for the better.

RICHARD EVERETT WEED

HOME ApprEss: 14 Washington St., Forestville, Conn,

porn: Nov. 10, 1914, New Britain, Conn.

PREPARED AT: New Britain Senior High School, New Britain, Conn.; Wilbraham
Academy, Wilbraham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1937.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Singer. . c

MEMBER OF: New Britain Musical Club; Hartt Opera-Theatre Guild; Harvard
Glee Club Foundation; Goodspeed Opera House Foundation; Friends of
Music Mountain; Appalachian Mountain Club; Antiquarian and Landmarks
Society of Connecticut; Connecticut Historical Society, New York His-
torical Association; Friends of Old Sturbridge.

TOWNSEND UNDERHILL WEEKES

HOME ApprEss: Cove Road, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: W. EF. Hutton & Co., 522 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 28, 1914, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: AB., 1937. so
MarRIED: Margaret B, Ranken, March 13, 1948, Wilmington, Del. cHtLpREN:

Elizabeth B., Nov. 11, 1950; Townsend Underhill, Jr, May 16, 1952; David
H,, June 12, 1955.

HARVARD BroTHERs: Arthur Delano Weekes, Jr, ’31; James Higginson Weekes,
"34.
OCCUPATION: Investment broker.

MeMseR OF: Seawanhaka Yacht Club; Beaver Dam Winter Sports Club; Har-
vard Club of New York,

ALTHOUGH I have no noteworthy accomplishments to report,
my life since 1937 has been a full and happy one. After four years
with the Home Insurance Company in New York City and Boston,
I was called to active duty in the Navy, where I was fortunate
enough to have command of three different ships. In 1946 I decided
to go into business for myself in what proved to be an ill-conceived
idea of starting a chain of self-service laundries. In 1951, somewhat
wiser and still financially intact, 1 decided that working for someone
else would be much more satisfactory than the cares and worries of

[ 1130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

running a small business, so I joined the Home Rubber Company
where I remained as New York manager until 1958. For the bist
three years I have been with W. E. Hutton & Company in a busaness
that has always fascinated me since I made my first investment at
the age of twenty-one.

Much of my leisure time is spent hunting, fishing, sailing and in
the winter skiing and figure-skating.

I am a conservative Republican, tired of the welfare state, increas:
ing federal debt, burdensome taxes and politicians promising some-
thing for everyone from the cradle to the grave.

MARK LIDDELL WEHLE

HOME ADDRESS: 1150 Fifth Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Bureau of Economic Research, 261 Madson Ave,
New York 16, N.Y.

BorN: May 25, 1917, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., mrgna Cure laude, 1937, AM. (Colum.
bia Univ.), 1950.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Brandeis Wehle, Jr., "40.

OCCUPATION: Economic research; research assistant, National Bureau of Foo

nomic Research.
OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Dept. of Economics, Baruch School, City Coiege.

spring session, 1961.
MEMBER OF: American Youth Hostels.

FREDERICK PETER WEIL

HOME ADDRESS: 3810 Pine Hill Rd., McLean, Va.

OFFICE apprEss: IBM, 10301 Westlake Drive, Rockville, Md.

BoRN: May 1, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREFS: A.B, Clem Lrude, wit, stm ay tyre

MarRiED: Susan S. F. Cooper, Aug. 29, 1963. New York, NOV, qautpme we Se
June 17, 1954; Henry, July 11, 1966; Sara, May @ sae

occupation: Data processing; controller, Systeme Developinene Pearse

Federal Systems Division, IBM.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

CURRENTLY, I am living just outside Washireron, wert to
controller for an IBM department that performs erates pte
vides services for the Department of Defense anbaet-r ac.)
the federal government. I have been with [NMG eee fee

[rrje]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

have found this interesting, congenial and satisfying. Previously, I
worked up to being an assistant division manager of the Allen B.
DuMont Laboratories, Inc., in Clifton, New Jersey, during eight
years; was in the Army for four years during World War II, mostly
in the Services of Supply in Europe, starting as a private and ending
as captain after O.C.S. Other jobs were of relatively short duration.

I took a long time getting married and subsequently, under the
influence of my wife, found myself skiing, cruising, fishing and
doing all sorts of other energetic things that I had not taken seriously
during a serious youth. My children (aged seven, five and one and
a half) apparently inherit their mother’s enthusiasm for a strenuous
life, and I foresee a continuingly beautiful, outdoor existence.

Work has been consistently absorbing and time-consuming.
Spending all my leisure with my family, I have had time for one
durable hobby: reading and thinking about English medieval, par-
ticularly constitutional, history. 1 attribute this to my bafflement
about so many facets of English history during college; I resented
this and have tried to improve my understanding ever since.

PETER WEINBERGER

HOME ADDRESS: 2201 Trenton Drive, San Bruno, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESs: Louis A. Allen & Associates, 526 Forest Ave., Palo Alto, Calif.

BoRN: Oct. 31, 1914, San Francisco, Calif,

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic High School, San Francisco, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937 (38).

MARRIED: Helen Frances Creedon, 1941, Honolulu, Hawaii. cumpren: Peter,
Jr., Jan. 14, 1942; Robert, Dec. 16, 1942; Paul, March 17, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Caspar Willard Weinberger, ’38, LL.B. "41.

occuPATION: Management consultant, Louis A, Allen & Associates.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of San Francisco, 1951-52; vice-presi-
dent, Society for Advancement of Management (San Francisco Chapter),
1949-50; member and secretary of the San Francisco “Little Hoover:
Commission”; vice-chairman (insurance committee) for the election of
Richard Nixon to the US. Senate in 1950; member, board of directors,
Growth Management, Inc., San Francisco, 1961.

MEMBER OF: California Historical Society; Military Order of the World Wars;
American Legion; Commonwealth Club of California; Society for the
Advancement of Management; Harvard Club of San Francisco,

THE twenty-five years since graduation have passed very quickly
and they have been happy years. My perspective has lengthened

and it seems easier to prepare this summary than it did for the Third,
Tenth and Twentieth Anniversary Reports!

[1132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

There is one recurring theme that has been a common denominator
for me this past quarter-century: it is simply how fortunate I was
to have been privileged to graduate from the world’s foremunt
university.

After graduation I attended the University of California for one
year, majoring in Business and Public Administration. My career
was adequately covered in the earlier reports to the year 1957, when
the Twentieth Anniversary Report was prepared. Since 1957 I have
been a sales executive with the Mytinger Corporation and vice-
president and general sales manager with Visan Laboratorics. I have
recently associated with a growing management consulung organiza-
tion — Louis A. Allen and Associates, Palo Alto, California.

My son, Robert, has been middle linebacker for two championship
teams at San Mateo Junior College and Paul, the youngest, was
selected as the Most Valuable Player in the local Pop Warner, Jr.
League. Pete, Jr., is most competent as a sports statistician! Elelen
and I together with the boys enjoy the San Francisco "49ers in their
eternal quest for a Championship.

Have continued in the Army Reserve (after service in Korea)
and am now a major in the Artillery assigned to the Department of
the Army as a Mobilization Designee in the U.S. Army Air Defense
Command.

My political convictions continue to be in support of the Repub-
lican Party — and my personal preference now is Senator Barry
Goldwater. Perhaps this is a definite sign of the middle-aged con-

servative businessman, but so be it!

In the matter of religious conviction I continue to be a stron
supporter of the Episcopal Church (although my attendance record

leaves something to be desired! ).
One of the great pleasures in life is secing former Clasimutes =

several have called in the past few years — among them John Cites

and his family.
I only hope that I may return to Cambridge for the agth Retsnony

in June, 1962, and see all the ’37’s.

HENRY WALTER WFIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 216 Bloomingdale Ave, Wayne, Pa.
BORN: June 18, 1916, Far Rockaway, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1Qy).

[1133]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

marrigp: Catherine Anne Deeny, Sept. 14, 1942, New York, N.Y. curupren:
Edward Henry, May 20, 1945; Dorothy Ellen, May 23, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leonard Walter Weis, '44.

occupation: Distributor for Tropical Paint Company.

DURING the summer of 1936, I asked a friendly relative for the key
to his automobile trunk, so I could change a flat tire on his car. Asa
result, I had a job in a smoking pipe company awaiting me when I
graduated from Harvard! So instead of continuing my search for
work in the trucking industry — my first career interest —I started
to learn the pipe business. The lure of transportation was too strong,
however, so by the time Pearl Harbor was hit, I was running a small
carloader’s terminal.

Uncle Sam greeted me and in January, 1942, I saw my tent at
Fort Dix burn merrily. Regardless, in September, 1942, a pair of
gold bars adorned my shoulders. Two days later, Kay and I were
married. The Army kept me in the States, and Kay accompanied
me around the country. Edward was born in the Orlando, Florida,
Army Air Base Hospital. My longest Army assignment was at the
Air Defense Wing in San Francisco, There, as a radar filter officer,
I had the satisfaction of helping to find many homeward bound
aircraft that were lost or partially disabled, and to guide them to a
safe landing.

My freight terminal had been closed during the war, and my ‘ob
with it; so I wound up as the traffic manager of a New York City
department store for a couple of years. Then a year in Philadelphia
with the American Friends Service Committee, helping to heal some
of the wounds I had had a part in inflicting. Back to transportation
for a good spell, and now industrial paints and roofings.

Spare time? Once I thought I had some. So I taught in Sunday
School for a couple of seasons, in addition to reading and a little
swimming.

ROGER UNDERWOOD WELLINGTON

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Whiting Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass,

OFFICE appress: Scovell, Wellington & Co. 110 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 1, 1915, Belmont, Mass.

prepareD AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; M.B.A. 19393 C.P.A. (New
York), 1949, (Massachusetts), 1957.

Marriep: Violet H. Heath, June 17, 1939, Scarsdale, N.Y. cHiLpREeN: Roger

[1134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Underwood, Jr., June 15, 1941; David Heath, April 26, tye, Charles
Oliver, 2d, March 20, 1948; Jeffrey Alden, Sept. 9, 1955.
SS==rvarp soN: Roger Underwood Wellington, Jr., ’64.
PATION: Certified public accountant, managing partner, Panton off ce,
Scovell, Wellington & Company.
™eeQ)FFICES HELD; Chairman, Committee on Management Services, ins¢-§4% Com.
mittee on By-Laws, 1959-61, treasurer, since 1962, American Insutuce of
Certified Public Accountants; chairman, Committee on Management Ad-
visory Services, New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants
1955-56; chairman, Committee on Management Services, 1959-3q. member,
executive Committee, 1960-61, secretary, since 1961, Massachusetra Sin icey
of Certified Public Accountants; member, Advisory Committee, Rurgers
Graduate School of Public Accounting; treasurer, Downtown Plarvardd
Lunch Club, Inc., New York, since 1949; trustee, Wm. Underwood
Company; president, Acme Drainage District (Fla.); vice-preadent and
_ director, Massachusetts Broken Stone Company, president, Greenes! ye
Association (Hartsdale, N.Y., Civic Association), 1955, director, }lartud sie
Community Fund, 1952-53; treasurer, Newton-Wrellesley Elospital, rgth Re~
union treasurer, Harvard Class of 1937.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, \lawaho-
setts Society of Certified Public Accountants; New York Stare Society of
Certified Public Accountants; National Association of Accountanty, So.
ciety for the Advancement of Management, The Country Qub, Brookline,
Mass.; Wellesley Country Club; Wardroom Club; Harvard Clube of
Boston and New York; Downtown Club, Fox Meadow Tenna Club
(treasurer-governor, 1953-56); Bellport Bay Yacht Club (secretary, vwes
commodore, 1955-56).

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on cost accounting and management serves by
C.P.A.’s in the Journal of Accountancy and other profewsonal and trch.
nical journals.

ON. graduation from Harvard Business School, I married Viotce
Heath, attendance on whom at Smith College had not bettered my
marks at the “B” School. Continuing to live in Cambridie, [started
to earn my living as a junior accountant in the Reston ethce of
Scovell, Wellington & Company, accountants, auditors and manta se.
ment consultants.

Three years (and one son) later I was commissioned as ens 14,
USNR. After bricf training went to sea in USS-SC got, Pacorre
convoys in Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean, assumed command after
four months, and proceeded to Mediterranean in spring, aggt, where
we operated in support of operations and invasions in North Ate: o.
Sicily and Italy. Flew back to United States in lite iygy ant alee
tour of duty as a shakedown officer at USNTC Muani, wares tec!
to command USS PC 7257. Commissioned the thipandtect bern.
the Pacific in the spring of 1945. Managed to pee retievefactt -

[ 1t35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

from Guam by that November. I wound up my service activities
as lieutenant commander, USNR (now retired), no further ahead in
professional education and training, but I think wiser in the ways of
men and organizations.

The following ten years were devoted to work for Scovell,
Wellington & Company in and from our New York office and to
carrying on what passes for normal New York suburban life — travel
and late hours on business; tennis, other sports and social activities on
weekends. There being relatively few Harvards thereabouts, be-
came good friends with a number of men of other apparently accept-
able colleges. I was admitted to our firm as a partner in 1953 and
about that time started to become active in professional accounting
organizations, committee work, speaking, writing, etc. Such extra
activities, along with those of various civic organizations and clubs,
have continued to absorb substantial time and interest. In 1956 I
moved back to Boston, as managing partner of our firm’ s Boston
office, where I am today,

My professional work is varied and challenging. However, I find
it frustrating to try to explain to a young son just what I actually do
as a certified public accountant — and I had better not attempt it
here. Suburban life in Wellesley Hills is not much different than in
Scarsdale, but it’s kind of homelike to be asked ‘““What class were
you?” rather than “Where did you go to college?”

With my eldest of four sons at Harvard I now realize that I must
be getting older (even though none of them has yet beat me at
tennis). Another sign is my current attempt to learn to play golf.
Life becomes increasingly busy and I must be taking on an appear-
ance of reliability in view of the various treasurerships I’ve wound
up with, Also, 1 now have a recurring desire to admonish the
younger generation re college marks, late hours, drinking, etc., etc.,

etc. This urge is repressed by remembering my own activities when
in Cambridge.

FRANCIS APPLETON WENDELL |

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Sutton Pl., S. New York 22, N.Y,

orFice appress: Appleton, Rice & Perrin, 63; Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.
Born: July 12, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937, LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1oqt.
Maraigp: Elisabeth Prokoph, May 10, 1947, West Hartford, Conn.

occupaATIon: Lawyer; partner in firm of Appleton, Rice & Perrin.

{ 1136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Down Town Awoviation, Raye
and Tennis Club; Society of Colonial Wars, Association of the Bae of

_ the City of New York; New York Farmers.

AFTER graduation, I entered Columbia Law School and eventually
graduated therefrom in February, i941. 1 took and pawed the
New York bar examinations, and was admitted to practice four days
before I joined the Army in June, 1941, on what was expected to
be a one-year tour of active duty as a Reserve officer. I eventually
was released from active duty as a lieutenant colonel in August, 1944.
During my five years of service, I wandered all over the United
States and Western Europe and eventually wound up in Vienna,
where I met my beautiful wife at a Christmas party. On my dis-
charge from the Army, I got a job with the law firm of Appicton,
Rice & Perrin, where I’ve been ever since. I became a partner in
February, 1952.

Lisl and I were married from my father's house in West Hartford.
Connecticut, in May, 1947, and set up housekeeping in one floor of
one of the more uncomfortable brownstones of New York City,
eventually moving to Sutton Place, where we have resided ever
since. When the view from our first apartment was cluninated we
moved across the street and now are reasonably confident Cut the
view will be permanent unless someone fills the Fast River.

The practice of law keeps me busy with the affairs of otherv to
the extent that I long for more time to give adequate conuderatiwos
to my own affairs during daylight hours, for PE loathe brinyess
work home. For the past ten years I have been a member of varkeus
committees of the Association of the Bar, and have greatly enjovest
the work and the new friends encountered.

My hobbies include the care and improvement of a hit were
I have developed a sixth sense for diagnosis of tts ih. Unfortucatel.,
the cures must be left to a patient friend who got me into thos nyt! ¢
first place, since my knowledge of electronics is minimal.

Several summers ago, Lisl and I purchased an open fell wis a
beautiful view near Katonah in Westchester County asd are pois
ning to begin building there this year. Meanwhile, | have beccn eas
expert on cutting acres of tall grass with equipment dese diet. t.
cut fodder one-third as tall. Every vear Pimcan to startacen oe
sooner (as the editor will testify — IP sometimes Prieta tite

Once upon a time I was a poor but carer polfer Ve Ut
built more parkways, the club moved, and thir war thar to:
Lis] was born and raised in Austria, she sory perssa te bes

[ 1137)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

we should spend our summer vacations, and we have managed to
go abroad six times in the past ten years and hope to be able to con-
tinue to do so frequently. I leave all the planning of our trips to
my wife. It is a very successful system.

Politically, I have always been a Republican, partly in protest
against the entrenched bureaucracy of New York City. If I lived
upstate I'd probably be a Democrat. In matters of religion, I am
Episcopalian.

WILLIAM JOSEPH WEST, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 248 Central St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration, 1 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 26, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B., 1940.

marrigD: Cleo M. Melanson, July 7, 1945, Bessemer, Mich. cumpreN: William,
Feb. 3, 1946; Thomas, June 24, 1947; Michael, Feb. 12, 1948 (deceased);
Kathleen, May 1, 1950; Mary, Jan. 8, 1952; Elizabeth, Feb. 11, 1953; Martha,
Nov. 17, 1958; Margaret, June 26, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Assistant attorney, Legal Division, Veterans Administration.

OFFICES HELD; Commander, U.S. Navy Intelligence Reserve Unit, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus, Hingham, Mass.; Massachusetts and Federal
Bar Associations.

AFTER graduation, spent a year as a lawyer for the federal govern-
ment in Washington, D.C,, then joined the Navy. First duty was in
the Intelligence Division on the east coast. Next did a stretch in the
Pacific as a commanding officer of a motor torpedo boat, RON 12.
Upon release in 1945, joined the Naval Intelligence Unit. For the
past three years have been studying Russian as part of Navy duties.
Since 1945, have been assistant attorney in the Legal Division of the
Veterans Administration.

Favorite hobbies: reading and entertaining children. Make a
yearly escape to the annual PT Convention in New York City.

EVAN DAVIES WESTERMANN

HOME ADDRESS: 10120 Columbus Ave., Sepulveda, Calif.

oFFicE Appress: R.C.A. Service Project Office, Bearle AFB, Marysville, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 13, 1914, Madison, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(39).

Marriep: Virginia Woodworth, Aug. 4, 1942, Coudersport, Pa, critpreN: Carol
Davies, Dec. 6, 1944; William Evan, July 8, 1946.

[ 1138]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Contracting and monitoring Titan installations, R.CA. Servue
Project Office.

1 AM now “seeing California first.” That's my role in '62, after two

ears of nose-grinding with the Air Force in Los Angeles. In-
cidentally, this city is a bustling, traffic and moncy-mad thorough-

fare by air and land. But I do expect my Classmates to cull

Empire 2-5090 when visiting or passing through. The four of us
live well in the San Fernando Valley, two being teen-agers in Mon-
roe High School. That’s Carol and Bill. Oh yes, I want to sce my

son go to college in sporty, beautiful, smart California. Ele needn't
pick Harvard or even Columbia, where granddad taught. Bur for
grad school, that’s different. Virginia was anxious to come here in
1959. I found work in Los Angeles. Now I hear the city is too big,
the Freeways scary-to-death, and we are always about to find berter
places in California. They are here all right, and I'm going to sce

them. This year is just preliminary “retirement” in the beautiful
West. 1 am living up to my name!

So, working now with R.C.A. Service Corporaton, installing
one of the big Boom missiles, Dad is traveling constantly to Sacra-
mento and Beale and other Air Force bases. This variety adds spice
to life through ’62. The job is contracting and monitoring Titan
installation hither and yon. San Francisco is a frequent point of
visit, a fascinating place. Would like to meet some Harvard men
there, too. We'll be living at Lake Tahoe this summer, sceing
Yellowstone, and Denver. We had one trip last year to New York
and said good-bye to Scarsdale, whence I went to Harvard.

Being busy but relatively new out here, I certainly apprecure
hearing at Christmas from Gussy and Martha, from France and
Merce. You are all eminently welcome on a future visit here, wv
on the way to the Seattle Fair. And I look forward in the near future
to meeting more Harvard men in the West, Until you all put on this
drive for the Anniversary Report, I have not known the real point o¢
points of contact in Los Angeles. I hope fortune will favor us with
renewed and new acquaintance with Classmates and fellow gracdu-
ates.

JOHN ROBERT WFESTERVELT
HOME ApprEss: 186 Old Short Hills Rd. Short Hilly, NJ.
OFFICE AppRess: New Jersey Bell Telephone Co. 440 Broed Se, Newark 5% J
BoRN: Oct. 5, 1915, Irvington, N.J. °

[ 1139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: Columbia High School, South Orange, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB, cum laude, 1937; LL.B. (Fordham
Univ.), 1943.

marrigD: Doris E. Fischer, May 13, 1939, South Orange, N.J. cuttpren: Letitia
Ann, Feb. 12, 1941; Jan Robert, Feb. 28, 1944.

occuPaTION: Bell Telephone System executive: accounting department.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1949-54, Vice-president, 1955-56, president, 1956-57,
Harvard Club of New Jersey; trustee, Beard School, 1953-57; chairman,
Beard School Fund, 1955-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Holland Society of New York;
Orange Lawn Tennis Club; Essex County Country Club.

pusLicaTions: “One Hundred Years” (South Orange, N.J., 1959), a history of
the Church of the Holy Communion, South Orange, N.J., on the oc-

casion of the celebration of its centennial anniversary.

ON the Monday after Commencement Day, 1937, I reported for
work in the accounting department of the New Jersey Bell Tele-
phone Company, Newark, New Jersey. On the Monday after
Commencement Day, 1962, I shall report into the same department —
of the same company at the same address. The monotony is only
apparent. Over the years my desk has been located in a number of
cities in New Jersey, in various rooms of different buildings, and it
has been cluttered with diverse assignments, In the course of its
peregrinations, the desk has sensibly changed from steel to walnut,
and has found a private office with wall-to-wall carpeting and a
suitable number of windows.

Except at meetings of the New Jersey Club, I see few Harvards
here in northern New Jersey and practically no member of 737
other than Paul Rotter, resident wizard in the mathematics depart-
ment of Mutual Benefit Life Insurance, next door to New Jersey
Bell. Cambridge is just a bit too distant for an easy visit, so the
Westervelts mostly content themselves with seeing friends and foot-
ball at Princeton and New Haven. In the Harvard Club of New
Jersey, I have served on the Scholarship Committee for twenty
years and still find it one of the most rewarding activities I know.
From time to time, I have also served as a member of the Bell
System recruiting team in Cambridge.

In May of 1939, I married the girl I had looked upon one day in
1932 with an interest I had never before experienced — and which
still shows no sign of waning. In September of that same year, I
began the study of law in the evening session of the Fordham Uni-
versity School of Law in New York City. Marriage is indeed a
sobering experience. Our daughter, Missie, was born in February,

[1140]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1941, an event which conferred upon me a status I could not then
even dimly appreciate; I was a genuine pre-Pearl Hlarbor father.
It was not until November, 1944, when my pre-Pearl Harber
daughter was not quite four, and my son Jan not quite a full year,
and my LL.B. just over a year old that the situation in France be-
came so sticky that I found myself clad in my drawers, shuting
through the drafty corridors of the Sussex Avenue Armory
while the Selective Service people scanned the body. However,
somewhere between the table where the man stamped my papers
AccepTep and the loading platform from which the bus Iefe for
Fort Dix, somewhere between those two points somebody decnted
that I should continue to give my attention to telephone communica:
tions in New Jersey.

In November, 1953, the main academic building of the Beard
School, Orange, New Jersey, burned to the ground. Mise had gone
to that school since the first grade, and I was a member of the board
of trustees. Why is it that buildings are so overinsured while they
are standing and underinsured when they are ashes? The new bull.
ing required $650,000 of new money. As chairman of general gifts
and later as general chairman of the Beard School Fund, ¥ learned
that raising one thousand dollars for a girls’ secondary school a
tougher than raising one hundred thousand for Harvard. Mrsc --.
we keep trying to call her Letitia now that she isa young woman,
but we have very indifferent success — went from the Beard School
to Mount Holyoke, but in her second year mononucleosis con-piredd
with the residuum of hepatitis to liquidate her academe careee,
Refusing to be dismayed, she organized a new programs compoun ted
of gainful employment, Junior League volunteer work and the
socializing characteristic of twenty-year-old girlk The progras
contemplates using the gains from employment to sce Purope ove
again next summer.

Son Jan is the anomaly of the family. He is ty course of cons
pleting his last pre-college year at LeRosey in Switeerlin dP)
school assures us that his future may he regarded with ale cer
of optimism. He is sufficiently well- organized to have fant bap’
for himself for next summer in Germany » Pwoull have seors ba!
a real rapport with that boy and had him ina proper Dba !
frame of mind. Stunned, I discover that he hav turne. Peoe' a .
mouth persuasion and has taken irrevocable vows ns ets ‘ :

early adimission,

[rtge]

_ L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JULIEN VOSE WESTON

HOME ADDRESS: 34-18 gist St., Jackson Heights 72, N.Y.

OFFICE Appress: Barrington & Co, Inc., 230 Park Ave, New York 197, NY,

porn: March 18, 1915, Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Deerfield Academy, Deer-
ficld, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1937(39)-

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Management consultant, Barrington & Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association, American Management As-
sociation; Columbian Lodge, F. & A.M., Boston.

WHEN I finally got around to graduating, I still wasn’t sure what
career I should follow. So I returned for more vocational guidance
from Johnson O’Connor who had given me vocational guidance at
Deerfield Academy. This resulted in my joining O’Connor’s Human
Engineering Laboratories in Boston, Hoboken and Chestnut Hill,
Pennsylvania. I was at Chestnut Hill Academy guiding students
when the Japanese struck Pearl Harbor.

Since the Army had a poor reputation for vocational guidance,
and was likely to make a mess sergeant out of anybody except a
qualified cook, I seized an opportunity to enlist directly in the
Aviation Psychology Program rather than wait for the draft. I
started as a private at Maxwell Field, Alabama, testing cadets for
aircrew assignments as pilot, bombardier or navigator, under Pro-
fessor Lawrance Shaffer of Columbia University, then a major in
the Army Air Force.

Six months later I became a “ninety-day wonder” at Miami Beach
along with Clark Gable, and was commissioned as a second lieu-
tenant in the Air Force after graduation from Officer Candidate
School. I was returned to the Aviation Psychology Program and
remained with it throughout tours of duty in San Antonio, Texas;
Miami Beach, Florida; Fort Worth, Texas; and Shreveport, Loui-
siana. Except for my assignments in Texas, I had no foreign duty.
Most of my time was spent as assistant to the chief psychologist of
the AAF Training Command in Fort Worth, another college pro-
fessor in uniform. He was Professor Frank A. Geldard of the Uni-
versity of Virginia, at that time a full AAF colonel. It is to him that
I owe my captain’s bars.

In 1946 I stopped volunteering for additional service in the Air
Corps and returned to civilian life. Since by now I had associated
psychology with flying, I joined the Atlantic Division of Pan

[ 1142 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American Airways at LaGuardia Field, as their personnel psy-
chologist. There I developed a testing program for the screening
of office and maintenance personnel and absorbed a general knowl-
edge of the workings of an industrial personnel department. In 1949
I became Pan Am’s personnel representative for the Middle Fast and
India, which gave me the opportunity for some extensive travel.

Two years later I joined the consulting staff of Barrington &
Company, management consultants, with whom I am still associated.
Instanbul and Calcutta have given way to Hartford and Atlanta.
The work is more challenging, but travel has Jost its glamour.

With my foreign travels began my principal hobby, color photog-
raphy. Travel also nurtured my avocational interest in comparative
religion and philosophy and liberalized my political outlook. For-
merly a Dewey Republican, I am now an “independent” leaning
toward Stevenson and Kennedy.

As the Hindus would say, in this life I am working out my karma
asa bachelor. Anyway, I can’t think of a better reason for my having
failed to become a family man.

WILLIAM ROSS WHALON

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Benjamin Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFIcE ApprEss: Gallup & Hadley, 6 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1916, Milford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1942.

Marriep: Phyllis Catterall, Aug. 20, 1949, Arlington, Mass. caitp: Sabra Anne,
Feb. 17, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Middlesex County and Boston Bar Associations

THE year following graduation, I attended the law school at the

University of Virginia, but was unable to return. Remember the
depression? In the fall of 1938, I began to work for the Boston
Insurance Company, as a marine underwriter, and returned to law
school, in the fall of 1939, at Northeastern University in Benton,
from which I obtained an LL.B. in 1942.

Following this came an unspectacular career in the Ariny = it.
country, and then in India, Burma and China with the Fneincesy =»
which ended in March, 1946. In the fall of 1946, begin atwe vers
stint of teaching, at Northeastern Universiry Law Schoolina Moora.

[ 1143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

It was a good refresher course for me, and I am sure that I profited
more than did the students. I resigned from Northeastern’s facul
in 1948, and became associated with my present firm, Gallup &
Hadley, where I have a fine association with capable and friend]
men. Our practice is a general one, and I enjoy the problems that

are encountered, even though we can’t solve them all, and don’t win
every case.

In 1949, 1 was married to Phyllis Catterall, of Belmont, Massa-
chusetts. We now live in Lexington with our one child, Sabra
Anne, who is in the second grade. We are happy, in reasonably good
health, and are looking forward optimistically to improving ourselves
in some of the ways that seem important. We haven’t a bomb shelter,
but have talked about a place in Vermont, where there might be a

chance to survive if Russia, or particularly China, should press that
button.

RICHARD LANE WHIPPLE

HOME appress: 62 Three Ponds Rd., Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Parke Snow, Inc., 72q Main St., Waltham 54, Mass.

BORN: Sept, 21, 1915, Salem, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lexington Senior High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Victoria Eldridge, May 10, 1940, Waltham, Mass, cHmtpreNn: David
Barton, July 18, 1941, Richard Lane, Jr., Sept. 12, 1942; Cynthia, April 21,
1945; Stephanie, March 26, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Lewis Whipple, 35.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, Parke Snow, Inc., chain of department stores.

OFFICES HELD: President, Waltham Chamber of Commerce, about 1955; for-
merly, chairman, Advance Gifts, Lexington, Mass. retail division head,
Waltham, Mass., United Community Fund; general chairman, Republican
Finance Committee, Lexington, two years; director, Waltham Boys’ Club.

MEMBER OF: Waltham Rotary Club; Waltham Chamber of Commerce.

LOOKING back now, twenty-five years seem like twenty-five
days, with the exception that they did allow me time in which to get
married, raise four children, four or five cats, six dogs, one goat, two
parakeets and one canary. In this same period we began married
life in a Cambridge apartment on Trowbridge Street, moved a year
later to a rented bungalow in Lexington, and from there through
two more Lexington houses which we bought and sold until, in
1960, we were able to build one just the way we wanted it —
swimming pool and all—in Wayland, Massachusetts,

[ 1144 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Leaving college in June of 1937, I was fortunate enouch to be able

first to travel for two months in Europe, and then to attend the
Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration for one vear.
Immediately thereafter I began a career in retailing by joining Wm.
Filene’s Sons Company as a “stock boy” in the infants’ department.
Because my starting pay of $16.00 per week barely covered my
board at home, I finally made one of the brighter moves in my hfe
by marrying Victoria Eldridge in 1940 — for her money. She was
making $22.00 per week. Turned down by the Draft Board because
of eyesight, I remained with Filene’s unul May of 1942, at which
time I joined Parke Snow, Inc., a chain then of six department
stores, all in Massachusetts. Our firm has grown through the vears
both by enlarging existing stores and expanding into new locations,
so that today we number twelve store units, one of which was
acquired this year (1961) in New York state. Retailing has been
fun and rewarding for me, and so, too, my family which by 1949
numbered besides my wife, two boys and two girls.

Between Boy Scout hikes, occasional golf, victory gardens, swim-
ming, Rotary, Boys’ Club meetings, helping with homework, etc. ==
between all of these things, the years have passed. In the more
recent years, my wife and I have managed to return to Furope in
1955, and have spent several vacations in St. Croix, Virgin Islands
I find myself reading more and watching television less. While con-
cerned with world events, I have not yet come to building a fallout
shelter, preferring the quietude of my home and woods in Way land.
If, as and when it is over — So it’s over.

CHARLES STANLEY WHITE, JR.

HOME ApDDRESS: 5017 Tilden St. N.VW., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1801 I St., N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1915, Washington, D.C,

PREPARED AT: Sidwell Friends School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $.B, 1937; MD. (George Washes gros

Univ.) 1942.

MarRIED: Rachel Margaret Horak, May 16, 1942, Washington, O CL errcacs

Charles Stanley, 3d, Dec. 14, 1943; Sally Gregg, Apal ay. tugs, Deters’

Faye, Sept. 16, 1953.

HARVARD SON: Charles Stanley White, 3d, ‘65.

occupATION: General surgery.

OFFIcEs HELD: Vice-president, Columbia Medical Buiiheg Comp, ee tie
member, board of directors, Washington Medial Bact! Y

Crngs )

Beene BR bos

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

president, Doctors Hospital, Inc. since 1959; secretary-treasurer, Washing-
ton Academy of Surgery, 1960-61.

mMeMneR OF: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons
(fellow); American Board of Surgery (diplomate); Chevy Chase Club;
Metropolitan Club.

UPON graduation I returned to Washington to enter medical school.
In my last year, I became engaged to my future wife, and we were
married shortly before graduation. After one year’s internship in
Baltimore, the Air Force decided it could not get along without my
services as a medical officer. From 1943 to 1946, I served with the
ist Air Force, mostly in New England and New York. With my
discharge in one hand and my wife and three-year-old son in the
other, we hastened to the Cleveland Clinic for two years of post-
graduate training in surgery. Then we returned to Washington in
1948, and I entered practice with my father, with whom I have been
associated ever since. In 1951 I became a member of the American
College of Surgeons, and in 1952 became a diplomate of the Amer-
ican Board of Surgery, After clearing these two hurdles, I be-
came interested in the operation and management of Doctors Hos-
pital here in Washington. I suppose | became too interested because
I found myself elected president of the board in 1959 and have been
unable to give away the job to anyone else.

Our family now consists of Charles Stanley, 3d, a freshman at
Harvard at this writing, and two daughters, Sally Gregg and Deborah
Faye, both at Holton Arms School here in Washington. Social
activities revolve around friends and neighbors in our community
of Spring Valley, the Chevy Chase Club, and Metropolitan Club.
Over the past fifteen years, my wife and I have enjoyed marlin and
sail fishing and bone fishing in the Florida Keys and two vaca-
tions abroad, The most enjoyable aspect of my hobbies is the fact
that I took up golf two years ago and manage to play in the nineties
and will bore anvone at the drop of a golf ball on my theories as to
how the game should be played.

HAROLD TREDWAY WHITE, JR.

HOME appRESS: 60 Weed St. New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 20 Broad St, New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: June 26, 1914, Atlantic City, N.J.

preparep at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: SB. magna cum laude, 1937.

MarRIED: Penelope Weld, May 3, 1941, Bedford, N.Y. cumpren: Charles

[ 1146]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Dana, March 30, 1942; Alexander Weld, Aug. 14, 1944; Harold Tredway,
34, Nov. 3, 1947; Christopher Minot, Jan, 22, 1951; Francis Weld, May 23,
1955+

HARVARD BROTHER: John Underhill White, °34.

occuPATION: Investment banking; limited partner and consultant, White, Weld
& Company.

oFFICES HELD: Director, Federal Insurance Company, since 1956, Hackensack
Water Company, since 1960; member, Harvard Physics Department Visit-
ing Committee, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Country Club of New Canaan,
Conn.,; Chapoquoit Yacht Club, West Falmouth, Mass, Down Town
Association and Lunch Club, New York City.

A YEAR and a half of graduate studies in physics and biology at
Harvard and Princeton was sufficient to persuade me that I was not
cut out to be a scientist, despite a reasonably successful under-
graduate career in physics. The obvious alternative was to enter
the investment business in which my father had been active for

many years. From 1939 to 1942, | worked as an analyst with White,
Weld & Company in New York, leaving there to do similar work
at the War Production Board in Washington. My wife and our
young son soon moved back to New York when, like many other
4-Fs, I found that I could get into something approaching military
service by joining the Coast Guard Reserve, where I served for a
year and a half as a chief boatswain’s mate in the Anti-submarine
Sailing Picket Patrol off the New York harbor approaches, Two
winters and one summer of this type of yachting were followed by
work in Raytheon in Waltham on the design of radar equipment.
As soon as the war was over, we moved back to the New York area,
living first in Darien, Connecticut, and then moving in 1949 to New
Canaan, Connecticut, where we now hope to remain permanently.
Since leaving Raytheon, I have been at White, Weld & Company,
working mostly in securities analysis, “special situations” and invest-
ment management, some of the time as a general partner and more
recently as a limited partner and consultant. As to non-business
activities, I have kept up and imposed upon my indulgent family an

active interest in outdoor sports, particularly sailing, skiing, hunting
and golf.

JOSEPH JAMES WHITE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 11314 Kenilworth Ave., Garrett Park, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1734 New York Ave,, Washington, D.c.
BoRN: Oct. 24, 1915, Chicago, Ill.

[ 1147]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 7agna cum laude, 1937; A.M., 1939.
marrien: Elizabeth Hagen, July 13, 1943, Portland, Oregon.

occupation: Intelligence research officer.

LEAVITT SARGENT WHITE

HOME ADDRESS: 122 South Rd., Lindamere, Wilmington 3, Del.

OFFICE AppRESS: E, I, duPont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Wilmington, Del.

porN: Aug, 10, 1915, Plainfield, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933—1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1937.

marrieD: Ruth E. Grant, Dec. 23, 1939, Grand Rapids, Mich. CHILDREN:
Richard S., May 13, 1942; Carol G., March 3, 1944; Frederick R., Nov. 29,
1947; Peter G., April 9, 1949; Katherine L., Aug. 9, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kenneth White, 739.

occupation: Chemical manufacturing, southern manager, Extension Division,
Public Relations Department, E, I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1950-52, president, 1952-54, Harvard Club of
Delaware, president, board of trustees, Unitarian Church, Wilmington,
1953-54; vice-president, 1955-56, 1961-62, Mt. Pleasant High School
P.T.A.; member, board of management, Central Wilmington Y.M.C.A.,
1955-57; member, Public Relations Committee, Wilmington United Fund,
1957-58; member of board, Unitarian Service Committee, 1958-61.

MEMBER OF: Delaware Historical Society, Du Pont Country Club; Country
Swimming Club; Harvard Club of Delaware.

PUBLICATIONS: More than 250 magazine articles for business publications such as
Better Living, Du Pont Magazine and various trade journals.

ROUGHLY eighty per cent of my quarter-century has been dedi-
cated to the proposition that business — especially big business — is
not well understood as to motive, performance, or achievement.
These years (1941 to date) have found me working in Du Pont;
most of the years have been spent in public relations assignments.
For nine years I edited Better Living, one of the largest (circulation
125,000) and best-known employee publications put out by industry;
during another enlightened period in local advertising circles, I
edited the Du Pont Magazine, the company’s customer publication
on products that is distributed to about 240,000 people. Now I am
handling a regional public relations assignment and expect to be
doing considerable public speaking. Classmates take note! They
may even be alerted to avoid (or attend) such future meetings of
mine as occur in their communities, All this experience looking at a
large business organization from within may yet persuade me to
write a book, You see, there is reasonable suspicion at times that

[ 1148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

only a small part of my audience is either reading or listening. That
is whether I edit, or speak. So there’s an odd chance I can improve
my batting average with something a little more long-haired.

My travel (aside from the South Pacific on an LST in World War

II) has been entirely domestic — yet extensive and continuous. My
most enduring interest, of course, has been the unfolding and ever-
changing experience of a parent with five healthy children. Now
we’re in midstream with the school years. Personalities are blos-
soming; hopes, ambitions and concerns are cropping up. We think
we could handle two or three at a time; with five, it’s just a matter
of time before we will be overrun!

From either a social or political viewpoint, you can tag me 3s a
conservative. I’ve voted and occasionally campaigned for the GOP.
I’ve also been known to split a ballot. As for religious convictions,
I have been a Unitarian all my life and would now label mysclf as a
“conservative” liberal. The Unitarians, of course, have attracted
much attention for liberal doctrine that few people recognize that
you can hold to this church and yet remain conservative.

The Whites have had their full share of school, club and church

responsibilities. We've helped raise money for school bands for
colleges, for building funds. We've helped plan and build a new
church, buy a swimming club, and build a Go Kart or two. Aho,
the Whites may hold one Class record at present: they have lived in
their current home for fifteen years, adding to it and pushing eut
walls as necessary. Now there’s prospect of new housing and a new
community. For as I write this I am packing up for a new Du Pone
assignment in Atlanta. If you know large companics, you will alo
recognize that geography is sometimes unpredictable. Hence, Vin
listing Wilmington as home — at least for the next few months

WARREN HUDSON WHITF.

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Russell Pk., Quincy, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: South Station, Boston, Mass.

BoRN: April 12, 1916, Quincy, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937(38).

Marriep: Jane Ellsworth Coppinger, May 14, 1943, San Diega, Cal.t eonesery
Warren Ellsworth, Aug. 1, 1946; Thomas Hudwn, Novo g nyyt. Det
Jane, Nov. 1, 1952; Susan LaMorte, Nov. 12, 1957.

occupation: New England freight sales manager, New York Cenrral fy

[ 1149]

y

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

orFices HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of Oregon, 1948-49; president, Kiwanis
Club, New York City, 1953-54; member, Board of Education, Hartsdale,
N.Y. 1955-57

MEMBER OF: Algonquin Club, Boston; New England Traffic Club; New York
Traffic Club; Navy League.

STARTED with the New York Central on July 1, 1937, as a junior
management trainee, and subsequently transferred to St. Louis, Mis-
souri, where I met the young lady who ultimately became my wife.
At the invitation of the Secretary of the Navy, I assumed the re-
sponsibilities of an ensign, in December, 1941. Almost simultaneously
I took command of a minesweeper, and the young lady, Jane Cop-
pinger, and I were married in San Diego, California. Served in the
Aleutian Islands and the Central Pacific, in command of a destroyer
escort until discharged as lieutenant commander.

We returned to St. Louis, where our first child was born, and
then transferred to Portland, Oregon, as general agent for the Cen-
tral, After two and a half years and a second son, the company saw
fit to move us to Washington, D.C., and then to New York City,
where we remained ten years, with two daughters added to complete
our fine family. I was transferred to Boston in February of last year,
and thoroughly enjoy my work and associations.

Barring an infrequent swim or ice-skating spree, am content to
assume the role of spectator in the field of athletics. Otherwise, I

might well be judged a conservative in my politics, social life, and
attire.

HOWARD NEWTON WHITEHOUSE

HOME AppRESS: 46 Cleveland St. Arlington, Mass.

OFFice appress: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass,

Born: Feb. 7, 1915, Boston, Mass.

prepared at: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MarRieD: Muriel W. Bergkuist, May 3, 1941, Arlington, Mass, CHILDREN:
Roberta Elsie, March 5, 1942; Patricia Ann, April 16, 1947.

occupation: Life insurance, data processing, program development.

MeMBeR oF: Life Office Management Association (fellow); Hiram Lodge,
AF. & A.M.

[ 1150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ABRAHAM DAVID WHITMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 69 Marion Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Oxford Drapery Co., 205 A St., Boston 10, Mass.

porN: Aug. 27, 1914, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.

marriED: Irene B. Starensier, Dec. 22, 1946, Boston, Mass. crores; Laura
Jane, April 21, 1948; Robert Simon, July 19, 1951.

OccUPATION: Owner and general manager, Oxford Drapery Company, maw.
producing bedspreads and draperies.

OFFICES HELD: First vice-president, Temple Emanu-El, Marblehead, ty 4:,
president, Boston Curtain & Drapery Club, 1961,

MEMBER OF: Kernwood Country Club; Moses Michac] Hayes Lodge of
Masons; Boston Curtain & Drapery Club; New York Curtain & Drapery
Club.

THE years from graduation to January of 1942 were the relaxed
and carefree years of a young bachelor. I worked a little at building
up a wholesale dairy business, but just enough.

Joined a lot of other fellows in the Air Force in January, 1942.
Was probably the only recruit who managed to get exactly the hind
of work he requested, aircraft mechanic. Enjoyed the training and
became a crew chief and sergeant; sent to Officers School probably
because the crews worried about the planes after I fixed them.
Continued as an aircraft maintenance officer and was about one step
behind MacArthur for a couple of years in the South Pacite,
Australia, New Guinea, Philippines and Japan. Mustered out in
spring of ’46 and came to Boston and into this present business as a
result of the tragic death of a close relative. Knew nothing about the
business then, but have worked hard and learned something alwout
it. The business has grown and from it I have drawn a good leans,
considerable satisfaction and quite a bad stomach.

Am certain my wife will read this report when it is published and
it would be foolhardy to say that my proposal to her was anvthiss
but one of my best decisions. Actually, it really was and we are
living happily ever after. Our kids are a couple of perf cetly nore "
young squirts. I enjoy my family and reerct there is not mere
to spend with them.

If I have a complaint, ic is that my schedule is too full. Afy bus 3
is most demanding of my time. Reforin Judaisn on the Noe’
Shore of Boston has been a real taskmaster as we have erst !

and buile Temple Emanu-Fl in Marblehead. General coro
work must also get its share of my time, We play wep fats

[isa]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937 |

little bridge when time permits. Would dearly love to do just noth-
ing once in a while and am planning on exactly that project.

ROBERT SHAW STURGIS WHITMAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Trinity Rectory, Lenox, Mass.

BoRN: July 27, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934. DEGREES: L.TH. (Berkeley Divinity School, New
Haven, Conn.), 1943; s.1.B. (ibid.), 1961,

MARRIED: Eleanor English, Nov. 25, 1944, New Haven, Conn. cHipren: Rose-
mary, Dec. 12, 1945; Sarah Bradford, Feb. 27, 1948.

occupation: Episcopal priest; rector, Trinity Parish, Lenox, Mass.; rural dean,
Berkshire County.

OFFICES HELD: Office boy, Fay Carpet Company, New York City, 1933-36;
office boy to clerk, Corporate Trust Dept., Continental Bank & Trust
Company, New York City, 1936-38; runner, Dept. of Labor, Washington,
D.C., 1938-40; student, DuBose Memorial Church Training School, Mont-
eagle, Tenn., 1940-41, Berkeley Divinity School, 1941-43; vicar, St. Martin’s
Church, Pittsfield, Mass., 1943-45; chaplain, A.US., 1945-46; associate
rector, Bruton Parish, and chaplain to Episcopal Students, College of
William and Mary, and vicar of Yorktown, Va., 1946-49; rector, Trinity
Church, Lenox, since 1949; rural dean, Berkshire, 1961; Diocesan Council,
since 1957; Division of Youth, 1952-61; Deputy to Provincial Synod, 1954;
trustee, Lenox School, Berkshire Country Day School, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club of Lenox; Lenox Club; Mahkeenac Boating Club;
Anglican Society; Oquossoc Angling Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and letters in church publications and letters in local
paper.

IT is rather hard for me to write this account “since graduation”

since I didn’t graduate or haven’t yet. This is in no way a reflection

on the preparatory school I went to and of which I am now a

trustee. There I had an excellent preparation but when I arrived at

Harvard I took to reading Russian authors in which I was not taking

a course and I made the fatal mistake of allowing myself to be put in

a History 1 seminar group. I must say that November Hours were

a shock but it was too late, the harm was done or rather the good

wasn’t, and in spite of all efforts the dean wrote home that I left an

excellent moral record behind me at Harvard! Even that depends on
how you define the word “moral.” It is hardly surprising therefore
that I have not been the Johnny-on-the-spot kind of member of the

Alumni Association that 1 might have been under different circum-

stances. I have always been touched in more ways than one over

the welcome I received into the Association when the rest of you

[1152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduated and the appeals which I have received ever since. Not

that I resent these latter. It wasn’t Harvard's fault that I Icfe and t

am definitely in favor of education and my family is all Plarvard,

until my time, that is. A country parson is just not overloaded
with dough and besides I have had other commitments which were
at least as pressing and I married the daughter of a Yale man!
Perhaps it is just as well that I didn’t stay at Harvard, for Pleaven

knows what I might have become if I had. Getting kicked out was
the first time a door was really shut in my face and it was a jolt but a
good one. Having to go to work at the bottom was a salutary ex-
perience too, and when I was on my own in Washington and could
think for myself, I became more and more sure that the Christian
Gospel holds the answers people of all sorts are looking for and that
the church in those days wasn’t doing too good a job with it and
that God was calling me to pitch in and help for what my help was
worth. I didn’t think it was much and I was amazed that by hook
but not by crook I managed to prepare for, get admitted to and
graduate from Seminary. My amazement and gratitude have grown
ever since I was ordained and I wouldn’t trade my job with any-
one’s. It is the most rewarding there is, I am sure; and far from
waning as some seem to think inevitable, my faith in God has grown
steadily through the experiences of my ministry.

Truly all things work together for good to them that love Geal,
and even getting kicked out of college has worked for good for me.
It broadened the base of my expericnce, deepened my sympathy for
and understanding of others and finally, because I had no degree at
all (an A.B. being prerequisite for a degree in Divinity), led me toa
year’s leave of absence and study at St. Augustine’s Coleye in
Canterbury, England, the Central College of the Anglican Con.
munion throughout the world. What my family and UT rcecived
there and as a result of going there is incalculable.

That reminds me that in addition to my wife, Thave two artractive
daughters, Rosemary, who is almost sixtcen and a student at Pot.
hollow School in Lenox, and Sally, who is thirteen and finitans uo
at the Berkshire Country Day School in Lenox, too. In adits
we have a farm six miles from town with two horses a shee tie

we brought back from England and a hamster named Gin We
have not and do not expect to have bomb or fall-out shettce bot we
are glad for others to have them if it makes ther happier.

A final parsonical observation. After a year in burooe, Nees os
strikes us as perhaps the most frightencd country on carth, wt foa

[053]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

just what I am sure Mr. Khrushchev is aiming all his actions at
making us. We claim to have a faith and we decry Godless Com-
munism, but where is our faith? If we really have it, then why are
we so afraid? Jesus said, “The children of darkness are wiser in their
generation than the children of light.” The Russians have what |
think is an evil faith but they are using it well; we have what ]
believe to be the Truth of God and we don’t use it at all or Jet Him
use us. I hope that the dialogue between what I still believe to be
the Queen of the Sciences and all of her subjects of whatever disci-
pline will continue and deepen. The legal separation between
science and theology has gone on too long. It is time that the
marriage was consummated anew. Then we shall have no doubt as

to our goals and shall be able to develop a counter-strategy to check-
mate materialism in Russia and at home.

P.S. Now that I have my S.T.B., I’m not worrying any more
about graduating some day from Harvard. I don’t think I would
want a diploma plastered all over with effete English anyway!

GEORGE WHITNEY, JR.

HOME aApprEss: 7104 Waverly Drive, Oklahoma City, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9500 N, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma City, Okla.

porN: March 21, 1915, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; LL.B. 1940.

MarrigD: Phyllis Stevenson, July 23, 1938, Glen Cove, N.Y. curcpren: Phyllis

Joan, Oct. 26, 1939 (m. J. Roger Hollister, Sept. 8, 1961); Barbara, Sept.
25, 1941; George, Dec. 15, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Bacon Whitney, '39 (deceased).

occuPATION: Education; assistant headmaster, head of History Department,
Casaday School, Oklahoma City, Okla.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club, New York
City; Oklahoma City Golf and Country Club,

FOLLOWING graduation from the Harvard Law School in 1949,
I worked for the law firm of Davis, Wardwell, Gardiner, Sunder-
land and Kiendl in New York City for a few months with the
threat of war hanging overhead. I was commissioned an ensign in
the U.S. Navy in December, 1940, went on active duty the follow-
ing spring, spent a year, July, 1941, to July, 1942, on an amphibious

transport and was then assigned to a new destroyer, the USS Beale.

I served on her until January of 1945, first in communications and
ultimately as executive officer in May of 1944, After an interval at

[1154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Norfolk, I ended the war on another destroyer, USS Sigsbee. Twas

continually in the Pacific, just about anywhere you want to name

from the Aleutians down to New Guinea and back to the Philtp-
ines.

After the war I returned to the law firm for slightly over a year,
but couldn’t get back in the groove and quit in 1947 to move west
and help found a coeducational college preparatory school in O\a-
homa City where I have remained ever since. Have managed to get
back frequently in recent years and have succeeded in making
Oklahoma a little more Harvard-conscious.

JOHN WILLIAMS WHITTLESEY

HOME ADDRESS: 310 Douglas Rd., Chappaqua, N.Y.

oFFice appress: Union Carbide Corp., 270 Park Ave. New York 17, N.Y.

Born: Aug. 18, 1917, Newton Upper Falls, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byficld, Mas; Newton
High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1937; 12.3. 194,
LL.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Barbara Baur, June 13, 1942, Leonia, N.J. ctutoren: John Baur,
Sept. 3, 1946; Diana, Jan. 31, 1951; Paul Woodman, Oct. 20, 1953.

occupation: Labor relations counsel, Union Carbide Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Congregational Church Sunday School, since 1954,
county committeeman, Republican, Westchester County Committee, une
1957; treasurer, Newcastle Republican Town Committee, sinwe tats,
treasurer and founding director, 1959-60, counsel, since tgsa, Chappayua
Swimming Pool Association.

MEMBER OF: Northern Westchester Bar Association; Harvard Club of West.
chester; Phi Beta Kappa; Chappaqua Swimming Pool Awociuanen, New.
castle Town Club; Newcastle Republican Club; Newcastle Fifth Distewt
Committee; Harvard Law School Alumni Association; Columbia baw
School Alumni Association,

PUBLICATIONS: “Compulsory Arbitration Opposed,” 1947; “The Labor Manace.
ment Relations Act,” 1943; “Informing Employees About Taft Harley,”
1948; “The New Wage-Hour Act,” 1949; “Welfare Plans aod Caiiecess
Bargaining,” 1950; “When War Takes Your Fimploveey* pjqo, “Pater
Law in the Public Interest,” 1950 (all U.S. Chamber of Commerce polls
cations); “Bargaining on Productivity,” 1953.

IT is not, I think, possible to be both concise, as dirceted by t':
rather formidable request for my class life, and delichtfaty a-!
wittily informal, as the enclosed guides for responds: Saber ty
suggest. Since the request is plainly derived from a recent Ht osy 8

[1155]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

final exam, it should be treated in the same fashion. Accordingly,
I go for conciseness.

I have been, since 1953, labor relations attorney for Union
Carbide, operating as a staff lawyer responsible for steering its
various divisions past the pitfalls and pratfalls that daily threaten any
sizeable company with employees who are organized or potential
union members. It involves considerable traveling throughout the
country, endless handling of arbitration and NLRB matters, and a
monumental amount of brief and opinion writing. It is also a tre-
mendous source of satisfaction.

I arrived in this posture by way of a consulting firm, where I was
general counsel for a year; a year (1951-52) of helping the govern-
ment sit on wage and salary increases with the Industry Room of
the Korean War Wage Board; five years as staff labor attorney for
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, from the end of World War II;
and five uneven years with a much less public-relations-conscious
army than we enjoy today. And, of course, three years of Harvard
Law School which extruded me in barely enough time to enable
me to mothball my legal education for those five years.

I am, as the data show, a happily married man for twenty years,
with a delightful and understanding wife, together with three lively
and promising children. I am not at all certain that we are a well-
organized household, but it would be an unexciting life if we were.

Thus my two major interests. I travel amply on business and hope
eventually to return to Europe. Hobbies are postage stamp collecting
and Republican politics. In the latter situation, I have become more
conservative since college. The dreadful blatherings of the present
Administration which has too big a mouth for the softness of its
spine, and whose social consciousness is contemptibly motivated by
political fears, have done considerable to reinforce this trend which
the previous Administration had begun to arrest. I have impossibly

pragmatic religious views, the strongest of which is to deplore the

commercialism of most of our organized religious groups. My social

life is adequate, and my physical strain is confined to coping with a

big lawn and sprawling house, plus climbing an occasional Adiron-

dack peak in the summer at the behest of my eldest who enjoys the
rest he has at the top waiting for me. And I still think Harvard is
the finest college on earth.

[1156]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MYRON ARMS WICK, JR.

HOME AppDRESS: Cherry Valley Road, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dominick & Dominick, 14 Wall Se, New York, NY.

BorN: Jan. 10, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; M.BA. 1919.

MarRIED: Elizabeth Louise Dillingham, July 31, 1940, Honolulu, T.EL. esut ress
Wendy, Nov. 23, 1941; Myron Arms, 3d, June 18, 1941; Penclope, June a.
1947; Walter D., Sept. 2, 1955.

OccUPATION: Investment banking; general partner, corporate finanwe depart.
ment, Dominick & Dominick.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1952, secretary, since 1958, Greenwach Plesperal
Association; chapter chairman, Greenwich Chapter, American Red Cave,
1954-56; director, Boys’ Clubs of America, since 1964.

MEMBER OF: Links; Recess Club, Racquet and Tennis Club, New York, Roural
Hill Club; Chicago Club.

IT is difficult to realize that twenty-five years have clapped ance
our graduation, despite the fact that so much has happened in the
intervening years. The speed with which this time has pased
probably reflects the amount of activity which has taken place durin
the period.

The most important project has been the spawning. care and
feeding of four incredibly active children, whose ages now rance
from six to nineteen, three of whom are teen-agers, a teveitins
period of life in others, to say nothing of extreme financial ditoca.
tion to doting parents.

Fortunately, one of New York’s more prosperous banks has Giacn
on the burden of training the eldest female-born, at the obsiou.ly
excessive rate of treble my starting salary, The second in tne
entered a not well-known college the name of which cwipes te,
but begins with Y, if my memory is correct. Number three sain
grade nine of the local school and is capable of doing hee own hore.
work, a real blessing. The last, but not the least, has an overdnce of
energy at age six which prostrates the aging male parene, Wiis,
however, seems to take all this and more in her stride, which proves
the virtue of being of the opposite sex. So endeth the farce sors

As to the question of opinions on subjects rangins fren we'd
affairs to what have you, a satisfying rigidity appeaty tobe cra, +
with each passing year. This will probably end by brn cin ene a
what to the right of Barry Goldwater. As wife vive atest as: .
which are now called discussion, “You are noe alaasa te orb -
you are never wrong.” | |

[ t057)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Relating to miscellaneous activities, my new job of five years
allows me to travel constantly throughout the country. The family
views this dimly, but I see a lot of old friends and even find a deal
or two on rare occasions which pleases my employer. Golf and
tennis remain as hobbies, and insofar as the former is concerned,
Gardner is still good for a few bucks when the till gets low. In-
cidentally, he has not changed for the better.

The newspapers scream that the world is going to Hell in a hack,
I don’t happen to believe this, and if the next twenty-five years are

as full and challenging as the last, they will be just what I expect and
hope for. No more children, though!

EDWARD WIGGLESWORTH, JR.

HOME appress: Smugglers Cove, Cape Elizabeth, South Portland, Maine.
BorN: March 27, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MarrieD: Marian McKean, June 1, 1940, Hamilton, Mass. (divorced 1951);
Laura W. Robbins, Nov. 15, 1952, Biddeford Pool, Maine. CHILDREN:

Marian, July 16, 1941; Edward, 3d, March 16, 1943 (died July 6, 1960);
Laura, Nov. 12, 1953.
occuPATION: Realtor.

TWENTY-FIVE years have brought forth a rather mixed bag.
I worked in Boston for the United Shoe Machinery Corporation
until I entered the Navy in 1942, spent the war years on mine-
sweepers, then, after a second round of downtown Boston and a
divorce, moved to Portland, Maine, where I married my present
wife and where I am now in the real estate business.

Wonderful summers are spent at our summer home in Biddeford
Pool, with a bit of golf, swimming and the usual summer resort
activities. Am now dodging polyunsaturated fats, still trying to
learn that drinking is not a competitive sport and indulging my
preference for German automobiles, English shoes, Scotch whisky
and American women.

As to the future: I stood before my doctor stark naked, having
just been subjected to the indignities of an annual physical exam.
“You certainly have kept yourself in fine shape,” he said, “you're

muscular, hairy and bald, you'll probably have a coronary some
day.”

[1158]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ROBERT HENRY WILDS, JR.

BoRN: May 28, 1916, Manila, Philippine Islands. parents: Robert Elenry Wilts
Eleanor Phelps,
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.
pieD: Killed in action, Nov. 22, 1944, over Yugoslavia.

WILDS left Harvard at the end of his freshman year, attended the

University of North Carolina and the University of Colorado, and

then joined Procter & Gamble Company in Philadelphia, Ele en-

listed in the Army Air Forces in 1943 and was commixioned in
March, 1944. At the time of his death he was a first lieutenant as-
signed to the 885th Bomber Squadron of the rth Air Force in Ttalv
and was doing special work in radar. He was lost through enemy
action while on a bombing mission in a B-24 Liberator over Yu
slavia. He held the Air Medal with three oak leaf clusters, and was
posthumously awarded the Purple Heart Medal.

PAUL ROGERS WILEY

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Sayle Rd., The Crescent, Charleston, S.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co, Charleston, S.C

BORN: May 28, 1915, Ashmont, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. 1937; 8s. (Inst. of Paper Chemuery),
1939; PH.D. (ibid.), 1941.

MaRRIED: Helen Corrigan, July 12, 1942, Port Washington, N.Y. cutpans
Helen; Rosemary; Janet Luke (all stepdaughters): Paul Rogeew Jr, Apel
24, 1944.

occupaTion: Manager, Polychemicals Division, Wes Virginia Pulp & Piper
Company, chemical products from pulp and paper operatwrns

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Socicty; Technical Awocunon of Pip &
Paper Industry; American Society for Testing Macerials

AFTER graduating from Harvard, I attended the Institute & f Pier
Chemistry i in Appleton, Wisconsin, obtaining SME and PhD a eet
in paper chemistry. Upon graduation, Twente with the Wese Views os
Pulp & Paper Company at Mechanicville, New York, as a tea’. a
assistant. I left there in 1942 to enter research at our molar bois
Maryland. In 1944, I came here to Charleston, South Car cae |
with the same company. Wre have been here ever use, to:

found it a delightful place to work and live.

[1159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

LESLIE LOWELL WILKIN

HOME ADDRESS: 235 S. Second St., Greenfield, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wilknit, Inc. Greenfield, Ohio.

porn: April 11, 1913, Greenfield, Ohio.

* prePaRED AT: McClain High School, Greenfield, Ohio; Columbus Academy,

Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1033-1934.

MARRIED: Thelma Roode, Aug. 19, 1938, Newport, Ky. CHILDREN: Jeffrey, Feb.
1, 1945 (died Feb, 5, 1954); Robert, March 26, 1947; John, Oct. 6, 1952.

occupation: President, Wilknit, Inc. (mail-order wearing apparel).

OFFICES HELD: President, Rotary, 1942-43; president, Board of Education, 1954-55
(both Greenfield, Ohio); member, board of trustees, Ohio State School
Boards Association, 1955; vice-president, National Association of Direct
Selling Companies, Winona, Minn., 1957; member, board of trustees, Chil-
dren’s Hospital, Columbus, Ohio, since 1961; various offices in Boy Scouts
of America, Red Cross, Methodist and Presbyterian Churches.

MEMBER OF: Elks, Rotary; Masons 32°; Eagles; Shrine; Athletic Club, Columbus,
Ohio; Lake Shore Club, Chicago; Ohio Society of New York.

BRIEFLY, and basically, my life is now formulated on the convic-
tion that education in its broadest sense is the prerequisite for survival
and happiness of all civilization. I visited Russia for the purpose of
studying the school system, but was thwarted because of my failure
to make proper prearrangements. Nevertheless, I am interested in
the theories and operations of all educational systems.

My hobbies are playing the electric organ, giving water safety
instruction, studying Spanish, and playing duplicate bridge.

SUMNER WILLARD

HOME ADDRESS: Quarters 17, West Point, N.Y,

OFFICE appRESS: Dept. of Foreign Languages, U.S. Military Academy, West
Point, N.Y.

BORN: July 18, 1916, Arlington, Mass,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1937; AM. 1938;
PHD. 1943.

marrigp: Charity Ellen Cannon (Radcliffe, pup, ’40), May 20, 1944, West
Point, N.Y.

OccUPATION: Associate professor of foreign languages, US. Military Academy;
lieutenant colonel, U.S, Army Reserve, on active duty.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in French, Longwood Day School, Brookline, Mass.,
1937-395 teaching fellow and tutor in Romance languages, Harvard, 1939-
42; instructor in modern languages, 1943-47, instructor, assistant professor
of the Russian language, 1951-§8, associate professor of forcign languages,

[ 1160 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since 1958, US. Military Academy, assistant professor of Romame ban:
guages and Russian, University of Vermont, 1947-51.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Modern Language Association of Amern a,
International Institute for Girls in Spain; Harvard Club of the Mid Pladeon

Valley.
puBLICATIONS: Short articles in various journals and in Collier's Encyclo pe dua.

IT cannot be said that my life during these past, fast twenty-tive
ears has been momentous; and in view of the fact that I was nee
one of the bright Harvard men invited to join the inner circle and
enjoy in moderation (to paraphrase a well-known ad) the disallanion
of golden wisdom currently flowing in Washington, it must be
recorded that my life has been something less than brilliantly suc-
cessful. My father was disappointed that I did not, as an under
graduate, major in a subject that would fit me for the lw. He
envisaged me as a corporation lawyer because, as he put iw b had a
greater capacity for learning and retaining useless facts than any one
else of his acquaintance. (Corporation lawyers, please note.) He par-
ticularly disapproved of my concentrating in French, because teach-
ing a foreign language (he correctly assumed that I would teach)

was a kind of “missionary duty”!

Well, from a modest start in French, I have gone on to delve int
six other languages, none of them exotic, some of which | have
taught, some of which I merely read, but all of which [use from
time to time. My acquisitiveness in this respect was sharpened carly
in World War II when I found myself, as an expendable heutenane,
assigned to West Point to help keep the Forcign Language Depart:
ment going. I taught four different languages in three years and was
decorated for being a minor genius. This is, of course, not wo creep.
tional as it sounds, but some people were and are dassled by an
ability to communicate in more than one medium.

After the war, I returned to civilian life temporarily, lecturins at
Williams one summer and teaching at the Univenity of Vermert
But we had scarcely got settled when the Korean War be hog
sounded, and I was back in the Festung-am-Eludson. Plaviee states
in and out of uniform once, I decided to be shiftlew for a while. ta
Khrushchev’s rumbling and explosions find me sell ac West fou +
pursuing a military career of sorts (i.e, petting credit for bess ein
the Army), yet teaching and administering all the tine. :

While West Point is not Harvard, there isa genuine curs cra ats
educating the cadets and not merely training them, Twas poet
to sit on one of the curriculum revision committees, an foara gt

[ 1160]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

of the long deliberations many elective courses, both in the sciences
and in the humanities, have been introduced. Cadets now have the
opportunity to broaden and deepen their knowledge along lines of
particular interest to them. This is the latest development in the
liberalizing process begun during the superintendency of General
Maxwell D. Taylor. The work of institutions like Harvard and
M.LT. has had considerable influence upon the thinking here, and I
am glad that as a product of Harvard on the faculty I have had a
small part in helping to reshape the curriculum. Subsequently, I
relinquished heading the Russian program in order to organize and
teach two of the new electives, one in French literature and one in
modern Spanish thought, thus reverting to the field in which I
gained the doctorate at Harvard.

My only real hobby is reading, and of late years I have become
interested in medieval military history insofar as it deals with the
development of strategy and tactics. I am translating a study on the
art of warfare in the middle ages by a Flemish scholar, J. F. Ver-
bruggen. This study, a major contribution to our knowledge of
medieval strategy and tactics, has been overlooked chiefly because
it is in Flemish. Two medieval chroniclers, Fernao Lopes, of Portu-
gal, and Pero Lopez de Ayala, the Spanish Froissart, deserve to be
more widely known in the English-speaking world. When I retire
four years hence, I hope to spend my first sabbatical in twenty-eight
years of teaching pursuing the last-named figures. While we get to
Europe frequently, there is not enough time in part of a summer to
do real research.

So it is that my interest in foreign languages has led me far afield
from “missionary duty” in merely teaching them to undergraduates.
One of the basic needs in the world today is more intercultural con-
tacts, with a concomitant sense of urgency in speaking someone else’s
language. I hope that I have made a modest contribution toward
fulfilling that need.

JAMES HARVEY WILLIAMS, II

MAILING AppREsS: §5 E. 72d St., New York 21, N.Y,

{ 1162 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT ALEXANDER WILLIAMS

HOME ADDRESS: 2606 S, Hayes St., Arlington 2, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Navy Dept., Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1915, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Priscilla Bourne Nye, Sept. 8, 1939, Belmont, Mass. cattpags: Robert
Alexander, Jr., May 13, 1941; Richard Taylor, May 21, 195:; David
Michael, Oct. 15, 1946, Anthony Owen, Feb. 14, 1950.

OccUPATION: Captain, Supply Corps, U.S. Navy.

AS I write this, I am on the eve of reporting to the recently estal-

lished Defense Supply Agency, the first major operating organiza-

tion at the Department of Defense, as opposed to the military
department, level. This will be my first job outside the Navy in
twenty-five years of Naval service. Those twenty-five years have
provided tours of duty in many interesting places, an adequate living
for me and my family and a great deal of satisfaction. I have had
duty afloat in battleships, cruisers and with the amphibious forces.

Supply and fiscal jobs ashore have taken us, successively, to Rhode

Island, California, Massachusetts, Hawaii, Ohio, Washington, D.C,

Cuba and back to Washington.

The war years interrupted my chance to sce our first two sons
grow up, but two more boys, born since the war, have given me an
opportunity to fill in this gap. Our eldest son is now a junior in
engineering at Cornell; the second is a freshman at Penn State.

For the last four years I have been associated, in Vice-Admiral
Raborn’s Special Projects Office, with the development and prostuc-
tion of the Polaris missile and the Fleet Ballistic Missile submarines
For my part in this effort, I was recently awarded the Navy Carn-

mendation Medal.

CLARENCE MARTIN WILMARTH

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 400 Roberts Rd., Colusa, Calif.

BORN: Dec, 28, 1914, Glens Falls, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936.

MarRiED: Frances Balsdon, March 9, 1944, Berkeley, Calif. conroare Juove
Durgin, April 2, 1946; Sherry Louise, Aug. & tyr, Kathrva Je eo.
Sept. 20, 1954

OCCUPATION: Farming.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member, Republican Central Committee, Colusa Caaecry. to

[ 1163]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

trustee, Grimes Elementary School, 1955-60; chairman, Airport Committee,
since 1956, president, Tuberculosis and Health Association, since 1961,
Colusa County; director, California Ammonia Company, since 1957; lieu-
tenant colonel, Air Force Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Peach Tree Golf and Country Club, Butte View Racquet Club.

THE first two years after college were spent enjoyably but without
profit, on the eastern side of San Francisco bay. Learning the retail
furniture business was ostensibly my purpose, but learning to sail
was more fun. Ennui led to flying and to the Army Air Force
which seemed to be looking for volunteers in 1940. Five years of
service included two in New Guinea at the very outset of World
War II. No doubt a deep-rooted yen for flying made the experience
seem worthwhile and not unpleasant. While in the Air Force, I
married a native Californian, certainly the most fortunate decision
in my career.
Immediately following the war, I tried a stint with Pan American
Airways, but the prospect of station manager in some desolate,
foreign spot lacked appeal. Next, a job in the merchandise field for
two years wearied me of indoor and city confinement. So Frances
and I settled down to country life, casting our lot with agriculture.
We learned to ski together, spending many happy vacations at Sun
Valley, Aspen, and Alta. She became tolerant toward flying, and
for twelve years we have traveled solely by Bonanza (our third is
a model). Lately, our winter trips have included warmer climes
such as Mexico, Salvador, and a circuit of the Caribbean. My dream
trip for 1963 is a combined North Atlantic crossing and European
air tour, preferably during spring ski season.

As a farmer, I raise six crops, the first and most difficult being our
three children. Jim is at Cate, located in the beautiful lemon country
near Santa Barbara. Sherry is just starting at the Katharine Branson
School in lovely Marin, and Kathy is still on our hearth. Next, in
degree of difficulty, comes rice, which has as many divergent theories
on culture as there are growers. Milo, wheat, and barley are the
easiest to raise, while safflower is our savior. A high-grade oil seed
and the only crop in our operation not under government control,

safflower has a fine future in both industrial and home consumption.
Most California farmers want fewer subsidies with their attendant
controls and in general less government in agriculture.

After a year of planning, we built our first and last house during

1960-61, and are presently engaged in the shakedown cruise. A few

pitfalls such as underwater music in the pool and automatic in-

[ 1164 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sect control have backfired, but mainly our garden-oriented hacienda
of adobe brick surrounding an inner court has proved to be a real
adventure in outdoor living.

Distance will probably preclude my attending the Twenty-fifth,
but here’s wishing you a bang-up celebration.

+ JOSEPH WHITE WILSHIRE, Il

BoRN: July 18, 1914, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: Joseph Wilshire, Hiclen Seely.
PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.
mMargieD: Anna May Wilshire. cumpren: Joseph White, qth; Wan Hamm.

piep: Feb. 9, 1960, Boston, Mass.
wipow: Mrs. Joseph W. Wilshire, 3d, Round Hill Road, Greenwich, Conn,

JOSEPH WHITE WILSHIRE, III, spent two years with our Clas,
He was a resident of Winthrop House and, during his freshman year,
a member of the 150-pound crew and the Mountaineering Club and
manager of the squash team. During World War II, he enlisted in
the Army and served overseas in the European Theatre with the Aur
Corps, being honorably discharged with rank of ist Lieutenant. Be-
fore and after service with the Air Corps, he was associated with
Standards Brands, Inc., in New York City. He was survived by

his wife and children.

RICHARD HAMMOND WILSON

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Westwood Rd., Shrewsbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Mutual Life Assurance Co. of America, gga Lincola Se,
Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1915, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MarrigD: Dorothy Barstow, Oct. 11, 1941, Chestnut Hill, Maw. contoers
‘Marilynn, March 15, 1947; Marcia, Aug. 12, 1948.

occupaTion: Vice-president — Financial Operations, State Mutual Life Aiur ons
Company of America.

OFFICES HELD: Director and member, Trust Committee and Faccutve Coos
mittee, Mechanics National Bank of Worcester, since ryg4, directoe ad
member, Finance Committee, Worcester Mutual Fire fisurane Compe,
since 1958; member, Advisory Investment Committce, YWON, Woe ese.
Mass., since 1958; incorporator, Worcester Plahnermans Phegora ae
1957; member, Advisory Commuttce for Life Income Pusd Negros
College, Worcester, Mass., since to¢9; member, Lavesrmene Rewer Ga
mittee and Subcommittee on Fiscal and Monetary Poluy, bala Powe.

[ 1165 )

-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

Association of America, since 1961; trustee, Edson B, Smith Fund, Boston,
since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Worcester Country Club; Worcester Club.

FOLLOWING graduation I joined the Liberty Mutual Insurance
Company in August, 1937, as an investment analyst. For the next
four and a half years, I struggled with the practical realities of help-
ing to invest the funds of this company. In many ways this was quite
interesting but also somewhat frustrating since the top management
was strongly influenced by the 1929-32 depression syndrome. As
a result the investment policy was oriented toward cash and short-

term government bonds which left very little room for any crea-
tive ideas ] might have had.

Early in 1942, I joined the Navy as an ensign. After a ninety-day
indoctrination course on Navy ways, I spent some time at the Bomb
Disposal School in Washington, D.C., training men in the whys
and wherefores of bombs, fuses, and other explosive ordnance. In-
asmuch as my training in college was in languages and economics
and my business experience in investments, | was eminently quali-
fied for this type of work. I spent some time in the Pacific Ocean
areas supervising mobile instructional training units whose job it
was to bring the word on the operation of these weapons to the
fleet. Because our work was quite specialized and to some extent
surrounded with an aura of mystery, our group was given a rela-
tively free hand by the Navy Department in carrying out its duties.
In my opinion, the freedom to innovate without being hampered
by burdensome restrictions that are so prevalent in the military
establishment accounted in large part for the success which we had.
It appears to work well in business, too.

At the end of the war, I joined the State Mutual Life Assurance
Company of America as an investment analyst and in 1956 was given
the overall responsibility of directing our investment activities and
other financial operations. The period since the war has been one
of great change in the investment policies of the life insurance in-
dustry. Common stocks, direct loans to small companies, and new
methods of financing have all combined to make life insurance in-
vesting more interesting and rewarding. I have no idea what the

future holds in store except that the pace of change will quicken
and challenge our abilities to succeed and even survive.

[ 1166 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD HAMLIN EVERETT WING

HOME ADDRESS: R.F.D. 1, Canaan, Conn.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: A.B. (Middlebury Coll.), 1934.

UNMARRIED.

MY parents had a home in Long Island until I was seventeen of

eighteen years old. I went to high school there for three years befure

entering Phillips Andover at fifteen in 1931. Two years lacer I

entered Harvard College. Three years later I left Harvard and haif

a year later entered Middlebury College in Vermont where I gra-
uated a year and a half later in June, 1938. Following graduation |
went on a summer trip to Florida with one of my mother’s Snuth
College classmates who had a house there. I had the urge more than
once during this trip to linger in the South and kicked myself for
not doing so.

The next eight years or so I spent at the family homes in New

York City and the Berkshires and I admit several stays in the mental
hospital. I did not get into the armed services during the war years
though I was employed in the New York Naval Shipyard throu,
1945.
I undertook to get away from home and explore the West a but in
the summer of 1946 after my father dicd in February, but enty
succeeded in being shunted into a state mental hospital in a strane
city and being ever since slightly spastic. Since 1947 [ have been
staying at my mother’s farm in the Berkshires, occavionally helpin
on the farm, but mostly doing odd jobs for nearby reudents of
pursuing my interest in growing plants.

There you are and I think you deserve credit for your fren ty
prodding to dig up this sort of thing. VERITAS.

* ALLEN TOWNSEND WINMIEL

Born: April 11, 1915, New York, N.Y. paaesre: Robert Carp hell Wo
Viola Townsend.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Masa

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREFS: AB, toyr, tam (Vale Ure bo toe

marrieD: Dorothy Ball, Aug. 8, 1943. cuito: BhiaherN Powese ot Sone:

1943.
piep: Oct. 10, 1944, near Shingbwiyang, Burma.

[ 1167]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

WHILE in college Winmill captained the freshman and varsity polo
team and was a member of the freshman cross country team. After
graduation he attended the Yale Law School and upon receiving his
LL.B., he was admitted to the New York Bar and practised law with
the firm of Hawkins, Delafield & Wood in New York City until
October, 1941, when he enlisted in the Air Corps. He received his
wings and commission at Randolph Field, Texas, in May, 1942, and
was stationed for the next six months at Colorado Springs, doing
photographic reconnaissance. In December, 1942, he was promoted
first lieutenant and transferred to the 6th Ferrying Group of the
Air Transport Command, stationed at Long Beach, California. He
became a captain in September, 1943, and a few months later was
transferred to India for Transport Service. He died while co-pilot
of a C-87 Liberator Express transport plane which crashed on a
return cargo flight from China to Tezpur, India. He was survived
by his wife and daughter.

A classroom at St. Mark’s School was renovated and dedicated 1 to
his memory.

HENRY MOSLE WEST WINTER

MAILING ADDRESS: 119 Walker St., Cambridge, Mass.

RICHARD HALL WISWALL, JR.

HOME apbpress: Beaver Dam Road, Brookhaven, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, Long Island, N.Y.

Born: March 7, 1916, Salem, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; PHD. (Princeton
Univ.), 1941.

Marriep: Ann Reed Swartz, Nov. 30, 1946, Syracuse, N.Y. cHiLpREN: Stephen
Coggin, Sept. 3, 1947; Thomas Swartz, Dec. 9, 1949; John David, Nov. 25,
1954; Richard Hall, 3d, March 27, 1957; Benjamin Reed, Sept. 26, 1961.

occupation: Chemical research, group leader, Nuclear Engineering Depart-
ment, Brookhaven National Laboratory.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society, American Nuclear Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to scientific journals,

MY occupation ever since leaving college has been chemical research.
The training begun at Harvard was completed at Princeton in three
pleasant years spent at the Graduate College there. I had been in my
first job in the laboratory of a large chemical company for about a

[ 1168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year when the war reached the United States. The company took on
a certain amount of war research, to which it caref ully assigned its
draft-age men, while carrying on its own competitive research
program on about as large a scale as usual with older men. Since
the deferment of scientists was being justificd by their presumed
scarcity, this hardly seemed cricket, and I eventually decided that I
would feel more comfortable in O.D. Fate, however, seemed not to
intend me to be a soldier, except in name, and I was assigned before
long to a laboratory in New York that was one of the centers of the
atomic bomb project. Those were exciting days. The fact that
Germany, for all we then knew, might be nearer success than we
were gave the greatest urgency to our effort, and we worked under
a stimulus of a kind rarely encountered in research. After the war I
stayed in the nuclear field, first at Oak Ridge and since 1949 at
Brookhaven. This is an institution supported by the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission but largely autonomous in its conduct of re-
search. Much of the research is strictly fundamental, but some,
including my own small share, is of an applied nature. The programs
I am concerned with are oriented toward the long-range goal of
achieving economic nuclear power. The chemical problems en-
countered in this field are many and challenging, and it is a pleasure
to grapple with them.

In my personal twenty-five-year retrospect, domestic affairs are at
least as important as my professional life, though doubrless of less
general interest. The imaginative reader given the data on names
birth dates, etc., tabulated above can form a sufficiently clear mental
picture of the Wiswall household and can realize why Ann and I
sometimes say to each other, “Can you believe that we were cach
once single?”, or “We can’t afford that, not when we have 214
teeth to keep filled.” To add a few details, we live in an old house in
the hamlet of Brookhaven, a very rural place on the South Shore of
Long Island (not the site of the laboratory). My main outdoor
diversion is sailing a small boat. Indoors, I read quite a bit, play a
little bridge, and try to keep the house’s décor ahead of the ravacrs
of the offspring. My public activities are not conspicuous, thous |
occasionally function in such minor roles as Boy Scout commnuttee-
man or church deacon. For geographical reasons I sce very lirrte of

my classmates, to my regret; so IT am the more glad to have ts
‘chance to say best wishes to all.

[ 1169 )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

JOEIN JAMES WITHERSPOON’

HOME AppRESS: Glen Street, Rowley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass,

BORN: Jan, 29, 1916, Wilkinsburg, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1937; LL.B. 1940.

maraiep: Helen Lane Bates, Aug. 12, 1939, Chester, Conn. cuitp: Jessie Bates,
Nov. 6, 1951.

occuPATION: Director of admissions and teacher, Governor Dummer Academy.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, Byfield Parish Church, 1955-60; chairman, Rowley
Planning Board, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Ould Newbury Golf Club; Society of
Former Special Agents of the F.B.I., United World Federalists; US.
Lacrosse Coaches Association.

SINCE June of 1937 I have had three rather distinct careers. . In
chronological order they have been: law student and neophyte
lawyer, September, 1937, to July, 1942; F.B.I. agent, July, 1942, to
November, 1946; then after a few months to calm incipient ulcers,
a schoolmaster from September, 1947, to date and into the foresee-
able future. The law school was Harvard, the law office in Pitts-
burgh. While in the F.B.L, we lived at various times in Los Angeles,
Seattle, Milwaukee, Albany and Schenectady. The schoolmastering
has been done entirely at Governor Dummer Academy in South
Byfield, Massachusetts. Although we had an apartment on campus
so that I could supervise a corridor of boys for a couple of years, we
have maintained a house of our own in the neighboring town of
Rowley ever since coming here.

I like school work. Although it has proven as demanding of time
and energy as the F.B.L, I survive because I do like it. After several
years of teaching history and English, coaching basketball and
lacrosse, and doing the myriad odd administrative jobs that a board-
ing school faculty member faces, I was given the admissions office in
1955 and have devoted practically all my time to it ever since. One
of the more pleasant features of the job has been that of seeing again
some classmates whom I knew at Harvard and meeting more that I
did not know while there.

During the early and middle fifties, I got what I now consider to
be too involved with church, community, club and charity com-
mittees. Now I am down to only two. One is being the entire tenor
section of the choir in our little country church. The other is the
chairmanship of the Rowley Planning Board, which involves trying

[1170 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to keep under control the various crises which the population ex.
plosion is creating for country towns within commuting distance
of Boston. The remnants of my legal training are useful in this
effort, which involves drafting ordinances and regulations. Some
of my creations seem to raise about as many problems as they solve,
but none have as yet been struck down by the courts,

In a recent burst of optimism we bought a farm in southern
New Hampshire. We have 4oo acres of rocks, swamps, scrub um-
ber and a little bit of hay land. We have leased the place to an
equally optimistic farmer who maintains a small dairy herd, and we
have saved five rooms in the big, old farmhouse as a retreat for
ourselves. My wife is in charge of this operation and, she being
the organizer she is, I face the future of the venture with some
confidence. The farm and my stubborn, if futile, efforts to play
a round of golf in par figures pass with me for recreation.

Looking back over the past twenty-five years, I hope that I have
created a smudge or two, though it is obvious I have not sct the
world on fire. At least they have been interesting years for me,
enough so that, assuming the world lasts that long, I want to stick
around to see what the next twenty-five produce.

+ HOMER LYNN WOLF

BORN: Jan. 11, 1915, Tacoma, Wash. parents: Homer LeRoy Wolf, Carloera
Manning.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wiis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1937-

MaRRIED: Emma Maury, 1939 Olympia, Wash. (divorced); Amy Josephine
Agnes Rowe, Jan. 21, 1943. CHILDREN: Homer Maury, ad, Dee. 3. toats
Homer LeRoy, 3d.

piepv: Killed in action, July 29, 1944, Cerisy-Belle-Etoile, France.

BEFORE entering the service Wolf was manager of HL. L. Wolf
& Company, an International Motor Truck agency in Olvimpas,
Washington. He joined the RCAF about 1942 and was stationed in
England before the invasion of France, During his service wath the
RCAF he became a qualified pilot instructor in both sinyte an.
multi-engined aircraft, a staff qualified instructor in air n avi; ation,
and a fellow of the Royal Meteorological Soci ictv. Ele was attsc he!
to the No. 430 Squadron, No, 39 (RCAF) Reconnainsance Wises
He was killed in the crash of his Royal Air Force fihere eee |

naissance aircraft. He had participated in a successful reconia: ane

[urza)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

mission only the day before. He is buried in the Parish Cemetery at
Cerisy-Belle-Etoile. He was survived by his wife and two sons.

ROBERT WOLF

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Richbell Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hays, Sklar & Herzberg, 579 Fifth Ave, New York 17, N.Y.

porN: April 14, 1916, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, Fieldston, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: SB. magna cum laude, 1937; LLB.
(Columbia Univ.), 1940.

MarRiED: Peggy Frank Gluck, Sept. 17, 1944, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Nancy Ellen, Nov. 1, 1946; Thomas Ralph, March 27, 1948.

occupaTion: Attorney; member of firm, Hays, Sklar & Herzberg.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1947, president, 1958-61, Educational Alliance;
member, board of directors, Mobilization for Youth, since 1960; member,
board of trustees, Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, since
1958; treasurer and secretary, New-Land Foundation, Inc., since 1951;
member, board of governors, Sunningdale Country Club, Inc., since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, New York County Lawyers Asso~-
ciation; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American Bar

Association; National Realty Club, Inc; The Town Club of Scarsdale;
New York Law Institute.

I FIND it very difficult to account for all of the twenty-five years
which, though it seems unlikely, have elapsed since graduation. The
first eight years are easy. They were measured mostly by the years
required to obtain my law degree and to complete my military
service. After graduation from Columbia Law School in 1940 (1
would have preferred Harvard but my parents disagreed), I landed
a one-year job as law assistant to Honorable Bernard L. Shientag,
one of the best of the New York Supreme Court judges. I agreed
to stay on with the judge for an additional year, but before it was
half over World War II started, It was not long before I found
myself leading a small group of draftees to report for induction at
Governors Island, New York, at six o’clock on a bleak Monday
morning. By 8:00 A.M. on that day I had been given free coffee
and doughnuts by the Red Cross and returned to Manhattan with
five cents for the ferry boat ride and the official papers stamped
“Unfit for military service” (on account of eyesight). Soon after-
wards I journeyed to Washington, D.C., and for the next six months
worked as an attorney in the General Counsel’s office of the Treas-
ury Department, Foreign Funds Control Division.

[1172 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In June, 1942, the U.S. Coast Guard was short of personnel and
looked the other way when I came up for my eye test. For the
next three and a half years I was captain of the Port of Panama City,
Florida, and port security officer at various other Gulf Coast cities
I learned to operate a fleet of small picket boats in the Gulf of
Mexico, to handle the military red tape involved in running a unit
of 500 men, and to supervise the feeding, stabling, and grooming
of about a hundred horses which the men rode up and down
the Florida beaches, presumably to prevent landings by German
U-boats.

During this period, or to be more specific in case my wife reads
this, on September 17, 1944, I married my childhood girl friend,
Peggy F. Gluck, who joined me for the balance of my military
career. In the late fall of 1945 I was released from active duty with
the Coast Guard at New Orleans (with the rank of lieutenane,
senior grade) and Peggy and I returned to New York City after
a belated honeymoon trip to Mexico.

The next sixteen years have passed so quickly and been so event:
ful that they seem to have become blurred into a far shorter span.
My principal occupation has been as a partner of a busy New
York law firm where I have been engaged in a varicty of things
including corporate, estate, real estate, and lhitigation work. Ina
addition to having the usual number of professional awociations |
have been active in more than the usual number of social and char.
table affairs. Since the war, our home has been in Westchester
County: for the last nine years in Scarsdale and for the seven years
before that in Larchmont. My wife is just as active as 1 in wail
and communal affairs, at the moment being president of the Sint.
more Club of Westchester and a member of numerous local and
national organizations. Nancy is now a sophomore at eur focal beh
school and Tom is in the eighth grade at Riverdale Country Dis

School.

What little time Peggy and I have after our communal of! +s.
tions is Spent puttering in our small greenhouse, completin, re he
ing projects in the basement tool shop, running a ham nate sak,
playing various musical instruments, and at least three of fone os
a year heading north for a weckend of shiing. F very other of
for the past eight years we have traveled throu: oh Pare v9 a bad
our four trips have covered juse about all of the countries oo!
of Russia. Having struggled to complece this accouse hes i
wonder all the more what's in store for the next tweety tees

[0173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

BERTRAM SUMNER WOLFSON

HOME ADDRESS: 95 Chenery St., Portland, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastland Shoe Corp., Freeport, Maine.

porN: March 19, 1916, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Ruth L, Klein, June 14, 1940, Brookline, Mass, cHiLprEN: Stanley L.,
March 16, 1943; John Stone, March 15, 1946; Elinore Green, Aug. 9, i948.

occupation: Shoe manufacturing, president, Westland Shoe Corporation,
Scarboro, Maine; treasurer, Eastland Shoe Corporation, Freeport, Maine.

MEMBER OF: Portland Chamber of Commerce; 210 Associates; Casco Bay Power

Squadron; Committee for Foreign Relations; Temple Beth El; Harvard
Club in Maine; Y.M.C.A.

PUBLICATIONS: Various contributions to trade publications.

IT has been said before that among the most difficult tales to relate
is a journey. Should the story contain too many details, sheer
numbers make each item appear unimportant — should the story
be too concise, the stark report of facts becomes journalistically
uninteresting.

To relate properly this journey that began one June, 1937, in
Tercentenary Quadrangle, and intends to return to the same place
just five and twenty years later is the purpose of this report.

In completing the preceding questionnaire, the first club which
occurred to me was “Diner's Club,” so it would appear that this is
a most important affiliation. From it can be patently seen the phi-
losophy of my journey.

In many respects I consider myself more fortunate than most.
The route was decided by me alone — and I have been able to stay
with it. I very early determined that the manufacture of shoes
would be my work —and I have enjoyed the career which it has
offered. The various facets which include raw material markets,
selecting and working with personnel, technical manufacturing
problems, merchandising and selling the finished product, all have
supplied a challenge which I need. (Today our two factories pro-
vide employment for 550 people.)

My marriage, which had its beginnings when I started dating my
wife in her sophomore year at Wellesley, has followed a parallel
journey for twenty-two years. Although we disagree on many
things, we still do agree about each other. We have produced
three children: Stan, at Wharton School in Pennsylvania; John, a
sophomore in high school; and Elinore, in junior high school. In

[ 1174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this respect I have been most fortunate, a healthy home life with
normal children.

Stan has already shown a decided interest in shoe manufacturing
and expects to come with me when he graduates. I can hardly wait
for the few years to elapse so that I can put the saddle on his back!
John at this time is most assiduously preparing himself with high
hopes in the direction of Cambridge. He also is a serious swimmer
— we work out together: he works and I am out of the water
coaching! Our daughter Elinore is a very social young lady —
vive la différence!

Since my work has brought us to Maine, we are afforded some
excellent avocational opportunities. During the winter, and it is
usually a long one, we ski — all of us but my sensible wife. During
the summer, and this is far too short, we enjoy the coastal watcrs
of Casco Bay, among the finest for small boat cruising.

Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our only time for
vacations comes during the winter. We have managed to vint
many of the Caribbean Islands. We also have gone as far from
Maine as Mexico, which we enjoyed archeologically.

. Like the rest of us, I keep myself fairly well informed of world
affairs through as much reading as time allows. I follow with
interest the emergence of new peoples upon the International scene

and am appalled at the apparent lack of understanding which our
foreign policy evidences. I hope that ultimately the problems will
be resolved. :

The preceding I have put down after some retrospect. TE trust
that it gives enough of the facts set in their true background, that
there is evident a feeling of future purpose and opumism.

GEORGE HARRIS WOLFSON

HOME apprgess: 111 E. Allendale Ave. Allendale, N_J.

OFFICE appREss: Western Publishing Co. 850 Third Ave, New Yors, “WY.

BoRN: Aug. 10, 1915, Woodmere, Long Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cte litsde, 1947.

MarrigD: Florence Elizabeth Epps, Dee. 24, 191% Petersburg, Va en reac
Sally Epps, Nov. 8, 1944; Laura Louise, June 6, 1948.

occuPaTION: Publishing and printing; managing director, A & Wo...
Western Printing & Lithographing Company.

[1175 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

OFFICES HELD: President, since 1957, member, eleven years, Allendale Board of
Education; former president, Allendale P.T.A.
MEMBER OF: Fyke Nature Association.

EXCEPT for three years of teaching, my entire working career
has been spent with Western Printing & Lithographing Company,
one of the world’s largest printers and certainly, in its various
divisions, the world’s largest publisher of children’s books. The
Artists and Writers Press Division, of which I am managing editor,
is responsible for a large variety of products, of which the many
lines of Golden Books are probably most familiar to the general
public, The people with and for whom I work are an exciting and
creative group. The job has been such fun that I have never been
remotely tempted to change to anything else.

As with most of us, my work was broken into by three years of
army service in World War II — most of it pretty dull deskwork.

My principal avocation is education. My opinion is that the
quality of public school education is the most important problem
facing our society —and it is a problem that keeps growing faster
than it is being solved. Because I feel this so strongly, I have been
involved for many years with P.T.A. and school board work, and
have served for eleven years on our local Board of Education —
the last four and a half years as its president. This work in New
Jersey, except in the largest communities, is completely voluntary
and unpaid. One’s faith in democracy is considerably bolstered by
the character and caliber of those throughout the state who give
their time to this sort of thing.

As a family with two daughters (one college-bound and one
headed for high school next year), we have inevitably become
mixed up in Girl Scouting — Pop included! We have always spent
our vacations together, and as far from home as possible. Two of
the high spots have been a camping trip to the Tetons in Wyoming
a few years ago, and a wonderful safari through western Europe
last summer. Greatest sight-seeing thrill (of very many): the Greek
temples at Praestum. Most exciting moment: getting lost in Rome
rush-hour traffic behind wheel of Fiat, with wife and two daughters
offering help and advice.

[1176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD THORNING WOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Grant Ave., Eatontown, N.J.

porn: May 2, 1915, Westfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Westfield High School, Westfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; a.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1947.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Retired.

MY record since college has been somewhat varied: accounting
clerk in the A. T. & T. Company; a stint in the Air Force, montly
in Miami Beach; two years of graduate work in economics at
Columbia; research associate for the National Bureau of F.conomic
Research; teaching economics at Hunter and Dartmouth Colleges,
organist and choirmaster in various churches, part and full time,
seven years in the Civil Service at Fort Monmouth, ending up more
or less in charge of the Army’s part in the standardization of quartz
crystal units for radio frequency control; and for the past two years,
retired, I hope permanently. If anyone who remembers me wonders
what military electronics had to do with my background of philos-
ophy, music and economics, so do I; but it was fascinating and
exasperating work, much more challenging than earlier jobs. Hlow-
ever, bureaucratic pussyfooting got under my skin, which is not
over-thick; I had received a minuscule legacy; and so I took a
calculated risk and quit. So far, I have no reason to regret it. I'm
busier than I was while working; I’m in the process of setting up a
somewhat elaborate system of stock charts, and I’m trying to write
a book on aspects of economics and government if writer's blovk
will let me.

Like everybody else, I have gifts and difficulties. As for the gifts,
about twenty years ago I took the Johnson O'Connor aptitude tests.
(I strongly recommend them for your sons and daughters.) U gee
high scores in nearly all the tests, and this is not as good as it sounds,
it marks a drifter, because strong aptitudes compete for evpresien
and make it hard to settle down with any one of then. The tet
report recommended that I choose some great central theme such
as world peace and take a succession of brief, varied jobs relates?
to it. At the time, this merely discouraged me; it seemed i unpe seta al,
I couldn’t think of a theme, and I dreaded job hunts. So for the not
part I just took what came along. But it has worked out rn ot by
the end: the theme — the subject of my book — has sort of eveter |!
of its own accord, and most of my jobs have been noe withoue va

[1177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

for it. And today I’m filled with admiration for the uncanny
prescience of the tests, and gratitude because they’ve supplied a
conceptual unity for what would otherwise look like a hodgepodge
record.

As for the difficulties, I can see now that I went through college
in a fog, like an intelligent sleepwalker. Since then I’ve had several
periods of psychotherapy and a stay in a state hospital. I’ve never
married, and through my own fault or choice I live a secluded life.
But this sounds much gloomier than it really is. I enjoy life, ’'m
fortunate in many ways, and I have more interests than I can keep
up with, Life is good, even for such a troglodyte as I.

JAMES ARNOTT ELLIOTT WOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 131 Chestnut St. Moorestown, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Equitable Life Assurance Society, 123 S. Broad St., Philadelphia,
Pa,

BORN: Jan. 10, 1916, Moorestown, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Moorestown Friends’ School, Moorestown, N.J.- .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB. Magna cum laude, 1937; LLB.
(New York Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Elizabeth M. Cooper, Sept. 4, 1948, Moorestown, N.J. CHILDREN:
Bonnie Strawbridge Cooper, March 7, 1957; James Arnott Elliott, Jr.,
Sept. 22, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Cooper Wood, LL., '38.

OCCUPATION: Real estate investment, commercial and industrial properties, in
charge of regional office (Philadelphia), Equitable Life Assurance Com-

any.

orriees yep: Director, Financial Institutions Division, Philadelphia Board of
Realtors; member of corporation, Friends Hospital, Philadelphia; member,
executive committee, Social Service Committee, Society of Friends (all
currently).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Philadelphia and New York; Moorestown Field
Club; Philadelphia Board of Realtors, New York University Law Review

Alumni Association.

A QUARTER of a century. Time has passed too quickly; realiza-
tion only comes from pictures out of an album or old newspaper
headlines. As a Class we have been favored. We have been part of
a changing world, adding our small contributions to new shapes and
patterns of civilization. Few periods in history have exceeded these
years in turmoil and stress; it is good to have been a part of them.

My own career has brought little distinction but many satisfac-
tions. A period of uncertainty and job experiments until the war,

[1178]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

then four years in service (separated therefrom, with vast rehcf,
asa major, Infantry). In January, 1946, I joined up w ith my present
employer, one of the large life insurance companics, in the business
of buying and investing in income-producing real estate, and there,
so help me, I have stayed ever since.

Until 1956 my base of operations was in New York City and,
using the night school route, I became a member of the New York
bar (why, I am still not sure, but there it is). Transferred in 1g54
to Philadelphia to head up the regional office here, mv wife and I
have come full circle, going back to live in the small Quaker com-
munity of Moorestown, New Jersey, where we both were born.

These most recent years have brought us many satisfactions that
living in the heart of the vast metropolis did not permit —or at
least so it seemed. We have two beauuful (I stand by the werd)
children, Bonnie, four, and James, Jr.. two. We have become pillars
of the Quaker Meeting. We blind ourselves to the advancing years
by rushing about the Country Club tennis courts, deterred only
by snow on the ground. We do quite a bit of group singing. and
we can list the usual number of civic enterprises. In short, myht
down the middle of the road, and life seems much too good ty
conceive of Philadelphia as ground zero for a fifty-megaton blast.

And so we hope and strive and, by Heaven, do our best.

CLIFFORD AKELEY WOODBURY, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Wellscrest Road, R.R. 16, Afedia, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Provident Mutual Life Insurance Co, of Philadctphia, ach &
Market Streets, Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: March 12, 1914, Chester, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Westtown School, Westtown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

marnriED: Ethel R, Coppock, May 6, 1939, Radnor, Pa. caitpaes: Judah Jobo.
ston, Oct. 31, 1940; Elissa Ellyson, Sept. at, togy, Cliford Abeiew, yf
March 4, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

WHILE still a freshman I lefe Harvard to take up private seu fa,
classical singing. Those studies and beginnings ata prof a
singer occupied about the next fifteen years w ith a three yearn:

lude during the war working in quality control foe Sour Me s
Company. Ic became evident that a professional vin cerns " Co.
ical field either should have the reserves of energy ofa profes, o

[tz ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

football player or should know certain people. Neither of these
was my lot, and meanwhile three children came to grace our home.
Therefore, in 1953 music was allotted the status of a hobby, and |
took a position with Provident Mutual Life Insurance Company,
operating, and planning and channeling statistical work through
IBM machines. My small share in our computer programming is at
present much greater as we prepare for installation of a new and
different computer. I still enjoy singing an occasional recital and
have issued a 33 RPM record. Last spring I was guest soloist with
the eighty-eight-member Wilmington, Delaware, symphony.

This year our elder daughter is a senior at Swarthmore College,
second daughter a freshman at Earlham, and our son a senior at
Westtown School heading for college next year. This ambitious
educational program is possible because of the generosity of my
father, Harvard ’06.

A main hobby for years was photography, which I still enjoy
as time permits. In 1940 I bought a 1935 Cadillac for $300 and I
never could bear to part with it. This has turned into my recent
years’ hobby, as I keep trying to maintain it in nice enough condi-
tion to attend meets of the Antique Auto Club and the Classic Car
Club. Meanwhile, I have acquired a 1935 and a 1934 Cadillac sedan
at low cost, one in good condition, the other now in the throes of my
spare-time reconditioning.

From first grade on, I attended private schools maintained by the
Religious Society of Friends. I always felt at home among Quakers
and gained considerable respect for some of the lives of quiet yet
devoted witness I had opportunity to observe. In 1939 I married a
beautiful Quaker lass who turned into the greatest happiness of my
life, and in 1948 I became a member of the Religious Society of
Friends. This is mentioned here not to set forth this religious group
more prominently than others, People are different and have dif-
ferent needs, including various approaches to worshiping God. But

I consider this the most important area of my life as regards my
responsibilities to my fellow men. While I have regarded the peace
testimony as only one of many important ones, the present condi-
tion of man appears to make it very important indeed. I trust that
anyone connected with Harvard in any way realizes that mankind
is faced with something very different from any past experiences.
The tool of war can no longer be considered as a possibility in the
resolution of international frictions. “We, the people” are the
sovereign of this world, and it is up to us to see to this. And I am

[ 1180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

entirely serious when I say it is up to some talented person bhc
yourself to figure out how this can be done. Perhaps we must w 1+
eace as earnestly as we would wage war. On the other hand, t
often feel convinced that all that is needed is for each and every
Christian to allow God to direct his life. What has happened t
individual character and morality? Are we really willing to allow
ourselves to love this world more than eternal, invisible reality?

FREDERICK LAWRENCE WOODLOCK, JR.

appress: P. O. Box 440, Anchorage, Alaska.

BoRN: Oct. 25, 1914, Saxtons River, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B, 1937; LLB. (Southern Methenlst
Univ.), 1950.

marrigp: Elizabeth Sadler, July 19, 1941, Dallas, Texas. comparx: Betty, Moy
4, 1942; Jean, Feb. 2, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

LORRIN EWART WOODMAN

HOME AppreEss: West Hillside Road, Route 2, Crystal Lake, Hl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Baxter & Woodman, Civil & Sanitary Fngincery ta NW Wl org,
Crystal Lake, III.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1916, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Maw.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $.B, 1937(38), S.M. IN SAN. BSG, 14

MARRIED: Mary Jane Randall, June 8, 1940, Evanston, Hl cutpars~, 1. Ratan,
May 25, 1942; John R., July 22, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Ewart Woodman, °35.

occuPaTIoN: Consulting engincer, partner, Baxter & Woodman, cud at eae:
tary engineers; registered professional engincer in hina, Wieonun, howe,
Minnesota and Florida.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1956-60, president, since tgta, Roand of Bilis aac,
Crystal Lake Community High School.

MEMBER OF: American Socicty of Civil Engincers (fellaw), Ameraas Qigtiiny
of Sanitary Engineers (diplomate),; local chapter, Amerean bald Serene
Harvard Club of Chicago, Crystal Lake Country Qhib.

A JOB with a top consulting sanitary engincer in New Yer oo.
the summer of 1937, plus the death of my father thir ae oe

changed my career from one of patent law te sanitary en oe
For those of you who may think a sanitary envineee tag po.
with a fancy name, Ict me state that sanitary encineery ave pe

[ 1080)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

versed in the design and operation of municipal or industrial water-
works and sewerage facilities.

The change required my attendance at the Harvard Graduate
School from September, 1937, until June, 1938, which produced a
Master’s degree in sanitary engineering. ‘The next step was to find
a job, and after one offer of $120 per month with the Boston Metro-
politan Water District I jumped at the chance to join the staff of
the Division of Sanitary Engineering of the Illinois Department of
Public Health in Springfield, Illinois, at $200 per month.

The three years with the Health Department between October,
1938, and December, 1941, were a wonderful way to learn the
practical side of sanitary engineering, and this I did. Eight days
after Pear] Harbor found me an ensign in the U.S. Naval Reserve,
and from then until January, 1946, I saw the world like a lot of the
rest of you. Shortly after I was released to inactive duty, an
Allnav came out which made me a lieutenant commander, and
that is where I stand today as far as the Navy is concerned.

During the closing days of the war in the Pacific, while I was at-
tached to the Island Command on Guam, the stage was set
for the next step of my career, for it was on Guam that I arranged
with a fellow classmate from the Graduate School and co-worker
with the Illinois Department of Public Health to start our own con-
sulting engineering business as soon as we got “home alive in °45.”
Thus in January, 1946, we started the firm of Baxter & Woodman,
and from the two of us we have grown to where we now employ
twenty engineers, four draftsmen and three secretaries. We have
our own office building, a five minutes’ ride from home and fifty
miles northwest of Chicago, and who could ask for more? The size

and the number of projects we handle have grown over the years
with the exploding population, as you might guess, since there is a
direct relationship between the demand for water and the quantity
of sewage to be treated and the population. The value of the
projects we have designed varies from a few thousand to several
million dollars, and our list of clients varies from small milk-process-
ing plants with industrial waste treatment problems or small villages

to large cities; and at the moment we are designing major improve-

ments to the sewage treatment facilities at the Great Lakes Naval

Training Station for the U.S. Navy.

So much for my business career, which in all probability will
continue as is for another twenty-five years. As for my family
life, I would say’ it is probably as much an average of the Class as

[ 1182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a whole as any of yours might be, for it has a wife of twenty-two
years’ duration by the time you read this, two sons and all the jovs
and problems which go with them. Our elder boy will be starting
his sophomore year in Cornell’s Engineering School next fall (at
least 1 hope he will be), and the younger one will be a senior in
high school. Both of them have provided their mother and me
with more than our share of pride in them by their academic and
athletic accomplishments, and after comparing notes with friends,
this is something for which to be grateful.

Vacations have included, among others, a skiing trip to Switycr-
land and Austria, a Caribbean cruise and a vacation in Puerto Rico
and the Virgin Islands.

Since my business requires three or four meetings each weck
with city councils who are our clients, and while Boy Scout activi-
ties (in which I am chairman of an Explorer Post Committee) and
school board require at least four more evenings each month, there
is no time for hobbies as such, but in the summer I relax each
Saturday afternoon while vacuuming our swimming pool in prepara-
tion for the usual use it gets on Sundays. It can be safcly stated
that the swimming pool, our two St. Bernards, the routine mainte-
nance which goes with our place (twenty-three acres in all) and
attendance at the activities our boys take part in makes it unneces-
sary to have any hobbies for my spare time.

Politically, I was born and raised a Boston Republican, but I
learned many years ago that the Republicans abuse the privilege of
holding office as often as the next fellow, so I have crossed party
lines many times; but I still lean toward the principle that the best
government is the least government and on this score I think the
Republicans have a slight edge, but very slight.

Well, if this is to be mailed before another reminder arrives from
Bill Bentinck-Smith, I had better quit; so I quit.

‘RALPH WALTON WOODS

MAILING ADDRESS: % A. Lincoln Epworth, 654 Madison Ave, New York 94,
N.Y.

ROBERT DOUGLAS WOODWARD

HOME ADDRESS: 510 Delaware Ave., Bethlehem, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Bethlehem Steel Co., Bethichem, Pa.
BORN: July 15, 1915, Cambridge, Mass,

[ 1183]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1937.
UN MARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Foster Woodward, "43.
occuPATION: Assistant manager, Commercial Research, Bethlehem Steel Com-
pany.

I JOINED my present employer two weeks after graduation and
have been in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, ever since. I started in
Bethlehem’s College Training Program, worked in various depart-
ments over the years, and am now in the commercial section of our
research department. Duties cover analysis of U.S. and international
business conditions in general and steel industry activity in particular.
In 1951 and 1952, I spent one and a half years in Washington, as
steel consultant to the Defense Production Administration. In the
last two years, on several occasions, I have been a member of the

US. Delegation to various U.S. Steel Committee meetings in Geneva.

All in all, 1 am busier than any two people could expect to be, and

find the first twenty-five years to have rolled by pleasantly, if not as

other-serving as I might have wished.

EUGENE CLARK WORMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5009 Brawner St., McLean, Va.

porn: March 12, 1915, Madras, India.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 19373 A.M-, 1942;
PHD. 1946.

MarRieD: Dorothy Penrose Davis, Feb. 7, 1942, Cambridge, Mass, CHILDREN:
Edward Clark, Nov. 26, 1949; Paul Whitney, Nov. 4, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Guitner Worman, ’39.

occuPaTION: Research and consulting.

MEMBER oF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Association for the Advancement of
Science; American Anthropological Association.
PuBLicaTions: Articles and book reviews in various journals.

WELL, the last time I wrote one of these autobiographies, the
printer omitted a line and left out one of the most important parts
of my whole life. This discouraged me so, that I began to wonder
whether any part of my life was really important. Having failed to
convince myself on the point, I just quit worrying about it, and
have been having a good time ever since.

As far as my career is concerned, I have been in the research
business since graduation, with the exception of the four years 1

{ 1184]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spent winning the war in my Civilian clothes. [ have had an interest-

ing time, met a lot of nice people, and traveled around the world a
ood bit.

My family takes an increasing amount of my tune. Babies are the
easiest kind of children to handle. Once one gets into the baschall,
swimming, football, and “What can we do today, Dad?” stage, one
finds oneself perpetually occupied. Some time ago my wife bouche
a book for parents, entitled How to Live through Junior H:zh
School. 1 think that aptly illustrates the defensive attitude adopted
by the modern American parent and the dominance of the youncr
generation. No beltstrap or hairbrush for the writer of that book
—no sir. Might break the little dears’ spirits.

J developed another hobby since the last Report. I looked over

the stamp collection I abandoned when I Ieft high school, and got
myself hooked with the habit again. It costs a frightful lot more than
it used to, and I spend many hours bemoaning the fact that Paid noe
buy up any of those nice stamps during the last thirty years wher |
could still get them at face value. Anybody with an attic full of
old letters is welcome to mail them to the above address and I wil
be glad to pay postage.
In civic affairs, my last four years have been spent in trving to
ensure the orderly development of Fairfax County. This has been
a fascinating experience, since I have discovered the amazing versa.
tility and power of a community of citizens aroused enough to do
something to defend their way of life. I have learned a bot aban
planning and zoning and what goes into the making of a town,

I am not about to comment on the state of the world or anythin:
weighty like that. I leave that to my more courageous Chamates |
shall thoroughly enjoy reading what they have to say. Best wistcs
to all.

CHARLES CURTIS WORTH

HOME appress: 77 Lothrop St. Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEsS: Withington, Cross, Park & McCann oy Tretent Se, Bist «
Mass.

BORN: May 29, 1915, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: AB, Clrt Leste, iy )s, thm tages

Marriep: Mary Ellen Ricly, Nev. at, tog, Malden, Maa ancawee O00 -

Sept. 24, 1942; Geraldine, April 24, 1944, Pauline, July atts. fe.

July 10, 1961.

[ ta8s }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

greatest in Unitarian circles; and I have been increasingly called
upon for service to that denomination, particularly by interpreting
it to itself by way of historical perspectives. I suppose the themes
that have recurred most frequently in the various talks I have given
to Unitarian audiences have been: (a) the continuing vitality and
relevance of the long tradition of congregational polity which is so
axiomatic for Unitarians that they often have to be reminded of its
importance; and (b) the unique opportunity and responsibility
placed on them by virtue of the fact that for a century and a quarter
Unitarianism in this country has occupied a position half inside and
half outside the Christian tradition and has refused to budge from
that spot, despite pressures on it, both internal and external, to do so.

While I continue to believe that international peace must be the
overriding concern of all of us, and that the proper allocation of
our resources, human and material, is the greatest challenge in
domestic politics, I have not been conspicuously active politically.
In national politics, I have not had the slightest temptation to vote
for a Republican since 1940, although in Massachusetts elections I
continue to split the ticket as systematically as ever. Finally, like
most of my Classmates, I have found satisfaction above all else in
domestic life and would not trade my joys and irritations in the
roles of husband and father for those of anyone else.

WALTER WOODMAN WRIGHT

HOME ApprEss: 87 Maplewood Drive, Athens, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ohio University Library, Athens, Ohio.

BORN: May 27, 1915, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: $.B., 1937; 8.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1938.

Marriep: Aagot Caroline Horn, Nov. 16, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Caroline Aagot, Sept. 13, 1945; Eric Ellsworth, June 9, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Conrad Wright, ’37, 4.M., ’42, PHD. ’46; Brooks
Wright, 743, A.M. 47, PHLD., 51.

occupation: Director of libraries, Ohio University.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in local, state and national library associations;
trustee, Narberth (Pa.) Community Library, 1956-57; president, 1957-59»
secretary, 1959-61, Unitarian Fellowship of Athens, Ohio; president,

Athens Junior High P.T.A., 1959-60; director, Athens County Mental
Health Association.

memper oF: Appalachian Mountain Club; Mount Washington Observatory;
Wilderness Society; American Library Association; Association of College
and Research Libraries, Ohio Library Association.

pusiications: “The White Mountains: An Annotated Bibliography, 1918-1947,"
{ 1188 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Appalachia, 1948; “The Fifth and Sixth Library Building Plans faserutes”
edited as ACRL Monographs No. 15, 1956, several contribunons to profice
sional and other journals.
FOR the past Reports I have carefully chronicled my activities with
archival preciseness, having had enough association with Ularvard
affairs to know the value of the series of Class Reports. [view with
annoyance the noncooperators, and yet I have found the prospect
of covering twenty-five years an incentive to procrastination.

My entire career has been as a librarian. I like the bookish, sxcul
and administrative aspects which that implies. I preferred net to
remain in one place, and not to settle into the Elarvard Colleye
Library for life, pleased as I was to start there. My other academe
employers have been Johns Hopkins, Pennsylvania, and Olio, At
Ohio University we are experiencing the rapid growth common
to state universities, and this sometimes taxes the imagination as one
tries to anticipate as well as to keep abreast. I also tcach courses in
librarianship. The committees, the offices, and the short articles
that go with this kind of work are too many to list.

The social and intellectual life of a university community i a
city of 20,000 is satisfying and full. I have no wish at the moment
to return to a metropolitan area, much as I liked suburban Narberth
and the Paoli local to and from Philadelphia. Nor am T sure that
this is merely a manifestation of middle age. Athens, in southeastern
Ohio, has pleasing topography and in a way is the southwest cornet
of the northeast. It was settled by New Englanders and one thoy
perhaps I shall retire to the New England from which I came.

In Paris, Maine, my brothers and I and our families share the
hilltop home, with a 180-degree panoramic mountain view, where
our vacations have been spent, and we are now renovating at rts
farmhouse on the adjoining farm which we bought three veary an
This gives us more land, barns and outhouses than we neet best
we may be planning for our children’s children. We have ruse!
some variety of vacation experience by our unashamed tupe crate
cal bigotry, although there are a lot of roures between Athens ao!
Paris, but we have achieved a certain stability, maybe swrenty, a: !
a sense of relatedness to nature. |

I was brought up in the First Parish in Cambridre, the U:
Church across the way from the Johnston Gare, ‘aA Ghurh (af

as old as Harvard College. To work in the creation of a
of religious liberals elsewhere has been an interes ee:
and very different from that of traditional New Poot) stt

[ Hisy |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

ism. Not large enough in numbers to support a ministry, we lead
ourselves, For the first two years I served as president.

My interest in politics is chiefly local: here I find myself actively
opposing book banning, working to support school levies, and keep-
ing a close watch on city council. In other local and community
affairs we do those things which are appropriate to our ages and
the ages of our children.

The children have abilities I never had, Caroline in music and
Eric in sports. Where they will go to college is of course unknown.
It was a richer experience, growing up in Cambridge in the shadow
of Harvard, than I realized at the time; but I shall not insist that
Eric try for Harvard, although I should like to have him go.

I hesitate to expose myself much more to public gaze in these
pages; but for those who care enough to look it up, I suggest only
a favorite poem, “The Vantage Point” by Robert Frost.

WILLIAM AUSTIN WRIGHT
MAILING ADpRESS: U.S, Naval Weapons Laboratory, Dahlgren, Va.

+ EDWARD LORRAINE YOUNG, III

BORN: June 25, 1914, Jamaica Plain, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Lorraine Young,
Jr., 06, Charlotte Wales.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1937; MD., 1941.

MarrieD: Helen Thom Nivison. cup: Charlotte Wales.

pieD: Killed in action, March 24, 1945, in Germany.

AS an undergraduate, Young took an active part in athletics, as
a member of the junior varsity football team in his sophomore year
and the varsity football squad in his third year. He won his numerals
in track and was a member of the track squad in his sophomore,
junior, and senior years. He played on the Winthrop House squash
team, was a member of the photographic board of the Red Book,
and took part in the activities of the Phillips Brooks House, the
Mountaineering Club, the Botanical Club, and the Ornithological
Club.
After graduation from the Medical Schoo] and a two months’

postgraduate course in surgical pathology at the Mayo Clinic,
Young served one year of a five-year surgical internship at the

[ 1190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Massachusetts General Hospital. In 1942, he was declared a diplo-
mate by the National Board of Medical Examiners, and in 1943 was
elected a member of the Massachusetts Medical Society. Ele was the
author of publications in the American Journal of Botany, 1943, and
the New England Journal of Medicine, 1944.

In May, 1943, he was commissioned as a first lieutenant in the
Army Medical Corps, and in March, 1944, was sent to the European
theatre, and later that year promoted to captain, while operating
with a surgical team in front-line field hospitals. In March, 1945.
the surgical team was volunteered as part of the Seventeenth Air-
borne Division to be flown across the Rhine River by glider, where
the team was killed shortly after landing. A bronze memorial plaque
in his honor is in the Massachusetts General Hospital. Ele was sur-
vived by his wife and daughter.

LIOBART PAUL YOUNG, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 717 Park Ave., Winnetka, I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Signode Steel Strapping Co., 3700 W. Lake Ave, Glenview, IL

BORN: June 3, 1916, Lake Geneva, Wis.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933~1937- DEGREE: A.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Louise Buchwalter, June 3, 1944, Chillicothe, Ohio. caitpres: Hobart
Peyton, March 9, 1945; Anne Buckingham, Dec. 30, 1947; Isabel Chance,
June 14, 1952.

occupaTion: Manufacturing; vice-president in charge of production, S:ynule
Steel Strapping Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Harvard Club of Chicago, 1948, trustee, Villoye
of Winnetka, 1951-55; director, American Foundation of Continuing Fatu-
cation, since 1957. |

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Harvard Club of Chicago, Indian HLA
Club.

HAVING majored in organic chemistry, it seemed perfectly natural
to start my business career as a research chemist with Armour &
Company. Somehow I slowly drifted down and out of the isery
tower of research into, first, chemical enginecring, and then pres
duction management, obtaining four patents as I went alors |
think I have now gotten as far from organic chemistry as is he ) vs
in the practical arts, as 1 am now managing that part of Sorat
business which is nothing more than a large machine shop.

Outside of my job my career seems to have followed eo -
accepted pattern —that of a typical suburbanite who yee aso

[1191 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

reasonably nice house completely equipped with wife, children,
dog and parakeet. However, on closer inspection none of these
turn out to be very typical— my wife, a physicist, edits a science
program, my son is more interested in calculus than football, and
my two daughters prefer baseball to dolls. The dog is neurotic
and the parakeet can’t talk.

In some ways I have carried my work over into my hobbies as
our house grew along with the family. At last count the house
had been added to and enlarged four times, with a large part of the
work being done by yours truly. Even some of the chemical
engineering rubbed off on me, as I still get more pleasure out of
installing heating systems and bathrooms than I do out of putting
finish trim on anything.

Louise and I have been more fortunate than most as we have been
able to do a good bit of traveling, both on the North American
continent and in Europe. Part of the pleasure of traveling for me
is the opportunity I get to indulge myself in the production of
rather second-rate water colors. Somehow the quality of these
sketches is not nearly as important as the fun one gets from trying
to capture a scene or a mood.

Ownership of a farm in Ohio, the home of Louise’s family since
1802, adds a diversity to my activities. Commuting summer week-
ends from Chicago is not too difficult, winter trips are more trouble-
some, but some country life and a profitable operation give me a
great deal of pleasure.

I have left my favorite hobby for the last and it can be summed
up in one word — argue. This activity can be carried on informally
both with one’s family and one’s associates, but much better in
organized discussion groups. This accounts for my association with
the American Foundation of Continuing Education. A by-product
of the argument-discussion activity has been a gradual shift po-
litically from a traditional Republicanism to my more regularly

voting Democratic than anything else.

I nominally belong to the Episcopal Church and make certain
that my children attend its Sunday School. I suppose that the
church connection is more a proper facade than an expression of
real conviction. If really pressed, I would be forced to admit that

I am more an atheist than a Christian. It now appears highly prob-
able that my son will enter Harvard as a freshman in the fall of 1962.

[1192 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM HENRY YOUNG

HOME ADDRESS: 224 Tanglewood Rd., Trumbull, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United States Time Corporation, Middlebury, Conn.
BORN: Feb. 21, 1914, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934.

MARRIED: Edith Marie Colvin, July 20, 1938, Arlington, Vt. caitpers; Willan
Henry, 2d, Oct. 18, 1944; Judith M., Sept. 4, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Plastics research engineer.

MEMBER OF: Society of the Plastics Industry; Society of Plastics Engincers,

CONCISELY (as requested), continuing good health, a great deal

of satisfaction in my present work, two pretty nice children and a
most lovable wife constitute the major part of my blessings.

WILLIAM WALLACE YOUNG
MAILING ADDRESS: % Mrs. Nell Young, 67 Bedford St.. New York 14, N.Y.

ERNEST LOUIS ZAUGG

HOME ADDRESS: 190 Clare Ave., Hyde Park, Mass.; % Pfenninger, Figenstr. a,
Kuesnacht-Zuerich, Switzerland.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1913, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1937.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Eugene Zaugg, 44.

OCCUPATION: Journalist.

I AM interested in swimming, hiking, mountain-climbing, horse an.J
camel riding, and also mule ‘and donkey riding, the last three an
Africa with the Algerian rebels. I have constantly been hostile to
borders separating people who should be friendly, and have ex:
pressed this hostility by crossing the borders illey. lly, and Gembaus
this with stories about the people on the other side, To went a>
wartime Germany across the “Iron Hand,” a Swiss forest pur +
into Germany. I also crossed the Russian demarcation bine er io
curtain, innumerable times, and went all through eastern Buc) +
without an official visa in the immediate postwar yeary whoa

was easy.
I have not been inside a church for years, except te adeuse wv,

z

of art, and dislike all organized religion, believiny thar to. 4

[ 1193]

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

based on fraudulent tales and that it is dishonest to make money on
fraud. I am a worshipper of unmoral nature, believe in spiritual
values outside of churches and temples.

Except for the war period, during which I worked on Allen
Dulles’ team in Switzerland, I have been constantly traveling since

raduation, and have covered most of the free world and a part of
the Red world. The high alps of Switzerland are the most beautiful
part of the world for me, and I feel most at home there.

I have not been able to combine marriage with my way of life,
While my Classmates were raising children, I was galloping around
the Sahara with the Algerian rebels, hiding from the French with
the nomads, carefully concealing tracks in the sand to protect my
Arab hosts, and sometimes living in underground holes near French
forts, This, of course, is not to be compared with the bliss of
marriage, and its social usefulness, but somebody has to do the
rebel side. Incidentally, while with the Algerian rebels, I was held
in respect in some camps because I was from Boston, and the rebels
expected high things of Mr. Kennedy, who was then not yet
President, but had written a report favorable to the rebel side.

America, I believe, is the salvation of the world, because of its
humane and freedom-loving traditions, but it will not be able to give
its great gifts to the world until a large part of the population
learns to live mole-like underground, enabling our government to
carry on a more aggressive foreign policy. Intellectually and spir-
itually, we should cease to live underground, and learn more about
foreign peoples and study their tongues. | pS

I have worked for various outfits, ap, UPI, INS, various American
papers and magazines, free-lance and employed, including Collier’s,
Boston Globe, Milwaukee Journal, Kansas City Star, Commercial
Appeal, Japanese Mainiche, German Quick and Revue, Swiss Sie
und Er; also wartime work for OSS, Swiss radio; lecturing for World
Brotherhood; correspondent for Religious New Service, World-
wide Press Service, etc. For the last eight years, I have had my own
agency, Hometown Feature Service, Centerville, Massachusetts, serv-
ing features especially but not only of hometown people abroad

to medium-sized dailies, such as the Kansas City Star, running 200,000

to 350,000 circulation.

A large part of my journalistic work has been writing about our
foreign aid experts—agricultural, industrial, commercial, etc. —
in Asia and Africa, and I must say, and have often said, that they
try hard and within their narrow specialties to do a good job, but

[ 1194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

they lack knowledge of foreign mentalities and that has made ther
work less effective. Kennedy’s new team of peace workers are on
the right track — will probably learn more from foreign peopte
than they teach, and that will make them useful workers in the
foreign field later on in life.

HARRY ZEITLIN

MAILING ADDRESS; Chemistry Dept., University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Elawau

MORRIS ZIEF

HOME ADDRESS: 2820 Hermitage Ave., Easton, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. T. Baker Chemical Co., Phillipsburg, N.J.

BORN: July 8, 1914, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1933-1937. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1937; aM. (Boston Univ),

1938; PHD. (ibid.), 1941.
MarRIED: Hazel Zislin, Jan. 4, 1948, Philadelphia, Pa. cuitpres: Donald Barry,

May 15, 1949; Joel Roy, July 4, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Research chemist; group leader.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, 1956-61, vice-president, njfr-6a,
Temple Covenant of Peace, Easton, Pa.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Temple Lodge, F. & A.M. Beaton,
- Easton Lodge, B’nai B’rith; Lehigh Valley Club.

pusLicaTions: Author or co-author of twenty articles on carbohydrates ner:
biotics and polymers in chemical journals; holder of cight US, patency,

RELUCTANT to abandon academic life after graduate work, |
returned to Harvard for a year, then moved to M.A.T. There U per:
suaded atoms and molecules to behave with enough decency for
five years to warrant a few publications. In 1946 the emplass
changed from theoretical to practical accomplishment. Ata gover: \-
ment laboratory in Philadelphia, I worked on the chemical utiliza:
tion of sugar as a raw material. Within a ycar, Philadelptis prove t
to be more than the “City of Brotherly Love.” From the me
library I took the librarian on permanent Iwan. The serenst p71
involved in meeting Hazel has turned out to be my mene ne; ort t
discovery. With the arrival of a family I proceeded t> ialotea
research in Phillipsburg, New Jersey, the Litest of three taut b
in my career.

Wrestling with fundamental chemical problems in all rte fos
tories has been fun, in spite of the many days strewn wis £

[1195]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1937

tions. The incurable optimism that haunts the inception of every
experiment has pervaded all my thinking. Nuclear war indeed is a
possibility, but civilization I believe will make a successful goal-line
stand. Nuclear bombs and missiles have swung the pendulum far
along the road to pessimism, but the pendulum theory remembered
from History 1 still operates. The pendulum will swing back to
hope with agonizing slowness. Even though the recent college
graduates I interview suffer from advanced stages of materiosclerosis
and have no causes to uphold, they will in time mature.

Away from the laboratory the greatest joy has been reliving my
youth with my two young sons. Scouting, fishing, midget base-
ball and rereading the classics have afforded memorable experiences.
Recently when I was the last player chosen for a touch-football
game, I realized that age had taken its inexorable toll. Last year the
four of us spent a full day in Cambridge, Since the presidential
election, the abundant press and television references to Harvard
have intensified the impressions of that day for two prospective
freshmen.

Vacations for us mean the ocean in August. Each summer we
sample a new location. We have covered a fair number of beaches
from Rockport, Massachusetts, to Cape May, New Jersey. Once
we enlarged our myopic view of the country by flying to Puerto
Rico. The grand tour is still in the future.

Swimming and golf are hobbies that have persisted through the
years. In the hills of Pennsylvania cabinet-making, gardening and
civic activity have been added. In Boston and Philadelphia I found
isolation from community activities a simple matter; in the small
town isolation is impossible. The individual can hide from his
responsibilities in an apartment of a large city; he has to stand and
be counted in the small town. The revival of the New England
town meeting and an increase in religious affiliation are positive
aspects of the current flight to suburbia and beyond. Active partici-
pation in local affairs has helped me to establish new roots. Perhaps
that explains the effortless transition from the rarefied atmosphere
of Boston to the hinterlands of Easton.

HOWARD DAVID ZUCKER

HOME ADDRESS: 333 Central Park W., New York 25, N.Y,
OFFICE appress: 1160 Fifth Ave., New York 29, N.Y,
BORN: Sept. 7, 1916, Far Rockaway, N.Y.

[ 1196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREE: 8.B. cu7m laude, 1937, MUD. (Columba
Univ.), 1941.

marriED: Marjorie Bass, June 25, 1938, Westport, Conn, Guipass: Andrew A.
March 27, 1946; Ellen A., Sept. 5, 1948; Joan A. Dec. 12, 19513 Barbara A.
Dec. 15, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Psychiatrist: private practice and Mt. Sinai Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Democratic County Committeeman, Manhattan, tosg-¢u, sevre-
tary, New York City Medical Society On Alcoholism, 1961-63.

MEMBER OF: A.A.A.S.: State and County medical societies; A.M.A.. Amery ant
Psychosomatic Society; American Psychiatric Association, New York City
Medical Society On Alcoholism; FDR-Woodrow Wilson Demawrane Cub
(“Reform” dems): American Veterans Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: “Platelet Thrombosis in Human Hemostasis,” to49, “Present Day
Medical Management of Alcoholism,” co-author, 1953; “Impact of Mental
Health Films on In-Patient Psychotherapy,” co-author, tgfo, and four
others. ,

I HEADED directly for medicine after leaving Harvard, but, aftce
graduating from P & S (Columbia) in 1941, wandered contentedly
from one specialty to another, destined, according to some of my
friends, to be a kind of medical Don Juan. It’s true that after mv
internship I had a brief residency in X-ray at Lenox Ell, and that
after my return from the wars (Trinidad, BWI and USA) I plunged
into two years of training in pathology at Mc. Sinai Hospital, ently
to bid that field farewell for a residency in internal medicine at
Montefiore Hospital in 1948. With a brief psychiatric readeney
as topping I went into practice in 1949, but after five vears Twas
back in residency again, this time in psychiatry at Manhattan Seare
and Mt. Sinai Hospitals. In 1957 I took the pledge, foreswore all
the other fascinating medical handmaidens, and gave up berry a
resident for teaching residents. Psychiatry it is, and Vin havin a
fine time with it—-the frontier aspect of the work is one of are
greatest attractions for me.

These days my time is divided between the private practice of
psychotherapy and various hospital and teaching functiens 9s
liaison psychiatrist on the orthopedic service, precepror te ts
psychiatric residents, consultant to a student socal work use ef
the New York School for Social Work, instructor iia cece oe)
psychiatry for general practitioners at the New York Neate. et
Medicine, etc. The division between office practive ant ts
functions offers a happy balance.

The family —so special for me, as yours are foe Ved oto,
can I convey some of the varicty and color? Macperse far tata

[1197]

