*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

ARVARD CLASS
OF 1938
onty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class

1963

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1938

Records of the Class

JAMES CRAWFORD ABBOTT

 

HOME aAppRESS: 99 Monticello Ave., Annapolis, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1938; A.M., 19393
pup. (Univ. of Notre Dame), 1941.

MARRIED: Sonia Marchurs, July, 1941.

occuPATION: Professor of mathematics, U.S. Naval Academy.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Annapolis.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Annapolis, American Mathematical Society;
Mathematical Association of America; Naval Academy Sailing Squadron,
Chesapeake Bay Yacht Racing Association; International Congress of
Mathematicians.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1939, with a Master’s degree, I went to
Notre Dame for my doctorate in mathematics, duly received in
1941, and then settled at the Naval Academy in Annapolis, where I
have remained to this day except for annual pilgrimages back to
Cambridge and Gloucester at Christmas and summer times.

My principal interests outside of mathematics and teaching have
been in sailing the Naval Academy yachts and these have taken me on
numerous races to Bermuda, Halifax, B.A. and Rio, plus a few trips
on non-Naval Academy boats, including the 1960 Transatlantic

C1]

"SMa tet te ntaeeeennninmemmmaiiamen teeemnansenesmacannnsasnmnssensan sane

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Race to Sweden. Meanwhile, in the few summers when I managed
to stay ashore, I succeeded in building a summer home, with the
help of my wife and friends, on the beach in Gloucester which at
least enables me to get back to New England between sails and
teaching sessions. Other than that, I have still remained a liberal
Democrat, despite a few disillusioning experiences with observations
of local politics which are sometimes almost as bad in Maryland as

Massachusetts.

JAMES NATHANIEL ADAMS

    

JOME appREss: 604 Woodcrest, Longview, Texas.

FEICE ADpRESS: Adams-Loftis EENT Hospital, 210 S. Mobberly Ave., Long-
view, Texas.

ReParED AT: Longview High School, Longview, Texas.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREES: A.B. (Baylor Univ.), 1938, mp. (ibid.),
1942.

ranRiED: Lorraine Griffith, Dec. 22, 1941. cHmoreN: Darlina Calvin, Jan. 31,
1944; James Nathaniel, Jr., March 1, 1949.

scupation: Ear, nose and throat specialist (otolaryngologist and broncho-
esophagoscopy).

“FICES HELD: Resident in otolaryngology, Columbia Presbyterian Medical
Center, New York City, 1947-49.

=MBER OF: American Board (diplomate); Academy of Otolaryngology and
Ophthalmology; American College of Surgeons (fellow).

BLicaTions: Currently interested in micro-ear surgery — stapedectomies and
tympanoplasties.

ATTENDED Harvard College my freshman year, 1934-35. Then,
ransferred to Baylor University at Waco, Texas, where I took
” Bachelor of Arts in 1938, Following this, I entered Baylor
-dical College in Dallas, Texas, and graduated in June, 1942. I

[2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interned one year at Shreveport Charity Hospital in Shreveport,

Louisiana, prior to entering the Navy. I was a lieutenant in the U.S.

Naval Reserve for thirty-eight months, leaving the service in summer

of 1946. During this period of time I was stationed aboard the de-

stroyer, USS King, in the Alaska sector (Aleutian waters). After
one year of sea duty, I was transferred to the University of Pennsyl-
vania Postgraduate School of Neuro-Psychiatry and did neuro-
psychiatry in the Navy prior to my discharge in summer of 1946.

After my release from naval service, I entered the University of
Pennsylvania Postgraduate Medical School again for a class in oto-
laryngology. Following this, I was appointed resident in otolaryn-
gology at Columbia Medical Center in New York City. I spent three
years at Columbia and following this I took the American Board
in Chicago and received my certificate in October, 1949. I entered
private practice in my home town, Longview, Texas, and have
been practising here ever since. When I first entered practice, my
interest was general ear, nose and throat work. I have been asso-
ciated with a Board Ophthalmologist, Dr. John R. Loftis from
Arkansas University Medical School, since that time. We operate a
small eye, ear, nose and throat hospital in connection with our own
clinic.

My wife is a home town girl, the former Lorraine Griffith,
whom I married on December 22, 1941. We have two children, one
daughter, Darlina Calvin, aged nineteen, who is a sophomore at
Texas Christian University in Forth Worth, Texas, majoring in
elementary education. I have a son, James Nathaniel, Jr., who is
fourteen years of age and he is now in the eighth grade or junior
high school, Longview, Texas.

As to hobbies, I am interested in water skiing, water sports, boat-
ing, fishing and hunting. We have a fishing lodge, ten minutes from
my office, completely air-conditioned, with a Riveria barge cruiser
and an outboard seventy-five Johnson motor mounted on a Gas-
tron boat for pleasure.

At the present time, I am devoting all mv spare time in research
in learning micro-ear surgery such as performed in Germany and
many places i in this country. This is surgery to aid the hard of hear-
ing and is known in medical circles as stapedectomy and tympano-
plasty. This is a very fascinating sub-specialty, which T enjoy very
much. Approximately fourteen per cent of ‘the population of the
United States is handicapped with otosclerosis and. this operation
corrects this deafness.

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT WILLIAM ADAMSON

 

HOME ApDpDRESS: 35 Park Ave., Old Greenwich, Conn. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cambridge University Press, 35 E. 57th St., New York 22,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.; Glens Falls High School,
Glens Falls, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; A.M., 1947.

MARRIED: Katherine Pinneo, Aug. 17, 1946. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Cabot, June 27,
1947; Judith Kempshall, April 29, 1949; Star Kempshall, April 15, 1954.

occuPaATION: Senior editor, Cambridge University Press.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lake George Assembly, 1938-40; president and general
manager, Broadacres Real Estate Corporation, 1938-45; operations officer,
communications instructor, executive officer, Amphibious Forces, US.
Navy, 1942-46; instructor in philosophy, Univ. of Connecticut, 1947-48;
assistant to rector, St. Michael’s Episcopal Church, N.Y., 1950-52; Em-
manuel Church, Stamford, 1956-58; manuscript editor, Seabury Press,
1952~56; lecturer in philosophy and religion, Univ. of Connecticut, 1958-
62; assistant to manager, 1956-60, senior editor, since 1960, Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.

MEMBER OF: USNR (Bronze Star); American Philosophical Association; Meta-
physical Society of America; Harvard Club of New York,

PuBLIcATIONS: “Father Huntington, Founder of the Order of the Holy Cross,”
Holy Cross Magazine, West Park, N.Y., November, 1954,

STAR, my eight-year-old daughter, was recently asked where her
father went to college. “Daddy went to Harvard,” she answered.
Then, with a child’s passion for justice, added “and so did my Aunt
Emily.”

Of course, everyone knows that my sister Emily did not go to
Harvard (except on weekends) and that Harvard has never been co-
educational in any sense save in fact. A more accurate family legend
should have turned about men going to Smith, For Emily was an

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

opening wedge for her Andover friends in the Yard as well as for
me. How others fared, I have forgotten; but how I fared, I well
remember. Within three weeks after entering Smith, Emily had
screened her class and chosen her future sister-in-law, a beautiful
dancer from Elizabeth, New Jersey. Her pride of discovery glowed
in a letter urging haste. Little did I realize, however, when I first
arrived at Haven House in October, 1935, that destiny ordained this
first blind date one day to be my wife.

Eleven years, one war, and many blind alleys later, the attack
launched by my sister on the ramparts of bachelorhood bore fruit.
By the end of World War II, my Smith date was a dedicated social
worker. To sell Kay the glamour of married life on the G.I. Bill
of Rights took months of Herculean labor. But she had an adven-
turous nature and a curiosity about the twilight zone of the male
academic world — virtues which imprudently led her to give up suc-
cess and fortune for life with a husband in graduate school.

It is not appropriate here to lay bare one’s ultimate concerns, but
it is not impious to contrast dreams built in bachelor solitude, on
night watches in the Central Pacific, with married reality. Three
dreams for the postwar world come vividly back. First, a Ph.D.
for admission to the realm of the elect; second, a peaceful family life
teaching in a quiet college town, third, a private study with a large
fireplace, on the shores of Lake George.

The Ph.D. If achieved, the Ph.D. would lead to the quiet college
town. Kay exchanged social work for university life in the summer
of 1946. We rented the top floor of an old New England farmhouse
behind the Hasty Pudding in Harvard Square and began a series of
graduate adventures that led from the Harvard Philosophy Depart-
ment, to Union Theological Seminary, Teachers College, and the
Department of Religion at Columbia. By the time thirty courses
and two languages were passed and all degree requirements were
fulfilled, we had Lisa and Judy as assets—and no money. But
fate seemed provident. A minor editing job opened in a new
publishing house in Greenwich, Connecticut. We accepted and
moved. Our academic dreams still held. Life entailed no commut-
ing, and our Seabury Press salary could pay bills while work con-
tinued on a thesis.

The Quiet College Town. Always a firm resolve was to live in
Alaska rather than commute to New York. Publishing, however, is
“done” in New York City —and one step in the publishing door
Jed to the next, and the next, and the next. Thus, today, the “com-

cs]

| | |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

mute I would not, that I do.” I am never home for lunch. I see my
three daughters (Star now has joined Lisa and Judy) as I rush out
the door in the morning, and I see them deep in homework when I
return at dark.

Kay and I preach and believe fervently in the doctrine of free
choice; yet we are statistics confirming all sociological hypotheses.
We have a white house, a few trees, a small plot of ground, an
outside grill (borrowed), and a husband who catches the 8:07. (One
truth only do we belie; in our suburb, “normal” families move on
after seven years; we have lived in Old Greenwich for ten.) But
sociological trends are not all ill winds. The expansion of cities
has brought to us a college. As Stamford grew toward Old Green-
wich, its freshmen and sophomores grew to demand college educa-
tion. For the last five years, to keep my hand in, I have been on the
faculty of the Stamford Branch of the University of Connecticut
teaching philosophy and religion. The evening schedule added to
the day’s commute is a little heavy, and I have had over six hundred
students. But my teaching hasn’t hurt the freshmen much and I’ve
made no converts.

The Lake George Cottage. Soon after we were married, Kay
and I tackled the third dream. We built a large room with a fire-
place, fifty feet from the restful sounds of Lake George. But little
feet came immediately and with them bath and kitchen and bed-
rooms. Thus, the study never became a study; and the private
sanctuary never became a retreat for contemplation — for publish-
ing never produced a free summer for research. Weekends in
summer today, when I leave New York for a two-hundred-mile
drive to Lake George, I find I am but one of many with the same
idea. And Sunday when my innkeeping wife has cooked for guests,
and I’ve helped with the dishes, I sit in my chair by the fireplace to
read —lured a moment later into boat repair, swimming, picnics,
ball games, or water skiing by the children of the compound — my
own, my sister’s, my brother’s, our guests’ and the neighbors’.

Only infrequently now do I dream my Navy dreams or think of
exchanging my unchosen, suburban life for a Ph.D., college teaching,
and an isolated study on Lake George (which after an hour’s
experience alone I’d want filled with children, relatives, and friends).
My sister’s prescience of life with a Smith girl is best. And even
publishing with its books, galleys and page proofs has its rewards,
such as a trip for Cambridge with Kay to England last spring with
encouragement to visit Spain, Italy, Germany and France. And

[6]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as for the teaching? There is still my eight-year-old. Before she
learns the truth herself, I have ten years to teach her that only men
go to Harvard —and women to Smith.

FREEDOM HUTCHINSON AINSWORTH

 

HOME aApDpRESs: 27 W. Tenth St., New York 11, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 38-10 29th St, Long Island City 1, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Norma Ruedi, July 31, 1954.

OccUPATION: Engineer and manufacturer, president, Ainsworth Lighting, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, alumni organization and trustee, The Gunnery.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club of Washington,
D.C.; American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Various inventions, some patented, used for quieting hydraulic
noise in aircraft and in measuring fluids accurately.

NEW and unexpected events continue. The last Report mentions
marrying Norma, and I had become chief engineer of the Wayne
Pump Company in Salisbury, Maryland.

Since then, the Meter (measuring instrument — my own idea and
work from start to finish) passed all tests and went through the
nerve-wracking business of something novel going into production.
It’s now used in all their equipment, including the Sun Oil Blending
Pump, which we developed cooperatively w ith Sun.

Then, in 1958 I got the itch to buy a company of my own with
elbow room for developing new products (Independence? Hah!),
but ended up running the family business, Ainsworth Lighting, Ine.
Our products are unique, effective and economical — the fluores-
cent types used in offices, schools and supermarkets, I'm still looking

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

for something more romantic engineering-wise. Anyone have a
small manufacturing company with proprietary products for sale?
Somehow, after leaving Wayne, we accomplished one of those
long time dreams — a villa on a cliff overlooking the Mediterranean.
Two whole months. The Spaniards are a fine, proud people we
should like to know better. We did our own shopping in the
markets, buying a bushel of salad herbs for twenty cents (enough
for two years), and [’m ashamed to tell you what we paid our cook.
Real martinis are scarce, because they use a different kind of gin.

After ten years, it was painful to leave Salisbury, a pleasant and
heart-warming place to live, and the location of a successful fight for
chief engineership. However, Norma and I do have our anchor
there: “Hollyhurst,” a nice farm with a pleasant brick house looking
across one half mile of historic Manokin River, which to some de-
gree remains the way it was 200 years ago, when the shores were
lined with plantations and all travel was by water.

But, if move we had to, we chose living plumb in the center of
New York City and now have a brownstone on a pretty and con-
venient street in Greenwich Village. This is my outlet —a place to
work on and be landlord; also it’s the first time Norma and I have
not been tenants. It is really true that a second most passionate re-
lationship is between tenant and landlord, or so we gather. It’s
built-in, can be minimized but regenerates at any old time. With the
overhauling we did, the place will be a good investment.

Everybody welcomes an opportunity to make some special con-
tribution to society. Recently, I became both president of the
alumni and trustee of The Gunnery, Washington, Connecticut. ‘The
oldest boarding school for boys in the state (113 years old), it has
its share of worthy graduates. This school has something excellent
and is (like others) called on to contribute more and more con-
structively to our country. With the encouragement and help of
Norma, I hope to contribute to its furtherance.

To all classmates, I wish you the good fortune and health that I
have been privileged to receive.

[3]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY STERLING ALCORN

saprenentge cme aI RA IS oat, TTR

TNT

    

_ aaa TEESE PE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 949 Canton Ave., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Northrop Corp., 100 Morse St., Norwood, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MaRRIED: Millicent Ann Irvine, Nov. 28, 1942. CHILDREN: Richard S., Aug. 28,
1943; Margaret L., Dec. 11, 1946, Gail L., March 24, 1949, Deborah A.,
Aug. 5, 1952, Walter G., March 30, 1956.

occupation: Manager of labor relations, Precision Products Department, Nort-
ronics, Division of Northrop Corporation.

MANY highlights have filled the years since Cambridge: the gay
life of the carefree bachelor in those four years of sports writing
with the Boston Evening Transcript; those exhausting but hilarious
trips to Detroit and Toronto with the Bruins in 1941 — yes, Boston's
Hockey Club once won the Stanley Cup.

A month later, the Transcript died, and the Army beckoned.
The private in recruiting service had reached licutenancy by No-
vember, 1942, when Millicent and I consummated a three-year
courtship. Two months later there started a series of boat rides
and two and one-half years of the ETO which wound up when
Major Alcorn started home from that unbelievably beautiful spot
known as Iglis, Austria. —

In between, there had been North Africa, which also included a
flying trip from Rabat to Algiers, courtesy of Major Al Hanlon
(Harvard 1939). Then there was Salerno, Anzio, Southern France,
the Vosges, a three-day pass to Paris where Page Corton and |
stumbled over each other, the rest of the show through Bavaria,
and then a flight home to meet a two-year-old son.

There were six years in the field of investments —nice work,

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

fine people, horrible market, great way to go broke. A four-year

eriod as manager of an office machine sales office in Springfield
followed. ‘The Berkshires are beautiful, but the job was no challenge.
A call for help from an old army buddy led to the present associa-
tion with Northrop.

The union had made its inroads and I became the buffer. Imagine
that most undiplomatic personality learning successfully to maintain
the delicate balance of happiness for both the boss and labor. But
indeed, the direction of labor relations has become the cause for
this moderate Taft-type Republican.

The primary function weekends seems to be chauffeuring children
to their many activities at Milton’s First Congregational Church.
Growing tulips in the spring, tomatoes in the summer and making
fertilizer from leaves in the fall are hobbies. Commuting to Maine
on summer weekends cuts our garden product, but the mackerel
fishing on Muscongus Sound is worth it, some summers.

 

HOME apprEss: 229 W. 78th St, New York, N.Y.

oFFIceE appkess: Brooklyn College, Brooklyn 10, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1941.

maragiep: Hannah Margolis, Jan. 20, 1940, CHILDREN: Lewis James, Aug. 3%
1941; Gregory, Dec. 28, 1942; Jonathan, Nov. 29, 1947; Matthew, July
27, 1950.

occupation: Composer; professor of music, Brooklyn Collcge. .

orrices HELD; Member, board of directors, since 1953, vice-president, since
1958, National Association for American Composers and Conductors.

[10 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, Na-
tional Association for American Composers and Conductors, Bohemians,
Finlandia Foundation; American Music Center.

PUBLICATIONS: Three symphonies; two overtures, “Epitaphs” for orchestra,
“Dialogues Spirituals” for chorus and orchestra; “Canticle of Night” for
voice and orchestra; “Three Symphonic Odes” for men’s voices and
orchestra; miscellaneous works for band; “Williamsburg Suite” for or-
chestra; miscellaneous chamber works; instrumental and choral composi-
tions; song cycles; songs; etc.

ALTHOUGH, as a college professor and composer, I've been writ-

ing reports for twenty-five years or so on one thing or another

(student body, curricula, examinations, compositions, etc.) to some

one or other (deans, presidents, chairmen, newspapers, magazines,

etc.), it now seems particularly formidable to write mv “Class Life”
report on the Twenty-fifth Anniversary. It’s almost like havi ing to
write one’s own obituary, although more pleasant. Furthermore,
not only have I had to write reports, but, more arduously, have had
to read them from the assorted individuals mentioned above, in
addition to those from students. In short, I seem to have continued
what I did at Harvard — compose, study, write and teach, to earn
the wherewithal to provide for a family Ive acquired since those
relatively carefree days. My acquisitions consist of a wife, four
sons and a black dog. (For further acquisitions, please compare
photos.)

Actually the legitimacy of these acquisitions may be open to
question, since, according to a now ancient directive I received, as a
student, from Woody (Professor G. Wallace Woodworth), I was
only to marry “tentatively.” A John Knowles Paine Travelling
Fellow in 1939, I met my future wife in New York, after having
returned from France because of the outbreak of hostilities. In view
of my plans to marry this young lady I wrote to Woody, who was
chairman of the Music Department at the time, to inquire as to
whether matrimony might conceivably alter the conditions of the
fellowship. Perhaps sensing that I w ould have married her anyway,
he kindly suggested wedlock | ‘tentatively” until he “could subse-
quently take up the matter with the department.” Since to this day
I got no further reply on the matter, I wonder whether, in the light
of Harvard officials, I am legally and permanently married. Quite
obviously I have made the most of a “tentative” bargain, and now
consider myself a respectable New Yorker by marriage.

My wife, who was a writer, now devotes most of her writing tine
to P.T.A. reports, articles for the children’s school papers, petitions

[i]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

for a sane nuclear policy, etc. Our eldest son, now twenty-one, and
gifted musically and dramatically, is working hard “finding himself.”
Our second son, nineteen, is a junior at the University of California
at Berkeley, and seems well on the road to becoming a college
teacher in English or philosophy. Our fourteen-year-old son, a high
school junior, plans to be an M.D., via Harvard, we hope, and the
twelve-year-old has just outgrown his ambition to be a policeman,
guitar folk singer or Yankee pitcher, and will probably be just a
natural scientist. Quite obviously we’ve had our share of “blessed
togetherness,” the peak of which was perhaps reached when all six
of us spent a year in Finland (1955-56), during which time I was a
Fulbright composer. Postscript: a magnificent experience was had
by all.

A concert pianist before attending Harvard (diploma, special
honors, 1925, postgraduate diploma, 1926, New England Conserva-
tory of Music), I went there to round out and intensify musical,
cultural and academic needs, and that’s what [ve been doing since.
Like many others in the creative arts, I’ve had a goodly share of suc-
cess and disappointment — success in having composed numerous
works in all musical media: symphonic, chamber, vocal, choral and
instrumental, with performances by leading orchestras, soloists and
groups in this country and abroad; disappointments which I share
with many other American composers in not having sufficient means
and time to devote myself exclusively to composing. If one can
associate success with having attained the rank of “professor”
academically, I may have scored there also, but what is far more
important is that in that capacity, I trust, I have imparted to my stu-
dents an enthusiasm and love for that most wonderful and esoteric
of all the arts — music — which will in itself sustain and reward
them during their lifetime.

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

J. HENRY ALEXANDRE, Ill

 

HOME ADDRESS: “Tuckaway,” Woodhull Road, Huntington, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fordyce & Alexandre, 78 Forest Ave., Locust Valley, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.; Le Rosey, Rolle, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941.

MarRiED: Catherine H. Clark, March 29, 1941 (divorced 1951); Florence Gilbert
Tucker Carlisle, Oct. 4, 1951. CHILDREN: J. Henry, 4th, Feb. 20, 1942;
Andrew Wallace, April 16, 1946; Denise Evans, July 20, 1954; Floyd Lewis
Carlisle, May 5, 1942 (stepson).

OCCUPATION: Partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pomfret School Alumni Association, 1947-49; director,
Harvard Club of Long Island, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Bar Associations of Nassau and Suffolk Counties; Huntington
Lawyers Club; North Shore Lawyers Association; Harvard Clubs of New
York and Long Island; Piping Rock Club; Lloyd Neck Bath Club.

AS is hereinafter set forth, my twenty-five years have been a series
of contrasts—if not conflicts—out of which I have happily
emerged with my sense of humor intact, a happy home and a
challenging job.

Those of you who have engaged in Schools and Scholarship Com-
mittee work, rounding up good prospects for Harvard, know that
one looks for the “well-rounded” boy. Well, I might qualify as the
well-rounded Harvard product. Not only did I wend my wav
through four years of college and worm my way through three
years of law school, but the Navy also sent me back to the Business
School for the Supply Corps training course. One thing is sure —
I'll never forget that soccer field down there across from the
Stadium. After four years of running up and down it playing
soccer, I had to spend four months marching all over it for Uncle
Sam.

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Speaking of the Navy, I’ve always admired its efficiency. When
I went to school in Switzerland, Harvard specifically said I didn’t
have to take German, so I took a lot of French and Spanish courses,
Naturally, when I got back I was forced to take two years of
German. So, of course, the Navy sent me to the Southwest Pacific,
where the only chance I had to use my great linguistic ability was
to tell a French planter that I didn’t know what had happened to
his sawmill which was in a crate on which I was sitting labeled
“Automotive Spare Parts.”

In college I majored in international relations and had to decide
between the law and the foreign service as a career. Having chosen
the former because it seemed better for family life, I promptly got
sent off to the Philippines in 1948 for fourteen months without my
wife and children by the New York law firm which hired me after
law school. Might just as well have elected diplomacy in the first

lace.

P Well, I won’t bore you with many more gory details, except to
say that having started out to be, as Wendell Willkie was once
described, “a simple, barefoot Wall Street lawyer,” 1 have now
reversed my course again and am a complicated, well-shod country
lawyer instead. This has its advantages, principally no commuting.
The office is thirteen miles from where I live and I drop my daughter
at school on the way. The practice is extremely varied with all
types of clients and all types of cases and they keep you running
on weekends as well as regular days and evenings. There is no
truth, at least in this haven of the robber-barons, to the quaint
belief that the pace is slow in the country. Most regrettably, from
the point of view of those of us who have heretofore staked out
our claims on the area, Long Island practice has caught the eye of
the New Yorkers and they are busily engaged in opening branch
offices all over the place. Perhaps we shall thrive on the additional
business they will generate, but the gestation period has its draw-
backs. For instance, everything has to be stipulated — you have to
forget your extensions of time — affidavits are multiplying — loud
politics and politicians are being embattled and embittered.

Anyway, it has been fun and it still is. Come in and see us when
you visit the World’s Fair during 1964-65.

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANTHONY PAUL ALFINO

 

HOME appREss: g Edgemarth Hill Rd., Westport, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: 1270 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mary’s High School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B. 1941(42).

MarRRIED: Margaret Ann Vasta, April 19, 1952. CHILDREN: Francesca Maria,
June 6, 1954; Paul Anthony, June 28, 1956; John Robert, Jan. 17, 1957;
Mark Richard, July 7, 1959.

occupaTIon: Labor lawyer.

MEMBER OF: American and Federal Bar Associations, Industrial Relations Re-

search Association; New York Personnel Management Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Labor Law in the Public Interest”; “Plant Relocation — Indus-
trial Relations Implications”; “The Changing Climate in Labor Law”;
“Grievance Handling.”

GORDON BELL ALLAN

  
 

 

UE EEE

&

ee,

 

 
  

eB hecken te nbag A, besa etste:

       

ILL ithe
CNN NoNenL EID

re
fe

| 1 L o

HOME appress: Dodd Road (P.O. Box 62), Mansfield Center, Conn,

[15]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICE AppREss: Mansfield Public Schools, Office of Superintendent, Spring
Hill Road, Storrs, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Afedford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cv12 laude, 1938; A.M. IN TEACHING,
1939; Cert. of Advanced Study (in school education), 1956.

MarrieD: Yvonne Marie Labastie (Radcliffe °36), Oct. 3, 1941. CHILDREN;

Richard Gordon, Feb. 8, 1943; Glenn Stewart, July 18, 1947; Curtis Robert,
March 9, 1950.

occupation: Education; superintendent of schools, Mansfield Public Schools.

oFFices HELD: Legislative Committee, 1959-60, member, 1957-60, Massachusetts
School Superintendents Association; member, 1952-57, secretary, 1953,
1955-57, Medford School Committee; member and Ethics Committee,
Connecticut Association of Public School Superintendents, since 1960;
member and secretary, Mansfield Lions Club, since 1961; member, Govern-

ing Board, 1946-54, staff member, 1941, 1945-54, Camp Zakelo, Harrison,
Maine.

MEMBER OF: National and Connecticut Education Associations; American
Association of School Administrators, New England Association of School
Superintendents; Railroad Enthusiasts; Branford Electric Railway Associa-
tion; Mansfield Lions Club; Belmont Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Medford Plan
E Civic Association,

FACING a 46th birthday and an upcoming Harvard 25th Reunion
can be a very awesome experience. Presumably there are fewer
years ahead than behind, and a thrilling and spectacular life story
should be at the end of my pen waiting to be transcribed into the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report.

The Allans find thrills in togetherness. There can be satisfactions
in family, a career of working with children, community service,
and moments of quiet contemplation. (Weren’t white wooden
churches and the New England countryside created for this?) .

Family for me started with my marriage in October, 1941, to
Yvonne Labastie (Radcliffe ’36) and several years of living in my
family home in Medford, Massachusetts. Here were born our three
sons, Dick (1943), Glenn (1947), and Sandy (1950). Professional
opportunities took us in 1957 to Barre, Massachusetts, where we
bought an authentic colonial village house (circa 1730), and in 1960
to Mansfield, Connecticut, site of the University of Connecticut.

Following graduation in 1938, I moved across Kirkland Street
to the Graduate School of Education where I studied off and on
Winters and summers, Degrees were A.M. in Teaching (Romance
languages), 1939, and Certificate of Advanced Study (in adminis-
tration), 1956. Teaching for eighteen years (1940-57) included
two in Winchendon and sixteen in Belmont. This was followed
by the next six in school administration as superintendent of School

[16]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Union No. 2 at Barre and of the public schools of Mansfield. Some-
where along the way I spent eleven summers in the ’4o’s and ’50’s
working as a counselor of journalism and printing for Izzy Zarakov
(27) at Camp Zakelo in Harrison, Maine.

While we lived in Medford the Allans became active supporters
of a non-partisan charter reform movement which was successful
in its attempt to establish the “Plan E” council-manager type of
administration. Community service included three terms on the
Medford School Committee (1952—57, four years as secretary) with
all the normal related problems of shortage of good teachers, need
for improved facilities, a climbing tax rate, and political pressures.
Here in Mansfield I have become involved in the civic work of the
Lions Club, of which I am presently secretary.

Yvonne and I have shared many pleasures together: parallel
careers in education (she and her language laboratory are the
French department in neighboring Coventry High School); her
Twenty-fifth at Radcliffe two years ago; summers in Maine; chap-
eroning fifty young Belmont Junior High School railroad enthusi-
asts through the White Mountains by Mount Washington, Craw-
ford Notch, and across the Frankenstein trestle, on the farewell
steam trip to Portland, to the tip of Cape Cod at Provincetown, or
to the Baltimore and Ohio museum at Baltimore (those were the
days when passenger trains went somewhere!), French language
and culture; old houses; our three teen-age sons (two in high school,
one at University of Connecticut); our trip last summer to England
and France, 3000 k’s in a rented Peugeot station wagon from Paris
down the Rhine valley to Avignon, Roman aqueduct and arena
at Nimes, bathing in the Mediterranean, through Roncevaux pass
in the Pyrenees into Spain, north to the prehistoric caves at Lascaux
and Mont Saint Michel on the Channel, and return to Paris and the
Comédie Francaise, Sorbonne and Eiffel Tower.

Assorted hopes and aspirations: to return to France, to participate
in another Harvard Commencement, to see our bovs through
college, to witness the rebirth of the trolley car, to build a house
designed by Royal Barry Wills (we own a seven-acre wooded site
with brook in Mansfield), to own a Hawk or a Safari, to organize
my stamp collection.

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CHARLES RUSSELL ALLEN

(hecho sterr errs oo oer nome ereangy

  

HOME ADDRESS: Searsport Avenue, Belfast, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marriep: Elizabeth Hatch, May 23, 1942. CHILDREN: George William, Oct. 22,
1943; Judith Anne, Sept. 14, 1948.

occupation: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Greenfield Park Commission, 1951-55; director and
treasurer, Greenfield Library Association, 1949-60, director, Franklin
County Public Hospital, 1953-57; trustee, Green River Cemetery Asso-
ciation, 1956-58, member, Belfast Planning Board, since 1962; director,
Waldo County Chapter, American Red Cross, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Belfast Curling Club; U.S. Coast Guard
Auxiliary, Flotilla 105.

AFTER two years of mental wrestling and prolonged weighing of
the pros and cons, in 1960 I reached the decision to break life-
long ties with Massachusetts and business and to move to Maine and
at least temporary retirement. Many factors contributed to the
eventful decision, including the following: release from certain re-
sponsibilities with the passing of our last-surviving parent, anxiety
over the steadily-increasing tax burdens in Massachusetts; skepti-
cism about one’s future in the wooden box industry, with which I
had been associated since leaving the service; desire to see more of
one’s family at a time of constantly-progressing development; and
ambition to participate in some of the opportunities provided by an
unconfining daily schedule while health and the state of the world
permitted. At present writing, two years later, no regrets.

The change and the move were made in March, 1961. Prior to
then we had converted and rearranged our seasonal summer cottage

[18]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Belfast to a year-round residence, one with a grand location on
fourteen acres of land looking out on Penobscot Bay, conveniently
laid out, and easy to heat and maintain. Maintenance, while involv-
ing many caretaker-like duties such as lawn mowing, snow plowing
of a 1ooo0-foot drive off Route 1, tree pruning, painting and car-
pentry, is all in the day’s work and provides exercise and satisfac-
tion. Landscaping and decoration have been even more gratifying.

Belfast has proven an excellent location. We enjoy life in a small
town, particularly in knowing a lot of the people we meet each day.
Civic activities include service on the local Planning Board and
various fund-raising committees on my part, and direction of the
Episcopal Junior Choir and volunteer hospital work for Betty. While
Belfast is no resort, summer or winter, we find most adequate recre-
ation in the form of boating from May to October and curling and
skiing from December to April. We cruise in a limited area from
Boothbay to Mount Desert and also take part in the activities of the
U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, Betty being the only female member
of our local flotilla. Belfast boasts the only curling club in the state,
artificial ice and all, and probably our introduction to the sport has
provided the most significant change resulting from our move.
Intra-club competition occupies one or the other — or both — of us
as much as four evenings a week and is supplemented by frequent
trips to New Brunswick for friendly international bonspiels. Salt-
water fishing for bass and mackerel is good just off our front lawn;
upland hunting is nearby; and good skiing within an easy drive. All
in all, Maine has a lot to offer.

Although both children are away the greater part of the year, we
try to share their lives to the extent possible. Our travels are gen-
erally associated with their activities, including athletic events,
theatrical productions, ski trips and entertainment. Following his
graduation from Hebron Academy, Bill elected to continue at a
small college and is now a freshman at Bowdoin, his first choice.
Judy is in the ninth grade at St. Mary’s-in-the-Mountains. Both are
a great source of satisfaction.

Since the foregoing report is largely restricted to the past two
years, I might in conclusion summarize my life since graduation
chronologically as follows: 1938-39, agency management training,
Equitable Life Assurance Society; 1939-41, teacher-coach, Middlesex
School; 1941-45, U.S. Naval Reserve (Pensacola, Lido Beach, Port
Hueneme, Sangley Point, Manila Bay), released as lieutenant com-

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

mander; 1945-61, sales organization, New England Box Con—
Greenfield, Massachusetts.

JOHN NEAL ALLEN

MAILING ADDRESS: 45 Barbara Lane, Weymouth 88, Mass.

LOUIS ALLIS, JR.

   

MAILING Appress: 427 E. Stewart St., Milwaukee, Wis.

ELIOT ALTER

 

HOME apprEss: 60 Columbia St., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE AvbREss: Clayton Securities Corp., 147 Milk St., Boston g, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

[20]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938, M.B.A., 1940.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Investments; registered representative at Clayton Securities Cor-
poration.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Whiz Skiers of Boston.

I DIDN’T leave the protective shelter of Harvard until 1940 and
the receipt of another degree from the Business School. I wonder
now why I traded two more years for that second piece of paper
inasmuch as it, like the first, has never left the drawer into which
it was tossed unceremoniously and unframed.

For reasons which elude me now I entered the public accounting
ficld and left it a year and a half later at the same point — the
bottom, Early in January, 1942, the U.S, Navy exercised an option
I had given it the previous summer and four days later the Norfolk
Naval Air Station had a new ensign, the greenest one it ever got.
Remember the standing joke in all the services during the war about

the fantastic discrepancies between the civilian occupations of the

recruits and the military tasks to which they were assigned? In

my case, however, the Navy did not goof: I was assigned to the

Ships Service which was a very big business at a station of this

size. I objected nevertheless and bombarded the Bureau with re-
quests for more exciting duty. Eventually I was rewarded with the
nost hazardous duty of all—the Station’s Gasoline Ration Board.
(hereafter my barrage of requests for sea duty intensified, although
knew it was cowardly to seek front line action against the enemy
1 order to be relieved of the duty of facing the American Auto-
10bile Owner when driven to maniacal fury by a forcible reduc-
on in his daily gasoline intake. Finally I was transferred to the
acific Theatre, and I had a reasonably quiet three ‘years until my
scharge.

Although this time I was higher up the public accounting ladder
both position and salary, I still could not work up much Tove for
© profession and I left it at the first opportunity, which came early
1948 wrapped in a title that a pre-war “B School” man could
rdly resist — “Assistant to the President.” The business was shoe
nufacturing, which is as old as New England, but which has had
‘h a basic metamorphosis that a noted economic authority could
y say that he did not see how any sane man could put good
ierican dollars into it. I assisted the president in many areas —
chasing, production, selling, advertising and I even had full

onsibility over such things as running ‘errands, V ery little of

[21]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

what we discussed at the Business School made sense here and Vice
versa. It was, and is, a fascinating adventure where every season
comes complete with a new catastrophe and you never know if you
are still in business at the beginning of the next season. There are
those who can swim very well in these waters, but not I, most
regrettably, because it is possible to reap a pretty fair reward here,

At this point—the spring of 1954— having had a little ex.
perience in selling shoes and having discovered that the financial
opportunities were better for the outside “man,” I embarked upon
a five-year career of outside selling: first, filmed television programs
and then a management consulting service. hey were both very
interesting fields but I preferred the latter, which was mainly con-
cerned with psychological testing. My choice was probably based
upon the fact that I was a consultant as well as a salesman. Un-
fortunately, my income depended more on my ability to sell than
to consult, and so in the summer of 1959 I was off once again—
entrepreneur of a small dental supply manufacturing business, which
I still own, but devote little time to.

In the spring of 1961 my secret information sources brought me
word about the new bull market which had only just begun (1949).
I thereupon became such a constant occupant of my broker’s board
room that I had a desk of my own. When the crash came last
spring with the inevitable retrenchment I was in danger of losing
my desk. The only way I could keep it was to make it productive
by putting enough orders through. This meant getting customers
of my own, so I became a registered representative, and here I am.

After twenty-five years I think I have finally found it. Life,
like the market, eventually bestows all manner of gifts, but rarely
as they were expected or hoped for. I doubt now that I will ever
be rich, but I am quite sure that I can help some others to make it.

My politics have become somewhat more conservative, but some
of the liberal (?) philosophies that I picked up in Cambridge in
the Thirties die hard and cause rough inner conflicts especially in
my present environment. For instance, it is a source of real annoy-
ance to try to reconcile my feelings about the justice of a basically
retrogressive tax-cut with the knowledge that the large dollar
amounts to be saved by the high-bracket individuals are such a
small part of the government’s tax-take relative to the tiny dollar
amounts saved by the low income group, Furthermore, the inverse

is probably true when the reference is the relative beneficial effects
on the economy.

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I do feel that I have a more abiding faith in American democracy
than I did twenty-five years ago. This faith would be even stronger
if all Un-American Activities Committees were to disappear from
the scene. I wish I could add a bit of light to the search for peace.

For active recreation golf has been displaced by tennis and
squash when my aging elbow and shoulder permit. Skiing came into
my life shortly after the war and probably will stay until I can
no longer walk. Haven’t made it to the Alps yet. Lately, a new
summer-time love has captured me along with friend classmates,
Elliot Rosenberg and Stan Kanter — sailing with its inevitable con-
comitant, yacht racing.

Among my sedentary interests are music (listening) and dupli-
cate bridge. I seem to be getting to the theatre less often and I
am thoroughly ashamed about the meagerness of my reading.

I regret that I have no wife and no children, but I have hopes for
the Fiftieth.

+ HENRY RUSSELL AMES

 

BoRN: Dec, 16, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Robert Russell Ames, ‘07,
Margaret Glover.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Glover Ames, ’34 (deceased).
bIED: Drowned at sea, June 19, 1935.

HENRY RUSSELL AMES spent the freshman year with our Class
and was captain of the Class wrestling team and a member of the
Jubilee Committee. In the summer of 1935 he was participating in
a yacht race from Newport, Rhode Island, to Bergen, Norway,

[23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

with his father and brother, when all three were lost in a gale at
sea. He was survived by his mother.

COSMAS GEORGE ANASTOS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Main St., Nantucket, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941.

marriep: Athanasia Ethel Gonis, 1959. CHILDREN: George, Peter.
occupATioN: Lawyer.

SERVED overseas with U.S. Army Air Corps during World War
I]. Was in private practice of law in Boston from 1946 to 1951. Was
attorney in Internal Security Section, Criminal Division of the De-
partment of Justice at Washington, D.C., from 1951 to 1953, and
was appointed Special Assistant to the U.S. Attorney General for
the prosecution of cases. Was assistant counsel to the U.S. Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations from 1953 to 1955. Sub-
sequently went to Nantucket, Massachusetts; have practised law
there, was chairman of the Nantucket School Committee and am
chairman of the Nantucket Republican Town Committee. At
present 1 am in the general and private practice of law with law
offices at 1 State Street, Boston, and 24 Union Street, Nantucket.
In 1959, married Athanasia Ethel Gonis of Winthrop, Massa-
chusetts, a school teacher. We have two sons, George and Peter.

[ 24 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES ANDREWS

 

HOME aApprEss: 225 Brattle Rd., Syracuse 6, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Mackenzie, Smith, Lewis, Michell & Hughes, Onondaga
County Savings Bank Bldg., Syracuse 2, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Syracuse Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Marie Eastman, Dec. 9, 1942. CHILDREN: Leslie Hyde,
Jan. 5, 1944; Charles, 3d, June 22, 1955.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm, Mackenzie, Smith, Lewis, Michell &
Hughes.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Syracuse, 1960-62, Ivy League
Club of Central New York, 1961-62; secretary, University Club of
Syracuse, 1952-54; trustee, Pebble Hill School, since 1957; major, JAGD.

MEMBER OF: Central City Lodge, No. 305, F. & A.M.; American, New York
and Onondaga County Bar Associations, Century Club; University Club
of Syracuse; Cazenovia Golf and Tennis Clubs; Harvard Clubs of Syra-
cuse and New York; Syracuse Liederkranz, Inc.; Everson Museum of
Art; Ivy League Club of Central New York; American Arbitration
Association, Citizens Foundation of Syracuse; Republican Citizens Com-
mittee of Onondaga County.

TWENTY-FIVE years! It’s fun to think back. All the good
times, interesting people and colorful places have pages in my
memory book and not really very many of the bad. What isn’t so
funny, however, is the thought common to us all, I'm sure —— how
did this quarter of a century pass by so quickly? I don’t feel any
different than in 1938, but it’s 1963.

As I had always planned to spend my summers in Cazenovia, New
York, on the biggest little lake in the land, I arranged to be born and
grow up in nearby Syracuse. Upon finishing Harvard, I therefore
had a summer home already established, and all I needed to do was

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EDWARD WYLLYS ANDREWS, IV

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Quinta Mari, Calle 13 No. 203-A, San Cosme, Mérida,
Yucatan, Mexico.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B, Cum laude, 1938; PH.D. 1942.

MarRIED: Ann Parshall Wheeler, 1940 (divorced 1951); Rosemary Borst, 1953
(divorced 1962). CHILDREN: Edward Wyllys, sth, Oct. 10, 1943; Anthony
Parshall, Aug. 23, 1949; Edmund Andrews, Aug. 23, 1953; Robert Pace,
April 4, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Edward Wyllys Andrews, 5th, ’64.

occupation: Archaeologist, Middle American Research Institute, Tulane Uni-
versity, New Orleans, La,

OFFICES HELD: U.S, Navy, 1943-46; Legion of Merit, 1945; John Simon Guggen-
heim Fellowship, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Army and Navy Club
of Washington; Cosmos Club, Washington; American Anthropological
Association (fellow); Society for American Archaeology.

puBLications: Publications on Middle American anthropology and _ history,
zoology.

BEFORE entering Harvard I had a great desire to be a Middle
American archaeologist—a weakness from which I never re-
covered. Despite the almost unique accomplishment of flunking
Dr. Tozzer’s course in Maya Archaeology (most certainly a per-
sonal disciplinary measure), I persevered and finished my Ph.D.
in 1942 — spending every possible moment (which was a lot) as
both undergraduate and graduate in Yucatan and Guatemala, where
I worked after graduation for the Carnegie Institution of Wash-
ington.

The war, and several years after, working for the Navy and the
government, left me feeling sufficiently at home in Europe, Asia

[28]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Africa — and with a strong yen to get back to my old business.
After a spell of home-based operations, it seemed more feasible to
move down here permanently in 1956, and this was done. As we
read the northern weather reports, we have few regrets.

We are now Tulane’s (we hope, permanent) outpost — finish-
ing up a nine-year program of research in a most ancient city with
the odd name of Dzibilchalrun, where we have found much that
will change our view of the past in this part of the world.

Having moved into a long-planned house in the last year, we
plan to stay awhile.

JOHN CHENEY ANDREWS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Cazenovia, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MARRIED: Janet Carter, June 18, 1938. CHILDREN: Christine C., May 20, 1939 (7.
Alfred Dascher, January, 1962); John Walker, Jan. 17, 1951. GRANDCHILD:
Christopher C. Dascher, Sept. 21, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Farming; landscaping, maple syrup producer.

MEMBER OF: Cazenovia Club Corporation; Cazenovia Ski Club; Rippleton
Club, Inc. (secretary).

AFTER leaving college in 1935, I studied on a farm in Germany,
returning in 1936 to take over the operation of our 18o-acre farm
in Cazenovia, New York. I have operated a dairy farm up unul
October 1, 1961, at which time I sold my cows s and machinery and
settled down to making maple syrup ¢ and doing landscaping work
near home.

My travels have been limited to weekends in Vermont or Canada,
since farming is a rather binding occupation,

[29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

My daughter, after graduating from St. Mary’s-in-the-Mountains
in Littleton, New Hampshire, and Skidmore College, Saratoga,
New York, now lives with her husband and son in Albany, New
York. My wife and son and [I are still living in a small house on
Rippleton Road in Cazenovia, not far from the barns and farm
buildings which we now rent. Making maple syrup is a busy job
for three months in the winter and many new homes give lots of

prospects for landscaping work in summer, fall and spring, so we
are still pretty well tied down to rural life.

RICHARD GILMORE APPEL, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 24 Lincoln Circle, Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Waddell & Reed, Inc., 60 Batterymarch St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

MaRRIED: Sally Pushee, Nov. 1, 1941. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Romaine, Aug. 18, t
1943; Hope Eleanor, Feb. 4, 1946; Richard Gilmore, 3d, April 29, 1959. :

occuPATION: Mutual investment fund sales division manager, Waddell & Reed,
Inc,

OFFICES HELD: Elected Town Meeting Member, since 1949, chairman, Finance

Committee, 1957-59, Swampscott; president, Swampscott Council for
Public Schools, 1961-62, Browne and Nichols Alumni Council, 1962, 1963.
MEMBER OF: Lhe Beach Club, Swampscott; Manchester (Mass.) Harbor Boat

Club; Harvard Club of Lynn.
AT the time of our Eighteenth Anniversary Report, I was strug-
gling to help a large electronics tube manufacturer make a profit.

The battle was unsuccessful and in November of 1959 I decided
to try an entirely new field.

Perhaps the arrival of a first son, in April of that year, provided

[ 30]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the impetus, but in any event, for three years I have been associ-
ated with one of the largest underwriters and distributors of
Mutual Funds in the country. This field, in case any of you don’t
know, is one of the fastest-growing industries in the country. And
for those of you who found the action in the stock market dis-
heartening, I suggest you give some thoughtful study to what
Mutual Funds could do for you.

My area encompasses Essex County, and I am slowly building a
division in this area. Our goal, to assure every child the funds for
a college education without government aid. In addition we are
helping people provide for their own retirement, in a country
where less than one man in a hundred can afford to be alive at
sixty-five. Pension and profit-sharing programs are my greatest
interest. For those of you who really want a legal government sub-
sidy I will be glad to tell you how to get it at our 25th.

As predicted seven years ago, I can no longer keep up with my
daughters on the ski trails. But teaching our son should give Sally
and me another ten years of our favorite sport.

WILLIAM WORTHEN APPLETON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 39 E. voth St., New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE AppRESS: Dept. of English, Columbia University, New York 27, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; a.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1939; PH.D. (ibid.), 1949.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Professor of English, Columbia University.
PuBLIcaTIONS: 4 Cycle of Cathay; Beaumont and Fletcher; Charles Mackin.

IT is difficult to account for my life since graduation, since | often

C31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

feel that I never really have graduated. After leaving Harvard |
went to Columbia for a Master’s degree in English, taught there
briefly, and was swallowed up by the Army for four years as a
teacher and administrator in a radar and radio school at Hickam
Field, Honolulu. [ think that probably I can lay claim to the most
sedentary war service of any member of the Class of 1938. On the
day of my discharge, I became once again a member of the Columbia
English Department where I have been ever since, though I have
managed, since 1945, to make some fifteen trips to Europe and the
Far East.

BRONIE JOHN PETER APSHAGA

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Fairhaven Street, Mattapoisett, Mass,

GLEASON LEONARD ARCHER, JR.

 

HOME appress; 618 Hermosa St., South Pasadena, Calif,

[ 32 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orriee ADDRESS: Fuller Theological Seminary, 135 N. Oakland Ave., Pasadena,

all

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1938, aM.
1940; PH.D., 1944; LL.B. (Suffolk Univ.), 1939; B.o. (Princeton Univ.), 1945.

MARRIED: Virginia Atkinson, May 11, 1939 (died Aug. 24, 1962). CHILDREN:
Gleason Leonard, 3d, Dec. 12, 1940; Jonathan Atkinson, Dec. 7, 1942,
Heather MacLaren, Aug. 7, 1950.

occupation: Minister of the Gospel; seminary professor.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of Biblical Languages, since 1948, Acting Dean of the
Faculty, 1948-49, 1961-62, Fuller Seminary, trustee, Suffolk University,
1939-1942, 1946-49; president, board of directors, New England Asso-
ciation of Christian Schools, 1946-48; trustee, Howard Benevolent Soci-
ety, 1946-48; secretary, National Association of Biblical Instructors,
Pacific Coast Section, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; National Association of Evangelicals, Evan-
gelical Theological Society, National Association of Biblical Instructors,
Society for Biblical Literature and Exegesis, Los Angeles Coin Club.

PUBLICATIONS: ln the Shadow of the Cross, Zondervan, 1957; Epistle to the
Hebrews: Study Manual, Baker, 1957; Jerome’s Comrmentary on Daniel:
a Translation, Baker, 1958; Epistle to the Romans: Study Mamual, Baker,
1959. Contributor to: The Biblical Expositor (Isaiah), Holman, 1960;
Baker’s Dictionary of Theology, Baker, 1960; The Wycliffe Bible Corm-
mentary (Isaiah), Moddy, 1962; The World Book Encyclopedia (newest

edition).

NOT too much has happened in respect to my professional career
since the Eighteenth Anniversary Report came out in 1956. But for
the careless few who may have missed reading that report let me say
that my wedded bliss began in May, 1939, w hen I married the lov cly
young Virginia Atkinson, a student at Jackson College, while I was
beginning graduate work in Comparative Literature at Harvard.
The wedding came close enough to her final exams so that review
became difficult, and one of her subjects had to go down the drain
with an F (fourth-year German!). But her honor was retrieved
when she took the final over again at the end of the summer (per-
haps a honeymoon in Europe gave her a better feel for the language),
and this time she passed with an A.

I managed to stay at Harvard for a good while, taking just about
all the courses the German and Greek Departments had to offer, and
finishing the nucleus of my Ph.D. thesis by June, 1942. By that ume
I had shifted professions, so to speak, and went down with my ife
and wee son to live in Princeton, New Jersey (where [met my old
Classics tutor, Charles T. Murphy), and earn a Bachelor of Divinity
degree in the customary three years. My second son arrived in De-

[33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WALTER PHILLIPS ARENWALD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 190-19A 71st Crescent, Fresh Meadows 65, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Gainsburg, Gottlieb, Levitan & Cole, 122 E. 42d St., New York
17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B.
1943(48); a.m. (Univ. of Chicago), 1940.

MarRIED: Helen E. Grossberger, June 18, 1950. CHILDREN: Elaine Marie, March
4, 1960; Joanne Rose, Nov. 18, 1962.

OccUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Gainsburg, Gottlieb, Levitan & Cole.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American Bar
Association,

MY life prior to 1956 is fully described in our Eighteenth Anni-
versary Report. Since 1956 my life has changed in several respects.

On January 1, 1957, I became a partner in Gainsburg, Gottlieb,
Levitan & Cole, the law firm with which I had been associated
since I was admitted to practice in 1948. As a partner most of my
work has been concerned with estates, trusts and related tax prob-
lems. I conduct a large part of my firm’s Surrogate’s Court prac-
tice. Each year I am called upon to draft numerous complicated
wills, indentures of trust and other legal instruments. I find that
my practice is interesting and challenging. My major problem
is to find sufficient time to properly dispose of each of the many
matters which I am required to handle.

Since 1956 my family has doubled in size. I spend a large part
of each weekend trying to explain the world to our elder daughter,
who is now approaching the age of three years, while I attempt to
assist my very capable wife in caring for our younger daughter,
who is now approaching the age of six weeks, ] cannot report any

[ 36 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great success in either of these endeavors. My family is, for me,
a source of great pride and satisfaction.

In 1960, shortly after the arrival of our first daughter, we moved
from our Original apartment to a much larger apartment in Fresh
Meadows. Since then my wife and I have been furnishing our
new home in modified contemporary style. We have installed a
custom stereo high fidelity set in our living room. Whenever time
permits, we greatly enjoy listening to recordings and broadcasts
of classical music on this set. I spend most of my evenings at home
working on legal documents in the study, but occasionally I manage
to devote an hour or two to reading outside of the field of law.
Whenever we can obtain a suitable baby-sitter for a Saturday
evening, we attend a concert or a Broadway play.

During each of five successive summers, beginning with the
summer of 1956, we spent our vacation on Cape Breton Island in
Nova Scotia. On each of our visits to this quiet area we thoroughly
enjoyed the golf and swimming and the inspiring combination of
mountains and sea. We hope to return to Nova Scotia when our
daughters are old enough to travel long distances. On each of our
summer vacations I devote a large amount of time to general read-
ing in the fields of literature, history and economics.

My political orientation has not changed significantly in recent
years. I view the record of the Kennedy administration with con-
siderable admiration. I hope that this administration will be suc-
ceeded by another Democratic administration which is controlled
by Harvard men.

Tremendous changes in the world scene have occurred during the
twenty-five years which have passed since 1938. I expect that even
greater changes will occur during the next tw enty -five years. Tam
sufficiently optimistic to believe that, on the Fifticth Anniv ersary of
our Commencement, we shall find a substantial basis for renew al of
our faith in human progress.

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

~*~ PETER EMILIO ARIOLI, JR.

 

BORN: Aug. 5, 1916, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Peter Emilio Arioli, Edith

Shorrtt,
PREPARED AT: Hilo High School, Hilo, Hawaii.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of California), 1939; M.D.

(Northwestern Univ.), 1944.
pieD: Dec. 3, 1950, in Korea.
DURING World War H, Arioli served for five years in the South
Pacific in the Naval Reserve. In September, 1949, he volunteered
for active duty in Korea and served with the First Marine Division.
He was mortally wounded while fighting his way out of a deadly
Chinese Communist trap. He was survived by his mother.

JAMES SINCLAIR ARMSTRONG ©

    

HOME Abpress: 211 E. 18th St, New York 3, N.Y.

[ 38 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: United States Trust Co. of New York, 45 Wall Sc., New
York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1938. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1938, LEB. 1941.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Stillman, June 29, 1940 (divorced 1960), Joan Shepard
Miller Gilchrist, 1960. CHILDREN: Katherine Chase, Oct. 5, 1041, James
Sinclair, Jr., Dec. 19, 1943; Stephen Howard, Feb. 5, 1947; Robert Still-
man, April 30, 1949; Elisabeth Stillman, Sept. 13, 1958, Cameron Gil-
christ, Nov. 3, 1954 (stepchild); Alison Gilchrist, Oct. 2, 1957 (step-
child).

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, United States Trust Company of New
York, banking institution, specializing in trusts and investment manage-
ment,

OFFICES HELD: Political: Member, 42d Ward Republican Organization (Chic-
ago), 1941-59; 42d Ward Republican Businessmen’s Committee, 1941-59;
member, Capitol Hill (Republican) Club, 1953-60; member, Advisory
Committee, 9th Assembly District Republican Club (New York), since
1959.

Professional: Member of the bar, admitted Illinois, 1941, New York, 19%9,;
member of the Bars of Supreme Court of the United States and various
U.S. Courts, member, Committee on State Regulation of Securities,
American Bar Association, 1957-59; member, Committee on Corporation
Law, Chicago Bar Association, 1951-53.

Business: Lieutenant (j.g.), USNR, active duty, 1945-46, retired 1953, asso-
ciate, 1941-45, 1946-49, partner, 1950-53, Isham, Lincoln & Beale, Coun-
sellors at Law, Chicago; member, 1953-57, chairman, 195-57, Securities
and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C.; member, President's Con-
ference on Administrative Procedure, 1953-54; Assistant Secretary of the
Navy (Financial Management) and Comptroller, Department of the
Navy, Washington, D.C., 1957-59; executive vice-president, United Srates
Trust Company of New York, since 1959; director, Ammco Tools, Inc.
North Chicago, Illinois, Hazeltine & Perkins Drug Company, Grand
Rapids, Michigan, Luxene, Inc.. New York City.

Charitable or Educational: Trustee or director: United Charities of Chicago,
member, Legal Aid, Family Service and Personnel Practices Committees,
1946-53; Chicago Maternity Center, executive committee, 1944-53; Schol-
arship & Guidance Association, 1951-53; Francis Wy, Parker School,
1949-53; Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund, 1949-53: Schweppe Foun-
dation, 1950-53, St. Andrew's Society of the Stare of New York, tose,
board of managers, since 1961; Gunnery School, Washington, Conn,
since 1960; Robert A. Taft Institure of Government, Advisory Committee,
since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Amcrican Bar Association; Chicago Bar Association Crogi at),
Federal Bar Association (1954-60), Legal Club of Chicago, Amencan
Law Institute; American Judiciary Society (1955-60), Awocunen of
the Bar of the City of New York, American Sociery of Corporace
Secretaries; Navy League of the United States; Hlarvard Alumni Awe.
ciation (Committee te Nominate Overseer, 1958-40), New York [fe
torical Society; Pilgrims of the United States; Kappa Reta Phe Wall

[ 39]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

four, at home with her mother, from whom I was separated in 1959
and divorced the next year.

In November, 1960, I married Joan Shepard Miller Gilchrist, a
Smith alumna of 1950, and daughter of James Bernard Miller, Har-
vard ’14, M.B.A,, 716. With her two children, “Kim” and Alison
Gilchrist, we live in a tiny apartment on East 18th Street, between
Third and Second Avenues, in New York City. Her children are
in Grace Church School, and we are active in St. George’s Church on
Stuyvesant Square.

Weekends we spend mostly at a family place in Washington,
Connecticut, where we play tennis and Joan gardens, and I am on
the Gunnery School board; vacations on Chappaquiddick Island off
Edgartown, Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts, swimming and sail-
ing. Tennis has always been my favorite sport, and I have played a
great deal of country club competition over the years, but never was
good enough for more serious play. Golf was interesting in Washing-
ton, D.C., but with a 23 handicap, how could you lose? There is
more (and better) golf in my future, I hope.

This winter a lot of my time has gone into the New York City
Committee of the Twenty-fifth Reunion, An earlier and interesting
Harvard activity was a term on the Harvard Alumni Association’s
Committee to Nominate Overseers.

WALTER PRESTON ARMSTRONG, JR.

* 9 :

   

HOME avpress: 1530 Carr Ave., Memphis 4, Tenn.

OFFICE AbpRESs: Armstrong, McCadden, Allen, Braden & Goodman, 800 Com-
merce Title Bldg., Memphis 3, Tenn.

PREPARED aT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

[46]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B.. 1941, Dot. (Hlon.)
(Southwestern at Memphis), 1961.

MARRIED: Alice McKee, Nov. 3, 1949. cHitprEN: Alice Kavanaugh, Jan. 25,
1954; Walter Preston, 3d, May 1, 1955.

occuPaTion: Lawyer; partner, Armstrong, McCadden, Allen, Braden & Good-
man.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Criminal Law Section, American Bar Association,
1953-56, president, Board of Education, Memphis Citv Schools, 1956-61,
president, National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws,
1961-63.

MEMBER OF: International, Inter-American, American, Tennessee, Memphis
& Shelby County Bar Associations, American Bar Foundation (fellow),
American College of Trial Lawyers (fellow); Commissioner on Unt-
formity of Legislation for Tennessee, American Law Institute; American
Judicature Society; Order of the Coif (hon.); Harvard Club of Memphis
and New York, Memphis Rotary Club; Memphis Country Club, Un-
versity Club of Memphis; Tennessee Club; Tavern Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in Law Reviews and Journals, including
American Bar Association Journal, Tennessee Law Review, Vanderbilt
Law Review.

AFTER graduating from college I stayed around Cambridge for an-
other three years attending law school, from which I graduated i in
1941. I spent a few months with my father’s law firm in Memphis
but, ten days before Pearl Harbor, entered the Army, where I re-
mained for more than four years, emerging in February, 1946, with
the rank of major, Adjutant General’s Department. The last two of
those years were spent at an Air Transport Command base in Natal,
Brazil. Upon leaving the Army I returned to Memphis and re-
joined my father’s law firm where I have remained since, becoming a
partner in 1948. °

In 1949 I was married to Alice McKee, a Radclitfe graduate and at
that time a practising architect, but who has since devoted her full
time to being a housewife and mother to our two children, Alice,
eight, and Walter, seven. Both she and I have also been very active
civicly, and I have served as president of the Memphis Little Theatre
and Memphis Orchestral Socicty.

On January 1, 1956, I took ‘office as president of the Board of
Education of the Memphis City Schools and remained in that othee
for five and a half years. Upon leaving it I received awards for out-
standing service from the Tennessce School Boards Association, the
Memphis Rotary Club, the Memphis Chapter of the American
Institute of Architects, Greater Memphis Stare, and the New spuper
Guild of Memphis, as well as an honorary degree from Southwestern
at Memphis, of all of which Tam inordinately proud,

[ 47 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Professionally, I have served as chairman of the American Bar

Association’s Committees on Jurisprudence and Law Reform,
Organized Crime, and Professional Ethics, chairman of its Criminal]
Law Section, and for ten years a member of its House of Delegates,
Membership of the Visiting Committee for the Law School has
brought me back to Cambridge for the last half dozen years, and in
my spare time my wife and I travel. We attended the A.B.A. meet-
ing in London in 1957.

All of this has made for a varied and interesting life, and the years
have been so full that it is hard to believe that twenty-five of them
have gone by since I left college. Whether or not I have profited
from these experiences to the maximum extent is no doubt problem-
atical; but it has not been from lack of opportunity. And while there
have been no spectacular successes, on the other hand there has been
little cause for regret. In fact, I could wish nothing better for my

classmates during the past quarter century than the happiness and
contentment which I have been fortunate enough to find.

LAURENCE LANE ARNOLD

 

HOME AppreEss: 405 E. Monroe St., Olney, IIL

OFFICE ADDRESS: 201 W. Market St., Olney, IIL

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; LL-B+
1941.

MaRRiED: Gretchen Weber, Aug. 14, 1946. CHILDREN: Carol Lane, Aug. 13+
1948; Thomas Laurence, Aug. 5, 1950; Gretchen Weber, March 28, 1956

occuraTion: Attorney-at-law, partner in law firm of Arnold & Bamberth.

OFFIces HELD: County Judge of Richland Country, Ul., 1950-62; president,
Olney Rotary Club, 1952-53, Olney Chamber of Commerce, 1955-56.

[48]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of Olney; American and Illinois State Bar Associa-

tuions.

AFTER graduation from college I spent the next three years at
Harvard Law School and received an LL.B. degree in June, 1941.
By July ist I was accepted as a special agent by the F.B.I. and
spent the next four and a half years serving the country in that
capacity. By September, 1941, my training class was “in the field”
and my first assignment was to North Carolina from which I was
transferred to New York City a week after we entered the war.
In February, 1942, I was placed on special duty and spent the next
four years outside the United States, except for a brief return visit
in late 1943.

After the war was over I returned to my home in Newton,
Illinois, resigning from the Bureau. I had decided to practise law
but had occasion to regret not having taken the bar exam in my
home state before going into government service. It required several
months of intensive review of my law school notebooks before
taking the Illinois bar exam in October, 1946, but the effort was
successful and in January, 1947, I received my license to practise
law.

In August, 1946, my wife and I had married in Olney, where she
lived, and we took up residence there in 1947 and there began the
practice of law.

Olney is a town of some 9,000 people and Richland County has
about 17,000 inhabitants. One could practise law and at the same
time hold the office of County Judge (practising in all courts but
his own, of course), and I have held this office for three terms,
beginning in December, 1950, and ending in December, 1962, when
I ceased to be a candidate for re-election.

My time in now consumed by the full-time practice of law and
such hobbies as hunting, trap and skeet shooting, and trying to
catch as many fish as my twelve-year-old son. My etforts have
met some degree of success in all but the last.

Contact with college classmates is nil and that rare bird (in these
parts) a “Harvard Man” seldom shows up. Occasionally, though,
I run across one at a bar association meeting and these contacts
often bring forth interesting bits of information such as [ gleaned
when an older Harvard Law grad who was obviously enjoving
life confided that his father had thought that a college education
wasn’t important and therefore had sent him to Princeton!

[49 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ZOLA ALFRED ARONSON

 

   

. .
sett echt iat Ai a AB Sind AA AE.

 

1. dhammaadl 8d

HOME ADDRESS: 103 Scudders Lane, Glen Head, Long Island, N.Y.

orrice Appress: Fields, Merritt & Aronson, 36 W. 44th St, New York 36,
N.Y.

preparep AT: A. B. Davis High School, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1938; LLB.
(Columbia Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Jeanne Rubenstone, Dec. 16, 1945. CHILDREN: Emily Gae, Jan. 4,
1950; Theodore Rosen, Jan. 16, 1952; Miriam Jeanne (Merry), Aug. 8,
1953.

occupation: Attorney; member of firm, Fields, Merritt & Aronson.

MeMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Bar Associa-
tion of Nassau County; Columbia University Club.

1 WAS admitted to the New York bar in 1941, after graduation
from the School of Law of Columbia University, after which I
served as law secretary to Judge John C. Knox in USS. District
Court, Southern District of New York, and thereafter briefly as an
attorney, U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, D.C., Special
War Policies Unit.

Army of the U.S. June, 1942, through November, 1945, pri-
marily with General George S. Patton’s Advance Headquarters
(“Lucky Forward”), Third U.S. Army, including service in London
for some six months before D-Day, and thereafter Western Europe
through occupation of Germany. January 1, 1946, through April
15, 1950, inclusive, resident counsel at Beaunit Mills, Inc., up to and
including latter’s acquisition of control of American Bemberg Cor-
poration and North American Rayon Corporation from the Alien

Property Custodian. Since April 15, 1950 (my thirty-third birth-
day), in private law practice in New York City; since September,

[50]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1961, a member of Fields, Merritt & Aronson, specializing to an ex-
tent in (of all things!) mental health legal and social problems.

I make it a point to support, to the extent of my limited time and
resources, liberal and civil liberties publications, causes and organiza-
tions. Ever since I concentrated in government at Harvard, I have
been a confirmed Democrat. I was a great admirer of Franklin D.
Roosevelt; and I am a great admirer of Harry S. Truman and John
F. Kennedy.

AUSTIN SHAW ASHLEY

     

HOME ApprEss: 26 Willis Rd., Sudbury, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Bingham, Dana & Gould, 1 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

PREPARED AT: King School, Stamford, Conn.; Darien High School, Darien,
Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1938-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude,
1938 (40); uL.B. (Univ. of Virgimia), 1944.

MARRIED: Harriet McGee Hancock, May 30, 1945. CHILDREN: Mary Ann,
June 1, 1940 (m. Richard E. Guthrie, Sept. 17, 1960); Josaphine Han-
cock, July 4, 1947. GRaNpcaiLp: Ann Guthrie, Sept. 17, 1961.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Bingham, Dana & Gould.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Order of the Coif, Raven Society, Harvard
Club of New York; Algonquin Club, Boston; Harvard Musical Associa-
tion; Boston Bar Association; Cambridge (England) Union.

[50]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN ASHMEAD, JR.

     

}

HOME appress: 9 College Lane, Haverford, Pa.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Haverford College, Haverford, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1938; AM,
1939, PH.D., 1951.

marriep: Ann Harnwell, Oct. 15, 1949. CHILDREN: John, 3d, Aug. 14, 1950,
Graham Gaylord, Oct. 31, 1951; Gaylord Harnwell, Nov. 13, 1955;
Louisa Harral, Sept. 22, 1957; Theodora Wheeler, Nov. 1, 1960.

occupation: Associate professor of English, Haverford College.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Main Line School Night Associa-
tion, since 1950; American literature consultant to Washington Center
for Applied Linguistics, 1962; member, National Advisory Council for
Teaching English as a Foreign Language, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; School and College Conference
on English; American Studies Association; Phi Beta Kappa; College
English Association; Authors’ Guild; Modern Language Association
Committee on Publishing Definitive Editions of American Authors;
Asian Studies Association; Asia Society; National Council of Teachers
of English; fellow in American Studies (Philadelphia).

puBLications: The Mountain and the Feather, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, 1961,
“The Man with only One Suit,” Harper’s Magazine, 1962; various articles
on Japan and on American literature in Atlantic Monthly, American

Literature, College English Association Critic, Chambers’ Encyclopedia,
etc,

WHEN the Second World War came I was studying English in the
Graduate School at Harvard, my room was the one supposedly oc-
cupied by Emerson in the Divinity School, and I shall always believe,
until forced to admit otherwise, that its large fierce cockroaches

were descendants of a strain that had known and appreciated Emer-
son’s books as much as they did mine.

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Because my grandfather had been surgeon to the family of the
Emperor Meiji, especially its concubinal branches, and because 1
liked breakfast at a late hour, I had once taken a course in Japanese.
I soon found myself a Japanese language officer, lieutenant, USNR.
Participation in the Aleutians and Philippine Island campaigns, Navy
Commendation Medal, Japan Occupation forces, released in 19.46,
as a disabled veteran with a pension of ten dollars a month, and told

to work only “half time” for the next decade.

Not knowing that teaching was an industry as sweated, over-
worked and underpaid as Melville’s whaleships, I went into that.
When I started as an instructor in English (in those days in 1947 the
rank of instructor still existed in American colleges and had not been
displaced by the present beginners’ rank of assistant professor), it
was believed that the best way to secure a good teaching staff in
English was to start a man out correcting 200 papers a week at a
salary pegged slightly beneath that of the local garbage collector.

Things have changed somewhat for the better now.
A Fulbright Jectureship in American literature to Osaka University

of Foreign Studies, Japan, gave me a chance to do some writing. It
was in 1955, ten years after the end of the war, and many Japanese
soldiers and sailors had just then published their accounts of the war.

I read these, and my own war novel took on more definite shape.
Boy number three was born in Japan. I had promised my wife, an
archaeologist, that if I could go to Japan, she could go to Greece, and
so in 1956 I taught for a year in Greece and managed, if that is the
term, a large succession of Greek maids, while my wife traveled to
every Acropolis in Greece by bus and donkey. It is my clearly
announced plan to retire at some point in the future and live off her
Bryn Mawr Ph.D. in classical archaeology. I still have no very clear
recollection of how we managed to have five children, get her Ph.D.
and write my first novel, but there seems no doubt that all these
events did indeed take place. In fact, my pension stopped and |
went from disabled to abled veteran.

A second Fulbright lectureship in American studies came along in
1960-61, this time in Taipei, Taiwan, at National Cheng Chi Uni-
versity and ‘Taiwan Normal University. I lectured before students
and writers’ groups in Burma, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Korea
and Thailand. Daughter number two was born in China.

Iam now completing a second novel and a third is pushing along
the launching ways behind that. Plus articles on Mark ‘Twain and
Lafcadio Hearn, and some short fiction. Recently T have been on

[53]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

some of the Washington committees concerned with the desperate
need to learn English faced by the new countries of the world, and |
was sent to the British Council Conference in Cambridge, England,
summer 1962, as American representative. A growing circle of
friends now, in England, China, Japan, Greece. A growing family,
Far from the Harvard Yard — rarely go back, but much of it must
have started there.

CHARLES DE LOACH ASHMORE

 

HOME AbpREsS: 549 Poplar St., Spartanburg, S.C.

OFFICE AppREss: Converse College, Spartanburg, S.C.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; AM. (George
Washington Univ.), 1947; PH.D. (Emory Univ.), 1957.

MarRiED; Virginia Collier Ogletree, Sept. 21, 1946. cHiLpREN: George Edward,
Nov. 5, 1947; John Charles, Aug. 30, 1950; Mary Collier, Sept. 23, 1953;
James Philip, Dec. 26, 1957; Richard Fielding, Dec. 16, 1958.

occupaTionN: Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, Converse College.

OFFICES HELD: Elder, 1952-58, deacon, since 1959, Presbyterian Church U.S.;
president, Southern Literary Festival Association, 1961-62; Spartanburg
Conservative Club, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Southern Literary Festival Association; South Atlantic Modern
Language Association; Modern Language Association; Southern Uni-
versity Conference; Southern Conference of Academic Deans; Spartan-
burg Conservative Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles for Converse College publications.

IN the fifteen years since I wrote my report for our Tenth Anni-
versary I have collected two academic degrees and fathered four
additional children (a total now of five). This interval of fifteen
years has been a period of varied activities during which I have

[54]

ON mett cape cy wwi Res “bag .

TION pe se apneahoing ysjtwap ean iat

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gradually homed in on the career that I was destined for the day I

climbed four flights to my room in Weld Hall (number 18, if I re-

member correctly). In 1948 I was serving on active duty with the

Marine Corps in Washington, D.C., and working at the same time
for a Master’s degree in English at George Washington University.
After the completion of my program at George Washington I
moved my small family to Atlanta, Georgia, where I entered upon
graduate study for the Ph.D. at Emory University. The semi-re-
tirement of my father from his business drew me away from the
academic career I had started, and I spent five years as manager of
Ashmore Sausage Company, Chamblee, Georgia.

A tempting offer to return to Emory University as an instructor
in English changed the course of my life again, and in 1955 I re-
sumed my academic career. After three years of teaching at Emory,
during which I obtained a doctoral degree, I moved to Converse
College in Spartanburg, South Carolina. Here my family and I have
been supremely happy. Converse College, a small liberal arts college
for women, is animated by high purposes and a consciousness of
rapid movement toward the achievement of these purposes. Spartan-
burg is a warm-hearted community of about 40,000 people who are
blessed with the enlightened leadership of an extraordinary group
of cultured gentlemen. Here I hope I can anchor my family and live
the rest of my life.

Politics: Republican. Religion: Presbyterian.

ANTON WILLIAM ASMUTH, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4742 N, Wilshire Rd., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

[ss]

——_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

oFFIcE appress: Whyte, Hirschboeck, Minahan, Harding & Harland, 2100
Marine Plaza, Milwaukee 2, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. ?agna cum laude, 1938; LLB,
1941.

manateD: Mary B. Messinger, Dec. 26, 1939. cHrLpreEN: Anthony William,
3d, Dec. 14, 1941; Mary Leslie, Sept. 19, 1944; Clifford Messinger, June
10, 1948.

occupation: Attorney; partner, Whyte, Hirschboeck, Minahan, Harding &
Harland.

orFices HELD: Director and secretary, Wisconsin Tissue Mills, since 1946;
Village Attorney, Village of Chenequa, since 1948; director, Goodwill
Industries, since 1948, Blackhawk Nederland N.V. (Holland), since
1961; director, since 1949, president, 1954-57, Milwaukee Country Day
School; director, since 1952, vice-president, 1962, Milwaukee Orchestral
Association.

MEMBER oF: American, Wisconsin and Milwaukee Bar Associations; Harvard
Club of Wisconsin (president, 1954-56); Harvard Law School Club of
Wisconsin (treasurer, 1962); University Club of Milwaukee, Milwaukee
Club; Chenequa Country Club; Phi Beta Kappa; Greater Milwaukee
Association,

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School, I spent several years
in Washington, D.C,, first with the Office of Scientific Research &
Development and subsequently with General Donovan’s Office of
Strategic Services. In late 1945 I returned to Milwaukee and became
associated with the law firm of Whyte, Hirschboeck, Minahan,
Harding & Harland. I have been a partner in that firm since 1951.

My elder son is a junior at Yale, my daughter a freshman at Con-
necticut College for Women, and my younger son is a freshman at

Milwaukee Country Day School.

[56]

LASER Nye Toh YET ag tA GRP UME MR ney at Gay ety Ste ae ar

TT rR eo pn SIRES FTL NE Ug A A RTM

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

t+ WALTER HUMPHREY ATHERTON

 

BORN: Sept. 23, 1917, Springfield, Mass. parENTs: Henry Francis Atherton, ‘o5,

Madeline Wesson.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.
HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Francis Atherton, Jr., ’36.
DIED: Sept. 24, 1937, Brookville, Long Island, N.Y.

WALTER HUMPHREY ATHERTON was a resident of Adams
House and in his senior year at college when he died. He was
survived by his parents and a brother.

JOSEPH AUERBACH

   

ORD

HOME AppREss: 40 Valley Spring Rd., Newton 58, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sullivan & Worcester, 185 Devonshire Sc. Boston ro, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Franklin High School, Franklin, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-38, DEGREES: A.B., 1938) LL.B, 194t.

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MarRIED: Judith Evans, Nov. 10, 1941, CHILDREN: Jonathan Lewis, Nov, 2 5,
1942; Hope Brook, Aug. 4, 1949.
occupaTION: Attorney, partner, Sullivan & Worcester.

FOR what appears at this moment to be a depressingly long time, |
have made my living by speaking and writing on behalf of others:
this is the essence of a lawyer’s existence. Some of this has been
imaginative, a larger portion has been routine, but all of it has in-
volved the employment of “facts.” When I come, as now, to write
for and about myself, however, I find it difficult to marshal the facts,
I know I can assemble a skeleton very quickly, and I will do so.
Clothing the bones is something else, As nearly as I can tell, the
reason for the difficulty is that I know my “facts” have not been im-
mutable and that I am simply not (or perhaps not willing to be)
sufficiently objective for present purposes.
As for the skeleton, essential names and numbers are listed above.
I think that my wife has been nearly as content with me as I with
her. My children have not complained to any disturbing degree
about either my wife or me and, on my part, I find each of them to
be a satisfying person. School-wise, he is a junior at Yale, and she is
in the eighth grade at Winsor. We have lived for extended periods,
principally in Washington, Philadelphia, Chicago, Diisseldorf and
(for the past eleven years) Boston. I have been in the Army, the
Civil Service, the Foreign Service and (again for the past eleven
years) in the private practice of law.

Generally speaking, my professional activities are confined to
business law. That means, in my case, primarily financial matters in-
cluding the problems of lenders and borrowers, issuers and pur-
chasers, and reorganization and regulatory statutes. The nature of
my work has satisfied me and, I think, all of my family except my
daughter. She, quite reasonably, is disappointed that I hold no juries
spell-bound, produce no startling denouements and send no district
attorneys muttering to the nearest martini.

Discounting what I am forced to consider normal attrition of hair
and teeth and equally normal accession of unspent calories, I think
my appearance is not much changed. My habits, I would guess, have
probably i improved. My hobbies require no record since under my

rather broad interpretation of the word I have none of the nature
usually listed in a family publication.

As indicated at the beginning of this exercise, notwithstanding the

alleged interest of the Class, I do not find it possible to express my
convictions, social, political, religious or other, as suggested in the

[ 58]

on peor

TAIN Net etnnte RAR. Mesa ¢0s mes

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

questionnaire. However, to allay any doubts, I will say that 1 have
had and presently do have convictions—regrettably about more things
than are worthy of being the subject of convictions. If that has an
existentialist ring, perhaps I have said more than I intended or mean.

WARREN BABB

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5038 18th Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of Music, University of Washington, Seattle 5, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938, A-M., 1939.

UNMARRIED. ,

occuPATION: Assistant professor of music theory, School of Music, University
of Washington.

JOHN SEAMAN BAINBRIDGE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1080 Fifth Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of Law, Columbia University, New York 27, N.Y.
prEPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B,, 1938; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1941,
marriko: Katharine Barker Garrett, Feb. 3, 1943. cHiLp: John Seaman, Jr.,
Aug. 12, 1946,
occupation: Educational administration, assistant dean, Faculty of Law,
Columbia University.
orrices HELD; Director, Project on Staffing of African Institutions of Legal
Education and Research, Institute of International Education, since 1962;
chairman, Test Development Committee of the Law School Admission
Test Policy Committee, 1960-61; member, executive committee, Law
School Admission Test Council, 1961-62; consultant to Edward John
Noble Foundation, 1959-61; associate director, International Fellows Pro-
gram, Columbia University, 1960-62; trustee and later elder, First Presby-
terian Church of Stamford, Conn., 1950-54; trustee-elder, First Presby-
terian Church of New Canaan, 1956-59; chairman, Organizing Committee,
Program for Cooperation in African Legal Education and Research, 1961;
lieutenant commander, USNR (retired).

Member oF: Harvard Club of New York, Union Club, New York City;
Association of the Bar of the City of New York; International Legal
Fraternity of Phi Delta Phi (honorary member); Sons of the Revolution;
First Presbyterian Church, New Canaan, Conn.; various patriotic societies.

THE specificity of our days through ’56 can be found in our pre-
vious Reports, at least to the extent we cared to relate them. Mine
can be quickly retold: law school, Navy, practice in New York and
Baltimore and back to New York, and then in February, 1956, I was
appointed to my present post of assistant dean of the Faculty of Law
in (preposition used by the trustees) Columbia University.

One item not covered in the Eighteenth Report was my involve-
ment in the building of the First Presbyterian Church of Stamford,
sometimes called the “‘fish church,” as it has the form of that ancient
Christian symobl. I had served as trustee and elder of the church and
then as the official nexus between the two governing bodies and the
building committee. Though there had been some mutterings in
favor of a contemporary approach, there had been a capitulation to

those who equate only a New England spire with Christianity. At
what was to have been a final meeting of the committee on the
selection of an architect, I managed to get the entire matter re-
opened. I was quickly joined by a Yale lad who had previously
surrendered to the traditionalists, and we brought in Marcel Breuer
and then Wallace K. Harrison. Harrison charmed the old and the
young alike and finally built his superb Connecticut Gothic. Drop
in for a visit when you are in Stamford, it’s well worth it, whatever
your faith. Incidentally, throughout this period George S, Lewis,

[ 60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who had built us a contemporary classic in Old Greenwich, served

ably as my émzinence grise. An imaginative and resourceful archi-
tect; I recommend him.

We moved from Lucas Point in Old Greenwich to New Canaan,
Connecticut, in the late spring or early summer of 1954. Again, |
became involved in ecclesiastical matters and helped organize the
First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan and served for a few
years as a combined trustee-elder. In November, 1961, we sold our
New Canaan house and moved to our present address in New York
City. Iam delighted to be back in my home town, in part for the
same reason anyone enjoys returning to the place where he fashioned
his earliest dreams. This, I suppose, is the eternal magic of one’s
boyhood home.

Columbia Law School has provided a rich experience; I've even
enjoyed the politics. Whenever my decanal duties have tended to
become repetitive, I’ve managed to find an additional hat. From
the summer of 1959 to the end of 1961, I served as a consultant to
the Edward John Noble Foundation on its scholarship program. I
had to terminate this pleasant task of giving away another's money
because of the press of other matters. For a period of two vears,
from April, 1960, to April 1962, I served as associate director of the

International Fellows Program i in Columbia University, after having
had much to do with its creation and organization. “This is an ef-
fective and unique inter-disciplinary approach to the teaching of in-
ternational affairs.

During the spring of 1960, I started studying African law, and a
year later found myself elected chairman of the Organizing Com-
mittee of what has become the Program for Cooperation in African
Legal Education and Research. From a nucleus of ten law schools
this has grown into an informal organization of forty-six of the
principal law schools of the country, “all of which have indicated an
interest in African Jaw. In January, 1962, thanks to a travel grant
from the Ford Foundation and an invitation from the Director of
Legal Education of Ghana, I attended a Conference on Legal Pdu-
cation in Africa, which was held in Accra and Legon. Following
that gathering, I visited centers of prospective law teaching in
Nigeria and came home by way of Kano (Northern: Niveria),
London and Edinburgh. F ‘dinburgh has long been a yearly port-of-
call as my mother lives with my sister and brether-in- law, Angus
McIntosh, Harvard A.AL, °37, who occupies the chair of Pret lish

Language and General Linguistics at the University: of Pdinbureh.

[60 ]

—~____]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Last June I was appointed, by the Institute of International Edu-
cation, director of a Ford Foundation-financed project on the staff-
ing of African institutions of legal education and research. Notice
how nicely it alphabetizes, SAILER. This has now taken most of
my time and all of my weekends, though I still try to discharge some
law school duries. In January and February, 1963, I shall be off on
an extensive tour of African educational institutions and expect to
visit che Republic of the Cameroon, the Congo (Leopoldville),
Senegal, Liberia, possibly the Ivory Coast, Nigeria (all three
regions), possibly Southern Rhodesia, Nyasaland, Tanganyika,
Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, the Sudan, and home again by way of
Fdinburgh, thanks to the Great Circle. My son may join me in
Nairobi, and we may have to criss-cross the continent to make all
the visits we should, including a conference on legal education in
Sierra Leone to which I have just been invited by the Chief Justice,
Salaka A. Benka Coker, a superb gentleman.

So the world to me becomes an ever more interesting place, and I
am nowhere near a summing up.

FRANCIS JOHN TORRANCE BAKER

 

WOME Appress: Newbury Lane, Sewickley, Pa.

“ appress: Polavision Co. of America, 125 Denniston Ave., Pittsburgh,

paeparep at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B., 1941.

Marie: Millicent Raymond, July 6, 1940. CHILDREN: Francis John Torrance,
Jr., Aug. 30, 1942; Henry Raymond, Nov. 20, 1944.

HARVARD SON: Francis John Torrance Baker, Jr., ‘64.

[ 6]

Aa egy AVR

a aR ER HO EE: a a SEMIN! AREA TIT SACRE RUDRA ENA BAN Ra pelt Ss norte ahh’ tthpee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ceccupPaTion: President and treasurer, Polavision Co. of America, manufacturers
of visual presentation equipment.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Sewickley Valley Hospital, vice-president, Travelers
Aid Society of Pittsburgh; director, Family and Children’s Service of
Pittsburgh; treasurer, Information and Volunteer Services of Allegheny
County; director, president, 1953-56, Neighborhood Centers Association,
member, Carnegie Hero Fund Commission; trustee, Sewickley Academy,
1955-61; director, Allegheny County Community Chest, 1956-6o.

MEMBER OF: American, Pennsylvania and Allegheny County Bar Associa-
tions; Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania; Harvard-Yale-Princeton
Club; Edgeworth Club, Pittsburgh Club; Allegheny Country Club,
Eastern Point Yacht Club, Gloucester, Mass.

THE first four years after law school I spent in the Navy, after which
I returned to join my father’s law firm. Two years later I was
offered a place as trust officer in the Fidelity Trust Company in
Pittsburgh. I enjoyed this work and in time became a vice-president
of the bank. However, in 1962, as the result of a merger with an-
other large organization, this situation lost its appeal for me and I
decided that it was time to move on. I took refuge in a law office
while considering what to do next and almost without knowing it
found myself drawn into my present work. After many years of
being in a large, well-established organization I am experiencing the
joys and worries of bringing a company into existence and engaging
in the classic American exercise called “meeting a payroll” which
has produced its breathless moments.

I have tried to see that some time and energy were left over for
community activities and other interests. By becoming a steady
source of revenue for the airlines I have kept up my interest in sail-
ing on summer weekends and am commodore of the Eastern Point
Yacht Club at Gloucester, Massachusetts. In 1960 I had a brief fling
in the world of highly-competitive, open-checkbook yachting when
I participated with several friends in the construction of a 5.5-metre
boat which we hoped would be picked to represent the United

States in the Olympic Games. We didn’t succeed, but we had a
lot of fun.

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

GEORGE FISHER BAKER, JR.

LE RO Nea ts OUTRO BML SGML

 

AOR dee

HOME appress: Centre Island, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: 2 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marrigp: Frances Munn, July 9, 1938 (divorced 1959); Kim Kendall, June
14, 1959. CHILDREN: George Fisher, 3d, June 28, 1939; Anthony Kane,
Feb. 28, 1943; Pauline Munn, Feb. 16, 1948; Lavinia Kay, Feb. 29, 1960;
Kane Kendall, Jan. 9, 1961.

HARVARD SON: George Fisher Baker, 3d, ‘61.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Peter Henderson Oil Co., 654 Madison Ave., New
York City.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, George F. Baker Charity Trust, director, First Na-
tional City Bank, Marineland of the Pacific, governor, New York Hos-
pital, New York Zoological Society.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club; Brook Club, Creek Club and Piping
Rock Club, Locust Valley, N.Y.; Seminole Club, Palm Beach, Fla.

AFTER graduating from Harvard, 1 married and went to Hono-
lulu for several months; then went to work for the First National
Bank of New York as a runner,

Joined the Navy as an ensign and naval aviator in July, 1941, with
my best friend and classmate, Charles A. Munn, Jr. We attended
flight school for four months at Pensacola and reported for duty at
the Naval Air Station in Miami on the tragic day of Pearl Harbor.
During the war I had the opportunity to fly every Navy plane that
was built, from fighters to bombers, in Squadron VRF-1. It was
very interesting duty since I had always loved flying and had soloed
at Logan Airport in 1934 while at Harvard.

After the war I again went to work at the First National Bank of
New York and in 1955 joined in partnership with Peter Henderson

[ 64 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the oil well drilling and exploration business. We have been
lucky. I think one of the happiest experiences in my life was when
four persons, including myself, in 1953 started Marineland of the
Pacific, near Los Angeles. This project has met with broad public
acceptance. We have whales and porpoises doing unbelievable
stunts. The attendance every year has been well over a million
people. We are always collecting new and interesting specimens.
In June of this year, helped sail a North Sea schooner to the Gala-
pagos Islands where I captured five marine iguanas for Marineland.
The Galapagos is the only place in the world where marine iguanas
exist. The live capture of a killer whale, the most dangerous of all
mammals, is the next project. Marineland of the Pacific is a case
where a hobby sometimes leads one into a successful enterprise.
Skin diving has been my favorite hobby since 1937 when I went to
the South Seas and watched pearl divers free dive over a hundred
feet and stay down over four minutes. My other hobbies include
skiing, court tennis, golf and fishing.

Looking back over the last twenty-five years, I realize how grate-
ful I am for the opportunity I had in attending Harvard. Although
I did not spend all my time in Widener, I know I benefited and

learned a great deal from my four years there.

PAUL GUSTAV BAMBERG

 

HOME ADpRESS; 266 Indian Ave., Middletown, RI.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Military Assistance Command, Viet Nam, J-76, APO 143,
San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B. ct laude, 1938; MD. (Temple
Univ.), 1947.

[65 ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

marrieD: Helen Stuart Isherwood, Nov. 18, 1939. CHILDREN: Paul Gustav, Jr.,
Nov. 12 1942; William Isherwood, July 3, 1946; Richard Christopher,
March 24, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Paul Gustav Bamberg, Jr., ’63.

occupation: U.S. Naval Medical Corps; chief surgeon, U.S. Military Assistance
Command, Vier Nam.

I WRITE this in the Rex Hotel Bachelor Officers’ Quarters in
Saigon. Somehow our life got mixed up with the Medical Corps of
the U.S. Navy, which, financially, is not the most rewarding. On
the other hand, the life has other rewards.

Following a period of a few years spent as an executive trainee
with the Bethlehem Steel Company, in the shipbuilding division,
I entered the Navy in 1943. In 1944 I was sent to medical school
in the V-12 training program. In October of 1945, I was placed on
inactive duty in the Naval Reserve and completed the medical
course, obtaining the M.D. degree in 1947. Following this I came
back in to the Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.) and served my internship
at the U.S. Naval Hospital, Chelsea, Massachusetts. This was
followed by a period of postgraduate residency training in medi-
cine, part of it at Chelsea and part of it at affiliated Boston hospitals.

The first of a series of somewhat unusual assignments which have
kept life in the Navy exciting came in 1951, when I received orders
to go to Greenland and serve as the medical officer on a team which
negotiated with counterparts from the Royal Danish Navy in
connection with turning the naval bases in Greenland back to
Danish control.

By this time the war in Korea was well on its way, and, later
in the same year, I was ordered back to the Naval Medical Research
Institute at Bethesda, Maryland, to be a member of a team which
was trying to find out whether rapid or slow rewarming was the
best treatment for frostbite. The project gradually turned into a
series of studies of changes in the local circulation which result
from cold injury and kept us occupied until 1954. From 1954 to
1955 I was assigned to the U.S. Naval Hospital, Bethesda, receiving
a final year of residency training.

In 1955 I was sent to the Physical Qualifications and Medical
Records Section of the Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery to be
the equivalent of the home office medical examiner for an insurance
company, deciding whether certain borderline applicants for the
Naval Reserve Officer Training Program, the Naval Academy,
Officer Candidate Schools, etc. should be accepted. Aside from

[ 66 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the large amount of work required, this assignment turned out to

be much more interesting than one would suspect. I “saw” a

large number of interesting patients that year—on paper. If 1

had any questions that the medical record could not answer, I

could phone or write to arrange for additional medical studies to

be performed, in order to provide the information needed for reach-

ing a sound decision.

In the summer of 1956, the family and I left the United States
together en route to the Naval Medical Research Unit located at
Cairo, Egypt, where I was supposed to participate in studies con-
cerning schistosomiasis. Our itinerary called for a delay en route
for the purpose of attending the International Physiologic Congress
at Brussels. While the meetings were going on, the controversy
about nationalizing the Suez Canal became acute. As a result my
orders were modified, and I was directed to return to Naples, Italy,
for temporary duty, awaiting a decision as to whether U.S. per-
sonnel would have to get out of Egypt for a while. This is what
actually happened, and we ended up taking a tour of duty at the
U.S. Naval Station Hospital at Naples.

1959 found us established at the Naval Hospital at Newport,
Rhode Island. A little later I was informed that I had been selected
to be the medical officer to be sent through the Command and
Staff Course at the U.S. Naval War College in the class of 1960-61.
This turned out to be quite a strenuous year for me, an outsider,
as it were, with an almost complete ignorance of military doctrine.

I was retained in the Newport, Rhode Island, area at the end
of the school year and given a billet as assistant chief of medicine
at the hospital and physician to the War College.

Last May I received orders to go to Viet Nam and report for
duty in General Harkins’ joint staff as his chief medical officer.
This has been a very challenging assignment, as it has involved the
setting up of new medical organizations to care for U.S. personnel
and an intensive program of helping the Vietnamese armed forces
to dispense at least some medical assistance to the population living
in insecure areas.

I expect to be able to rejoin my family late this spring and to be
able to see our eldest son graduate from Harvard with the Class
of 1963. It will be a wonderful occasion for us. T have just been
informed he has won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford. Naturally,
Iam busy at this moment trying to pursuade the powers that be to
give us our next duty assignment in England or North Europe!

[ 67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DONALD BARKER

Lr ~~ — SU Teh
OQ’ wR.
cy

te

  

  

jd ids MADD A iia Bie ED

 

HOME ApprEss: 8 Summer St., North Easton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Howard School for Girls, West Bridgewater, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; ED.M. (Bridgewater State
Coll.), 1962.

marrieD: Edith Fihlman, Sept. 1, 1940. CHILDREN: Donna Lee, Jan. 5, 1946;
Dianne Joyce, Oct. 30, 1947; Deborah Ann, Nov. 30, 1948.

occupPaTION: Teacher of mathematics and science, Howard School for Girls.

MEMBER OF: First Lutheran Church, Brockton, Mass.; Old Colony Harvard
Club; Paul Revere Lodge, Brockton YMCA; Sharon Tennis Club; Co-
hasset Tennis and Squash Club; Massachusetts State Teachers’ Associa-
tion; US. Lawn Tennis Association; U.S. Volleyball Association.

LITTLE did I realize in 1936, as a participant in my father’s Twenty-
fifth Reunion at Harvard, that my own Twenty-fifth and his Fifty-
second Reunion would arrive with such slow suddenness. Life has
been varied, occupation likewise, with ups and downs. As plus fac-
tors, 1 must include continued good health and reasonable agility, a
full head of hair (more grey than brown), together with a faithful
wife who can cook, and a bevy of three teen-age daughters who de-
spise housework and, frequently, their parents.

Two years of office work in the shoe business, following gradua-
tion, were interesting but financially unrewarding. In 1940 I
married Edith Fihlman, who was a secretary in the shoe firm for
which I worked. Shortly thereafter, each of us resigned to accept
positions in Boston, and moved from Brockton to Westwood. For
nearly two years I traveled in New England for the National Shaw-
mut Bank and was very happy in my work. Unfortunately, the war
effort forced the curtailment of automobile production and, ulti-

[ 68 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mately, the need for wholesale finance men. I was offered and ac-
cepted a position in the book manufacturing business in Norwood
and continued to estimate the cost of bookbinding until my accept-
ance as an Army Air Force cadet in 1942.

My tour of duty in the Air Force consumed three and one-half
years, during which time I gained my wings and the rank of first
lieutenant. Two years of the tour were served in Warner Robbins,
Georgia, where I studied and then taught aircraft engineering. Dur-
ing this period, my work created many opportunities to travel, al-
though most of it was confined to the USS., east of the Mississippi
River. At the same time, I was able to renew my athletic interests
and competed successfully in several tennis tournaments and swim-
ming meets in Georgia, Florida and Louisiana. Although I was twice
on the verge of transfer to overseas duty, my superior officers de-
cided to hold me in my teaching and ferrying assignment. In retro-
spect, I was most fortunate to have remained in the U.S., even though
I thought otherwise at the time.

My Air Force service convinced me that inside work was not my
forte. After a year’s trial in the office, estimating the cost of book-
binding, I entered the sales field, first in bookcloth and later in
automobiles. Ten years in the automobile business gave me oppor-
tunities as salesman, sales manager and owner. Severe competition
in the late 1950’s created a point of diminishing returns, at which
point I sold the business and returned to a comparatively normal
family life.

Friends of mine in the teaching profession told me of the need for
qualified teachers and convinced me that I should become a teacher
of mathematics. Most educators were less impressed by my Harvard
degree than they were by education degrees of recent Massachusetts
Teachers College graduates. In 1959 I continued selling, enrolled at
Bridgewater State College and accepted substitute teaching assign-
ments. The following year I signed a contract to teach mathematics

in the Bridgewater High School, continued my extension courses for
educational credits and, later that year, achieved State certification to
teach math and social studies. I have now received my Masters’
degree in education and have returned to the town of my grade
school years where I teach algebra and science in a private school for
girls, two of whom are my own.

As I review the experiences of the past twenty-five years, I real-
ize that I have not been very successful, if a person’s success is
measured in material gains, On the other hand, the many experiences,

[ 59 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

impossible to report in a short review, that are molded together into
a ball of happiness, rolled along by work and play, and aided by a
robust frame, are certainly most significant. We, as a family, have
few regrets, are thankful for our good health and conviviality, have
enjoyed our past and look forward to an interesting future.

+ GEORGE LEVERETT BARKER

 

BORN: June 5, 1917, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Williston Wright Barker, M.D.,
’06, Gertrude Sherman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Sherman Barker, ’32, M.B.A., "34; Robinson Franklin
Barker, ’35.
pep; May 8, 1944, Camp Van Doren, Miss.

AT Harvard, Barker was a resident of Winthrop House, where
he was the librarian in his senior year. He was also a member of
the Instrumental Club during his sophomore and junior years.
After a few years with the Masury Young Company, he enlisted
in the U.S, Army, was sent to Officers Training School and com-
missioned as a second lieutenant. In January, 1943, he was promoted
to first lieutenant. He died as the result of an accidental gunshot
wound received while leading his company during a technical
training problem. He was survived by his parents, two brothers,
and a sister.

[70]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT ERNEST BARKIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1100 Union St., Manchester, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 144 Tarrytown Rd., Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 194:.

MARRIED: Alice Karp, Nov. 8, 1942. cHILprEN: Stephen Roger, March 14,
1945; Peter M., Jan 27, 1950; Donald L., Nov. 6, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Former member of faculty, Harvard and Tufts Medical Schools,
through 1955; past president, New England Rheumatism Society.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Board of Internal
Medicine.

PUBLICATIONS: Several publications in the field of arthritis in children. — -

I WAS graduated from Tufts College Medical School in 194:, and
had a year of internship at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston before
entering the Army Air Force Medical Corps in April, 1943. Dis-
charge from the service in 1946 was followed by assistant residency
and residency at the Massachusetts General Hospital and the West
Roxbury Veterans Hospital.

My practice of medicine began in Boston late in 1948, and was
combined with some teaching at Harvard and Tufts, and a lietle
research. For some years I had a particular interest in arthritis, and
was associated with the Robert Breck Brigham Hospital in Boston.
My part-time service in the Elygiene Department at Harvard over
a span of eight years was always most enjoyable.

In 1955 I moved my practice to Manchester, New Hampshire,
to join a partnership, Which no longer exists. TP have, however,
continued to practice internal medicine in New Hampshire. [te has
been busy and, I suppose, productive.

[71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Along the way we have had three sons, all healthy and robust.
My outside interests have been, perforce, minimal. There is essen-
tially no spare time for hobbies. My hope, however, perhaps close
to realization, is to have some sort of a group practice which will
allow time for both relaxation and professional betterment.

EDWARD LARRABEE BARNES

 

HOME appress: Wood Road, Mount Kisco, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 303 E. 65th St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Ill.; Milton Academy, Milton,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938, B.ARCH., 1942.

marrieD: Mary Coss Cooke, March 4, 1944. cHitpreN: John Cecil, March 2,
1951.
occupation: Architect — self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Design critic and lecturer, Pratt Institute and Yale School of
Architecture; director, Municipal Art Society.
PuBLIcaTIONS: Articles in professional journals.

AFTER graduation and a year teaching at Milton Academy, I
went to Harvard Architectural School. Here I found what I
wanted to do, and was happy to drop extracurricular activities and
work. In 1941, I got a Sheldon Fellowship to study public housing,
and since travel abroad was difficult, went to Washington. There I
met my future wife—also an architect. The next winter I was
commissioned in the Naval Reserve and trained as a naval archi-
tect at MLT. War duty was not what you'd call rugged. I was

stationed at Hunters Point Navy Yard in San Francisco and worked
most of the time on submarine repair.

[72]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1944, I married and settled down on Russian Hill overlooking
the Bay.

After the war I worked briefly with Henry Dreyfuss in Los
Angeles on a prefabricated house, and then came east to New York.
In 1949 I opened my own office, and since then have put most of
my time and energy into the laborious process of design and build-
ing. I am not a specialist, thank goodness, and find myself doing
all kinds of work. I enjoy teaching when I have time. Many of
my jobs have been away from home, the most distant place being
Persia. I know I’m lucky to have work to do that I like so much.

In 1951, we produced a boy —a great event! The three of us

now live in a house (my design) in farmland in northern West-
chester.

JOSEPH BERTRAM BARRON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 64 Beethoven Ave., Waban, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1129 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREE: D.M.D., 0171 lattde, 1940.

MARRIED: Beatrice Homonoff, July 3, 1941. CHILDREN: James Homonoff, April
30, 1944; Harmon Fredrick, June 15, 1947; Thomas Andrew, Dec. 14,
1949.

OCCUPATION: Dentist.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, American Academy of Maxillo-facial Prosthetics,
1958-59, 1959-60; past president, Greater Boston Dental Society, 1959-60;
dental chairman, CJA, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: American College of Dentistry (fellow); Massachusetts Dental
Society; Alpha Omega; Omicron Kappa Upsilon; American Academy of
Maxillo-facial Prosthetics; American Academy of Implant Dentures;
American Academy of Oral Pathology; American Association of Clefe

[73]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
Palate Rehabilitation, etc. Various art museums, philanthropic and cultural
groups.
purtications: Dental journals; patents on scientific equipment; copyright on
sculptured pieces.

HAVING left the undergraduate school in 1936 to enter the Dental
School, I have never felt that, rightfully, I had claim to the Class
of 38. However, inasmuch as I was kept on the roster for contribu-
tions to the Class Fund, over the years my vested interest in 738
became a reality, and more or less gave me a feeling of belonging.
Those firm friendships I made during my commutation days of 735
and °36 still remain; the people with whom I had little contact as
classmates, for the most part, still remain in the same category.

I went on to the Dental School from which I was graduated in
i940. An oral surgery internship at the Boston City Hospital
taught me, without salary, of man’s ability to destroy and help
nature heal. Private specialty practice after this, taught me that
some compensation was rewarding. My marriage in 1941 reaffirmed
this—and, from 1942 through 1946, my service in the E.T.O.
taught me that all that I had learned should be questioned.

Having returned home in 1946 as a major in the Dental Corps,
where my specialty was oral surgery, where I had received training
for some plastic surgery, and where I functioned as a transportation
officer, I learned that titles are often empty, and often belie the
bearer.

Becoming interested in reconstruction of missing parts of the
mouth, face and head by means of prosthetic devices or artificial
means, I re-entered the practice of dentistry, devoting a great deal
of time to this work. The battle was not for money, but for the
recognition that man’s inhumanity to man was not limited to wars
but took place daily in “civilized” society, and trying to do some-
thing about this. Since no money was available for many of these
people, bled dry by surgery and hospitals, and since welfare con-
demned them to live as recluses, work had to be done on a no
or little fee basis—the end result being hard work in the office,
clinics and at home.

A unique grant has just been made available to me for this work.
This should be the beginning of a truly professionally purposeful
life. 1 am eternally grateful to the granting foundation for this
opening chapter of anew phase of my carcer. My concern now is
that the work continue to have the necessary support,

Personally, the powers that be have blessed me — for aside from

[74]

PEO RERRIETT ApN OOO eTER MPH MEET crt sy

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the usual personal physical and emotional problems, I have managed
to maintain the same wife, and with her have had three normal
sons — various animals, musical instruments, houses, vacations,
trips and all the good things of life. We collect, as the purse allows,
paintings, not golf clubs. Bea endeavors to fill her time with com-
munity work which has been rewarding to her and has taught my
three sons the value of home economics.

My eldest, Jim, arriving at his own conclusion that the East could
be improved by his going West, is a freshman at the University of
California at Berkeley; my middle, Harmon Fred, is a happy sopho-
more at Charles E. Merrill’s Commonwealth School where he sees
no need for the proverbial lamp of Diogenes, and Tom, who is
thirteen, anticipates junior high school as a beginning for his an-
ticipated surgical-psychiatric-thespian career.

All in all I have been most fortunate. I have sweated out my
stint of social awareness, community service, philanthropic contri-
butions in time and money, officership in professional organizations.
I have seen the American Academy of Maxillo-facial Prosthetics
come from a dream in 1953 to a vital reality in 1962; I hold a posi-
tion of assistant professor of surgical prosthetics at the Depart-
ment of Stomatology, Boston University School of Medicine. I
have an F.A.C.D. degree, a large practice in a good-looking office
which I call “Miss America-with-hemorrhoids” for obvious reasons.
Deep down, I am still looking for something, perhaps the bluebird,
perhaps those unfinished years of 1937 and 1938.

EZRA BAKER BARSTOW

 

HOME ApprEss: 30 Glide St. Dorchester, Afass.

[75]

ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
orrice appress: H. P. Welch Co., goo Somerville Ave., Somerville, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1937-1940. DEGREE: A.B, 1938 (40).

marrigp: Agnes M. Drohan, July 18, 1953.
occupatios: Transportation; accounts reecivable auditor, H. P. Welch Com-

pany.
AFTER completing requirements for the degree in rg4o, I was em-
ploy ed by the Gillette Safety Razor Company for seventeen years
in consumer relations and transportation. Since 1959, I have ‘been
with H. P. Welch Company in the accounts receivable department.
So much for my business career which has been anything but sensa-
tional.

In retrospect, it seems to me that there have been only two really
significant events in my life so far. In 1942 1 was fortunate enough to
have survived the Cocoanut Grove fire with nothing more serious
than a bruised shin, and in 1953 I was happily married, and have re-
mained so.

I have several rather strong convictions. First, I believe that once
your character has been conditioned in its own particular pattern,
it is virtually impossible to change. Secondly, I have found nothing
more rewarding than the pleasure derived from great art in its var-
ious forms. Finally, I have progressed, I hope, from a frustrated bon
vivant to a somewhat more stable conservative.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN BART, JR.

po RS oa ee

 

HOME aporess: RFD. 1, Manlius, N.Y,

OFFICE appress: Dept. of Romance Languages, Syracuse University, Syracuse
10, N.Y.

[ 76 |

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938, a.m.,
1946; PH.D., 1947.

MARRIED: Catharine James, Dec. 19, 1942. CHILDREN: Polly Turner (Rad-
cliffe °65), Feb. 28, 1944; Jonathan Robert, Aug. 9, 1946; Christopher
James, Aug. 19, 1949.

occuPaTION: Professor of French, Syracuse University.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in Modern Language Association, member, edi-
torial board, Symposium and French Review.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association, American Association of Teach-
ers of French; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles, monographs and texts relating to various aspects of
French language and literature.

FOR twenty-five years I have been pleasantly paid to do a number of
things I would have enjoyed doing anyway. Formally, I make a
living as a university professor in a field as new and exciting as the
sciences, albeit perhaps less in the papers: the new and steadily ex-
panding vision of what the humanities can become in our century.
Harvard’s History and Literature Department opened the way for
me, but a new generation is pushing into new integrations, fewer
survey courses and, we hope, even more solid insights for students.
At any sate, literature-cum-history-cum-philosophy-cum-art _ is
making for fascinating teaching opportunities which suggest the
next twenty-five years will be even better.

Research has been constant and rewarding. Every third spring
semester off in the French provinces and in Paris j is a sentence easv
to bear and the hordes of Flaubert manuscripts sull left to study
there promise a succession of further trips helped out by a generous
university and by foundation grants.

Over the years since graduation I have lived in many places: France
for a lovely year of wine and good food; New England for many
years, including a graduate stint back in Cambridge; Southern Cali-
fornia during a strange three-year-stretch not entirely satisfactory
to an easterner; Ann Arbor, Michigan, for six years of observing a
large state university; and now for “the last seven years at Syracuse,
where fortunately we do have more than a football team.

We live fifteen miles out of the city on a hundred-acre farm far
enough up on a hill to look out over an enclosed valley. We have
raised corn and hay for our Shetland ponies; now it is ponies and
Christmas trees. The house, almost untouched when we bought it,
goes back to 1810 and part of the fun of a university life has been
having the time to fix up the house ourselves (the w hole f, amily has

[77]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

joined in): furnace, plumbing, electricity and then all the redecorat-
ing have made a good and solid contrast to scholarly articles for
little-read journals.

The future? More teaching and research in writing, currently a
book on Flaubert for a more general public; more trips to Europe

and more farming and carpentry: the good life as, thanks to good
luck and Harvard, I conceive it.

WILLIAM LOREN BATT, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6325 31st St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE Appress: Area Redevelopment Administration, U.S. Dept. of Com-
merce, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938.

Magrigp; Jane Dothard Read, June 1, 1946. CHILDREN: Karen Read, March,
1941 (stepdaughter); Jane Read, Nov. 25, 1950.

occupation: Administrator, Area Redevelopment Administration, U.S. De-
partment of Commerce.

OFFICES HELD: 1938-41: with (1) Temporary National Economic Committee,
(2) US. Dept. of Commerce, (3) PM; assistant to Lend Lease Expediter,
W. A. Harriman, London, 1941; research director, Democratic National
Committee, 1948, Special Assistant to Secretary of Labor, 1949-53; econ-
omist, Randall Commission, 1953; executive director, Toledo Industrial
Development Council, 1953-57, Secretary of Labor and Industry, Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania, 1957-61; private to major, Infantry and
Military Government, Africa and Europe, 1942-46, Democratic candi-
date for Congress, 17th District, Pennsylvania (unsuccessful), 1946;
wholesale appliance business, Philadelphia, 1944-49.

MeMBeR oF: River Road Unitarian Church, International Social Service (direc-

tor); American Veterans Committee; Americans for Democratic Action.

[78 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLicaTions: “What Your Community Can Do About Unemployment,”
Collier’s, 1953.

TWENTY-FIVE summers ago found this English major knocking
on all doors in Washington looking for a job, finally landing one in
the Temporary National Economic Committee. During that in-
quiry, I became more acutely aware of the problems of unemploy-
ment and poverty in America than I'd ever been before. One statis-
tic stands out in my memory — that in 1937, one-third of our fami-
lies had incomes of $1,500 a year or less.

Then came Hitler’s invasion of the Lowlands, and a long detour
through OPM to Lend-Lease with Averell Harriman in London dur-
ing the Blitz, back to Georgia for infantry basic and then Casablanca,
Algiers, Palermo, Bari, Naples, Southern France, the Vosges (oh,
the French! ), the Rhine, Augsburg, Heidelberg and Dachau, mostly
with the Seventh Army Military Government.

1946 —that first year back— was a save-the-world-the-day-be-
fore-yesterday year. First came a job in economic research work in
Philadelphia and Washington. Concurrently, I ran for Congress and
was thoroughly trounced. For some unfathomable reason, the
citizens of suburban Philadelphia’s Montgomery County didn’t see
the light, forsake their habit of generations and vote Democratic.

I did win a lovely wife, though, a Philadelphia girl named Jane
Read. And several of us organized Philadelphia chapters of the
American Veterans Committee and Americans for Democratic Ac-
tion, helped get reform government started in Philadelphia. In 1948
I researched for the Democratic National Committee and did my bit
in President Truman’s surprise victory. 1949 saw us in Washington
again, this time as Special Assistant to the Secretary of Labor, con-
centrating on problems of unemployment, particularly in hard-hit
areas.

When Democrats became out of season like oysters in 1953, I
thought I’d try my hand at helping a community broaden its eco-

nomic base. Toledo, Ohio, was our home for three satisfying years.
In that time, Toledo added 7,000 jobs — half by expanding local
industries, half by acquisition of new, some of them in the city’s
splendid new industrial park. I came away from Toledo with an
increased conviction that every one-industry town in America is
vulnerable, that the best kind of community unemployment insur-
ance is diversification, and that intense, cooperative Community cf-
fort can do much to bri ing it about.

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PAUL BAUR

    

int Mii ce ke ial Ral DEG 00 a te eh Bet ae Rete

 

HOME AbprEsS: Knollwood Road Extension, Elmsford, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Kenyon & Eckhardt, Inc., 247 Park Ave., New York, NLY.

PREPARED AT: Leonia High School, Leonia, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRigD: Eleanor Camuse, June 6, 1941.

occupation: Advertising, creative group head and vice-president, Kenyon &
Eckhardt, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Second vice-president and director, Great Dane Club of America,
Inc.

MEMBER OF: Linnaean Society of New York.

I FACE writing the following epic with the same apprehension as
1 used to feel before taking a section test in History 1. But with
that magnificent postcard follow-up campaign by our Class Com-
mittee I can postpone the ordeal no longer.

Business career: I notice by the 1938 Yearbook that I was sup-
posed to have become an “explorer.” That little dream went up
in smoke fast. My first and only exploration was finding a job. |
cashed in my Harvard diploma for $15.75 per week (5% days, 48
hrs.), working for an automotive jobber in Brooklyn. This lasted
three months. I never could figure out whether I quit or was fired.
The decision was almost simultaneous.

I then joined a New York publishing company in a direct-mail
advertising department. After three years 1 had worked up to
$18.75 per week (5 days), In 1941, using my newly-acquired direct-
mail skill, I landed a job (at double my previous salary) as a copy-
writer in the advertising department of Gencral Electric Company
in Schenectady. I was finally on my way... even could afford a
wife, which I promptly acquired.

[ 82]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During the war I wrote technical ads, leaflets and instruction
books for the armed services on a wide variety of electrical and
electronic equipment. (G.E. in those days found it easier to turn
writers into engineers than vice versa.) Partial blindness in one
eye prevented me from joining the Army during this period.

Shortly after V-J Day, I joined J. Walter Thompson Company
in New York, writing technical and consumer advertising on the
RCA account. In 1948 I joined Kenyon & Eckhardt, Inc., advertis-
ing agency, on the Mercury automobile account. J started as a
copywriter and gradually worked up to my present job as the
Creative Group Head and vice-president on the Mercury account.

Most useful thing learned at Harvard: How to concentrate for
sixteen hours at a time on one subject at one sitting.

Most useful thing learned since Harvard: Never let problems
pile up; there are four more waiting. Solve them the best you
can fast. Otherwise see your nearest psychiatrist.

Secret of a happy marriage: Never have a budget. Give your
wife (as well as yourself) free access to total resources, even when
they are limited. Only problem: you may have to correct your
wife’s addition — or more correctly, subtraction.

Best thing that’s happened to me: I met and married the right
girl.

Pet gripe: The younger generation’s emphasis on security rather
than on “causes.”

Biggest change in taste: While at Harvard I used to think that
“slice of life” novels and plays were just about the only ones
worth reading or seeing. How twenty-five years of real “slices”
changed all that!

Best friends: Invariably Democrats— or Republicans who think
like Democrats and just haven’t discovered the joys of “Row B.”

What we need more of: The pursuit of excellence. I find some-
thing magnificent about people who love what they do and have

worked hard enough to achieve perfection in their fields: waiters,
baseball players, musicians, shoeshine boys, writers, barbers,

Favorite sport: Travel (a holdover, I guess, from the “explorer”
mentioned in the ’38 Yearbook). So far have had a taste of thirty
states, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, most of the
Caribbean, Bahamas, France, Italy, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal,
Israel, Turkey, Greece, England. Hope to get a sample of the Far
East and Africa soon.

Biggest regret: Not being fluent in several languages. I majored

[ 83 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

in Romance languages. But the emphasis at Harvard in those days
was on literature rather than on conversation. I probably didn’t try
hard enough.

Best advice: Simplify your lite. Collect with care: friends, clubs,
furniture, cars, appliances, projects, community obligations. When
things get out of hand, learn to say “no.” Or if you can’t say
“no,” move and start over.

Biggest unanswered question: Not whether there is a God...
but the nature of God— vengeful or benevolent. But I have ob-
served that even God’s most outrageous performances have a
relentless logic to them if you are patient. The “reason” may take
years to become obvious but it always seems to come.

CHARLES COTESWORTH BEAMAN

 

HOME AppRESS: 926 Taylor St., San Francisco, Calif.

OFFICE avpRess: New York Life Insurance Co., 1 Montgomery St., San Fran-
cisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B (Univ, of Virginia), 1946.

MarriED: Mary Louise Means, 1948 (divorced), Jacqucline Wilson. CHILD:
Charles Cotesworth, Jr., April 18, 1949.

USNR (including five months at Harvard Communications School),
1942-46,

Have always been what is euphoniously known as self-employed
— in short the business owns you. You work Jong hours and don’t
get much salary. For the life of me I don’t know why it’s more

attractive than practising law or working for IBM (ask Gilbert
Jones), but it is.

[ 84]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hobbies are fishing and golf (as ever) and interests otherwise
are education and traffic control and safety. There isn’t much time
for this though because of the eighty-hour week.

RICHARD REMINGTON BEATTY, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 78 Myrtle St., Boston, 14, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Southwest High School, Kansas City, Mo.; Junior College o.
Kansas City, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; A.M., 1939.
occUPATION: Retired.

DAVID BECK

 

HOME AppreEss: 316 Western Drive, South Orange, N.J.
OFFICE ApprEss: Gutkin, Beck & Miller, 744 Broad St., Newark 2, N.J.
PREPARED AT; Emerson High School, Union City, N.J.

[85]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1038, DEGREFS: A.B. mugna cum laude, 1938; LL, 1941,
Marien: Beatrice G. Goldstein, April 7, 1946. cHILDREN: Deborah L,, July 29

1948; Barbara M., Dec. 31, tost; Jane F., May 18, 1959.
occupation: Partner in law firm, Gutkin, Beck & Miller.

OFFICES HELD: Asustant professor of law, Rutgers Law School, 1951-543 for.
merly chairman, now member, Commitece on Federal Taxation of the New
Jersey State Bar Association, formerly chairman, now member, Subcom-
mittee on Procedure before the Department of Justice of the Committee
on Procedure in Fraud Cases (Committee on Taxation), American Bar
Associanon; also member, Membership Committee, American Bar Associa-
tion; formerly chairman, Committee on Taxation, Hudson County (N_J,)
Bar Association; formerly member, Committee on Taxation, Essex County
(N.J.) Bar Association; currently member, board of trustees, Congrega-
tion Beth-E] of Oranges and Maplewood.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of New Jersey; Harvard Law

School Association of New Jersey; American, New Jersey, Essex and
Hudson County Bar Associations.

PuBLications: Tax Avoidance v. Tax Evasion (co-author), Ronald Press, New
York, 1958; Estate Tax Techniques (J. K. Lasser, Editor) (2 Volumes),

Matthew Bender, New York, 1959; The Encyclopedia of Tax Procedures
(J. K. Lasser, Editor), Prentice-Hall, New Jersey, 1956.

WHEN I was graduated from the College approximately twenty-
five years ago, the basic goals I had set for myself were rather con-
ventional. I wanted to complete my education at the Law School,
and thereafter take my place in the community as a lawyer, husband
and father — sometimes colloquially referred to as a solid citizen.
Contrary to my original apprehensions that the future might hold in
store an overabundance of the commonplace, I find, in retrospect,
that the attainment of each segment of my conglomerate purpose
has been far more exciting and rewarding than I imagined was pos-
sible. The cumulative effect of the events of the past twenty-five
years has been to broaden my original horizon, but at the same time
preserve the consistency of dimension that I had originally hoped
for.

In July of 1942, shortly after my admission to the New Jersey
Bar, 1 went to Washington as an attorney with the Special War
Policies Unit of the Department of Justice. The Department was
looking for men who could read Italian, who had some background
in Italian history, who knew something about Fascism and Fascist
ideology, and who were lawyers, My study of the Italian language
in high school, and the excellent tutclage f received in Italian history
and in anti-Fascist ideology from that lover of, and vigorous fighter
for, freedom, Professor Gactano Salvemini, were the disconnected
but productive circumstances that led me into one of the most in-

[ 44 }

SE EE

Seibhinrag SEMIN EEA Mt

won ne ee RNR ESE PRE PENSE RES a agi MS MPAA

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

teresting phases of my life. All of the work of the War Policies
Unit was done in close cooperation with the F.B.L. If, for example,
an individual was made the subject of an F.B.I. report which was
submitted to the Unit, and if the case were assigned to me, my job
was to study, analyze, and review the facts, weigh the evidence and
draw some conclusion as to whether the individual’s writings and
utterances demonstrated him to be a Fascist. If so, my recommenda-
tion might be for denaturalization and/or detention and/or de-
portation, as the circumstances required. If an organization were
involved, recommendations might be made as to the revocation of
its charter, license or franchise, and similar treatment as above set
forth might be recommended for its individual members.

After Italy was knocked out of the war, I transferred to the Tax
Division of the Department of Justice, where I worked on both civil
and criminal cases. Apart from the invaluable education and ex-
perience I derived, I worked in close contact with men of the highest
caliber — men who today either are the leaders in their respective tax
fraternities throughout the large cities of the United States, or
are still with the Department at the top levels. I have long since for-
gotten the details of the cases I worked on, but not the men with
whom I worked. Indeed, I am proud to number among my friends
several from this era.

While with the Department, I determined that the tax field should
be my field of specialization, and so it is. When I returned to Newark
from Washington, I started as an employee with Sydney A. Gutkin,
who had served with the Chief Counsel’s office of the Internal
Revenue Service. Three years later, we formed a partnership and
shortly thereafter we employed Jerome R. Miller, who is now also
one of our partners. They are gentlemen and scholars, and our
association in the area of federal taxation has been a fruitful and
happy one. What is most gratifying about it is that, with the excep-
tion of the relatively few matters we handle where the taxpayer's
liberty is at stake because he allegedly committed the crime of failing
to file a return, or filing a false one, nothing more than money is
generally involved. I should not have been as happy representing un-
fortunates, for example people involved in divorce or custody
proceedings, litigants seeking redress for bodily injury, wrongful
death, etc., although I readily recognize that such persons require
representation of the highest order.

Allied with my practice has been my teaching and writing in the
field of taxation. I began teaching in September, 1946, when I was

[ 87]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

appointed to the faculty of the Rutgers University School of Busi-
ness Administration. After being there for five years, I was ap-
pointed an assistant professor of law, and taught at the Rutgers Law
School for approximately three years. The discipline involved in
eight years of part-time teaching (much of it in evening classes) while
at the same time being engaged in the active practice of law began
to take its toll, Accordingly, 1 severed my formal university con-
nection in about 1954, although I have continued to participate in
tax forums and tax institutes, among which have been those sponsored
by New York University, University of West Virginia, Tulane
University, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Wilkes College, Rut-
gers University, Dickinson College, and the Practicing Law Insti-
tutes of New York and New Jersey. Moreover my partners and
I collaborate in giving a lecture series every fall to practising law-
yers, accountants, realtors, life underwriters and fiduciaries in New
Jersey, in addition to which I frequently address local and county
bar associations, as well as local and state chapters of the C.P.A.
Society and Public Accountants Association.

During the years, I have either authored or co-authored numerous
articles, which have appeared in various law reviews and profes-
sional journals, have contributed chapters to books edited by J. K.
Lasser (Estate Tar Techniques, 2 vols., Matthew Bender, New York,
1959, and The Encyclopedia of Tax Procedures, Prentice-Hall, New
Jersey, 1956) and with my partner, Sydney A, Gutkin, wrote a book
entitled Tax Avoidance v. Tax Evasion (Ronald Press, New York,
1958).

On the personal side of things, the biggest single event that has
occurred during the past two and one-half decades was my mar-
riage to Bea, whose philosophy of life has given mine a much richer
blend. Our union begot three daughters, who in turn necessitated
the acquisition of a large house, which in turn requires me to work
like a demon to make enough money to keep it going. The scope of
my do-it-yourself activities is limited to changing light bulbs. The
power for my lawn mower is supplied by the gardener. The kids in
the neighborhood shovel the snow from my walks. Debbie, at four-
teen, is a very reliable, responsible little lady who cannot understand
why Alexander Graham Bell was not canonized. Bobbie, who is
approximately eleven, is full of pepper and spice, and is the family
comedienne. As if to prove it, she was born on December Z1St,
thereby causing all of my colleagues to accuse me of premeditated

[ 88 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tax planning. Jane, at three and one-half, is the only member of the
family who pushes me around.

I still play at four-wall hand ball during the winter months, and
tennis on weekends, from April to the first snowfall.

Twenty-five years! I am grateful to be around to report at this
time, and look forward with keen hope to the next twenty-five
years.

LEONARD JOSEPH BECKWITH

 

HOME ADpREss: 26 Country Club Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Allied Container Corp., 1 Allied Drive, Dedham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarrigeD: Katherine Gordon (Radcliffe 41), June 28, 1941. CHILDREN: Jan,
Sept. 4, 1944; Donald Louis, June 4, 1947.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Allied Container Corporation, manufacturer of
corrugated fibre shipping containers; operations responsibility with grad-
ual return to research, development and sales; president, Containerized
Transport, Inc., bulk unitized materials movement, direction of sales and
operations.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1946-49, president, 1949-57, Beckwith Container
Corporation; vice-president, Allied Container Corporation, since 19573
president, Containerized Transport, Inc, since 1958; president, Massachu-
setts Bay Lodge, B'nai Brith, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: New England Regional Board, Anti-Defamation League; Massa-
chusetts Bay Lodge, B'nai B'rith; plus seven trade and scientific groups.

ON looking back to the decisions made in bringing me to and
through Harvard, through the war and along the byroads of life to
1963, I must carefully avoid one pitfall. Farly gropings, even within

[ 89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

giving, especially of one’s self, in excess of receiving. Herein, de-
prived by time of speed of foot, lie my future hopes of acceleration!

RAYMOND LANDIS BEELER

  

et 8

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Nob Hill, Rochester 17, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: John Marshall High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: s.B. (Univ. of Rochester), 1938.

MagrieD: Joan MacLeod, Sept. 1, 1955. CHILDREN: Raymond Landis, 3d, Sept.
2, 1956; Tracy Joan, Feb. 19, 1958.

occupation: Product engineer, Film Emulsion Division, Eastman Kodak Com-

pany.

SPENCER SOLON BEMAN, III

 

HOME Aapvress: 25 Hancock St. San Francisco 14, Calif.
orrice Apbarss: San Francisco Gilbert & Sullivan Repertory Co.,, Inc., Harding
Theatre, 616 Divisadero St., San Francisco 17, Calif,

[92 ]

oe ETN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: s.B., cum laude, 1938.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Theatre manager, technical director, San Francisco Gilbert &
Sullivan Repertory Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Dramatic Club; Harvard Clubs of San Francisco and
Chicago; San Francisco Sports Car Club.

FILLING out the foregoing questionnaire makes me wonder if ]
have done anything which would really interest the Class, Harvard
prepared us for a diversity of experiences, though, and without this
my career would have been far less interesting to me.

The summer of 1938 found me working for Marshall Field’s in
Chicago; by the following winter Henry Low had enticed me to
Houston to work with him there in a furniture company. By Sep-
tember of 1939 I found my interest lay with American Airlines,
which claimed me in variously ascending positions until September,
1943. Then the long arm of the Navy plopped me into Princeton
Naval Officer Training School, probably the most uncomfortable
two months of my entire Naval career. Spent most of my Navy time
at sea in USS Rombach (DE364) and as C.O. of a minesweeper
with the rather undignified name of USS Chickadee (AM 59).

Slipping easily from naval control and adjusting for a year or so I
joined the American Foreign Service in 1947 as attaché and security
officer at Sofia, Bulgaria. This was fascinating in many ways, in-
credibly dreary in others. By 1949 1 was becoming persona non
grata, so the department transferred me to Manila to set up and
head a new Regional Security Office for the Far East. It was with
mingled feelings I returned there after my naval engagement; mv
area responsibility ranged from Northern Japan to New Zealand, and
from China to Honolulu. The China part soon became an academic
situation when the Communists took over. The enormous amount
of travel required lent itself to making movies; diplomatic status
insured getting pictures which were unique, and the greatest thrill of
all was the privilege of filming the cremation ceremonics of the late
Thai king, with the express and personal permission of the present
king, Phumiphon Aulduldet.

Leaving the service in 1952 to manage the estate of my late father,
I then took up residence in San Francisco, one of the great cities
of the world; seven tours around the world and visits to ‘practically
every major city in the world except the USSR and South America
give me the right to express my opinion so.

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

After a rather unfortunate experience in running my own busi-
ness, I joined a moving and storage company, and there stayed nine
years. But in July, 1961, I threw off the corporate shackles and re-
turned to one of my first loves, the theatre, and am now happily
managing the Lamplighters, a Gilbert and Sullivan repertory com-
pany with an incorporate title listed at the beginning of this biogra-
phy. We produce the year around, a busy life, active and satisfying,
not very rewarding financially. However, I do own my own house
and the lot beside it in the middle of San Francisco, and another
house nearby; both are on one of San Francisco’s celebrated hills.

Tam struck by the brevity of this recital; how can you boil down
twenty-five years in so small a compass yet convey the life it repre-
sents? It has really been both fun and useful, and some call me lucky
to have had this variety of experiences.

NATHANIEL GODDARD BENCHLEY

   

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 103 E, 86th St., New York 28, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Marjorie Bradford, May 19, 1939. CHILDREN: Peter Bradford, May 8,
1940; Nathaniel Robert, Aug. 26, 1946.

HaRVARD Son: Peter Bradford Benchley, ’61.

occuPaTION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: The Coffee House, Century Association; Pacific Club (Nantucket).
puBLicaTioNs: Side Street; One to Grow On; Sail a Crooked Ship; The Off-
Islanders; Robert Benchley; “The Frogs of Spring” (play); “The Great
American Pastime” (motion picture); articles and short stories in various

national magazines,

WHEN I come to sum it up, it doesn’t seem as though I’d done a

[94 ]

 

I
E
t
&

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great deal since graduation. My first job was on Heywood Broun’s
Connecticut Nutmeg. I then went to the New York Herald Trib-
une as a reporter at a ten-dollar cut in salary ($25 as opposed to $35
with Broun), and stayed there until the summer of 1941, when I
joined the Navy in the Public Relations Office. Wearying of that I
applied for sea duty and spent the rest of the war in submarine
chasers and allied activities. After the war I went to Newsweek as
assistant entertainment editor, from which job I was fired after
something less than two years. I have been free-lancing ever since,
and nothing makes duller reading than the life of a free-lance writer.

I spend about six months of the year on Nantucket and the rest
in or around New York, and except for a misbegotten year in Holly-
wood and a sweat-soaked week as an instructor at the Indiana Uni-
versity Writers’ Conference, I have stayed in a fairly predictable

orbit. With any luck, I'll have something more to contribute to the
Fiftieth Anniversary Report.

RAYMOND TYRRELL BENEDICT

gE ARERR ISIE IR tt ore sata ma eS “-s

   

fn Me <

HOME appress: 8 Ponus Ridge Rd., New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESs: Cummings & Lockwood, 1 Atlantic St., Stamford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Pawling School, Pawling, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Cu72 laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MarRiED: Jean Fulton, Dec. 21, 1940. CHILDREN: Henry Fulton, July 18, 19453
Margaret Tyrrell, Nov. 25, 1946; Charles Raymond, Feb. 1, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner, Cummings & Lockwood.

OFFices HELD: Director and secretary, Ellenville Electric Company, Keewaydin
Realty Corporation, Country Club of Darien, Conn.; director, Stamford

Museum & Nature Center, Inc.; trustee, Mianus George Conservation Com-
mittee.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Darien.

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

THE life of a busy practising attorney is almost all-encompassing,
but fortunately not entircly so, With the exception of the four
war years, which I spent in the Navy, I have spent the years since
June, 1941, at which time I graduated from law school, engaged in
the practice of law in Connecticut. This has been a hard-working
but rewarding life.

I have been happily married to Jean Fulton since December 21,
1940, and we live in a comfortable home in New Canaan about
twenty minutes’ drive from my office in Stamford. Our three
children are growing up more rapidly than we can readily realize,
I also find time racing by more and more rapidly with each passing
year; if I am to finish everything I have in mind I shall have to hurry.

After a brief stint in 1941 in the F.B.I. as a Special Agent, I prac-
ticed law in Norwalk, Connecticut, as an associate in the five-man
law firm of Keogh & Candee doing some trial work and some estate
work, In October, 1942, ] went on active duty as ensign U.S.N.R.
and attended the first indoctrination class held at Princeton. The
sixty-day wonder course completed, I was assigned to precommis-
sioning detail of the U.S.S. Chickasaw at Alameda, California. Dur-
ing the ensuing two years, I saw duty in the Pacific theater of opera-

tions aboard the Chickasaw, first as communications officer, then as
navigator, and finally as executive officer. In July, 1944, I was de-
tached from the Chickasaw at Saipan and flew back to Uncle Sugar
for leave and re-assignment as commanding officer of the U.S.
A.T.A. 191, then under construction at Orange, ‘Texas.

After the war, I returned to Norwalk, Connecticut, and the prac-
tice of law at Keogh & Candee, becoming a partner on July 1, 1946.
I remained with that firm until September 1, 1951, at which time |
became employed by Cummings & Lockwood in Stamford, Con-
necticut. Since July 1, 1953, I have been a partner in that firm,
presently being in charge of the real estate department. Our firm
has grown since 1951 from thirteen attorneys to thirty-one and is
now the largest law firm in the State of Connecticut. Our classmate,
George Lowman, is also a partner in this firm and was largely instru-
mental in my coming here twelve years ago. Alvah W. Sulloway
was also a partner in the firm uncil two years ago, when he left the
practice of law to undertake a teaching career.

We had no children until 1945, when our first son was born; he
was quickly followed by a daughter, and shortly thereafter by a
second son. They are strong and well and one by one leaving the

family nest. Hank is a senior at Tilton School, Tilton, New Hamp-

[ 96 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

shire; Teri is a junior at Fairfax Hall, Waynesboro, Virginia, and

Charlie will be going away to school next fall. Jean and I will soon

be rattling around by ourselves again for the first time in eighteen
ears.

4 I play golf, and occasionally do some hunting and fishing. During

the next twenty-five years I hope to establish some hobbies. I look

forward to it.

ROBERT THOMAS BENJAMIN

pe on pr tiene pc terner eatin peer armenian

    

TERT
SU

HOME AppRESS: 612 Laurel Ave., S.E., East Grand Rapids, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Grand Rapids Press, Grand Rapids, Mich.

PREPARED AT: East Grand Rapids High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Ellen Blakeslee McNabb, Coll. of New Rochelle, 739, Sept. 7, 1940.
CHILDREN: Thomas Richard, June 21, 1941; Blakeslee Ann, Sept. 29, 1943;
John McNabb, Dec. 15, 1946; Barbara Adrian, Oct. 13, 1950; Mary Roberta,

June 28, 1953.
occupation: Foreign, national news editor, Grand Rapids Press.

MEMBER OF: White Lake Golf Club; Harvard Club of Western Michigan.
PUBLICATIONS: News articles and features,

WITH twenty-two years of news reporting and editing behind me,
I'm not sure but what my nine- and twelve-year-olds are right: I’ve
got the easiest job in the world because there’s no homework. How-
ever, I point out to young journalistic hopefuls that while it’s dandy
to have a practically virgin desk by late afternoon, it’s also wise to
develop fancy footwork to keep those creditors at least at a finger’s
length. But it’s often been fun and what the after-dinner speakers
refer to as stimulating. And I must admit I thrive on deadlines
nearly as well as on martinis,

[97]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

With the exception of several years in the Air Force in World
War II editing papers and writing speeches and handouts for higher
brass, my other chief occupation and interest has been my family,
My wife continues to amaze me and now, with son Tom a senior at
Western Michigan University and daughter Blakeslee a sophomore
at the College of New Rochelle and our other three well along in
school, has taken to elementary education. She is having a ball
teaching unsuspecting fifth-graders and also is getting a Master’s at
Michigan State. I find a new exposure to teaching and educational
theories — especially testing — most intriguing and am thoroughly
convinced there’s a much sharper group of small fry on the way up
than was the case thirty years ago. Fortunately my eldest daughter
takes after her mother and was a National Merit scholar. I’m hoping
it rubs off on the last three. I'm also hoping my second son, John,

may get a crack at Harvard although I understand it’s considerably
easier to invade the inner vaults at Fort Knox.

In leisure moments I’ve found good sport in amateur movie mak-
ing (some horrible, a few good and the others fair), scale model
railroading and, for a few years, running a summer baseball team.
Loud bellows from the spectators, not usually of approval, sped my
demise from the teen-age diamond. Summers have usually been spent
at a cottage along the high dunes of Lake Michigan, including striv-
ing to break go (finally did) as a former tennis player and late-
comer to the wonderful world of golf. (Couldn’t believe I could be
that bad at anything, but was.) More recently have enjoyed tour-
ing the great West with continually refreshing reactions from the
various assorted offspring. 1 can even tolerate occasional camping.

Among things that have pleased me was the decidedly superior
showing of the one Harvard man we had working at this paper in
recent years over our other rookies. Another amusing sidelight is
the ever increasing approval of the Ivy League type of football and
other athletic competition I find in this land of the Big Ten, where
the guards often run in not with new plays but with bunches of
bananas.

As to politics, I find I tend to favor making haste slowly — but
still making moves. I have a higher regard for more politicians of
both parties than I had not too many years ago. After watching too
many candidates come in punch drunk and broke, I feel strongly that
it is imperative that campaigns both on the state and national levels
be shortened considerably. The British three weeks looks fine.
With modern communications, surely four or at the most five weeks

[ 98 }

ay eR errr nnn rene fener RCN EHP RRR Pet ES SCR PT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in this country should be enough to dispose of most of what we
periodically call issues.

EDWARD HERBERT BENNETT, JR.

9

   

HOME appREss: 390 Woodland Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.

OFFICE appREss: 80 E. Jackson Blvd., Chicago 4, Ill.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; B. ARCH., 1950.

MARRIED: Harriet Sturgis, Sept. 26, 1941 (divorced 1960); Katharine F. Phillips,
Nov. 4, 1960. CHILDREN: Edward Herbert, 3d, Aug. 4, 1945; David C. Phil-
lips, 2d, Nov. 26, 1943; William A. Phillips, June 18, 1946, Frederick F.
Phillips, June 18, 1946.

OccUPATION: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Chicago Regional Planning Association, 1952-58; vice-
chairman, 1957-59, chairman, since 1959, Lake County Regional Planning
Commission; member, board of directors, Lyric Opera of Chicago, since
1956, trustee, Art Institute of Chicago, since 1958, member, Orchestral
Association, since 1951; board member, Chicago Commons Association,
since 1956; member, University of Chicago Citizens’ Committee, Audi-
torium Theatre Council.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Club; Arts Club; Cliff Dwellers; Antique Automobile
Club of America; A.I.A.; Society for Contemporary Art.

I FIND that my 1948 book entry discussed my military service more
than adequately, and left me half way through Harvard's Archi-
tectural School. Well, I did get through that, and happily while
Gropius was still the moving spirit in the school. Since then I have
moved back to Chicago, worked at first for, and later with, various
firms (partner, Schweikher & Elting, 1953-54, Elting & Bennett,
1954~56), and since 1956 have practised on my own.

The list of subjects about which the Class allegedly wants to have

[99]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

information rather floors me. Perhaps we should start with what |
like. This includes books (most), steam locomotives, old architec-
ture (and not so old), music (except Wagner), owls, antique auto-
mobiles, machinery in general, France, conservation, ideas and
points of view that have some guts to them. I like architecture as a
profession, but it seems to have lots wrong with it that is hard to put
one’s finger upon. I won't try, as the professional press has hun-
dreds of pages on the same subject every month, except to say that
the promise of the thirties and forties, in which it was suggested that
we might control our aesthetic environment, seems lost as the mass
of mankind rushes to uglify everything we can see. There is no cure
for this situation, nor has there ever been, and nothing for the in-
dividual to do but nibble away as best he can in what seems a good
direction.

As for family, I am most contentedly remarried and now my for-
merly only son has three brothers, an arrangement which I can safely
say all six of us regard with enthusiasm. For example, the old man
loves sailboats but hates racing them, and it is gratifying that several
youths are more than willing to uphold the family honor in that
realm.

Travel, the Class wishes to know about. All I can say to this is
that I like it, especially if I can plan the arrangements. Unfortunately
I find that I myself am subject to unplanned obsolescence, for while
I would never go back to the horse (I was never there), any travel
by airplane is sheer hell. When that finally becomes the only way to
get anywhere I shall have to stay home.

Hobbies are pretty standard for everybody, I think. Photography
is fun, and at times I have enjoyed a darkroom. This combined well
with being a rail fan until the steam locomotive disappeared into that
awful limbo known as economic necessity. Electronic devices have
occupied some of my time, chiefly as a source of good music in the
house, and I have a small and unimportant collection of antique
automobiles,

As for social, political and religious convictions, I do have these
but don’t necessarily feel that mine are worth pushing on others in

this space.

For the rest: 1 went twice to Harvard for the wrong reasons, and
each time to my vast benefit. If I could articulately express my en-
thusiasm for my college and graduate school I would also be capable
of explaining why classic Greek has enriched my life, even now when
most of it has escaped me, That I can't do either makes me no less

[ 100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

convinced. There is a combination of scholarly enthusiasm, critical-
ity, liberality, tolerance, severity and joy about the Cambridge
scene upon which, without chauvinism, one can look back with utter
satisfaction.

EDWIN KIMBERLEY BENNETT

 

HOME ADDRESS: Pojac Point, North Kingston, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cinder Products Corp., 75 Ellenfield St., Providence, R.L

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.; White Plains High
School, White Plains, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MarriED: Sheila Beatrice Brookes, April 14, 1945. CHILDREN: Roger Brookes,
Nov. 30, 1947; John Edwin, Jan. 21, 1949; Philis Beatrice, Feb. 17, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Salesman, construction materials,

OFFICES HELD: Co-chairman, Building Committee, Westminster Unitarian Church,
East Greenwich, R.L, since 1961.

MEMBER OF; Veteran Motor Car Club of Great Britain.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, New England Yachtsiian, 1937-40.

THE other day I had an evening to spend in Cambridge and took
in an informal lecture at one of the houses. The enthusiasm of the
students was even more catching than that of the professor speak-
ing. Foolishly perhaps, I felt transported back twenty-five years.

Maybe I am fortunate in my work that I never did really grow
entirely out of this fecling. In my job IT call on much this type of
person. It is also a peculiarity of many of the men I know that
they have a singular bent of liking both the old and the new. Even
those on the “cutting edge” of progress find sanctuary in’ old
familiar things. I find contrasts are necessary to the enjoyment of

[ rot ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

GEORGE BENNETT

 

HOME apprEss: 22 Morris St., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE aporess: Community Progress, Inc., 270 Orange St., New Haven, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Public Laun School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1947;
uM. (Yale Univ.), 1949.

Marniep: Irene Grodberg, Nov. 30, 1941. cHiLDREN: Barry Mitchell, April 19,
1945; Wendy Sue, March 1, 1953.

occupation: Manpower specialist, Community Progress, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Massachusetts bar, since 1947; member, board of direc-

tors, West End House, Boston; member, 1960 President’s Committee on
Youth & Young Adults,

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles published over the years on labor-manage-
ment relations, with particular emphasis on public mediation.

AFTER a wip to Europe in the summer of 1938, started law school.
Gave it up after a year and went to work in a family business —
purpose, to earn enough to get married. The marriage materialized
November 30, 1941, and one week later it was Pearl Harbor. Went
into the armed services in the fall of 1942 and served as an enlisted
man in the Air Corps until 1946 (teaching radio mechanics most of
the time). Upon being discharged honorably, I’m proud to say, re-
turned to law school (Boston University) and finished up in fine
style. After passing the Massachusetts bar, I took to teaching at the
University of New Hampshire in 1947. That was followed by grad-
uate law work at Yale (why not?) and then entry into government

service as an attorney in the U.S. Department of Labor in Washing-
ton, D.C.

In 1950 I became a federal labor mediator (Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service, U.S. Government) and served in various parts
of the United States until 1961 when I became chairman of the

[ 104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Atlantic Missile Range (Cape Canaveral) Missile Site Labor Rela-
tions Committee. This job entailed mediation of labor management
disputes effecting Cape Canaveral and, in addition, the implementa-
tion of a presidential executive order to prevent labor-management
disruptions of the missile program. The A.M-R. Missile Site Com-
mittee met for the first time in July, 1961, and proceeded to assist
labor and management to establish new records of continuous and
peaceful production at Cape Canaveral. In September, 1962, 1
joined Community Progress, Inc. (set up under a Ford Foundation
grant to assist the city of New Haven in the social and economic re-
development of a city being physically redeveloped), as its man-
power specialist.

We have decided that the economic, social and political institu-
tions in New Haven must work in a common effort to effect social
and economic changes for the benefit of all the citizens of the
community. The response has been gratifying, and programs are
being developed to match people with middle skill technical jobs.
The response of management in New Haven has surprised many
people and continued support has been given. The political leaders
recognize the need to do more than alter the real estate and they have
spearheaded the effort to establish the program. Union leadership
in this area stands firmly behind the program, and the social agencies,

2°
as well as the existing government agencies, are in the effort all the

way.

‘Public service has been my career and there has been a benefit to
me from the education received at Harvard. They were frustrating
years but the frustration usefully led me into public service. I be-
lieve in the free economic system. By and large we still make our
own decisions, and in a small way my work has been directed to

maintaining free decision making. What we hand on to our children
is pretty darned good!

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOSEPH BENNETT

    

HOME ApprEss: 5 Miles Drive, Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, A.M., 1946.

MarRiED: Bernice Irene Rood, July 7, 1946. cuitpreN: Alan Arnold, Dec. 24,
1948; Paul Dana, Jan. 12, 1951.

occuPaTION: Teacher — counselor, Quincy High School.

MEMBER OF: D.A.V.; Amvets; B’nai B’rith, American Personnel and Guidance
Association; National Vocational Guidance Association; American School
Counselors Association, Quincy Teachers Association, Quincy Jewish
Community Center, Congregation Adas Shalom.

WHEN I graduated from college, we had a president who was a
Democrat and who had gone to Harvard. And now, twenty-five
years later, we have a president who is a Democrat and who went to
Harvard. There are a lot more parallels that I will not dwell on.

After graduation I kicked around for a couple of years and then
returned to school. Came the war. After four years of Infantry life,
I finished my school and became a teacher. At that time I got mar-
ried. These things make 1946 the big year in my postwar life.

There were several jobs as a teacher — one in Lyons, Michigan,
for a year, one in Littleton, Massachusetts, for a year, and the one I
now have in Quincy, Massachusetts, now in its fourteenth year. I
gradually changed from social studies to guidance because it seemed
to me that the youngsters needed personal attention more than any-
thing else that our schools could give them. Right now I am doing
full-time guidance counseling at the high school. The youngsters of
today need as much help as anyone ever did to make plans to cope
with their future world. I hope I am helping.

[ 106 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During the years, two sons were born to us. At the time of the
Reunion they will be twelve and fourteen years old. Whether they

will go to Harvard or not is mainly up to them and waits on the
future for a decision.

Also over the years, I have acquired a case of multiple sclerosis
which has gradually become more containing in a progressive degree.
I am now in a wheelchair most of the time but I am still at my job.
There are times when things get difficult but I will not give up. T'll
be hanged if I will quit as long as I feel that I am really contributing
in my chosen work.

My wife, Bernice, who is writing this out now, always makes faces
when I throw praises her way, but I feel as though she deserves more
than I can adequately say. So far, she has been stuck with me for
sixteen years, with as much more as she can stand in the future.

Great wealth we have not, possessions are not extra abundant, but
it has been a pretty good life. Twice in the last three years I have
been to Europe with Bernice, wheelchair and all, and I have seen fi-
nally many of the things that I had read about earlier (my wartime
overseas service was in the Pacific). I have learned that most people
in most places are quite helpful when given the chance. When your
wheelchair is about to fall into the Grand Canal in Venice, or you
are about to plunge into a bay in Denmark, or when your wheel-
chair is listing in Jerusalem because several spokes are broken, or
when any of dozens of other little things happen to you far away

from home and total strangers are there with instant help, then you
get a fairly good feeling toward mankind.

My own two sons constantly surprise me with the amount of help
I get from them, making me feel as though they are going to be a
couple of really worthwhile young men. The major accomplish-
ment since college has been this family group that sticks together in
spite of many a squall, many a heat wave, and many a rough passage.

The fact that I went to Harvard has been at many times of great
propaganda value and has even shocked some of those that I know,
but I am glad that I went and that I acquired there what has stuck
with me since then, both knowledge and ways of thinking.

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOSIAH WHITNEY BENNETT

 

MAILING abprEss: American Embassy, USIS, Tel Aviv, Israel.

RICHARD ELLIS BENNINK

 

HOME appress: 16 Yale St., Winchester, Mass.

oFFice appress: Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Co., 100 Franklin St., Boston 6,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

magriep: Mary Clay Keisker, July 29, 1944. CHILDREN: Nancy Clay, May 27,
1949; Richard Ellis, Jr., June 11, 1952, John Page, Dec. 28, 1957.

OccUPATION: Banking; vice-president and treasurer, Boston Safe Deposit &
Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, North Avenue Savings Bank, since 1960; member, execu-
tive committee, Roxbury Charitable Society, since 1949; member, Win-

chester Finance Committee, 1960-63, corporator, Winchester Savings Bank,
since ty61; director, Winchester Community Chest,

[ 108 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Wardroom Club; Winchester Country Club, Greater Boston
Chamber of Commerce.

IT’S hard to remember that jobs weren’t easy to find in summer
1938, despite a Harvard degree. Now we recruit new grads with
pensions, coffee breaks, group insurance, medical and profit-shar-
ing plans. I was glad to go to work for the Boston Safe Deposit &
Trust Company at fifteen dollars a week, less an annoying deduction
of fifteen cents for FOAB. Six months on the street with a messen-
ger force almost entirely A.B.’s and I had an opportunity to be a
clerk. Those were the callow, carefree bachelor days, living at
home, spending my pittance on Zarch shirts, skiing, and plavi ing
D team squash at the Harvard Club. I drilled with the Third
Division, First Battalion, Organized Reserve and took summer train-
ing cruises on the Wyoming, Crosby and Williams, as boot ensign
usually bunked on the wardroom transom. In June, 1941, someone
named Nimitz signed orders to proceed on active duty.

The next two years were spent on the attack transport USS
Heywood (APA-—6) — first taking the Marines to Iceland, and then
the Army to relieve them. The North Atlantic in winter was cold,
foggy, rough and sleety. In April we staged the First Marine
Division south over the equator to New Zealand, trained with them
in the Fijis, and led them ashore in landing boats at Guadalcanal,
Gavutu and Tananbogo. We stayed around the Solomons during
the lean months of cruiser and carrier sinkings, and express runs
down the slot. May took us to Attu for a landing through the fog
and snow, returning to San Francisco with a full load of casualties,
and amputations en route due to trench foot. From July, ’43. to
July, ’44, I studied math, physics, radio and radar at postgraduate
school, U.S. Naval Academy.

I married a native Washingtonian and went back to sea as Admiral
Tommy Sprague’s flag commanding officer with Carrier Division
22 on USS Sangamon and had a sweaty time with the CVE’s at
Leyte Gulf. While the division was getting patched up, I shifted to
the brand-new battle cruiser Guam (CB-2) and joined the fast
carrier task force for Okinawa, raids on the China coast, and the
surrender in Korea, Sailing under the Golden Gate bridge in
October, 1945, with Halsey and his 3rd Fleet, while San Francisco

blared a noisy welcome, is a moment not easily forgotten.

I returned to the bank after terminal leave and started learning
about loans, operations, income taxes and a bond portfolio; progress-
ing to assistant treasurer in 1947, treasurer in’ 1953, and vice-presi-

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

dent and treasurer in 1958. Ours is a unique organization, small
among city banks with $8o million in deposits, but with the second -
largest trust operation in New England. The past seventeen years
have been busy, interesting and rewarding, spent among pleasant
and dedicated associates in a company that is old in experience
and reputation, but young in spirit. ;

For banking education [ went to the Stonier Graduate School
of Banking at Rutgers University, locking myself in the bedroom
one winter to write the required thesis to graduate in 1953, and last
summer attended the Senior Bank Officers Seminar at the Harvard
Business School.

I kept up Naval Reserve activities, commanding an Organized
Surface Division and then a Battalion in Lowell, Massachusetts,
for three years each. Perhaps my most strenuous and instructive
training cruise was when our all reserve crew, of which I was
executive, ran the USS Livermore aground on Bearse Shoal off
Monomoy in 1949. 1 made commander soon after, but retired in
1958 when the selection board balked at a fourth stripe.

Our first child, a daughter, was born in 1949 and two boys came
at restful intervals. Housing progressed along with children and
salary, starting with a one-room apartment on Boston’s Park Drive
for a year, then a small, old Cape Cod halfway up Arlington Heights,
a nearly new seven-room Cape Anne on flat land in Winchester
when Korea threatened naval recall, and finally a larger, comfort-
able, medium-age white Colonial with blue blinds on (ugh) Yale
Street in time for child number three. The driveway’s too long
after a snowstorm and I have to amend the street sign on a certain
November Saturday, but we hope to stay put.

The camp we have had on Lake Nubanusit in Nelson, New
Hampshire, since 1952, continues to be a source of fun, fireplace
wood and good health. Just north of Monadnock and only seventy-
five miles from Winchester it is still reasonably wild and unspoiled.
The many casts with a dry fly, skinny-dips, blueberry picking hikes,
and annual Christmas tree cutting expeditions have refreshed body
and soul, The kids enjoy family treks across the ice to light wood
fires, cut a hole for water, and ski or skate before rolling up in
sleeping bags far from TV. In 1959 I helped organize a project to

preserve a large track of undeveloped Jand on the lake under the
auspices of Nature Conservancy. Now half the land has been
bought and the drive is still on for the remainder. My interest in
this type of conservation has grown and 1 am glad to have had a

[ 110}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hand in starting a new trust in the bank known as “The Fund for
Preservation of Wildlife and Natural Areas.”

1962 was an interesting sports year. In February we joined five
other couples, including Classmates Charlie Moore and Bill Wright,
for a wonderful skiing trip to Zermatt, Switzerland — climaxed by
a fabulous day going around the Matterhorn and over the Theodul-
pass to Cervinia, Italy, and back — and winding up with three fun
days in Rome. Then I took up golf again after a twenty-year
layoff. I still have my slice.

The Reunion has taken quite a bit of time since the committee
was formed in 1959, both in pre-Reunion activities and in helping
to raise the Class gift. My third and last year on the Winchester
Finance Committee will have been thankfully completed by spring.
These activities, along with the GOP Ike dinner, United Fund, and
church finance committee, have made this fall and winter a busy
one. I’m glad of this and feel very grateful to be rich in the things
that really count — health and family.

ROBERT PEEL BENTLEY, JR.

 

HOME appREss: 19 Standish Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Robert Bentley, Inc., 993 Massachuserts Ave. Cambridge, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn; Episcopal Academy, Overbrook,
Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, Cts laude, 1938.

MarriED: Elinor Joyce Sallet, 1960, cutto: Michacl Gordon, May g, 1961,
occupaTION: Publishers, booksellers and importers; president.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston,

AS a first matter of business in my Twenty-fifth Anniverary Re-

fais]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

port, it is appropriate for me to express my love and gratitude to
Harvard, which kindled in me an abiding intellectual excitement
and a joy in the works of the mind. I continue to enjoy and exhibit
the enthusiasm of the mere amateur in areas that I should, perhaps,
leave to professionals. And conversations lasting far into the night
about even the most intangible concepts are still a favorite pastime.

I am fortunate to find myself still in Cambridge and to spend
many of my waking hours in and about the Square. So for me,
Harvard is not simply an object of filial piety, but a resonant and
gladdening presence. The magnetism that attracted me so during
my days at Leverett House was apparently strong enough to bring
me back.

After college, as had been decided before I was born, I quite
unhappily went into the family paper business in Philadelphia; then,
with Pearl Harbor, into the Navy for four years, where I com-
manded, in the Pacific, U.S. Subchaser 1269 and U.S. LST 848
with honor and, thank heaven, without distinction.

Discharged, I entered a peculiar period of adjustment, coming
to Cambridge and studying philosophy in the graduate school.

One evening in 1949 I had a brainstorm. As an aftermath, |
started the publishing business that fourteen years later continues
to be my occupation and source of livelihood. There is, of course,
no resemblance between my present activities in the book business
and the program the brainstorm precipitated so many years ago!
But the real business, as it has actually developed, is a source of deep-
est satisfaction.

For the sake of the record, and because of its importance to me,
I note here that a month before our graduation I was received into
the Roman Catholic Church at St. Paul’s on Bow Street, a stone’s
throw from the Yard.

Rather belatedly I have acquired a family, and our first child,
Michael, arrived in 1961. As I write, in January, 1963, Joyce and
I are expecting our second baby in March. The joys of fatherhood
have been intensified by coming late in life; one, perhaps, doesn’t
take the miracle so casually.

With these new beginnings I feel as so many of us must have felt

twenty-five years ago — life is just beginning, and the best is yet
to come.

[112]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS EDWARD BENTON

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 502 S. Lake Shore Drive, Fontana, Wis.

GEORGE WILTON BERGQUIST

 

HOME ApDpDRESS: 912 N, Livingston St., Arlington 5, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Special Projects Office, Dept. of the Navy, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Edison High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., mlagna cum laude, 1938; M.P.A. 194t.

MarRIED: Ruth Avery Jones, June 5, 1943. CHILDREN: George William, July 23,
1945; Virginia Alice, April 25, 1948.

occupation: Director of Plans and Programs, Special Projects Office (Polans),
Department of the Navy.

OFFICEs HELD: Member of the Session, since 1935, treasurer, since 1957, New
York Avenue Presbyterian Church, Washington; commanding officer,
Naval Reserve Company 5-49, Washington, 1962-63; commander, USNR.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; National Railway Historical So-
ciety; Swedish Pioncer Historical Society.

[ 113]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DARIO CLEMENTE BERIZZI

 

HOME ApprEss: 40 Winthrop Drive, Riverside, Conn.

oFrice aporess: J. P. Stevens & Co., 1460 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

maraiep: Jean Pratt, May 21, 1949. CHILDREN: Steven, Feb. 22, 19513 Paul, July
1, 1952; Frank, Dec. 5, 1953; Daria, Jan. 9, 1956 (girl); Stanford, May 7,
1957; John, Aug. 27, 1959; Camilla, Nov. 22, 1961.

occupation: Merchandise manager, synthetic curtain and drapery department,
J. P. Stevens & Company, Inc., textiles.

MEMBER OF: New York Athletic Club; Innis Arden Golf Club, Greenwich,
Conn.

DAVID SANDLER BERKOWITZ

 

HOME appakss: g3 Beaumont Ave. Newtonville 60, Mass.
Orrick ADinESS; Brandeis University, Waltham 54, Mass,
purvarrpy at: Roxbury Memorial High School, Roxbury, Mass,

[116]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938, A.M. 1940;
PH.D., 1946.

MARRIED: Jessie Cohen, Sept. 8, 1940. CHILDREN: Carl Sandler, July 26, 1945,
Naomi Judith, May 6, 1949.
occuPATION: Professor of history, Brandeis University.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1949, president, 1959-61, Waltham Family Serv-
ice Association, director, New England Transportation Company, Inc.
1956-62, Novasonics, Inc., 1960, Frontier Records, Inc., 1950, Family
Counselling Service (Region West), Inc., since 1962, incorporator, Wal-
tham Savings Bank, since 1952, Waltham Hospital, since 1952, director and
treasurer, Berkshire Associates, Inc., since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Association of University Professors,
American Historical Association, Renaissance Society of America; Con-
ference on British Studies; New England Conference on Renaissance
Studies.

PUBLICATIONS: Inequality of Opportunity in Higher Education, Albany, 1948;
contributor, Matching Needs and Facilities in Higher Education, Albany,
1948, “Miss Wedgwood’s Historical Outlook,” History and Theory, I,
No. 3, 1961; Bibliotheca Bibliographica Britannica, Vol. 1, Waltham, 1963,
A Descriptive Catalogue of the Incunabula of the Brandeis University
Library, Waltham, 1963.

AS a fairly regular attendant of Harvard Commencements over
the years since 1938 I used to marvel how young the Twenty >-five-
year Class seemed and how wonderfully preserved the Fifty- rear
contingent was. But now the prospect of marching with the first
of these favored milestone groups only leads me to question the
reliability of my former observations, or at the least to entertain
new hypotheses about the true relationship of appearance and
reality. The altered impression is due neither to improved vision
nor to a more favorable perspective but rather, I suspect, to a pres-
sure drop in the fountain of youth.

It is now ten years since I began learning how to adjust myself
to a pace less intense and less time-absorbing than that of the pre-
ceding dozen years devoted primarily to ‘administrative involve-
ments in varying challenging assignments in the field of higher
education. But even challenges, I learned, are resolved by the appli-
cation of routines and the iron law of organization is inevitably a
retreat to bureaucracy. Teaching and research on a full-time basis
seemed a welcome escape from the twenty-four-hour world of
wind-mill tilting, which the combatants — hoping either to deceive
themselves or others — prefer to describe as leadership.

The pleasures of relief from secretaries, assistants, conferences,
committees and telephone were real enough — but there were new
problems. In the first month alone [ put on twelve pounds; and I

[117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HERBERT ARTHUR BERMAN

 

LAST KNOWN appreEss: 1071A Blue Hill Ave., Dorchester, Mass

HERSCHEL BERMAN

 

HOME appreEss: 98 Christopher St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Associated Press, 50 Rockefeller Plaza, New. Y
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Journalist.

[ 120 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE SENIOR BERNHARD

ont prem ermrarne e oes geet meee

  

HOME ADDRESS: 15~9 Hiroo-cho, Azabu, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

OFFICE apprEss: Logan, Bernhard & Okamoto, 330 New Ohtemachi Bldg.,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1941.

MarRiED: Marcelle Jeanne Lacouette, 1954. cHiLp: James Manning, Dec. 2, 1957.

occupaTION: Lawyer; partner, Logan, Bernhard & Okamoto.

MEMBER OF: American and New York Bar Associations, First Tokyo Bar
Association; Maritime Law Association of the United States; Association
of the Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Club of New York.

IN the old-style Japanese calendar this is the Year of the Hare,
symbolizing, among other things, speed. The years from gradu-
ation to the 25th Anniversary have slipped by faster than any hare,
and the 25th Report fixes one incontestably in middle age, if this
has previously passed unnoticed.

It does not seem like yesterday that I graduated from college,
entered and graduated from Yale Law School in a race with the draft
board, became a lawyer, served in the United States, England and
France, for the most part in the Transportation Corps, and returned
to civilian life and law practice in New York in 1945. Eight years
later, which does seem almost like yesterday, I came to Japan for
duty in our then Tokyo branch office. An unfamiliar temporary
assignment quickly became an exciting and challenging permanent
post.

Unlike the practice of law in New York City, practice in the,
occasionally, largest city in the world is most similar to practice
in an incredibly thriving small city straddling the borders of the
several countries to which businessmen, statesmen, artists, and

[ 121 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

people from all countries and walks of life come. The Tokyo
Lawn Tennis Club and the American Club, for example, have
members of upwards of forty different nationalities.

The distance from New York being what it is, Marcelle, Jamie
and I return to the United States (often by way of Europe) once
in every few years, except for an occasional working sortie. Hav-
ing been away from Japan nearly six months in 1962, I doubt we
shall make the 25th Reunion.

This Report is not the place to tell of Japan (the only experts
on which are those who have been here less than two weeks; after
that one’s qualification elapses), but to those classmates who come
this way, Marcelle and I shall be delighted to show you a bit of
no longer quite so mysterious Japan. Golfers bring your golf
shoes; the courses are beautiful.

GEORGE DAVID WHEATON BERRY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 287 Chestnut St., West Newton 65, Mass.

{122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GILBERT BETTMAN

SOE Et 2: ma ti
ig

a Ris a oe

3s rh . 3

 

HOME ADpREssS: 13 Interwood PIl., Cincinnati 20, Ohio

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cincinnati Municipal Court, Hamilton County Court House,
Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. 1942.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Hampton Robb Evers, Radcliffe ’39, Sept. 6, 1946. CHILDREN:
Louise Evers, April 17, 1944; Helen Elisabeth, July 6, 1947; Gilbert, June
26, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Judge, Cincinnati Municipal Court.

OFFICES HELD: Judge, Cincinnati Municipal Court, 1956-62 (Presiding Judge
1959-61); member, 1ooth and rorst Ohio General Assembly, 1953-55, U.S.
Army, 1942-46 (Field Comm., lieutenant, 1945); chairman, Board, Central
(Psychiatric) Clinic, 1960-62; president, Cincinnau Council of World
Affairs, 1956-58; chairman, Committee on Clinical Treatment of Misde-
meanants, National Association of Municipal Judges, 1960-62; member,
Executive Committees, Ohio Judicial Council and Ohio Association of
Municipal Judges, 1958-62.

SOME of my classmates may recall my hortatory essays in English
“A” on “Going into the Public Service.” After Harvard Law
School, four years in the Army and a few at the practice, I took my
own advice.

I look back fondly on my two terms in the Ohio General
Assembly. State legislatures differ from Congress in that a young
man willing to work can play an important role very quickly. For
better or worse, we rewrote the Workmen’s Compensation Act of
Ohio and contributed to other key legislation.

The biggest thrills were fighting for fair employment practice
legislation (unsuccessful), against motion picture censorship (acci-

[ 123]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

dentally successful) and against “anti-subversive” bills (later tossed
out by the Supreme Court).

State legislatures have often been the object of criticism. My con-
clusion, after observing my colleagues for three years, was that the
public gencrally gets a higher degree of service than it earns by its
meager interest in and support of candidates for office.

Seven years on the Cincinnati Municipal Court (two elections)
have brought their share of satisfactions, challenges and frustrations.
Our Court has both civil and criminal jurisdiction. The civil side
combines some nice legal problems with a good portion of routine.
The monotony of Traffic Court is relieved by the sheepish looks on
your friends’ faces when they stand before the Bar.

Police Court is an endless succession of human problems. It is
here that one tortures himself about the meaning of justice. We have
slowly been able to build up a more adequate probation staff and to
develop a Court Psychiatric Clinic to help us with the twin questions:
Why did the defendant commit the offense, and what can we do to
redirect his path from a destructive to a constructive one?

I feel very strongly that our criminal jurisprudence is shockingly
inefficient and inadequate. It often proceeds on assumptions every-
one who bothers to examine knows are false. But old ideas die
slowly, particularly in the public sphere; especially so, when the
question is what to do with “bad” people. We are hoping to get
funds for research into some aspects of the causes and “cures” for
crime. It would be my hope that large sums will be spent on this
problem throughout the country.

I seem to have reversed the traditional course from radical youth
to conservative maturity. Each year I find myself more irate at in-
justice and impassioned in my feeling that social and governmental
problems must be met. Nonetheless, I still consider myself a con-
servative. To me, however, that means preserving and implement-
ing that which is great in our tradition: a real opportunity for all,
the protection of each individual’s privacy and dignity from the
mob and from the government — those goals, in short, set out in our
fundamental national documents.

Life has been very kind to me, A wonderful wife, three fine chil-
dren and work to which one can feel dedicated are indeed a generous
cup.

[124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN BIDWELL

 

HOME ApprEss: Altamont Road, Greenville, S.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: W.R. Grace & Co., CRYOVAC Division, Duncan, S.C.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Anne L. Edmondson, Aug. 8, 1942. CHILDREN: Mary Almy, July 12,
1943; Constance Anne, Aug. 16, 1945; John, Jr., March 8, 1949; Frederick
Edmondson, Sept. 16, 1952; Samuel Cabot, Nov. 6, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, marketing.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Chapter, American Marketing Associa-
tion; vice president, Montreal Chapter, American Marketing Association;
vice-president, Business Association Club, president, Harvard Club of
Western South Carolina.

MEMBER OF: Green Valley Country Club, Greenville, S.C.,; Poinsett Club,
Greenville, S.C.

IN approaching this report for the 25th, little seemed to have oc-
curred to me, Anne and the children since the 18th Anniversary Re-
port. But to set the tone and provide a smooth sequence, I dusted
off the 1956 Report. It was, therefore, a shock to find that within
the last seven years we had lived in five additional locations.

In 1956 we were in Westmount, Quebec, where I was assistant
general manager of the Dewey and Almy Division of W. R. Grace of
Canada. In 1957 we had our fill of city living in the English enclave
in Montreal and moved out to the delightful town of Hudson
Heights located thirty miles northwest of Montreal on the Lake of
Two Mountains. Our stay in this idyllic spot was not only punctu-
ated by three trips to South America sans famille but came to a quick
end with my assignment as Eastern Division general manager of the
CRYOVAC Division of Grace. This involved moving the whole
gang from Canada to Greenville, South Carolina, In late 1960, hav-

[125]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ing finally received my voting certificate and having built a new
house in the Green Valley section of Greenville, I was made general
sales manager for CRYOVAC with headquarters in Cambridge.
This meant pulling up stakes again.

Back at headquarters this time everything had the appearance of
some permanence. We invested in a lovely 1717 colonial in Harvard,
Massachusetts, with a fabulous view from the western escarpment.
Less than seven months later CRYOVAC decided to move its head-
quarters to Duncan, South Carolina, so we are back here and have
just moved into a new house on Paris Mountain, again with a fabu-
lous view, this time of the Piedmont mountains. I no longer look out
the window, for fear the scenery will change. Anne and the boys
love it here. There is no self-satisfied complacency in this part of
South Carolina nor will there be for many years to come. We live
nine months of the year outdoors, play golf and tennis throughout
the year. The boys are going to Christ Church Episcopal School.
Our elder daughter, Molly, is a sophomore at Hollins College, Roa-
noke, Virginia, and loves it. Our second daughter, Connie, is in her
last year at Chatham Hall in Virginia. She has applications at Vas-
sar and Radcliffe and other female institutions. Our eldest boy, John,
Jr., is currently visiting and being interviewed at a number of boys
preparatory schools in New England.

Throughout all this transience we have managed to hold on to our
summer place at Cotuit, Massachusetts, where we hope to spend an
increasing amount of time.

FREDERICK SHATTUCK BIGELOW

oe)
3

  

   

HOME apprEss: Goodnow Road, Sudbury, Mass.

[ 126 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thorndike Memorial Laboratory, Boston City Hospital, Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.D., 1942.
MARRIED: Beverly Horner, Nov. 4, 1950. CHILDREN: Beverly, Jan. 23, 1952;

Frederick Shattuck, Jr., Aug. 10, 1954; Mary Bryant, 1957; Nancy Horner,
1960.

OCCUPATION: Physician, teaching, research and hospital patient care.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of medicine, Harvard Medical School.
MEMBER OF: American Federation for Clinical Research.

PuBLicATIONS: About thirteen papers in medical journals.

FOLLOWING internship at the Massachusetts General Hospital
came three years in the Army, mostly as a research worker trying to
curb malaria. Discharged in 1946, then three more years’ training at
the M.G.H. and at the West Roxbury Veterans Administration Hos-
pital. Since 1949 I have been associated with the Thorndike Memo-
rial Laboratory at the Boston City Hospital. My professional activity
involves research on blood diseases, the clinical care of ward patients,
teaching at Harvard Medical School and an occasional private
patient. Membership on the Admissions Committee for Harvard
Medical School has furnished a superb view of the academically-
oriented college product.

The dozen years since marriage have mostly revolved around the
necessities of childhood. Having had to abandon cruising for want
of time and man-power, it now is pleasant to find that the aging off-
spring allow one sometimes to surface into the outside world. Most
of the family is pretty well broken in to camping in northern Cape
Breton and the plan is to invade Newfoundland next summer.

At home, I am kept busy operating a place that ought to have a
hired man. Indeed, I was once immensely amused to be taken for
that nonexistent individual and closely questioned on the working
conditions. For want of better, I have become conversant with
artesian wells, sewage disposal, house wiring and the care and feed-
ing of assorted gasoline engines.

But, despite these limitations, the bucolic scene suits this family.

[127 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

GEORGE FOLSOM BIGELOW

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5204 Bangor Drive, Kensington, Md.

oFFice appress: U.S. Army Personnel Research Office, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarriED: Dorothy Helen Lydon, Oct. 10, 1934. cumLp: Cleveland Bigelow, 34d,
Jan. 3, 1948.

occuPaTION: Intelligence operations specialist, U.S. Government.

OFFICES HELD: Leader, Industrial Keys Section, U.S. Forest Service Photo In-
telligence Keys Project, 1956-58, deputy director, Intelligence Systems Di-
vision, Broadview Research Corp., 1959; corporation secretary and assist-
ant treasurer, General Research & Development, Inc., 1960.

MEMBER OF: Iroquois Club; Harvard Club of Boston, American Society of
Photogrammetry; Lakewood Country Club.

AT a recent meeting of my Naval Reserve training class, the in-
structor asked how many of the twenty-five members of the class
(average age overy forty) were still doing what their colleges had
trained them to do. One hand went up. He then asked how many
were completely satisfied with their present work. Again, one hand
—a different one. Neither, unfortunately, mine . . . as an under-
graduate I studied English, hoping someday to become a writer. I
sull entertain that hope, but the actuality (with the exception of a
considerable spate of technical writing) has gone glimmering until
some nebulous time when current pressures will be sufficiently re-
laxed to permit an attempt at uneconomic creativity. Having apolo-
gized in this roundabout fashion for your library’s lack of volumes
bearing my name, I shall scan the last quarter century for a possible
explanation.

At first I tried banking, at the State Street Trust Company, but
for me the counting houses held little appeal. Applications filed

[ 128 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with many a newspaper and publishing house met with no success;

classmates will recall that jobs were still scarce in 1938. Eventually,

after a temporary stint in merchandising, I joined McNally & Stuck-

len (a Beacon Hill real estate office). I walked prospective cus-

tomers up and down the Hill, and lived an exuberant bachelor life

unul the sobering jolt of Pearl Harbor. In our Tenth Report I

described the next four years in some detail. Summarized, I was
trained at the Navy Photographic Interpretation School, spent a
year in the South Pacific, returned for a short tour in Norfolk, and
decided to get married while Dottie was still available and interested
... time has proved this my best decision since graduation. Only
four months later I sailed with an amphibious transport squadron, and
spent the rest of the war planning for, and taking part in, such well-
known invasions as Saipan, Leyte and Lingayen Gulfs, and Okinawa
... also some less well known such as Zambales and Tinian. At
a Philippine port called San Fernando I shared several wet evenings
with a young lieutenant (j.g.) Sloan Wilson (later associated with
the Gray Flannel Suit). We talked a lot about writing, but . . . and
here comes my limping explanation . . . he not only talked about it,
but even then was steadily doing it when not actively commanding
his small tanker. I still talk about writing and he still does it. My
work after the war ranged from industrial appraisal sales to radio
announcing. In 1949 a golden voice was lost to the airways when I
joined the government as a photo interpreter in the Navy Depart-
ment. The Korean War broke out and I was returned to active
duty as a lieutenant commander. I served on the major staffs at
Hawaii and Japan, with side trips to Korea. Fortunately, unlike the
earlier war, I was able to have my family join me.

Mustered out in 1954, I returned to the government, transferring
to the Forest Service’s Photo Interpretation Keys project. For the
next four years I helped produce, or supervised production of, several
reference volumes of a type that photo interpreters may well have
had nearby when they found the Cuban missile sites last October.

Lured by the call of the Space Age (and the concurrent industrial
dollar), I joined Broadview Research Corporation, in 1958, where
I became a sort of unofficial systems design engineer. Last-minute
proposals, contractor briefings, multi-martini lunches and final re-
port Flaps soon became my way of life, as we pursued the possibili-
ties of satellite reconnaissance; in less than a year I became the deputy
director of the Intelligence Systems Division. Things moved fast in
this environment, and early in 1960 I became part of a splinter group

[ 129]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

that formed General Research and Development, Inc. Full of ambi-
tion, living from one new stockholder to the next, we had some
stimulating months pursuing government contracts — and, at least
in my case, wishing we had learned something about physics and
higher math in college. Sometimes we won the contract; sometimes
we came in second or third . . . but here as in poker, we found that
there is no reward for second-best hand. For several months I was
GRAD’s project officer on and R & D contract with the Navy, again
having to do with photo intelligence.

Our company merged with Crown, Bremson Inc., but this failed to
resolve our overhead problem, and when an interesting opportunity
arose, I rejoined the Government, this time with the Army Personnel
Research Office, where I am practically the only person who is not
(a) a Ph.D.; (b) a psychologist. Their current interest in intelli-
gence systems and techniques keeps me busy advising and assisting
the head-shrinkers in developing performance measures related to
Army “image interpretation” (irritating new term devised to in-
clude additional reconnaissance sensors).

I suppose my life is fairly typical of the Washington suburban
commuter; split-level house; old and not-so-old car; Cleveland
(potential Harvard son) doing very well at local junior high school,
one dog and one cat; wife interested in home, school and church
affairs. | am nearing the end of my Naval Reserve career (as a com-
mander), and on weekends, when not attending drills, I sing in a
choir, play golf, swim or bowl, dependent on season, weather, and
time of day. If sufficiently stimulated by Dottie I even work out-
side. Sull trying for the elusive hole-in-one after thirty-four golfing
years, I welcome any classmate to join me in this effort, and later at
the nineteenth hole.

Like the man Jenny kissed, “wealth has missed me”; unlike him,
my health is fine. My work is mostly interesting and our family
life very happy. I look forward to the years ahead.

[ 130 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILSON VALENTINE BINGER

 

HOME AppRESS: 287 Quaker St., Chappaqua, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton, 375 Park Ave., New York
22, N.Y.

PREPARED at: Warren G. Harding Senior High School, Warren, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; S.M., 1939.

MarriED: Barbara Julia Ridgway, May 19, 1947. cHtLpren: Wilson Valentine,
Jr., Nov. 6, 1948; Mary Blanche, Jan. 9, 1950; Julia Ridgway, May 3, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Consulting engineer; partner, Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1959-62, chairman, 1960-62, board of deacons, First
Congregational Church of Chappaqua; member, since 1957, secretary since
1961, U. S. Committee on Large Dams.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers, National Society of Pro-
fessional Engineers; Harvard Engineering Society; Harvard Club of New
York; University Club, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Panama Canal—The Sea Level Project (Symposium): Exca-
vation Slopes,” Transactions American Society of Civil Engineers,
1948-49.

LIKE a certain Harvardman of 1934, who quoted from Isak Dinesen,
I too have been among God’s favorites, “The wanderer in his voca-
tion.” Since 1938 I have had—according to my last security
clearance — some twenty-seven addresses, located in nine states and
five foreign countries. I courted my wife in the Panama Canal Zone
and married her in New York. Two of our children were born in
Buenos Aires, Argentina, and the third in Bogota, Colombia. Now
we're settled, more than six years in Chappaqua, New York. While
Barbara and the children keep home fires burning (and shovel the
snow and cut the grass), | travel more than ever, close to 100,000
miles a year, mostly South America.

The first step was to postpone reality in favor of continued aca-

[131]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JACKSON BIRD

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Buckley Country Day School, I.U. Willets Road,
North Hills, Roslyn, Long Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarrigepD: Audrey Louise Campbell, Jan, 2, 1941. CHILDREN: Charles, Feb. 3,
1947; Anne Lorane (stepdaughter), Jan. 2, 1939 (m. Stark Glidden Jones,
Aug. 26, 1961). |

occupation: Headmaster, Buckley Country Day School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pennsylvania Association of Private Academic Schools,

1953-56; member of board, 1948-59, president, 1951, 1952, West Side Com-
munity Center.

MEMBER oF: Westmoreland Club, Wilkes-Barre, 1948-59, University Club,
Wilkes-Barre, 1947-59; Manhasset Bay Yacht Club; Country Day School

Headmasters Association,

IN 1938, having decided upon a career in education, I was fortu-
nate enough to join the faculty of the Fay School in Southboro,
Massachusetts. It was an extremely valuable experience. Following
this two-year period, I studied at the Graduate School of Educa-
tion, and it was during this year that Audrey and I were married.
In the fall of 1941, we moved to Cleveland where I became a mem-
ber of the faculty of the Hawken School. I remained there until
June, 1947, with thirty months’ leave of absence for service in the
U.S. Naval Reserve. In addition to my duties as boat officer with
N.T.B. Squadron 20, I also served as the squadron personnel officer
and later on in educational services at Great Lakes Naval Hospital
and finally at the Naval Separation Center at Norman, Oklahoma.
I returned to Hawken for one year and was then appointed head-
master of the Day School near Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.

After twelve very happy years as headmaster of the Wyoming

[134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Seminary Day School in Forty Fort, Pennsylvania, I was appointed
to a similar position at Buckley Country Day School in North
Hills, Roslyn, Long Island, as of July 1, 1959. Since our move to
Long Island, our daughter Anne graduated from Skidmore in 1961
and was married that summer. Her husband, Stark Jones, is attend-
ing Princeton Theological Seminary while she teaches in a public
school nearby. Our son Charles is in his second year at Berkshire
School. For most of the year our home is quiet. We look forward
to the vacations when we all can be together. Audrey is lookin
forward to becoming a grandmother some day and to filling all
of the bedrooms in our home.

At times such as this I am more than ever reminded that no
career could have brought greater personal satisfaction. Our students
are both responsive and stimulating, their parents most cooperative

and my associates through the years have been an outstanding group
of men and women.

KENNETH THOMAS BIRD

 

HOME ApprEss: 8 Flintlock Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Warren Bldg., Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938; M.D., 1943.

MarRIED: Jean Stewart Allen, June 28, 1941. CHILDREN: Peter Allen, Feb. 17,
1943; Christopher Allen, Sept. 3, 1945; Duncan Stewart and Gregory
Allen (twins), April 20, 1953; Jeffrey Stewart, Dec. 8, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Representative director, Middlesex Health Association, 1950; rep-
resentative director, 1957, member, executive committee, Boston Sub-
division, 1957, Mass. Tuberculosis & Health League; member, Education
Committee, American Thoracic Society, 1957-58; secretary-treasurer, Mass,
Thoracic Society, 1956-58; executive member, American Thoracic Society,

[ 135]

¥

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

1958-59; president, Mass. Tuberculosis & Health League, 1957-59; repre-
sentative councillor, Mass. Thoracic Society, 1958-60, member, executive
committee, Mass. Tuberculosis & Health League, since 1959; member,
Special Advisory Committee, Division Tuberculosis Control, Mass. De-
parument of Health, 1959-60; member, board of trustees, since 1959, mem-
ber, executive committee, since 1962, Boston Tuberculosis Association.

MEMBER OF: National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate), Massachusetts
Medical Society; Middlesex South Medical Society; American Thoracic
Society; American Medical Association; College of Chest Physicians
(fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: ‘“Pyopneumothorax,” Amz. Rev. Tuberc, 1946; “Alternating
Pleurisy with Effusion,” New England Journal of Medicine, 1946; “The
Metabolism of Nicotinic Acid in Mycobacteria,” Am, Rev. Tuberc., 1957;
“Differentiation of Human Tubercle Bacille from Atypical Acid-fast
Bacilli,”” Am, Rev. Tuberc., 1958.

POSTGRADUATE TRAINING: Assistant in bacteriology and
immunology, Harvard Medical School (Dr. John Enders), March-
September, 1943; engaged in virus research and teaching of bacter-
iology.

Internship: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 1943-44.

Residency Training: Medical resident, Middlesex County Sana-
torium, Waltham, Mass., 1944-45; resident physician, 1946, chief
resident physician, 1947, Chest Service, Bellevue Hospital, New
York City.

Medical Practice and Experience: Assistant superintendent, Mid-
dlesex County Sanatorium, Waltham, Mass., 1948-51; in charge of
medical treatment; actively engaged in rehabilitation and hospital
administration.

Active Duty in Armed Forces: Captain, Medical Corps, AUS,
1951-$3; assigned to Army Chest Center, Fitzsimons Army Hos-
pital, Denver, Colo., after preliminary orientation as ward officer,
served variously as chief, Officers and Women’s Section (in medical
charge of six physicians and 300-500 patients) and chief, Admitting
Section, Chest Service, Fitzsimons Army Hospital, and medical
consultant, Camp Carson, Colorado Springs.

Medical Practice and Experience: Medical director, Middlesex
County Sanatorium, Waltham, 1953-54.

Private Practice of Internal Medicine: Office, Boston, Mass.,
since 1954; medical director, Local 380; limitation of office practice,
1962; medical director, Logan International Airport Medical Sta-
tion of Massachusetts General Hospital, May, 1962.

Hospital Appointments: Medical staff, Massachusetts General Hos-
pital, Boston: assistant in medicine, 1954-58, assistant physician,

[ 136 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since 1958; medical consultant and bronchoscopist, Middlesex
County Sanatorium, Waltham, since 1954; associate physician, New
England Center Hospital, Boston, 1954-59; associate physician,
Cambridge Sanatorium, 1954-59, management of active out-patient
diagnostic services, in-patient care and consultation, visiting staff,
Cambridge Sanatorium, 1959-62; medical consultant, Walter E.
Fernald School, Waltham, since 1959; attending staff, medical,
Veterans Administration Hospital, Boston, since 1960; consultant,
USPHS Hospital, Brighton, Mass., since 1962.

Teaching Appointments: Tufts College of Medicine, assistant in
medicine, 1945, instructor, Department of Public Health, 1948-50,
instructor in medicine, 1954-595 Harvard Medical School, assistant
in medicine, 1950, instructor in medicine, since 1951, pulmonary
disease course, third-year students.

Certification: American Board of Internal Medicine, 1958; sub-
specialty, pulmonary disease.

ROBERT HAMILTON BISHOP, Il

reper

 

HOME ApprEss: Arrowhead Farm, County Line Road, Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 610 National City Bank Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Los Alamos Ranch School, Los Alamos, N.Mex.; Western Reserve
Academy, Hudson, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B., 1941.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION; Attorney; private investor; president, Musicarnival, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Cleveland Institute of Music; Amasa Stone Home for
Aged Women; Great Lakes Shakespeare Festival, Chagrin Valley Associa-
tion, secretary, 1956-58, vice president, 1957-58, president, since 1959,
Musical Arena Theatres Association,

[ 137 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Chagrin Valley Hunt Club, Rowfant
Club, Union Club and University Club (all of Cleveland); American Al-
pine Club; Explorers; Lake Placid Club; Harvard Club of New York;
Shaw Society.

THIS stone has gathered little of the more obvious types of moss
during the past quarter century. No wife or children, only the odd
gray hair among its thinning companions, negligible increment of
waistline. This paucity of “moss” can scarcely be attributed to
extensive rolling. Home Base remains Cleveland, Ohio — even my
current address is the same as it was when I was an undergraduate.

The rolling has somehow always come full circle. From the law
to the Navy, back to the law made one cycle during the ’4o’s. Teach-
ing at Milton Academy and a period at Oxford University followed.
Then J returned to Cleveland once more. Now I think as a lawyer
and live as a client — perhaps the best of both worlds. It has been
a happy, varied, intensely interesting and, 1 hope, somewhat useful
life.

Musicarnival —the tent theatre I organized in 1954 — has just
completed its ninth year. This year a tornado blew our top off, a
fitting climax to a decade of crisis. We played the following night
as an open-air theatre, however, and so continued with great success
for an additional two weeks. We now have a new tent and look
forward to a successful tenth season.

I am also rounding out my third year as president of Musical
Arena Theatres Association. Tents are now definitely a part of the
American Living Theatre, although, for the moment at least, their
explosive growth has ceased. We are still faced with new and
challenging problems, and after a period of consolidation may look
forward to new creative horizons.

In 1963 I shall have the pleasure of serving as general chairman of
the Associated Harvard Clubs Meeting to be held in Cleveland. As
a result, this bachelor may even get to learn as much about what is
going on in Cambridge as some of you 1938 Harvard fathers.

[ 138 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EVERETT AUSTIN BLACK

  

HOME ADDRESS: Page Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 570 Pleasant St., Watertown, 72, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRiED: Anne Easton, Nov. 11, 1939. CHILDREN: Pamela, Oct. 1, 1942; Thomas
Everett, Aug. 26, 1943; Stanley Easton, Feb. 6, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Everett Black, *66.

occuPATION: President and director, Black & Webster, Inc., Black & Webster
Sales, Inc., Van Cleef Company, Edw. Blake Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1953-1958, chairman, 1956, Lincoln Planning Board;
member, Lincoln Capital Requirements Committee, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Concord Country Club; Portland Yacht
Club; Wianno Yacht Club.

WHEN I was fifteen or sixteen I decided that what I wanted to do
eventually was own my own manufacturing business. With a fine
partner, I have done just this for the last sixteen years. It has not
been the bed of roses that I pictured at fifteen, but after many early
struggles and much frustration it has become very rewarding and
satisfying. I am sure I have accomplished more as a person than I
could have in any other way.

Anne Easton, cousin of Classmate Bob, and I were married in
Spokane in 1939. We lived in New Hampshire for three years
while I worked in a machine shop and more or less learned the trade.
We moved to Lincoln twenty years ago and have three very satisfy-
ing children, one an upper at Exeter, one a freshman at Harvard and
one a senior at Garland.

For many years we spent our summers in Idaho with pack trips
fishing in the Rockies and a cruise in Puget Sound and British

[ 139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Columbia. For the past several years we have spent our vacations
cruising the New England coast on our schooner Blackbird. We are
now building a smaller boat which Anne and I can sail by ourselves
when the kids get sick of it, and we hope to be cruising for quite a
few years yet.

If I had it to do over from the age of about fifteen I can’t think
of a damn thing I would change.

JOHN BLACK

 

HOME apprEss: 44 Westfield Rd., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 130A Boylston St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938.

MaRRiED: Janet Rosenberg, 1949. CHILDREN: Joel D., Aug. 18, 1950; Seth L.,
Feb. 12, 1954; Jonathan G., Dec, 24, 1957.

OccuPATION: Construction and development — real estate; vice-president, Ham-
mond Construction Corporation and Welland Realty Company.

REUNION
Too soon to flicker and too late
For dreams, too much involved to bay
At moonbeams or articulate
The glory and the wonder of this day,
We sidle up to anniversary
As if, the morning after lovers’ night,
The tender possibility
Must face the heaviness of light.

Now hear the echoes of identity
Evoke hosannas and declare

A holiday from anonymity.
The muted chimes that wear

[ 140 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘The years and wait the hours now clang
‘Their vespers for the coins and casks
Of faithful on whose answers hang

The questions no one for the moment asks.

THE several selves I have become now look back on college days
and the years since, on which diverging roads were taken, and what
has been the difference.

One self remembers Schumpeter, Chamberlin and Slichter, and
the theories and problems of the entrepreneur, competition and pro-
ductivity. It notes their current validity (with due allowances) ap-
plied to construction and development work involving first, com-
munities of homes in the Greater Boston area, and, more recently,
several multi-story residential apartment buildings (Hammond
House, Executive House and Embassy House) and a motor hotel
(Hotel Corporation of America’s Charterhouse), all located at
Route g and Hammond Pond Parkway in Chestnut Hill, Newton.
This has been my economic, occupational self tangible and com-
mitted.

Another self is detached, private and sotto voce. It emerged
somewhere between F. O. Matthiessen’s class in American literature
and Theodore Spencer’s reading of Gerald Manley Hopkins’ poems,
and its fruits, especially in poetry, have provided ripening satisfac-
tion, though still thin and tender. “Way out near this tangent are
also the memories and consequences of Hocking’s sum bonum,
and Kirtley Mather’s nebulous hypothesis of how it all began.

A part of my social self recalls Dudley Hall, the cold paper-bag
lunches and hot commuter discussions, the broken intramural nose,
and some then-formed friendships that have worn well as evidenced
by, for instance, the cacophonous musicale group I play (or sup)
with each month.

Interwined with and giving light, tone and meaning to all the
above is the family self, which shares with wife Jan and three sons
a formative life, filled with the ups and downs of skiing and sailing,
growing pains and delights, and projects and dreams. We touch
Harvard at many points—at the museums and libraries, at San-
ders and the Observatory and the Stadium, taking courses, and en-
joying Harvard Square and Yard and the banks of the Charles.

Finally, there is the questioning self. It looks askance at passing
time. It is concerned, because despite these past prime twenty-five

years of life, love, Leyte Gulf and liberal causes, the selves in the
wavy mirror often don’t coordinate.

[14t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

But then again they do, and the world is bright, with so much to be
done if the spirit stays young, the mind alive and the faith fresh.

EDWARD BERNARD BLACKMAN

 

HOME ApprEss: 704 Beech St., East Lansing, Mich.

OFFICE appress: Michigan State University, East Lansing, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; S.1.B., cum laude,

1941; PH.D., 1947.

MarrieD: Gloria M. Cutler, 1948. cHmp: Robert Wells, March 29, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Professor, Michigan State University.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; Phi Kappa Phi; Association for
Higher Education; American Association of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Several books and articles in the field of higher education.

I'VE been on the faculty of Michigan State University since 1949
and have held five different posts in teaching and administration
during this time. I value the variety as an unexpected dividend. The
academic world isn’t as placid as some people on the outside think,
but it offers intellectual and cultural satisfactions that are hard to
come by elsewhere. And life in a university town has a special
quality of its own, partly owing to the character of the educational
enterprise, partly a result of the endless stream of young people who
spend a few years here.

Maybe it’s the academic environment, maybe the advance of
years, but I scem to grow more detached, less committed. The
blacks and whites of earlier certaintics become blurred; the am-
biguities, the paradoxes, the ironics of life seem to have as deep and
genuine a meaning as one can hope to find.

[ 142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The most important satisfactions have become, increasingly, those
that lie within the family.

FRANCIS GILMAN BLAKE, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 16822 Blake Rd., Yorba Linda, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: California Research Corp., P.O. Box 446, La Habra, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Hopkins Grammar School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., summa cum laude, 1938, AMM. 1940;
M.ENG.SCI., 1948; PH.D., 1949.

MarRIED: Marian Alice Wilson, July 12, 1939. CHILDREN: Emily Carter, March
25, 1942; Francis Gilman, 3d, Aug. 31, 1945.

occuPATION: Geophysicist; supervisor, Geophysics Section, California Re
search Corporation, a subsidiary of Standard Oil Company of California.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1960-62, president, 1960, 1961, Yorba Linda Homeown-
ers’ Association; member, Research Committee, Reviews Committee, Com-
mittee for Cooperation with Governmental Agencies, chairman, Subcom-
mittee for Oceanography, Society of Fxploration Geophysicists; member,
Geophysics Domain Committee, American Petroleum Insutute,; member,
Schools and Scholarships Committee, Harvard Club of Orange County.

MEMBER OF: Acoustical Socicty of America, Socicty of Fxploration Geo-
physicists; American Geophysical Union; Institute of Radio Engineers,
Harvard Club of Orange County; National Ritle Association; Sierra Club,
Yorba Linda Homeowners’ Association, Yorba Linda Republican Club,
Brea Rifle and Pistol Club; Sigma Xi; Phi Bera Kappa.

PuBLicaTions: About fifteen or twenty technical papers and patents.

TWENTY-FIVE years — what a shock! And what have I ac-
complished? Nort too much, I guess, but at least I've enjoved most
of it, The chronology is simple enough, like the experience record
ona job application: a year in Furope as a Sheldon Fellow following
graduation; return to Hlarvard for a Master's degree in physics in

[ 143]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

+ GEORGE ROBERT BLAKE, JR.

 

BORN: Jan. 16, 1916, Woburn, Mass, parents: George Robert Blake, Henrietta
Corners.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938.

marrieD: Ella Mae Givens, March 29, 1943, Houston, Texas. cHILpREN: Ella
Mae, Aug. 16, 1944; Barbara, March 21, 1954.

piED: July 24, 1958, Houston, Texas.

wiwow: Mrs. George R. Blake, 7110 Kinney St., Houston 17, Texas.

WHILE at college Blake was a member of the wrestling team and
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. After college he worked in
the building trades before enlisting in the Naval Reserve. During
World War II he spent five years in the Air Force, flying combat
in the Pacific. Since the war he had been associated with the
Sheffield Steel Corporation in Houston, Texas, where he was metal-
lurgist and customer contact man at the time of our last Report.

[ 146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALDEN SANFORD BLODGET, JR.

 

HOME ApDpREss: 10 Galbreath Drive, Princeton, N.]J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Air Reduction Sales Co., 150 E. 42d St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Louise Richards French, Oct. 18, 1941. CHILDREN: Alden Sanford,
3d, April 8, 1943; Dudley French, March 6, 1945; Henry Townsend,
March 19, 1946; Sarah Richards, Jan. 18, 1957.

occupaTION: General manager, Industrial Gas Marketing Department, Air Re-
duction Sales Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Springdale Golf Club and Nassau Gun
Club, Princeton, N.J.; Duquesne Club, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Chicago Club.

BOWING to a barrage of cards from Messrs. Davis and Wight, I
plunge into my biography with some trepidation.

In June, 1938, after squaring up laundry bills, miscellaneous
poker debts, etc., I was awarded my sheepskin in absentia.

Industry was not awaiting my arrival with bated breath. Took
summer job on Norwegian tramp steamer headed for Batista’s Cuba
to load sugar. Became separated from ship due partly to a hurricane
and partly to the fact that Havana beauties at that time did not
carry hand grenades and machine guns. Spent balance of summer
working my way back home to New York City. Grover Whalen
somehow missed my return but parents did not. Was instructed
to earn an honest buck quickly, In September, 1938, I went to
work as an assistant storekeeper for Air Reduction Company in
St. Louis, Missouri. First job unloading freight cars at 105° F.
Total earnings, one hundred dollars per month, Had a fabulous
time and at the end of every month was alw: ays solvent. Learned
that Midwest was populated with wonderful people (including

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

my wife to be) and very few Indians. October, 1940, I transferred
with Air Reduction (hereinafter called Airco) to Washington, D.C,
as junior salesman. Managed to remain a happy Republican in spite
of the exposure. Soon came the fishbowl episode causing me to
aspire to being a ninety-day wonder in USNR rather than a draftee.

In June, 1941, embarked on ninety days at Harvard Business
School in Navy Supply Corps. Majored in the navy and my fianceé,
Louise French, who tracked me down from St. Louis and married
same October 18, 1941, in Long Beach, California. Ten days later
en route to USS Pensacola in Pearl Harbor. From December, 1941,
to March, 1946, served variously on a destroyer, USS Hughes, then
on staff of Comservronsopac in New Caledonia, Naval Proving
grounds, Dahlgren, Virginia, then on staff of Comwesseafron in
San Francisco and a few more vicarious trips to Pacific.

Managed sufficient time to acquire three children, a love of the
water, a respect for the Japs who were busily kicking the hell out
of us when I was at sea, and an antipathy toward pineapple and
papaya. Someday will write a book entitled “I didn’t win the War,”
guaranteed to make best seller list.

From April, 1946, to January, 1949, was salesman for Airco,
living in Springfield, and Worcester, Massachusetts. From January,
1949, to March, 1953, lived in Dover, Massachusetts, as assistant
manager and manager of Boston district for Airco. March, 1953,
to June, 1957, lived in Sewickley, Pennsylvania, as manager of the
Pittsburgh district for Airco. Acquired a fourth child and first
daughter. June, 1957, to January, 1960, lived in Princeton, New
Jersey, as regional sales manager for Airco. January, 1960, to
February, 1962, lived in Lake Forest, Illinois, as vice-president of
the Midwest region for Airco. In February, 1962, returned to
Princeton, New Jersey, to work in New York City as general man-
ager of the industrial gas marketing department for Airco.

So ends my biography which will just about make the deadline

set by Messrs. Davis and Wight.

[ 148 ]

wiiiahenii BAe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EMMET J. BLOT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 55 E, 72d St., New York, N-Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 44 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1034-1935. DEGREES: A.B. (Stanford Univ.), 1938; LL.B. (Univ.
of California), 1947.

UNMARRIED,
occupation: Lawyer.

I ATTENDED Stanford University Law School from August,
1939, to June, 1940. I attended Boalt Hall of Law, University of
California, from August, 1940, until June, 1941. After the war I
graduated from Boalt Hall of Law in February, 1947, with the
degree LL.B.

I was on active duty with the U.S, Navy from June, 1941, until
February, 1946. My present rank is lieutenant commander (S.C.),
USNR (Ret.).

l have not been married. My office is 44 Wall Street, New York
City, where I am self-employed.

[ 149]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RICHARD LOURIA BLUM, JR.

  

     
   

Men uonarinrtngs,

‘
as
4

HOME AbprEss: 911 Park Ave., New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Julius Wile Sons & Co., Inc., 320 Park Ave., New York 22,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Woodmere Academy, Woodmere, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1938.

MarrigD: Joan Faith Harris, March 27, 1956. CHILDREN: Eleanor Harris, Feb.
20, 1957; Richard Louria, 3d, Sept. 14, 1959.

HARVARD SON: Cornelius Harris Marx, ’65 (wife’s son).

occuPATION: President, Julius Wile Sons & Co., Inc., importers of wines and
spirits.

OFFICES HELD: Director and member executive committee, National Associa-
tion of Alcoholic Beverage Importers, Inc.; director and member executive
committee, president, 1953, New York Importers and Distillers Associa-
tion, Inc.,; counselor, French Chamber of Commerce of the US., Inc.;
director and member executive committee, Licensed Beverage Industries,
Inc.; chairman, Wine and Spirits Division, Federation of Jewish Philan-
thropies of N.Y., 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sunningdale Country Club; Country
Club of Havana, Cuba; Confrérie des Chevaliers du Tastevin.

AT graduation I joined our family business, Julius Wile Sons & Co.,
Inc., importers of wines and spirits, and in September, 1938, I went
abroad to serve my apprenticeship in the various wine and spirit
producing regions of Europe. The outbreak of the war in September,
1939, ended a most pleasant and fruitful year during which I acquired
a deep affection for France and her people, a reasonable degree of
fluency in her language and a fairly good knowledge of her wines
and spirits.

For the next nine months I was a sales representative for our
company in Maryland, Washington, D.C., and Virginia and then I

embarked on a five-and-a-half-year naval career. I made the first

[ 150]

ER ne er en eng a Pe re EN En a eee ee ee rE ee eee et ee eee eee ee ee EN ee ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

V-7 cruise in the old U.S.S. Wyoming and was commissioned an
ensign in December, 1940. I was immediately assigned to the U.S.
Salt Lake City and served in her in various parts of the Pacific until
June, 1944, when I was assigned to a new carrier, U.S.S. Bon
Homme Richard, which most fortunately was being built in the
Brooklyn Navy Yard. We finally joined the fleet in March, 1945,
and operated in the Pacific until the end of the war. At war’s end, I
was serving as her gunnery officer with the rank of leutenant com-
mander.

I rejoined Julius Wile & Sons as a district sales supervisor and
assistant sales manager and for some five years I traveled extensively
throughout the southern and midwestern states. This carefree life
came to an abrupt end in May, 1950, when I had the great misfor-
tune to lose my father at the relatively young age of fifty-eight. I
succeeded my father as president of our company and since then my
business activities have been the usual ones of the chief executive
officer of a company. Our business stems primarily from European
sources and consequently I find myself in Europe for about two
months of every year visiting our suppliers in all the principal
countries of Western Europe.

JOSEPH BLUMENTHAL

4
4
1
j
4
Bi
i
a
‘i

eR NaN AE EON INET IE

IS SOR:

RE:

  

HOME ADDRESS: 312 Limekiln Pike, Glenside, Pa.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Blumenthal Bros. Chocolate Co., Margaret & James Streets,
Philadelphia 37, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Cheltenham High School, Elkins Park, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, cums Lande, 1938,

MarrieD: Joan P, Cassen, May 27, 1945. CHILDREN: Joseph, 3d., July 3, 1948; Jef-
frey Ray, May 27, 1950.

(ist)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occuPATION: Vice-president, Confectionery Department, Blumenthal Bros.
Chocolate Company.

I CONSIDER that part of my life which I feel willing to publish, to
be quite dull and colorless. After graduation I took a job in the firm
which presently employs me, and while my duties have increased in
responsibility, they have been directly concerned with the confec-
tionery department of this business all the time.

I entered Army service in January, 1942, and left in December,
1945. Most of the time in the Army was spent in England with the
8th Air Force. I met and married an English girl in 1945. Since the
end of World War II, my wife and I have traveled fairly often,
overseas once in a while. We still consider our principal efforts to
be directed at raising two sons who may one day be going to college,
and to the maintenance of home, job and marriage.

REGINALD BOARDMAN, JR.

     

 

   

‘ ‘ i og
Ma ee E es :
& fey ’ @
iS 5 * :
fee * a . g
By 4
: j _ 3 d
e ws "3 1
hh Ge

HOME ADDRESS: Pelican Lane, Palm Beach, Fla.
PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Citrus grower.

MEMBER OF: Seminole Golf Club, Palm Beach, Fla.

REAL estate business, Boston, 1938-40. U.S. Air Force, 1940-46.
Frozen food distributor, Palm Beach, 1947-51. Citrus grower, Palm
Beach, since 1952.

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD SHOVE BORDEN

ee : “4

   

HOME ApprEss: Lakeside Avenue, Westport Harbor, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Ashworth Bros., Inc., 89 Globe Mills Ave., Fall River, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938.

MARRIED: Louise Mills, 1939. cHILDREN: Richard Shove, 2d, January, 1942;
Peter M., July, 1944; David Van Dyne, 1948.

occUPATION: General purchasing agent—export manager, Ashworth Bros.,
Inc., textile machinery.

OFFICES HELD: Member Corporation Savings Banks Trustee; vestryman, Ascen-
sion Church, Fall River, Mass.; president, board of governors, Acoaxet
Club, Harvard Club of Fall River; secretary-director, Westport Im-
provement Trust, Harvard Varsity Club.

AFTER studying international law at Harvard, with an eye to the
Diplomatic Corps, I decided I would rather stay at home and entered
the textile business. Over the years, my choice might not have
been too bad. I have acquired a fine wife, three strong, healthy,
reliable sons, a home in a lovely location on the Atlantic coast, and
a large number of solid friends.

We hunt in the front yard in the fall, ski in New Hampshire in
the winter, and sail and fish a mile from the home from May through
October. Frankly, if I didn’t have a boy in college and two in
prep school, I wouldn’t swap it for the world.

[ 153 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JACOB BORNSTEIN

 

HOME AbpREsS: 85-27 Edgerton Blvd., Jamaica Estates, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 FE. 93rd St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938; M.D., cum
laude, 1942.

MarrigD: Maida Seltzer, Dec. 26, 1943. CHILDREN: Harold, March 26, 1947; Beth
Ann, May 29, 1949; Gail, May 28, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician — internal medicine.

MEMBER OF: Arthritis and Rheumatism Association.

FOLLOWING graduation from college I was fortunate to continue
on at the Harvard Medical School. There followed a quick one-
year internship before being snatched up for service in the armed
forces. I remember well my feelings at the time. How long we
labored to help the elderly and the chronically ill while young,
healthy men were being slaughtered in great numbers without
purpose. Yet, I was grateful to be self-supporting so early in my
medical career and to be able to afford a partnership with a most
lovely lady who has since contributed three wonderful children.

The outstanding event of this military phase was the last-minute
ditching of the colonel of our outfit because of his marked ineptness
in duty. The emotional tensions of this episode rivaled in every way
the removal of Captain Queeg in The Caine Mutiny.

Following the war I came to New York at the request of the
medical officer who was my chief at an army installation. I am sur-
prised to this day to find myself still living in this city. However,
I had become very interested in the emotional factors encountered
in medical practice, and I decided to pursue psychiatric training. I

[154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

got stuck right in the middle, unable to give up my interest in medi-
cine. I have since integrated the two disciplines in my practice.

I have a son who forces me on the ski slopes and two daughters
who reassure me that I look like a graduate of the Class of ’53. The
practice of medicine is hard and frustrating at times but 1 wouldn't
do anything else. My only wish would be to have another crack at
a four-year stretch at Harvard now that I feel sufficiently mature to

rofit from it. Instead [Il try to derive a vicarious thrill from my
children’s college adventures in the years ahead.

FRANK C. BOSLER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 1066, Laramie, Wyo.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938.

marriep: Shirley Paris, Aug. 24, 1952. CHILDREN: James Dudley, May 14. 1935;
Helen Elizabeth, June 14, 1960.

occUPATION: Rancher.
OFFICES HELD: County Commissioner-elect, Albany County, 1962, secretary,

Golf Club Acres Shopping Center, Colorado Springs, Colo., 1962; Olds and
GMC dealer, since 1946.
MEMBER OF: Denver Club; Elks; Wyoming Stockgrowers Association.
BORN to the cattle ranching business, I am still with it. The scene
of operations, though, has changed at times, from the Crow Reser-
vation in Montana to the Middle Park area of Colorado, including
various points in between. The changes in agriculture in my time
have been spectacular. Where I went to grade school in an open
horse-drawn “Cheyene” cart, my sev en-y ‘ear-old son has a well-
heated bus on a paved highw ay. From the summit, Just Cart of our
house, of the “gloomy Black Elills*—to borrow a phrase from

[155]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Francis Parkman, Class of 1844 — are visible Atlas and Minuteman
launching pads. With lasers, general use of hormones, alterations
of chromosomes, and many other developments, the promise of
only the near future is beyond my poor comprehension. We are
living in a world of fantastic opportunity. The big blight clearly
in sight is the trend to socialism with the certainty of a glacier’s
movement.

There is no question about it, my greatest satisfaction in life is
my wife and kids. I should have started earlier to raise a family.

Last summer, I allowed myself to be dragged into the political
arena, As when a fellow asks you to have another drink, I didn’t
have sense enough to say no, and now I find myself county com-
missioner,

Of course, to all classmates and friends is extended our invitation
to partake of our brand of “western hospitality.” You won't recog-
nize Laramie from the TV shows, but we still have some mighty
interesting country.

HUGH BOVINGDON

 

HOME appress; 19 Orchard St., Springfield, Vt.

OFFICE aDpRESs: Jones & Lamson Machine Co., Springfield, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1938.

Marriep: Ruth Warren, April 11, 1941. CHILDREN: Gail, Oct, 9, 1942; Derek,
Jan. 9, 1948.

OccuPATION: Production supervisor, Electrical Assembly Department, Jones &
Lamson Machine Company, machine tool manufacturer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and general manager, Randolph Furniture Com-

[156]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
pany, 1946-52; president, King-Torrey Products, 1952-54; manager, Mid-
dlesex Wood Products, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: American Radio Relay League; Vermont Civil Defense Depart-
ment RACES; Phoenix Lodge No. 28, F. & A.M.

I AM sitting in my hobby room, surrounded by ham radio equip-
ment, with call letters KrWLD on the one side and recording
turntables, tape recorder, and other electronic equipment used to
operate a small business as Colonial Records on the other, wondering
just how to start and how, since 1937, I ended up in this position.
Chronologically, it went something like this.

After leaving Harvard, I started work in an advertising agency in
Boston, production manager until the war started. Through a
series of service schools, I finally ended up on Guam in a fifth
echelon repair depot, B—z9’s only, and remained there until 1946,
administrative officer at the depot, and captain. Went directly into
the furniture business, manufacturing, and stayed there until 1952
when the business was sold. Then followed a few managerial jobs,
none of which lasted very long, until I found the Jones & Lamson
Machine Company. This company had size, ability, marvelous
product, sales organization and flexibility. I began by operating or
rather learning to operate every machine in the shop — drills,
mills, lathes, grinders, gear cutters and so on. Followed then a
period in time study, production and inventory control, and finally
the start of the electrical assembly area. This had not been done
before on any scale and presented a big challenge since we had to be
both fast and accurate. That is the point where | am now.

Family and hobbies have provided an even more interesting story.
Children first. Gail, now twenty, is studying at the Columbia Pres-
byterian School of Nursing, after two years at the Connecticut
College for Women at New London. Her life work can be assured.
Derek, on the other hand, is a freshman in high school, has made and
captained the freshman football team, hockey team, and will trv
baseball next. He is fourteen, five feet ten, ‘and 170 pounds, and
might be a great Harvard back in five years! Marks will tell.

Our hobbies completely fill the spare hours. We have built a hob-
by room where Ruth sews, [ either talk with the world on ham radio,
or cut records for various customers. This is probably the warmest
room in this fourteen-room old house we have refurbished. That
project, started in 1956, is just about done now, and we can re-
lax a little. Vermont docsn’t lend itself too well to relaxing, however,
and there is always something to be done. We find time for tennis

[157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

golf, swimming in the summer, and skiing in the winter. Twentv-

five years since 1938 are almost over; one wonders what the next
twenty-five will bring.

DOUGLAS MALCOMSON BOWEN

 

HOME appress: 8 Chase Rd., Hanover, N.H.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H.
PREPARED AT: Glen Ridge High School, Glen Ridge, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938(37); A-M., 1939;
PH.D., 1940.

Marrigp: Louise Thompson Hayward, Oct. 23, 1943. CHILDREN: Douglas Mal-
colmson, Jr., Dec. 1, 1945; Alison Hayward, March 11, 1948.

occupaTIon: College education; professor of chemistry, Dartmouth College.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Dept. of Chemistry, 1959-63, member, Committee on
Educational Policy, 1954-60, Dartmouth College.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in chemical journals.

A VERY tardy writing of this account leaves me neither the time
nor the inclination to start back at graduation or to summarize
changes with the years. So I shall indicate what has happened since
the Eighteenth Anniversary Report.

Life at Dartmouth and in Hanover has continued to be both
hectic and peaceful and at almost all times enjoyable. At the time
of the last Report we were just about to decide to build a house —
although we had no idea then we were about to reach this decision
after some nine years of owning a lot. We moved in during the

spring of 1958 and have been finishing rooms, landscaping, etc.,
from time to time ever since.

The last Report found me in the most productive period of a six-

[ 158 ]

ahaa tol mela aspebs alt

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year spell on Dartmouth’s Committee on Educational Policy. The
main achievement of the committee during these years was the
devising and installing of our “three-term, three-course” curricu-
lum, a scheme under which each student elects only three courses
per term, has four (rather than the usual three) meetings per course
per week, and works under the calendar of the “quarter” system
(first term over before Christmas, second at start of spring vacation,
third just prior to Commencement time). We believe our students
are studying more efficiently than in the old days. They are sure
they work harder than their predecessors.

My term on the CEP had not quite expired when I became chair-
man of our department for a four-year term, just about to finish.
This rather harrowing policymaker-executive-officeboy role has
just about covered the period in which Dartmouth and our depart-
ment have added to high-quality undergraduate teaching an active
graduate and undergraduate research program.

The next change in the college’s activities will be the introduc-
tion this year of a summer session, a belated product of the CEP
during my term. As departmental enthusiast for summer programs
I shall be teaching half of the organic chemistry class. (Hard-
working sons and daughters will be welcome.)

The year beginning with the summer of 1960 was spent most
delightfully in California. I was so fortunate as to obtain a National
Science Foundation Faculty Fellowship to do research while getting
a change of scenery at Stanford. All of us had a wonderful time.
There was little of California and not much of the West we had not
seen on our return 35,000 miles later. Despite the dire predictions
of converts to California, its climate, and way of life, we still enjoy
New England and snowy winters.

To close, life so far has been just about what I should have selected
at graduation. Weezie and I don’t feel much older as yet, but we
are forced to recognize that our children are pretty close to leav-
ing for college.

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WILLIAM HUGH BOWEN

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 5514 Yolanda Lane, Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 518 Meadows Bldg., Dallas, Texas.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1937; LL.B. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Patricia Meredith, May 16, 1942. CHILDREN: Meredith Ann, July 5,
1943; Patricia Chase, Sept. 11, 1947; Linda Speed, May 25, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Investments and cattle.

OFFICES HELD: Director and vice-president, State Securities, Inc., since 1957;
director, Insurance Securities, Inc., since 1956, Southwestern Investors, Inc.,
since 1957, Bowen Manufacturing Company; director, vice-president and
secretary, Bowen-Keltner Company, since 1960; president, Merpatlin Cor-
poration, since 1959; partner, Bowen-Owen Cattle Company, since 1959;
owner, Bowen Farms, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Northwood Club; Dallas Bar Association; Texas Bar Association.

IN order to save a year of school, I switched to the University of
Chicago at the end of my sophomore year. I was back in Cam-
bridge a year later to enter the Law School. After graduating in
1940, I suffered the then usual fate of the struggling young lawyer —
twenty-five dollars per week! — until the U.S. Navy took me on
for four years. Six months of various schools, three years at sea in
sub-chasers and destroyer-escorts, plus the last six months of the
war in Hawaii provided the never-to-be-forgotten scenes and ex-
periences so many of us shared.
After the war, I rejoined the fine Chicago law firm of Chapman
& Cutler where I became a partner in 1950. Shortly thereafter, I
was very fortunate in associating with the wonderful Murchison
family of Dallas by starting a new law firm in Dallas called Jenkens
& Bowen. We handled many matters for the family. As a result, it

[ 160 ]

= Ai chs pHa ae he  NeEilinhi eli R bebe ie 2 ol

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was an easy transition to joining Murchison Brothers themselves
to do financial and supervisory work for many of their enterprises.

The fabulous fifties enabled me to retire at the end of 1959. Since
then I customarily roll over at 8:00 a.m. instead of getting up —
unless I am at our ranch and want to join the early risers who handle
the cattle. This is the life! In the fashion of writers, acknowledg-
ments and deepest thanks are due to more than I can here name.
Not the least is Harvard University.

RONALD ROADMAN BOYD

“ed Forni nee anemeemenarnegiins vane tg

fre

‘

a
Q a

  

HOME ApprRESs: 83 Perkins Rd., Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1407 Broadway, New York 18, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Chelmsford High School, Chelmsford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MarRIED: Alyce Byron, Aug. 2§, 1951. CHILDREN: Bradford Marshall, Nov. 17,
1953; Linda Maxwell, Feb. 10, 1955; Ronald Roadman, Jr., March 26, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Amerotron Company, Division of Tex-
tron, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, executive committee member, National
Association of Wool Manufacturers, since 1959; director and executive
committee member, Woolens & Worsteds of America, since 1960; chair-
man, Advisory Technical Consultant Group to Economic Policy Commit-
tee, American Textile Manufacturers Institute, 1962-63; vice-president and
director, Perkins Road Association, Greenwich, Conn,, since 1960; treasurer,
Couples Club, Second Congregational Church, Greenwich, Conn. 1962-63.

MEMBER OF: New York Board of Trade; Defense Supply Association; Weavers
Club; New England Society of New York; Harvard Club of New York.

I CAN certainly say that my twenty-five years since graduation
have been most enjoyable; filled with activity, challenge, and blessed
with a happy family life.

{ 161]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Joining Textron just twenty years ago, I found myself in a fast-
moving and growing company. I moved to New York City in 1944
and have made my office there ever since. In 1955 I became a
vice-president and director of Amerotron, the textile division of
Textron, Inc., and two years later was appointed executive vice-
president of this division, With the tremendous changes that have
taken place in our industry during this period, my work and travel
have been both varied and stimulating and I have enjoyed every
minute of it.

Alyce and I moved to Greenwich in 1951, where we are bringing
up our three children — Brad, Linda and Chip. About three years
ago we decided to move out to the country and accordingly pur-
chased property and built a new home. Suffice it to say that the
whole family is thoroughly happy with this change.

DUDLEY HALL BRADLEE, II

 

HOME AppREss: 5 Ledgewood Rd., Winchester, Mass.

orFice appress: Hemphill, Noyes & Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

Maraiep: Sally Wilbur, June 19, 1936 (divorced 1946); Jane Armstrong, March
27, 1948. cHitpren: Ann, Feb. 19, 1937 (72. Theodore Richmond Tauchert,
May 10, 1958); Ellen, Sept. 11, 1940; Margaret Loring, Dec. 30, 1948.
GRANDCHILDREN: Amy Harding Tauchert, April 19, 1959; Charles Wilbur
Tauchert, Feb. 15, 1961; Sarah Richmond Tauchert, May 5, 1962.

occupation: Investment banker.

orrices HELD: Vice-president, Massachusetts Chapter, Arthritis and Rheumatism
Foundation; director, Winchester Hospital, Girltown, Inc., Winchester
Co-Operative Bank; director and member, Invesement Committee, Charles-

[ 162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bank Homes; vice-president and director, Home for Aged People in Win-
chester; treasurer, Badminton and Tennis Club, 1957-61.

MEMBER OF; Union Club of Boston; Winchester Country Club; Badminton
and Tennis Club; Bond Club of Boston; International Club.

MY LIFE since leaving Cambridge has undoubtedly been more pro-
vincial and stereotyped than that of many of my classmates. 1 am
still living in Winchester, Massachusetts, and have been conunuously
in the same business. Nevertheless this span of time has had its re-
wards and I am thankful for the good share of well-being that has
been accorded me.

On graduation I became associated with the investment firm of
Kidder, Peabody & Company. This was a field that I] thought would
be a profitable and satisfying one. The first years certainly were not
characterized by the former and early in 1o4t I became associated
with one of the predecessors of my present firm. In this early period
I thought I had all the answers to things financial, a conception that
time obliterated. However, I am still as fascinated as ever with the
world of securities. Since 1952 I have been a general partner in the
firm of Hemphill, Noyes & Company, where practically all the
other partners are graduates of either Cornell, Princeton or Yale.

I have three children, all daughters. Ann, the eldest, is married to
Theodore Tauchert and they have three children. Ellen, who gradu-
ated from junior college last year, is working in a Boston bank.
Loring is at Concord Academy.

T am still conservative in my political outlook as befits one in
my business. I am a member of and believer in the philosophy of the
Unitarian Church but I rarely attend. In looking ahead I can only

hope that the future is as good to me as the past has been, particularly
the more recent years.

[ 143]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FRED CHARLES BRADY

 

HOME aApprEss: 36 Hancock St., Boston 14, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Boston Herald, 300 Harrison Ave., Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
MARRIED: Josena W. M. T. Gali, Aug. 23, 1943.
OCCUPATION: Reporter.

I AM a reporter, so here is a strange thing to report. I can tell you
exactly what I’ve done with twenty-five dollars. I can’t tell you
beans about what I’ve done with twenty-five years. I wish — at the
risk of boring you—I had Harry Pulham’s total recall. By which
I mean the Marquand skill at it.

Now, after Harvard there was this job with the Associated Press.
Then there was this girl I met and love and married — her name
will come to me in a minute. Then there was this fearsome war,
then this fragile peace. Then there was this job with The Boston
Herald. Oh, her name is Josena.

Now, that tells it. Anyway, that’s about twenty dollars’ worth
of it. For the life of me, I can’t remember what I did with the rest.
I hope — for once —I had the good grace to lend it to a friend.

[ 164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JESSE ALBERTINE BRAINARD

    

HOME AbpREss: Melody Farm, South Coventry, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sikorsky Aircraft Div., United Aircraft Corp., Stratford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1938-1939.

MARRIED: Suzanne Dudley Welles, Oct. 18, 1941. CHmpren: John Welles, Feb.
8, 1944; Thomas Welles, Jan. 18, 1946, William Welles, Dec. 10, 1954;
Robert Welles, Feb. 7, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Training director (management and industrial training).

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Board of Education, 1948-56; president, Connecticut
Educational Council, 1955-56, trustee, Booth Dimock Library (Conn.),
1947-1954; president, Bridgeport Training Council, 1958, 1962; past master,
Uriel No. 24, A.F. & A.M., 1959; director, Connecticut Citizens for the
Public Schools, 1954-58.

MEMBER OF: American Helicopter Society; American Society of Training Di-
rectors, YMCA, Bridgeport; Connecticut State Police Auxiliary.

[ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT SHEPARD BRAINERD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Oak St., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 721 Huntington Ave., Boston
15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1938.

MarRiED: Carol Irene Hutchings, Feb. 24, 1946. CHILDREN: David Coates, Oct.
15, 1950; Madeleine Hutchings, Nov. 4, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Accountant; assistant director, Office of Grants & Contracts, Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, One World Congress, 1947-49; treasurer, Wellesley
Human Relations Services, 1955; chairman, Natick Fair Housing Practices
Committee, 1957-60; member, board of directors, Unitarian Church of
Natick, 1960-62; chairman, Fair Housing Federation of Greater Boston,
1960-61; treasurer, Fair Housing, Inc., since 1962.

AS an undergraduate, I may be remembered for my preoccupation
with the problem of preventing World War II. I report for the re-
cord that I failed. In the summer of 1938, I spent several weeks in
Austria with the Quakers in their work with the Jews trapped by
the Anschluss with Germany. During the next two years, I held
down a job with a Boston investment counselling firm. The “sitz-
krieg” was getting ready to blitz, and I worked with the neutrality
committees. Before the bombs had dropped on Pearl Harbor, |
was giving full time to a pacifist group operating a cooperative farm
and a live-in settlement house in Central Square, Cambridge. The
sincerity and fellowship of this group was a rich experience. Near
the close of three and a half years in the camps for conscientious
objectors — wilderness years, both literally and spiritually —I met
Carol Hutchings at a peace center in Los Angeles. We were married
and came Fast. Now I was working on a program to prevent World

[ 166 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

War III; but to share the burden of this modest assignment, I now

had a lovely and understanding lifelong companion. (What she had
acquired in return is a good question.)

New York was the new World Capital. For us it meant a summer
in Harlem, a year in a cold-water flat in the industrial region below
Canal Street, and a more respectably housed year on 84th Street.
During these years I was secretary of the One World Congress, an
organization with a comprehensive, non-pacifist approach to world
peace, attempting to organize on an international scale commensurate
with the problem. Already existing non-governmental organizations
were to be the basis for a people’s lobby at the United Nations. Har-
vard was unofficially represented in this endeavor by our chairman,
Professor Kirtley Mather, who gave of himself enthusiastically and
brilliantly. Success was almost ours. A number of large, middle-of-
the-road organizations had joined. The list on our letterhead was
long and illustrious. But suddenly the cold war was upon us. Mc-
Carthyism loomed over the horizon. Fund raising became impos-
sible.

Carol and I retreated to the small town of Boxboro, Massachu-
setts, where I worked blue-collar in a factory. After two years, 1
was ‘offered a job at the Harvard School of Public Health as busi-
ness manager of a research project in community mental health. At
this point we acquired our first child, and quite coincidentally of
course, my employment record improved. After a vear of graduate
accounting study at Boston University, 1954-55, I began my present
career as an accountant for research funds at the Peter Bent Brigham
Hospital in Boston. I am now assistant Director of the Office of
Grants and Contracts, with control of funds used in medical re-

search at the hospital and elsewhere in Harvard Medical area.

Today we live in Natick, quite conventional suburbanites, in-
volved in P.T.A., League of Women Voters, the Unitarian Church,
and just plain family living. Sununers are spent on Martha's Vine-
yard, Cape Cod, or touring in our Jeep station wagon. In igsg and
1962, we flew to California for a month with Carol's parents in
Pasadena. One recent accomplishment in home-town soctal action
should be tallicd. TI was co-founder of the Natick Fair Housing
Committee, which is the progenitor of many similar committees
forming a widespread movement for equal opportunity in: private
housing for members of racial minorities.

In twenty-five years T have acquired some of the sophiacation
most of my classmates had when they graduated. Pino longer be-

[ 167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

lieve that Grandhian non-violence — effective as it is proving in the
desegregation of our South—is a feasible answer to totalitarian
aggression. On the other hand, police states do not just grow out
of a vacuum, In many areas, American policy, a product of Ameri-
can culture, is still far from enlightened. I doubt the next quarter
century will see me in the Pentagon! What hope I have is in the
evolution of the United Nations toward world government. May
this evolution accelerate faster than our problems intensify.

WILLIAM EWING BRASSERT

MAILING AppRESs: 1 Rue de Commerce, Geneva, Switzerland.

+ SHERMAN BRAYTON

    
    
 

 
   

 
    

of
*

BorN: July 19, 1915, Fall River, Mass. parents: William Lawton Slade, Mary
Ashley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lawton Slade Brayton, °28; Lincoln Davol Brayton, ’28,

LL.B., 31; Perry Ashley Brayton, ’33; Richard Anthony Brayton, ’37.
prep: Lost at sea after Dec. 19, 1941, in the Atlantic Area.

AFTER graduation Brayton became associated with the Aluminum
Company of Canada, Ltd. He spent a year at the company’s plants
in Shawinigan Falls and Arvida, Quebec, and then was assigned to
the shipping division at Montreal. In March, 1941, he was trans-
ferred to St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, where he was employed by
Saguenay Terminals, Ltd., a subsidiary of the Aluminum Company

[ 168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Canada. Brayton sailed from St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, on De-
cember 10, 1941, on board the Canadian vessel SS Nereus. The
Nereus was never heard from after leaving port and is presumed
to have been lost with all aboard as a result of enemy action. He
was survived by his mother, four brothers and four sisters.

RICHARD PARK BRECK

 

porN: Oct. 9, 1915, Medford, Mass. parents: Edgar Raymond Breed, Gert
Sauer.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 19347-1938. DEGREE: 8.8, cum late, 1938,

UNMARRIED.

piep: Killed in action, Oct. 6, 1943, near the Vella Lavella IMands.

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
AFTER graduation Breed entered the employ of the Shell Oil

Company, doing geological field work from their plant in Centralia,
Illinois. In April, 1941, he was called to active duty as an ensign in
the Naval Reserve, and was a lieutenant at the time of his death. He
was cited for conspicuously meritorious conduct and outstanding

performance of duty in July, 1943, for his part as assistant damage
control officer of the USS Chevalier, in the rescue under shore

battery and aircraft bombardment of survivors of a ship sunk in
Kula Gulf. He was killed in action when the Chevalier was tor-

pedoed and sunk. He was survived by his parents, a brother and
two sisters.

ALFRED ROY BRENHOLTS

ane:

    

HOME ADDRESS: 2770 E, Broad St., Columbus, Ohio.

OFFICE apprEss: 86 E. First Ave., Columbus Ohio,

PREPARED AT: Kiskiminetas Springs School, Saltsburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Heloise Smartt, Dec. 28, 1946. cumpreN: Alfred Roy, Jr. Oct. 1,
1947; H. Susan, Sept. 28, 1950; George R., July 13, 1952.

OCCUPATION: President, Stitt Spark Plug Company; vice-president, Rogers
Printing Company.

MEMBER OF; Delta Upsilon Fraternity, Columbus Country Club; Society of
Automotive Engineers; Quiet Birdmen; National Engine Use Council

(director).
IT just doesn’t seem possible that the Twenty-fifth Reunion of the
Class of 1938 is upon us. The year 1938 seems further from us than
the planet Jupiter today. So many things have happened that it is
difficult to realize that all the dreams we had twenty-five years ago
are yet to be accomplished. On the other hand, so many things

[ 170]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have transpired that it is hard to go back to the planet we knew
then.

After graduation I spent three years sampling a variety of busi-
ness activities — an ascent from automobiles to airplanes via bank-
ing. Yes, a southern blonde helped hasten this “climb.” I found I
could cover the distance from Augusta, Georgia, to Savannah faster
by plane. By December of ’41, it was rather apparent that being a
foot soldier for “Uncle Sam” was very likely, and before I knew it
I was a pilot trainee with Pan-American Airways in Miami, Florida.
After eight months as a “fly-boy” with Pan-American, the Air
Force offered us a little more assertive type of employment in the
form of the Air Transport Command. We learned how to fly some
rather interesting airplanes to spectacular parts of the world. For
two and one-half years we flew cargo and passengers across the
South Atlantic.

After the war I returned to my native Columbus, Ohio, and en-
tered the real estate business, specializing in the commercial and in-
dustrial aspects of the field. Flying still had me in its grasp in my
small Luscombe. Too soon I graduated to marrage and a twin-
engine Cessna simultaneously. This “high flying” — with hangar
rent more than apartment rent —took “a nose dive” by our dis-
posing of the airplane. One “navigating” wife and three children
grounded my soaring ambitions for eight years — or rather, limited
them to family business.

By 1955 I was back in the “realm of the air,” thanks to my pur-
chasing and operating an unusual spark plug business — the manu-
facruring of Stitt industrial spark plugs. In this wav I had developed

a “bread-winning” venture which allowed me to fly too, Manu-
facturing spark plugs for industrial engines and marketing them all
over the country makes it possible for me to “touch down” in such
romantic spots as Bourbon Street, Wilshire Boulevard, Santa Fe,
Durango, Las Vegas and Calgary. The greatest hazard in this ideal
combination of business and flying is complaints from one wife
(who is now too sleepy to navigate) and three children about my
absence from home. My response to this heckling is that they like
to eat, especially my six- -foor, fifteen-year-old “one- “ontinuous-meal”
son.

About seven years ago involvement in another venture resulted in
our organizing the Rogers Printing Company. This has no rela-
tion to the spark plug business, but we do produce some intereting
four color work. So far there is no evidence of the prohe motive,

(ize)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

but we enjoy printing all kinds of advertising brochures so other
people can make a profit. ‘The turn about seems just at the foot of
the “rainbow.”

So that there may be no mistake about where I stand politically, I
wish to report I am a conservative Republican. I deplore our move
to the welfare state as engineered by the Fabian Socialists. The so-
called liberals have been badly fooled, in my opinion, and I pray to
God that this country’s educational system will continue to develop
men who can stand up to the world and to the Communists so that
our children may survive in a society that is worth saving. If, to
the contrary, we become just as socialistic as Communist Russia,
then I think we, particularly Harvard graduates, have failed and
failed the founders of our wonderful country.

Harvard “ties” still enter into the design of our “after sundown”
life. Dancing clubs, symphonies and Saturday night soirées find us
in the usual heated discussions of philosophy, government, eco-
nomics and education with Harvard friends — Jim Gorrell, ’37,
George Kauffman, ’37, Gebhard Keny, ’37 and Myron Kauffman,
°38. Fly fishing is my escape recreation. (Note, it combines well
with my flying and wandering propensities.) Finally, I refuse to
let JFK spoil Jan Fleming for me!

STEPHEN HENRY BRENNAN, JR.

     

? a
2 ’
dpi AS Sa ad ila se SR Lg RCA ala la

 

oa “ &
Cad ® : ss . o
: 2 ee :
PS apt

HOME aAppRESs: 777 Great Pond Rd., North Andover, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: S. H. Brennan, Inc., 20 Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

[172 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Dorothy M. Hendrick, April 15, 1939. cHiLpREN: Patricia, Jan. 20,
1940 (#. Edward Kfoury, Aug. 5, 1961); Susan, Aug. 10, 1942; Martha,

Jan. 2, 1945; Stephen, Oct. 17, 1949. GRANDCHILD: Mark Edward Kfoury,
Oct. 24, 1962.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, S, H. Brennan, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Community Savings Bank.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Andover Country Club; Massachusetts

Audubon Society.

I HAVE always thought that asking anyone to read your auto-
biography was like asking him to view your colored slides. Brevity
not only cuts costs but corners— therefore —I’ve had the same
job for twenty-five years, the same wife for twenty-four. We
have had the usual number of crises, have produced four children,
have bought and sold two houses and built a third, acquiring the
common assortment of animals along the way, i.e. stray cats, lost
dogs, crippled birds, orphaned rabbits and a frozen snake. Our
children have continued our education at a hectic pace. Patricia
took us through the early stages of parenthood, through the educa-
tional program with asides for sailing, skiing and taxiing, finally
being graduated as a school teacher just in time to marry the boy
returning from military duty. She has just now produced a grand-
son and sent us off on another task.

Susan leans toward music, is a student of the Oberlin Conserva-
tory now studying voice at the Mozarteum, Salzburg, Austria. Her
talents run all the way from folk music plus a goya guitar to Ger-
manic opera. Her striving to be the new Brinnhilde has whetted
her mother’s musical abilities and has exposed me to yet another type
of culture that belittles my feeble efforts on the harmonica.

Martha is our lover of animals and has exposed us to the care and
feeding of countless strays. We have put splints on the legs of birds
and fed whiskey to a wild duck with convulsions. He refused to
leave when winter came. She acquired a horse who thought he was
a dog and acted like one. By throwing in the saddle and a couple
of bags of oats, however, we were able to find another home for
him. Martha is now headed for a school of nursing.

Stephen is our sportsman and plays anything in season plus mixing
in a good amount of fishing, the results of which are often rushed
home dangling from the handlebars to be placed in a bathtub for
immediate artificial respiration and later comparison or exhibition.
At present he is busily preparing for prep school admission tests.

Living in the country has its problems and rewards. My wife
is on the road so much, the professional drivers blink their lights

[173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

or toot their horns in salute. The wild-life, however, including
deer, make life more exciting and the birds offer many pleasant
hours of watching. All of our children have gone to private schools,
each of which seemed to be waiting for them to arrive before start-
ing a program of expansion or renovation. This is the excuse I offer
for appearing at the Reunion in my old suit.

WILLIAM BECKWITH BREWSTER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Northfield, West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 85 Jefferson St., Hartford 14, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.D., 1942.

MarrieD: Barbara L. Bauer, Aug. 7, 1948. CHILDREN: Robert William, Jan. 21,
1952; Nancy Louise, June 19, 1954; James Beckwith, Sept. 20, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Private practice of ophthalmology since 1950.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in ophthalmology, Hartford Hospital, since 1950, New-
ington (Conn.) Veterans Hospital, since 1954; senior attending surgeon in
ophthalmology, Rocky Hill Veterans Hospital and Home, Rocky Hill,
Conn,, since 1955; associate in ophthalmology, James J. McCook Memorial
Hospital, since 1957; secretary, Dept. of Ophthalmology, Hartford Hos-
pital, 1954-62; secretary, Hartford Eye, Ear, Nose & Throat Society, 1960-
62; chairman, Legislative Committee, and member, executive committee,
Eye Section, Connecticut State Medical Society, 1962-63.

MEMBER OF: National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate); American
Board of Ophthalmologists (diplomate),; New England Ophthalmological
Society; Hartford Medical Society; Hartford County Medical Association;
American Medical Association; Hartford Civitan Club; chairman for
various years of Little League Committee; Objectives Committee; Awards
Committee.

AFTER leaving the stately portals of the College, I entered the
Medical School to find Phi Beta Kappa keys dangling from two out

[ 174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of every three vests— not mine. Events progressed at their usual
hectic pace from human cadavers to cadaverous humans with a
liberal admixture of microscopes and test tubes and clinics to an
M.D. degree in 1942. This was followed by a year of rotating in-
ternship in the Hartford Hospital in Hartford, Connecticut, before
the Army issued its thinly veiled hint that it could use the services
of any young doctors available.

The Army trained me as an anesthesiologist, in which capacity I
served in Brooke General Hospital and mainly with the rroth
Evacuation Hospital in the European Theatre. The Atom Bomb
prevented a planned migration to the CBI Theatre, but signalled
the start of a year of pleasant but frustrating occupational duty,
principally i in Austria.

Four years of eye training were then acquired variously in a
preceptorship 1 in Hartford, the Harvard Medical Graduate School,
and the Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary, leading to the starting of a
solo practice in 1950 and certification by the American Board of
Ophthalmology in 1951. The practice has built up well and keeps
me busy indeed. I find Ophthalmology a pleasant and gratifying
branch of medicine and do not mind fighting to save sight rather
than life itself.

The arrivals of our children starting in 1952 have greatly enriched
our lives although we are beginning to find it difficult to keep abreast
of some of the more recent concepts in teaching.

For amusement, sailing has been my first love for the past thirty
years or more and has consisted mainly of non-competitive sailing
in a variety of small boats ranging from two surplus airplane fuel
tanks welded together in an Army recreation area near Marseilles,
to Penguins, Cape Cod boats, Lightnings, a twenty-seven-foot aux-
iliary sloop, and now a seventeen-foot fiberglas sloop, by Sailstar,
plus occasional races with a friend’s large yawl. Swimming, photog-
raphy, skating, and a touch of stamp ‘collecting are my other
principal forms of relaxation when not engaged in the usual round
of medical, church and other meetings, emergency calls, and the
usual domestic chores.

We have a healthy interest in the church and civic affairs and in
general lead an average, busy, American life. The world does not
hang upon our every utterance as it docs upon some of those of
the University’s more illustrious graduates, but in general it is
pretty good to the Brewsters and we are happy with our lot.

(175 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JACOB SAMUEL BRIAN

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 939 Lindale Ave., Drexel Hill, Pa.

OFFICE AbpREsS: 209 McClatchy Bldg., Upper Darby, Pa.

PREPARED AT: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania)
1953-

MarRIED: Ruth Hazel Payton, 1944. CHILDREN: Sara Jane, April 26, 1947; Sam-
uel Payton, Dec. 18, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Executive Board, American Civil Liberties Union,
Delaware County Chapter; member, Subcommittee on Constitutional Re-
vision of Pennsylvania Constitution, Pennsylvania Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania Bar Association, Delaware County (Pennsylvania)
Bar Association.,

IF this statement arrives at the office of the Class Secretary too late
to appear in this volume, it is because I shrink from the effort needed
to make a coherent report of my activities since 1938. Most of what
I have done — or failed to do — seems in retrospect to be not par-
ticularly significant. Much seems meaningless or even absurd. If it
is of some passing interest to my friends, so be it.

Having left college with no more idea of what I wanted or how
to go about finding out than when I entered, I thought it would be
pleasant to drift around a bit after graduation. I drifted into (and
out of) a succession of jobs as a cub reporter for a number of small
New England daily newspapers. The thing I remember most vividly
from that long, long ago was sitting at my desk on the day the war
broke out in Europe, writing a piece about the reaction of the “man
in the street” to news of the outbreak of hostilities. [ had inter-
viewed no one — in the street or elsewhere; I made it all up. But it

[ 176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was a good piece and I was complimented by the boss. I’ve never
believed anything I read in the newspapers since that time.

That brings me to the war, which I fought in Boston Harbor,
Camp Davis, North Carolina; Republic of Panama; Costa Rica,
Camp Davis, North Carolina, Camp something or other, California,
Fort Benning, Georgia, Fort McClellan, Alabama, Camp Gordon,
Georgia; Fort Devens, Massachusetts. Modern war is fought by
civilians and run by soldiers. It ought to be the other way around.

The only thing | did that was of any lasting importance during the
war was to get married. I met my wife on Monday and we were
engaged by Friday of the same week, thus demonstrating that I am
a creature of sudden, but sound, impulse.

I went into business for a couple of years after the war, but that
bored me stiff. So | returned, somewhat eagerly, to school at the
University of Pennsylvania Law School (with time out for another
eighteen months of military service during the Korean War). Then,
for the first time, I felt an intellectual challenge that somehow failed
to ignite in my undergraduate years. [I enjoyed law school and since
admission to the bar in Pennsylvania I’ve enjoyed the practice of law
in a suburban county adjacent to Philadelphia. It’s not as exciting,
perhaps, or as lucrative as a metropolitan practice can be, but there
are sufficient opportunities here for the working out of problems that
are relished only by lawyers. I’ve no real kick coming.

I turn at last to those two wonderful beings whom I fathered —
Sara Jane and Sam. As they’ve grown, I’ve come to realize how
much of the fabric of my life is woven out of the sweet pleasure of
theirs. It is with their help, all innocent and unknowing, that I have
thus far survived the harshest moments of my life.

[177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN PAUL BRIGGS

SLI

go
.
SF
‘

x

Ss

S

:

 

HOME apprEss: R.D. 3, Newark, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of Social Service, Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawy, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938, A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Edna Alice Wilson, June 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Erich Victor, Dec. 12,
1944; Walter John, July 4, 1946; Charles Colman, Dec. 4, 1949; Elsa Irene,
Aug. 26, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Social work; practical caseworker in juvenile delinquency, do-
mestic and psychiatric problems.

OFFICES HELD: Apprentice case worker or aide, Children’s Village, Dobbs
Ferry, N. Y., 1940-1942; Bureau of Prisons officer, 1942 (Service); State
Parole and Probation officer, Wisconsin, 1945-46; Family Court Probation
Officer, Wilmington, Del., 1949; caseworker and senior caseworker, Ferris
School for Boys, Wilmington, 1949-62; district commissioner, Manasquan,
N.J., 1946-48, scoutmaster, Del-Mar-Va Council, 1950-55, chairman, Ad-
vancement Committee, Ferris School, 1960-62, counselor for merit badges,
1955-60, Boy Scouts of America; Civil Defense organizer, 1943, MW Co.,
special deputy sheriff, New Castle County, Del., 1949-62.

MEMBER OF: Madison American Legion Rifle and Pistol Club; Delaware Rifle
and Pistol] Club, Wilmington, Del.; Collectors Club of New York; Ger-
many Philatelic Society, Ghana Philatelic Society; Youth Services Com-
mission of Delaware; Prisoners’ Aid Society of Delaware; Holy Name
Society, Corpus Christi Parish, Wilmington; Scapular Society of Our
Lady of Mount Carmel, Allgemeiner Deutscher Automobil Klub; Diners
Club; National Sociology Fraternity, University of Wisconsin; Japan
Society.

THE euphoria of graduation from Harvard in the late depression
days was quickly reduced to a most sober not to say somber view of
the world, as the economic worth at that juncture of a Harvard
degree appeared quite low. My zeal to work “with people and not

[178 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with things” fortunately was not exhausted by two years of dis-
tinctly odd jobs — handling fleeces in a wool sorter’s warehouse,
factoring shipments of shoes, driving a car and trying a Kresge
managerial trainee “work-out.” Then came strong referral by
friends to the Children’s Village, a semi-private training school for
New York delinquents. There I made the munificent salary of fifty
dollars a month as the “Brooklyn caseworker,” but it was the initia-
tion into this fascinating, always rewarding field of social service to
which I have devoted all my working time for the past twenty years
in the varied settings of boys’ training schools, U.S. Bureau of
Prisons cell blocks, Wisconsin State corrections, a famous family
court — Wilmington, and for over eleven years again with the

“small fry” of urban crime at Ferris School for Boys in W ilmington.

Now, not unlike JFK’s retrainees for automation, I am back in
graduate school to complete the professional study and training for
the essential M.S.W., or social service “union card,” for scientific
and fully professional practice today is impossible with just good
will and a desire to help people in trouble. An administrative up-
heaval and professionalization of Delaware’s services to youth made
the so-long-deferred step a must. The settling embers of a 48-year-
old’s academic fires — well-banked these many years —had to be
raked to put me back at the school desk — this time at Bryn Mawr
College (for women! ), albeit at the graduate school of social service
and research on a National Mental Health Scholarship. ve a
family of six, three teen-agers, it is not customary for father “
be in school” but they have all figuratively drawn their belts a 00d
two or three notches more and are resigned to father's piles of home-
work and weekends at the study table “and the typewriter. So is the
good wife and helpmate — who can type much faster and more ac-
curately than I.

So far the clients and the schools have scemed to absorb the past
quarter century pretty completely, bur this is the deficiency of writ-
ten or even of spoken communication — it moves along a two-
‘dimensional ribbon with all the depth and richness of the years we
try to describe left out. We have had time to bring up four young-
sters, the three boys and a girl enumerated somewhere above. One
has been satisfactorily graduated from preparatory school, is an
Eagle Scout and j junior Scouter, working and “looking around” to
find out what he really wants to do in life before closing any of the
unopenable doors we so often rush through in the fint enthusiasm
of youth. One is studying the long hours away to achieve a place in

[179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

natural science, hopefully forest conservation. One is just plodding
to “get through” and one is embarked on the interesting tasks of
reading, “riting and ’rithmetic —she really likes school! (in the
second grade).

My wife and I keep youth alive with occasional carefully planned
and budgeted trips away from it all—the grand tour of Southern
and Central (all that’s left of it) Europe in 1954, a motor tour of
Germany in 1960, and some Cape vacations. We learned languages
together and are now planning on a return to residence in the upper
Cape area of Massachusetts to be near the sailing and the boating
“‘as year ’round as you can get it.” The boys are at least ready to try
the salt water in craft of any size as long as they “go.”

Should my flair for school sustain me just eight more months, it
will be possible to attend the Twenty-fifth as a newly-graduated
young man of nearly but not quite fifty!

 

HOME ADDRESS: 219 E. Third St., Hinsdale, fll.

orFice appress: Charles Clark Co., 10364 Front St., Franklin Park, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Hinsdale High School, Hinsdale, Hl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938,

UN MARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Owner and president, Charles Clark Company, a finishing and
coatings company.

[ 180 J]

bese

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SEWARD SCATCHERD BRISBANE

EM EIS NO

  

‘ ‘

Ne i me .
t ;
oe AL!

HOME AppREss: Red Spring Lane, Glen Cove, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 52 Vanderbilt Ave, New York 21, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MaRRIED: Doris Fauser, Oct. 1, 1949. CHILDREN: Arthur Seward, Sept. 30, 1950;
Charles Albert, Jan. 6, 1952; Aleta Cary, Oct. 26, 1954; Peter Belton,
March 22, 1957; Maria Love, Oct. 29, 1961.

OCCUPATION: President, Brisbane Organization, real estate, investments.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock, Locust Valley, N.Y.

yi
oH
|

2 lama ee

HOWARD HALL BRISTOL, JR.

 

MAILING ADpreESS: §61 Hlillside Ave, Naugatuck, Conn.

{ 31]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

LEONARD KENNETH BRISTOL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1121 Humboldt St., Denver 18, Colo.

OFFICE ADbRESS: Denver-Golden Corp., 2138 Champa St., Denver, Colo.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1938. 0:

MarRiED: Joan Janow, Dec, 25, 1946. CHILDREN: Judith Susan, Dec. 30, 195"
Jonathan Leonard, June 19, 1954.

occupation; General manager, Denver-Golden Corporation.

AFTER twenty-five years in the world of science and business"
find myself general manager of a small publicly-owned company
engaged in mining uranium, prospecting for hardrock minerals aity
venturing for oil and gas. I am somewhat active in commu

[ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

feel on the one hand that I am beginning to have a sounder
on life and human relations, and on the other hand that
ersp stand less than ever what it is all about, I belong to no Syna-
under Temple, but I teach a Jewish Bible class, from which I
e insights from fine children’s minds.
wife, Joan, my children, Judith and Jonathan, the shepherd
d oodle dogs, the two finches and my few close friends and
ane t ates, keep me fairly well balanced. I have achieved little of
gssocl nt ina worldly sense, but neither have I disgraced, I feel, any
monk had when we left school twenty-five years ago.
" om very curious about the future.

ffairs and
< ective

derive

JAMES HALL BROOKS

 

HOME ADDREss: 108 E, 82d St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York, 140 Broadway,
New York 15, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn. ;

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cit laude, 1938; LLB. (New York
Univ.) , 1943. .

MARRIED: Cornelia Prouty McMurray, Oct. 2, 1948. CHILDREN: Emily Hall,

occupa 22, 1950; Candler Prouty, Feb. 17, 1953. sew York

OFr 'ON: Trust officer, Morgan Guaranty Trust Co, of New York.
“#8 HELD: Member, Committee on the Surrogate’s Courts, 1952-55, Com-
mittee on Increase of Membership, 1955-56, Association of the Bar of the
City of New York; director, since 1959, president, since 1961, East 82

MEME ations lieutenant colonel, U.S. Army Reserve. ,
Re OF: St. James’ Church, New York City; American Bar Association;

“Stve Officers Association of the United States; Phi Delta Pi.

SI .
NCE June 23, 1938, and aside from an abortive trip around the

[ 183 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

world (I got as far as California in the fall of 19

engaged in graduate study, military service, law
ersonal trust business — somewhat in that order,

I attended Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (
and Yale Law School (1939-41) before induction in the Ar 1939)
August 4, 1941. After eight months in Virginia, I was commis, on
a second lieutenant on April 25, 1942. During most of my net
duty with the Army I was assigned to civilian personnel adminiser,.
tion at the New York Port ot Embarkation (1942~ 46). I vas,
first licutenant, when | received 2 law degree rom New York
University on October 8, 1943, and a captain, when I studiea :
dustrial relations and industrial engineering at Columbia Universe -
(1944-45). I was separated in grade of major from the active Arm
effective May 26, 1946. y

The next day I went to work with the New York law firm of
Wise, Corlett & Canfield and, after admission to the New York bar
on December 19, 1946, was extremely active for five years in the
general practice of the law. During the years 1945-51, I took many
of the courses offered to fledgling lawyers by the Practising Law
Institute. In 1947 I also took a course in estate administration in
the Graduate Division of New York University Law School.

Since October 22, 1951, I have been in the personal trust business,
first with J. P. Morgan & Company, Inc. (1951-59) and now with
the successor, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York.
I suppose that by this time I have developed a fair degree of pro-
fessional skill. At any rate, my chosen field is one of ifinite variety
and for me most rewardin

Cornelia (“Neder”) was graduated from Abbot Academy, An-
dover, Massachusetts in 1943, attended Wellesley College for two
years (1943-45), and was graduated from the Parsons School of
Design, New York City, in 1948 (as an interior decorator). We
have been happily married for fifteen years. Our big mission in
life is the bringing up of our two children, each of whom 1s 4 great
jOy to us.

Emily (“Emmy”) is at the Chapin School and Candler at of
Bernard’s. During the school year their time is largely taken ot
with homework, piano, dancing and figure-skating lessons and » ts
homework. The children, perhaps even more than their J mettO-
mand the ne ped in my view the advantages oO

Iving. oO I hear any dissents?
In summer we have had a change of pact and headed for the

[ 184 ]

. be
Practice an rn

d the

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

counttY? Weekapaug, Rhode Island (1957 and 1958); Old Black
Point, Connecticut (1959); Ormond Beach, Florida (1960). In
1961 the children went to a sailing camp at South Orleans, Massa-
chusetts; and last summer we went as a family on two camping trips
through New England and Quebec, These trips were an immense
success, with Emily distinguishing herself in the mountain-climbing
department. 1 observed, however, that Candler, although an ath-
lete himself, was less than enthusiastic about this particular phase
of operations.

Other activities include tennis on Randall's Island, bicycling in
Central Park, more mountain climbing on weekends, bridge, attend-
ing the home games of the New York Football Giants, assembling
a library of children’s classics by combing the second-hand book
scores on Fourth Avenue, getting involved in the management of a
cooperative apartment building and continuous participation since
World War II in the Army Active Reserve.

For all these blessings, I am truly thankful.

PETER THACHER BROOKS

 

HOME appress: Box 259, Route 3, Reser Road, Walla Walla, Wash.
ene Appress: Walla Walla Clinic, 55 Tietan St., Walla Walla, Wash.
ven tte® At: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass. a
MARR IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES! A.B., 1938; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1942.
teD: Florence Standish Richards, Feb. 28, 1942. CHILD: Peter Thacher,
coc Sept. 9, 1952,
OFFICRg ION; General surgeon, .
HELD: Various and sundry offices in local and state divisions, Red
meee Amcrican Cancer Socicty, Republican Party. .
oF: American Medical Sociery— local, state (trustee), national

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

(delegate); American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of
Surgery (diplomate).

HAVING learned to loathe unnecessary words, I refer anyone
interested to the Tenth and Eighteenth Anniversary Reports for
ancient history. The last seven years have been spent in administer-
ing to a steadily growing surgical practice, finishing remodeling the
house, acquiring more horses and discovering and enjoying the tre-
mendous country in which we are lucky enough to live.

In addition I have returned to my strongest interest of college
days, namely government. I am quite involved in state and, recently
in a very small way, in national medical affairs, but principally the
involvement in party politics is the paramount new field. After a
government major, it was easy for me to be talked into the first job,
and now | am off and running. To me, it is a tremendously impor-
tant field in which to play much more than a spectator’s part, and I
am quite sure that in the future, more and more of my time will be
devoted to things political.

Our professional life has been most satisfactory. The Walla Walla
Clinic has now grown to eight members, and we have doubled our
building in the last year. It is a most congenial group, as well as one
that practises a pretty good brand of medicine, and I find it an ideal
situation for one of my temperament.

Although it’s a hell of a long way to come, and a lovely time of
year to be leaving this superb valley, we shall probably show up in
the Yard in the Spring of ’63.

CHARLES AUGUSTUS BROWN

AE ay ecg rere gemrerrgserones Mae ANG TS
, a i
” fe 4

     

HOME Appress: 1200 Fifth Ave., New York 29, N.Y.

[ 186 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, M.p. (Howard Univ.), 1944.
OCCUPATION: Physician; psychiatrist.

VITA: I practise psychiatry.

FRANCIS HENRY BROWN

 

HOME apprEss: 108A Inman St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johnson Appleby Division, H. P. Hood & Sons, Cambridge,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

marrieD: Eleanor Marie Tron, April 27, 1940. CHILDREN: Richard Francis, Nov.
17, 1941; Diane Marie, Feb. 18, 1946.

occupation: Food processing and manufacturing.

THE summer of 1935 brought the grim realization that my college
days as a member of the Class of 1938 were over. First, no summer
employment was available in that depression year, and, second, came
the not entirely unexpected word from Harvard that my three
“B’s” and two “C’s” were not quite up to scholarship standard.
Being the eldest of eight children in those times, I could expect no
financial help from my family. Until May of 1938, I had only part-
time employment. From May of 1938 to January of 1942, I
worked for the government in an ill-paid, mediocre capacity as a
junior social worker and investigator. In February of 1942, with
the war on, I went to work for Swift & Company in Somerville,
Massachusetts. I disliked working for Swift & Company when I
realized that one had to come from the Chicago office in order to

o
get anywhere in the organization. | left Swift & Company in May

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

of 1944, and, after much difficulty because of my 3-A deferment,
I volunteered for induction into the armed services. In June, 1944, I
was sworn into the U.S, Army, but, because of my 15/20 eyesight,
I was placed in a limited service status and never served a day.
After about three or four weeks of unemployment, and having a
wife and baby to support, I finally found a company that would take
a chance on a person in my 1-AL classification, a small company,
Johnson Appleby Company of Cambridge, manufacturer of table
delicacies such as jams, jellies and relishes. For Johnson Appleby
I worked from the summer of 1944 to the present. However, for
the last two years, the H. P. Hood Company of Boston has con-
trolled the organization, and I find myself a tiny cog in a large
machine.

My son, now twenty-one years old, is in the Army in Texas,
my daughter is finishing high school this summer, and my wife, a
multiple sclerosis victim, sits at home in a wheel chair unable to
do much for herself.

I have never been north of Portland, east of Nantasket beach,
nor south and west of New York City. In 1939 I travelled 39,000
miles and never got more than fifty miles from home. I am a
Catholic and a Democrat, probably of no great conviction on
either count if I were severely tested.

The foregoing about sums up the story of my life, and why any-
one should be interested is beyond me. Procrastination has been the
bane of my life. Although I finally manage to get things done, it is
always a last-minute rush with great activity and vowing never

to let it happen again. But every year I arrive at Christmas Eve
doing my Christmas shopping.

[ 188 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES DONALDSON BROWN

“FE,

SOR GASSES SEE OT

  

ftecanite tn’ A ‘ RIA RE SO SATIN PPT
a penton ON RI EH SHC

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Brown Shingles, New London, N.H.

LUCIAN HALL BROWN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Route 4, Box 102, Excelsior, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.

MarRIED: Mary Fisher, April 17, 1937. cutLpReEN: Edwin Hacker, March 25,
1938 (2. Sonja Hein, July, 9, 1960); Derwin Fiske, Feb. 10, 1gyo (vt.
Roberta Newton, Aug, 31, 1962); Wallace Fisher, July 20, 1943; Jeremy
Hall, April 9, 1946; Peter Christian, Jan. 3, 1948; Susan Chandler, March
71 1951.

occuPATION: Free-lance photographer.

MEMBER OF: Rotary; Suburban Photographers Association; Citizens Committee
for Better Education.

PusLIcATiIONs: Photos published in advertising; patent on a reflector oven,

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

AFTER leaving college in the fall of 1936 to get married, I tried
several jobs in the selling field. When the war came I found myself
working in the war plant of General Mills, unhappily frozen in my
monotonous job and classified 4-F because of a detached retina (now
well healed). After the war was over, Mary and I decided to turn
our hobby of photography into a full-time business. It was a big
decision. We were expecting our fourth child and it was touch and
go whether we would eat at all, but we felt that we had developed
a technique in team photography which could offer an interesting
and needed service to our community.

So started the business partnership of Lucian and Mary Brown,
Photographers. No use to describe our early struggles, the renting of
studios and the closing down of same because of too much overhead.
We have become truly “offbeat” photographers, working out of our
home and doing very little of the conventional type of work. We
try to emphasize the casual approach, make lots of very interesting
friends as we photograph families in their homes. We have built
up a reasonably profitable business which combines children and
family pictures with architectural and industrial work. Fringe
benefits: Mary and I have all kinds of time together and also more
than the average amount of time with the kids, since we have our
dark room at home; also I can arrange my hours to suit myself so
that in slow seasons I can indulge in do-it-yourself hobbies such as
remodeling the garage into a family room, building kayaks, design-
ing tents and other camping equipment. It is a full and satisfying
life. ,

For years I successfully avoided any deep involvement in the Boy
Scouts, but six years ago our troop had dwindled to five members,
and when the committee pointed out that three of them were my
sons I knew I was in for trouble. So began my career as Lucian
Brown, Scoutmaster. Each year I become more deeply committed
and more enthusiastic about this work.

We're proud of our kids. Ned, our eldest, graduated with hon-
ors in geology from Dartmouth in 1960. He went to New Zealand
with his bride on a Fulbright, stayed eighteen months and returned
with a Master’s in geology and first honors from the University of
Otago in Dunedin. He now has an assistantship at Berkeley and is
working on a Ph.D. Derwin, next in line, graduated in 1962 from

Dartmouth, a physics major. He is now married and in the Air Force
as a physicist. Wally is a freshman at the University of Minnesota
and the other three are spread through our fine public school] system.

[ 190 ]

tc caer eesrnatteedeatte steele deeneennaeemadatbwdll sie lie

AE hetaatentls He!

eds:

EY

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Currently, we have also a Danish son, A-F.S., and have previously
had a French Moroccan son on the Experiment.

Somehow I have an allergy to photo studios and the best I can do
is send a snapshot taken last June at Dartmouth graduation.

NORTHROP BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 306 Jackson Bivd., Deerhurst, Wilmington 3, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Plastics Dept, E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington
99, Del.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: A.B. (Williams Coll.), 1938; PH.p. (Mass.
Inst. of Technology), 1941.

marriED: Sheila B. Swenson, July 18, 1942. CHILDREN: Sheila E., Sept. 29, 1944;
Peter N., Nov. 28, 1946; Mary Catherine, June 9, 1959.

occupaTION: Research associate — doing laboratory research on the chemistry
of polymers and plastics.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Several patents and publications in the field of organic and
polymer chemistry.

- ORMAN PEARSON BROWN

 

BORN: Aug. 26, 1913, Montreal, P.Q., Canada. parents: Stephen Pearson
Brown, Edith Luce.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; A.M. (Univ. of Wyoming),
1939; A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1941.

MaRrRIED: Elizabeth Redman, Juny 9, 1938, Fort Collins, Colo. cumpren: Peter
Tucker, July 20, 1941; Tod Pearson, Dec. 25, 1934; Michael Stephen.

prep: About Jan. 18, 1951, en route to Cody, Wyo.

[ ror ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938 . __. Jooking for some respectable unit to which it could attac
AFTER almost ten years as geologist for the Shell Oil Compan ime Our chance for glory came at Ramagen, where we disco:
Brown joined the Wilshire Oil Company of California, as their self. acuating Germans had failed to unhook the central sw
geologist and manager for the Rocky Mountain District, with heag. that &v for this act above and beyond duty we were award
quarters in Denver, Colorado. He died while en route to Coq poardi tar
Wyoming, in a plane crash. Nothing was ever found of the lane bronze " teacher located within twenty miles of Harvard and hz
or its occupants after intensive search. He was survived by his Being é
wife and children.

children at various stages in the educational mills, I am disturb.
he direction that higher education is taking. Too many want t
vo college (Harvard or its equivalent if there is one) for the w
reasons. The college has ceased to have meaning and serves only
WILLIAM HAYES BROWN stepping stone to graduate study, often for its own sake. The
cept of the bachelor graduate taking his place in society as a hur
and enlightened individual has been lost, and a great loss it is.
Enough of this.

WINTHROP LANE BROWN

- a
i
sos nists shot siete thin Mints Sia

  

HOME appress: 193 Main St., Andover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938, a.M. (Middlebury Coll.),
1947+
MarRiED: Lee Brooks, June 15, 1940. CHILDREN: Stephanie, Nov. 3, 19415 Rufus

E., June 10, 1944; Judson B., Dec. 7, 1947; Paul B., June 12, 1950.
occupation: Teacher, Phillips Academy.

 

CONCISE I can be. I returned to Andover in the fall of 1938 as an MAILING appress: Kent Plastics, Evansville, Ind.
apprentice teacher and with the exception of the years 1942-46 spent
in the Army have been there ever since. A restricted life but not one
without rewards, which I shall zot attempt to enumerate.
Aside from the pleasure of teaching English, I have been coaching
crew for the past seven years, attempting frantically to remembet
Bert Haines’ words of wisdom on the Charles. We have been 1
Henley twice, once in 1959 and again in 1962, a thoroughly produc-
tive experience both times,
My 1942-46 experience was virtually without incident. I was 4
member of a Signal Intelligence Company which spent most of its

{ 192 ] I
'93

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DUNCAN HODGE BROWNE, JR.

HOME aAppreEss: Mill Street, Sherborn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hoover Motors, Inc., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1937.

MARRIED: Louisa Richards Beane, Oct. 20, 1951. CHILDREN: Duncan Hodge, 3d,
Aug. 6, 1952; Thomas P., 3d, April 3, 1957; Peter M. Baptiste, Dec, 11, 1939
(stepson); Louisa R. Baptiste, March 26, 1942 (stepdaughter); Elizabeth
Baptiste, May 16, 1943 (stepdaughter).

occupaTioN: Automobile retailing.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman and senior warden, Church of the Advent, Med-
field, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Back Bay Lunch Club.

I HAD thought November 7, 1962, would be a good date on which
to work on this account but by 1:30 a.M. I was convinced this would
be unwise. It is now November 13th and I’ve recovered sufficiently
to put pen to paper.

After a somewhat confused business career between college and
shortly after the end of World War II, I settled down in the auto-
mobile business. I was sucessively assistant regional manager, dis-
trict manager and regional sales development manager for Willys
Motors — the maker of the Jeep. By 1958, having become pretty
well involved in the Dover-Sherborn-Boston area, I joined Hoover
Motors, Inc. The step from the wholesale to the retail side of the
automobile business is a sizeable one and somewhat frustrating. Be-
cause we have become so dependent upon the automobile in our
daily lives and because the industry plays so important a role in the
national economy, it is frightening to observe the chaos of the
merchandising and the caliber of the men at the retail level from
the “firing line.” I hope the manufacturers will soon awaken to the
necessity on their part of correcting this.

I suppose the most satisfying extracurricular activity has been the
part I played in raising our church in Medfield from the depths of
financial despair to the complete remodeling of the church itself and
the building of a new parish house. Nelson W. Aldrich, ’34, was
the architect — and a magnificent job he did.

Our three eldest — Peter, Louisa and Bette — have pretty much
finished their formal education — I think — and it is interesting to
watch their maneuverings in the world. We hope not to have the
same academic struggle with Duncan and Tom but do look forward
to the same thoroughly satisfactory offspring as the elder three have
been. Above all, none of us has yet had to resort to the “couch.”

[ 194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We lead a rather normal New England life getting in as much of
the outdoor activities which abound here as possible. Being a “city
slicker” by birth, I did not anticipate the vast.amount of work in-
volved in keeping even a small place in the country looking even

vaguely respectable or that “Donna” could force one to cook with
Sterno or that wells do go dry.

But, in all, I don’t think I'd change a thing.

SECOR DELAHAY BROWNE

(OE |
Life 8 ee

   
 

HOME apprEss: Trapelo Road, Lincoln, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Browne & Shaw Co., Inc., 12 Woerd Ave., Waltham 54, Mass.;

Dept. of Aeronautics, Massachusetts Inst. of Technology, Cambridge 39,
Mass,

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1938.

marriep: Mary Denise Giles, Aug. 23, 1945. CHILDREN: Patrick R., Dec. 29,
1940 (stepson); Giles C., Dec. 15, 1947.

occuPATION: Consulting engineer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; St. Botolph Club, M.LT, Faculty Club;
Wings Club; National Aviation Club; Society of Automotive Engineers,
American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers; American Heli-
copter Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous tracts in scientific and engineering journals, deal-

ing with aeronautical and mechanical engineering instrumentation, civil
aviation, etc.

SINCE the log cabin in which I failed to be born was destroved by
the Chicago fire and the site flooded when the course of the Chicago
River was reversed, and since most of this nonsense has already been
recounted in previous Class Reports, I shall try to get from 1916 to
1963 as rapidly as possible: born Chicago, July 22, 1916; agtended

[195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Chicago Boys Latin School, 1922-29; Middlesex School, Concord,
Mass., 1929-34 and Harvard College, 1934-38. Upon emerging into
cold world found that degree in history and literature of England in
the 17th century, even with honors, was inedible. Also found jobs
were scarce and chose career in engineering, mostly because job as
apprentice draftsman was only one available. Evolved into junior
engineer and then sales engineer for electrical instrumentation and
control. Come World War II, became aviation cadet, finally emerg-
ing about four years later as major, communications and radar
officer, about which learned approximately nothing, but three years
overseas had provided relaxed command of fluent, ungrammatical
French and Italian. After war returned to previous employer and
lived five years in Rockford, [linois, being an engineer and trying
to figure how to get moved to New England. In 1951 got job in
Waltham and moved to present abode in Lincoln. In 1955 took
plunge into business and helped put together present consulting
engineering firm which continues its bewildered and uncertain
course toward goals difficult to define even in retrospect. In 1954
undertook to learn the Russian language and of recent years have
taught courses in scientific Russian and civil air transportation to
graduate students at M.I.T. Not simultaneously.

The Alma Mater’s questions, and my replies, go something like
this: “Where have you been?” “Out.” “What have you done?”
“Nothing.” But at least ’'m beginning to know what I want to be
when I grow up.

FREDERIC HITCH BROWNELL

   

Gin SE Yep y

HOME Agdness: 825 Fontana, Richardson, Texas,

[ 196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE appRESS: General American Oil Co. of Texas, 300 Meadow Bldg., Dallas,
‘Texas.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

mMarRRIED: Mary Helen Norton, May, 1959. cHitpreN: Elizabeth McCall, Aug.
7, 1960; Frederic Delano, Sept. 30, 1961.
OCCUPATION: Oil production.

AFTER short stints in Washington and Boston, I came to Dallas in
November, 1937, where I have been since, with the same firm,
General American Oil Company of Texas, a crude producer. Dur-
ing World War II, 1 served with the Amphibious Engineers in the
Pacific, as an enlisted man. Married in May, 1959, to Mary Helen
Norton. I have two small delightful children, Elizabeth McCall and
Frederic Delano.

ALBERT EMIL BRUNELLI

 

HOME AppREss: 99 Circle Drive, Roslyn Heights, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Merit Studios, Inc., 250 W. 54th St, New York 19, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRRIED: Dorothy E. Campbell, Dec. 14, 1941. cHttpren: Albert Campbell,
Aug. 10, 1945; Jane Dorothy, Oct. 10, 1948.

occupation: Photo reproductions; vice-president and director, Merit Studios,
Inc.; supervision of production, personnel and purchasing.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1956, 1957, vice-president, 1958, 1959, Blue Print &
Allied Reproductions Association of New York; president, St. Paul's
School Fathers’ Association, 1961.

MEMBER OF: Camp Fire Club of America; National Rifle Association (life
member); National Skeet Shooting Association; Nassau Trap & Skeet
Club; Babylon Rod & Gun Club,

[ 197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

A SUDDEN request to sum up twenty-five years of my life on one
page puts quite a strain on both my memory and writing ability.
Twenty per cent of this time was spent in the Air Force during
World War II, including two and one-half years in the Southwest
Pacific, chiefly New Guinea and New Britain. The one bright
spot in this period was finding and marrying a wonderful girl who
has put up with twenty-one years of marriage with remarkable
understanding.

After the Air Force graciously released me in 1946, I returned to
the family business and started the never-ending struggle and strife
of trying to run a business in the face of the herculean efforts of
governmental bureaucracy to the contrary. The interludes have
been spent in trying to raise a son, who is now approaching the age
of eighteen and will enter Dartmouth in September, and a daughter,
aged fourteen, who is now attending the Cathedral School of St.
Mary in Garden City, Long Island.

Since we, as a family, are all outdoor-minded, we have had some
memorable times together from fishing in Maine to our just past
New Year’s holiday at my old Bruin Lodge in the Catskill Forest
Preserve. I am still fond of mountain country away from the
noise and dirt of what passes for civilization and manage to get
away just as often as I can for a bit of relaxation. My son has been
with me often the past few years and my daughter shows signs
of taking his place now. Managed to get to Newfoundland on one
trip and bagged a caribou bull. Have taken deer and bear at my
place and quite a few grouse and woodcock with my pointer, Kate.
Have done a lot of color photography also and of late have been

concentrating on 16 mm color movies —a new field for me. Have
also been active in competitive skeet shooting with moderate success
and a great deal of pleasure. My trout fishing has dwindled due
chiefly to the deterioration of trout water caused by the spread of
population in this area but I still get a few days in now and then.
Am still a Presbyterian by inheritance and inclination. Politically,
I have now discarded the last vestiges of independence as regards
my vote — the last few years have made me a confirmed Republican.
In conclusion, the past twenty-five years have been hectic but
interesting. I am now looking forward to the next twenty-five.

[ 198 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EUGENE HAUCK BUDER

 

HOME AppRESS: 50 Fair Oaks, St. Louis 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Buder & Martin, Room 1795, 611 Olive St., St. Louis 1, Mo.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938, LLB. 1941.

MARRIED: Jutta C. Zelle, June 9, 1956. cHILDREN: Eugene Hauck, Jr., April 21,
1957; Annette C., June 15, 1958; Beatrice C., July 14, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Buder & Martin.

OFFICES HELD: President, Clayton Township Democratic Club (St. Louis
County), 1953-1954; executive secretary, St. Louis Volunteers for Steven-
son, 19523; executive secretary, 1946-50, chairman, 1952-53, St. Louis Civil
Liberties Committee, affiliated with American Civil Liberties Union; presi-
dent, St. Louis Urban League, 1958-61; secretary, St. Louis City-County
Board of Freeholders (charter-drafting commission); director, National
Urban League, since 1962; president Civitan Club of St. Louis, 1962;
honorary consul of the Netherlands in St. Louis, 1962.

MEMBER OF: American and St. Louis Bar Associations; Lawyers Association of
St. Louis; Missouri Athletic Club.
PUBLICATIONS: “Interpleader in Missouri,” Missouri Bar Journal, 1942.

LOOKING back, I can remember not having settled down for
quite a while at first, and there may be some who are still wondering
when I shall settle down. But I am blissfully married, the father of
three, and I own two houses, not having been able to sell the first
after buying the second (agent's name on request).

The first seven years can be conventionally accounted for. First,
Harvard Law School, where I wrote my sole publication, as adver-
tised above, to satisfy a term-paper requirement for Professor Eddy
Morgan. Then four years in the Army, during which I rose, at
least in altitude, from truck driver to combat navigator, T sat in on
a number of bombing raids over Germany, scaring but not hurting

[ 199]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

my future wife. (This is intended to sound romantic, but our
actual meeting years later was not specially romantic.)

Then I began to practise law, going into practice with my father,
Oscar E. Buder. Fortunately, there had been time to take the bar
examinations in 1941, because by 1945 I hadn’t learned anything
practical but had forgotten quite a bit of the academic. Well, there
were many of us in the same boat, we wore our Ruptured Ducks,
and judges and jurors were very understanding. So there were five
vears of lawing, during which I realized that I also felt like a civil
libertarian and finally like a Democrat. I ran for some little office in
1950, lost, and then got recalled into the Air Force.

There followed two years in Alaska, during which I navigated on
weather reconnaissance flights over the Aleutians and to the North
Pole, and did a little staff work and court-martial defending. I be-
came a competent celestial navigator in a grand old tradition, but
actually it was hard to see any life direction shaping up. I resisted
blandishments aimed at keeping me in the service, and returned to
St. Louis in 1952.

There was time to help Stevenson lose the election, and then four
of us started up a new law partnership. One of the others was Ben
Roth, and you can check to see whether he mentions it, because he
is also A.B., 738, LL.B., ’41. This partnership continued through
1960, since when I have been practising with just one of the starters,
Leonard E. Martin, A.B., ’39, with emphasis on equity, probate,
corporation and domestic relations.

In 1954 the Democratic Party handed me the nomination for
Congress, Second District of Missouri, on a silver platter. It might
have been a good deal if only they had thrown in the silver platter.

Oh, I had a fine time and became quite fluent on the issues, but —
well, for one thing, I could never remember names, and then some
of the committeewomen wanted to know why I had never married.
Incidentally, the district is still represented by the same man I ran
against.

Well, I did get married, but not for political reasons. My wife
was Jutta Zell, of Hamm, Westphalia, Germany, the daughter of
Senats-pracsident (presiding judge) Kurt Zelle and Frau Annelotte.
We have made three trips to Germany, but I’m still pretty poor at
German, and while we're in Germany my children translate for me.

Oh yes, the meeting — well it took place in my parents’ house when
Jutta was here on a visit. The visit is still going on, interrupted only
by the visits made the other way.

[ 200 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

That’s about it, except for the Board of Freeholders, on which
I labored from May, 1958, to May, 1959. St. Louis and St. Louis
County have been unhappily divorced since 1876. We worked out
a fine scheme for uniting the areas for the administration of key
metropolitan services, but the voters wanted no part of it. On No-
vember 6, 1962, the whole state considered a follow-up proposition,
a forced remarriage of the two areas, but fortunately that proposi-
tion also lost. (Yes, I opposed it.) I may try to get involved in some
more of this metropolitan rearranging in the future.

I have tried the patience of Dick Davis by delaying this report,
but I did have to wait to let you know how the elections came out.

‘++ ROBERT BUKA, JR.

LHiehg GME NR RED EAN SNE RD gt Eta
ae
- |
? poy
wf w\ OY

PAE) eng pap etn ES RN SRN rete ge Sistas co

   

 

BORN: July 4, 1917, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Robert Buka, Esther Rosenbloom.

PREPARED AT: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Obie.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938; M.D. (Univ, of Pittsburgh),
1942.

Manned: Magda Pollaczck, July, 1951, Boston, Mass. cimtpres: David, Aug. 5,
1952; Richard, Nov. 30, 1953 (deceased); Stephen, 1956.

Diep: June 26, 1958, Newton Center, Mass.

wipow: Mrs, Robert Buka, 16 Chapin St, Newton Center, Mass.

ROBERT BUBA, JR,, spent four years with our Class and was a
member of Leverett [louse lacrosse team, the Student Union and
Phillips Brooks House Association, After medical school and an
internship at Pittsburgh Medical Center, he served in the Field
Service with the Third U.S. Army, After the war he spent a year
as assistant medical resident at Beth Isracl Hospital and a year as
research fellow in medicine at Harvard Medical School and as an

{ 201 )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

associate in medical research at Beth Israel Hospital. He finished
his hospital training at Johns Hopkins and then returned to Boston
where he began practice and teaching. He and his son Richard lost
their lives in a fire in their home. Buka was survived by his wife
and two sons.

MILTON GOULD BULLARD

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 3 Price Rd., Peabody, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MmarrieD: Anne R, Walker, 1935. CHILDREN: Milton Gould, Jr, June 6, 1936 (72.
Janet Saccone, Sept. 8, 1962); Judith Anne, Jan. 28, 1938 (72. Leverett
Glines). GRANDCHILDREN: Scott Glines, March 31, 1959; Nannette Glines,
Jan. 29, 1962.

A LONG series of sales and supervisory jobs has led now to my
branching out on my own as a commission salesman of mutual
funds. Together with life insurance, I believe that every man needs
an investment of this type and I am trying to fill his need wherever
possible. Seventeen years of the past quarter-century have been
devoted to the bowling business and if any of my classmates would
like to consult an expert in this field or in mutual funds my experi-
ence is available.

[ 202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LYMAN BESSE BURBANK

SO 3 PE HR er ta a Se MER SIEMENS. git a

tee arate 1 eee

    
   

wedttonink Anew tea ese

oS ASI his Be AEE

HOME ADDRESS: 1201 Graybar Lane, Nashville. Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Kirkland Hall, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; A.M. (Univ. of Chicago), 1946;
PH.D. (New York Univ.), 1950; M.s.s. (New School for Social Research),
1957.

MARRIED: Allene Smith, Aug. 9, 1947. CHILDREN: Susan J., Dec. 27, 1948; Judith
A., Sept. 12, 1953; Karen E., Feb. 21, 1960.

occupaTION: Director of teacher education and lecturer in history, Vanderbilt
University.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Vanderbilt University Council on Educational Tele-
vision, member, Advisory Council on Certification for the Tennessee State

Dept. of Education (appointed by Commissioner of Education for a three-
year term, 1961-64).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Nashville; American Historical Association;
American Studies Association.

PuBLications: Articles in: Current History, Foreign Affairs; essay in Social
Aspects of Education: A Casebook, Prentice-Hall, 1961.

IN a speech delivered recently at an educational meeting, I opened
with a slip-of-the-tongue and announced to a somewhat startled
audience that I was “the daughter of three fathers.” With due re-
spect to such a remarkable achievement on my part, the audience
was most attentive during the remainder of the address!

The reason for mentioning this incident is to suggest that being
“the daughter of three fathers” might not be much more astounding
than some of the actual things which have happened to me in twenty-
five years, as follows:

1) Having spent an inordinate amount of time at Smith and

[ 203 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Mount Holyoke in my junior and senior years, I then married a girl
who is a graduate of the University of Alabama.

2) Having obtained a pilot’s license before entering military
service in 1941, I soon found myself in the Infantry. It took about a
year to effect a transfer to the Army Air Force.

3) Having trained with an outfit destined for the Philippines, I
was removed from that outfit for special duty a few days before
Pearl Harbor. Several of my companions-in-training took part in
the Bataan death march.

4) Having learned German well in school and college, I was
thought to be a spy when I landed in a German prisoner-of-war
camp in 1943.

5) Having obtained the A.M. degree in 1946, I left the university
in disgust and swore that to teach would be the last thing I would
ever do. Soon I was back, working on a Ph.D., and have been
teaching ever since.

6) Having been well trained in the Harvard tradition, which in-
sists that nothing good ever came out of New Haven, I taught at
Yale four years.

7) Having been educated in private schools, I now spend most of
my time as adviser and father-confessor to a substantial number of
students — both undergraduate and graduate—— who are preparing
for a public school teaching career. I’ve even been appointed for a
three-year term to a council which advises the Tennessee State De-

partment of Education on problems related to the certification of
teachers.

8) I thought I might have at least one son, but I got three daugh-

ters!
The only thing which is consistent is inconsistency. Nothing

seems impossible. Who said you can’t be “the daughter of three
fathers’?

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NATHAN CLIFFORD BURBANK, JR.

epee rg me apne rt ai
o ae ae 1
: es ‘

ms 4d

      

HOME ADDRESS: 131 Sweetbriar Lane, Kirkwood 22, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Civil Engineering, Washington University, St. Louis
30, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Wilton Academy, Wilton, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; S.M., 1940, BS.cE. (Oklahoma
A. & M. Coll.) 1950; s.v. (Mass. Inst. of Technology), 1955.

MARRIED: Dorothy Schoonover, Feb. 1, 1944.

occuPaTION: Civil and sanitary engineer, consulting engineer, engineering edu-
cator.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Industrial Water and Wastes Magazine, since 1962; pro-
fessor of civil and sanitary engineering, head, Dept. of Civil Engineering,
since 1958, director of research, School of Engineering, since 1962, Wash-
ington University; assistant director of research and senior sanitary en-
gineer, Infilco, Inc., Tucson, Ariz., 1956-58; associate professor of civil
engineering, Oklahoma Institute of Technology, Oklahoma A. & M. Col-
lege, 1955-56, assistant professor, Oklahoma A. & M. College, 1949-55; on
leave as research assistant, Atomic Energy Commission, Radioactivity
Research Unit, Dept. of Civil and Sanitary Engineering, M.1.T., 1953-553
chairman, Men’s Faculty, Washington University, 1960-62, 1962-63;
chairman, Missouri Arkansas Section, 1962-63, director, 1962-63, American
Society for Engineering Education,

PUBLICATIONS: Fourteen major scientific publications including “A Study of the
Removal of Radioactive Particulate Matter from Water by Coagulation,”
with R.A. Lauderdale and R. Eliassen, AEC-NYO-4440, 1955.

LIKE the world’s political problems some of the oldest of man’s
problems remain with us, among them the disposal of man’s wastes.
For the past ten years I have been actively engaged in attempting to
solve some of these problems of environmental sanitation ranging
from the entrapment of the products of nuclear fission from bomb
bursts at the earth’s surface to the disposal of feces and urine of
astronauts in our spacecraft in prolonged orbit.

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

The joys of accomplishment, seemingly lacking in formal teaching,
have come to me through an opportunity to assist in the development
of young men’s minds in research in the applied science of engi-
neering. Our cooperative accomplishments have never made head-
lines but they have reduced the size of your water bill, set the limits
for discharge of certain industrial wastes into public water supplies,
determined the effectiveness of conventional coagulation processes
in the removal of atomic fallout from water supplies and contributed
to man’s knowledge through the identification of two species of
anaerobic bacteria not known before. This is indeed a reward of
sorts.

One’s direction surely changes; from ideas of becoming an in-
dustrial chemist at graduation to the realities of dishwashing in a
bacteriological laboratory to keep the wolf away from the door
soon thereafter was one easy step. Graduate study delayed my re-
turn to the labor market until more favorable circumstances ap-
peared. Public health always deserves attention and held mine
throughout my service career.

In education the progress reports read like an organization chart
— from the bottom up — instructor, assistant professor and associate
professor at Oklahoma A. & M. College and professor, assistant dean
and now director of engineering research at Washington University
of St. Louis. Many of the problems, the battle between teaching
and/or research, the sabre tooth tiger curriculum, the publish or
perish period, science versus engineering, now art before science,
have all passed over my desk. The solutions are difficult but in spite
of this we do produce galleries and knowledgeable youngsters.

Industry proved a means to visit many of you in all sections of our
country as well as a chance to see how research solutions have to be
practical in application for profit. Research problems seemed to al-
ways be at opposite ends of the nation at the same time; travel, the
bane of executives, provided the stimulus to send me back to teach-
ing.

I feel sure that Dorothy Schoonover, when she married me “for
better or worse,” didn’t realize how much worse it was to be. We

have had some seven years of residence in sub-standard housing on
the campus of two colleges and we have seen the best and the worst
of climate that the nation has to offer. We have ridden out hurri-
canes in New England, dust storms in Oklahoma, tornadoes in Mis-
souri, heat in Arizona and cold in Maine. We value the many friends
we've made in every nook and cranny of the country; prospectors,

[ 206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pioneers, presidents, preachers and panhandlers, every one has en-
riched our lives. Our mission now seems to be to share these ex-
periences to stimulate your youngsters.

WALTER NATHANIEL BURNETT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Walker St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: First National Bank of Boston, 45 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRieD: Edith Gordon, March 7, 1942 (divorced); Katharine Fox Hanson,
Oct, 12, 1955. CHILDREN: Russell Gordon, Jan. 21, 1946; Peter Whiteside,
Sept. 26, 1949; John Dana, Aug. 13, 1956; Benjamin George, Jan. 9, 1959;
Bridget Hanson, March 26, 1952.

occupation: Administration of corporate trusteeships; assistant vice-president,
Corporate Trust Division, First National Bank of Boston.

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EDWIN LEWIS BURNHAM, JR.

 

HOME aApprEss: 77 Winthrop Ave., Reading, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

MarRieED: Margaret Phillips, Aug. 23, 1947. CHILDREN: Stephen Lewis, April 29,
1952; Cheryl Ann, May 15, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Trust administration, administrative assistant, Old Colony Trust
Company.

OFFICES 'HELD: Vice-president, Boston Camera Club, 1953-55.

MEMBER OF; National Geographic Society; Boston Camera Club.

AFTER trying half a dozen unrelated jobs ranging from cost ac-
counting with Gillette Company to salesman for Dictaphone Cor-
poration, I finally discovered the position which requires a little bit
of everything —trust administration in the Old Colony Trust
Company. Whether it be finding a conservator for the property of
a dear old lady without a relative left in the world, or trying to find
a legatee in Sweden, the work is varied, never dull.

In 1947 I married Margaret Phillips whom I met in (of all places)
Harvard Epworth Methodist Church. A Congregationalist until
then, I joined the Methodist Church and there was peace in the
family.

Tiring of summers under a hot tar roof in a Cambridge apart-
ment, we bought land in Rockport, Massachusetts, and in ten short
weekends in the fall of 1949 built from a do-it-yourself book a
small cottage, which after three summers we sold, and with the pro-
ceeds made a down payment on our house in Reading Massachusetts.

Life goes on at no increase in pace. My good wife, when she is
not manicuring the floors, is a Cub Scout den mother, and then

[ 208 ]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

there is P.T.A. Eight years ago we discovered camping and have
nomadically tried out most of the tenting areas in New England. We
lived through two hurricanes on Cape Cod, with flooded tents, but
we still camp. Combined with photography and a little sailfish built
from a kit, it offers a change of tempo from exurbia.

Although middle-of-the-roaders politically, we occasionally argue
violently with my brother-in-law and his wife, who steer an ex-
tremely leftist course.

As the years pass, satisfactions come ever more from uncompli-
cated ventures: from home, a quiet glass with friends and enjoying
all seasons for the changes which each one offers.

WILLIAM APPLETON BURNHAM, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Fairmount St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(37).

MarrieD: Helen Foster, 1939 (divorced 1946); Sylvia C. Winslow, Nov. 27,
1947. CHILDREN: William Appleton, 3d, Aug. 31, 1948; Elinor W., Nov. 15,
1950; Charles G., May 5, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, First National Bank of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Brookline Savings Bank, since 1955, Franklin Square
House, since 1950, Charlesbank Homes, Inc., since 1950, Channing Home,
Inc., since 1948, Children’s Museum, 1955-61; treasurer, Educational
Services, Inc., since 1962, Harvard Alumni Bulletin, since 1955, Park
School, 1953-56; director, North Bennet St. Industrial School, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; The Country Club; Duxbury Yacht
Club.

IT seems just yesterday that my father was taking in his Twenty-
fifth Reunion. His class seemed a most venerable group. Hlow

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

interesting the way classes have got younger over the years and
how our own gives every indication of being the youngest Twenty-
fifth Class yet — at least until next year.

Twenty-five years — it seems as difficult to assemble words and
thoughts now as it was in B Entry Wigglesworth and chronology
seems an easy way to begin. First a post graduation vacation and
then I started off that fall in the First National Bank of Boston.
There was an informal training program consisting of learning the
business hither and yon, being more of a nuisance than helpful, and
perhaps most important of all, learning about dealing with people. I
had just emerged from the training program long enough to think
I was doing something I enjoyed and to feel settled down when
the Navy in June of 1941 decided it couldn’t get along without
me. I didn’t feel the same way about it then, but in retrospect I’m
not sure I could have got along without the Navy. Back I came in
late 1946 to the commercial banking business and the First National
Bank, and there I have been ever since. My family would take a
slight exception to the “there ever since” because my job includes
doing business in many corners of the U.S.A., but I do try to
cooperate and avoid sunny California when the snow is deep in our
driveway.

I still feel after all these years I happened to pick a pretty satis-
factory form of livelihood. It provides as complete a mix of the
stimulating and frustrating, tedious and exciting as any occupation I
have run into. A life full of variety and at the same time construc-
tive is to me not too bad. And injecting the insular viewpoint, if
you can be lucky enough to do all this in New England, what more
can you ask for?

I am brought back to reality by the home front comment, “Hey,
Dad, whatever happened to that boat we were going to get in that
last Class Report you wrote?” Whatever did happen to it? More
parent participation in school activities, more outside affairs, than

there are hours in the day to take care of.

Perhaps all of us spread ourselves too thin, and [’m sure I do, but
these extra activities often seem too important or interesting to
pass by. I have been on the board of a settlement house for many
years and only wish there was more time to devote to this. Another

non-profit organization with which I am connected has opened my
eyes to what can be accomplished in urban renewal. Most recently,

I have been involved with Educational Services, Inc., originally an

M.LT. semi-sponsored group sect up to develop an up-to-date high

[ 210 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

school physics course. Now ESI. is an independent non-profit
corporation carrying out a variety of educational programs.

A friend of mine the other day remarked it was impossible to be
a good banker, a good father, and active in outside affairs, all at
the same time. I’m sure he’s right, but either Groton or Harvard
or both did me the favor or disservice of having a continuing
curiosity — so onward I shall go — spread out — but enjoying every
minute of it.

WILLIAM GRISWOLD BURT, JR.

er Tmarema agin savanna ~ Sor meena mmm

     

HOME AppreEss: Doublet Hill Road, Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Communication Co., 677 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938 (39).

MararieD: Patricia Lambert, April 19, 1947. CHILDREN: William Griswold, 3d,
March 22, 1948; Winston Sill, April 17, 1949; Emily, Feb. 18, tos4.

occupaTION: Chief engineer, General Communication Company, electronic
equipment manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Sales engineer, Fafnir Bearing Company, 1938-42; planning and
estimating superintendent, USNR, 1942-36, assistant to president, 1946-40,
senior engineer, 1949-59, technical coordinator, 1959-62, General Com-
munication Company, electronic consultant, Cordis Corporation, 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engincers (senior member); Instrument So-
ciety of America; Harvard Club of Boston; American Guild of Organists,
Community Chorus of Weston, Wayland and Sudbury; Harvard Engi
neering Society; Registered Professional Engineer, Massachusects,

PuBLications: Patents: A Liquid Density Sensing Device, A Cardiac Pro-
grammer, A Radio Frequency Switching Device,

T LEFT Harvard in 1938 with a formal arts and sciences education,
a practical apticude for the mechanical and electrical, a strong in-

{ 201]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

terest in the arts (particularly music), a few lines of poetry, and the
idea of going into manufacturing. In that year I took a job as
trainee in one of the major ball bearing manufacturing companies
in a Connecticut manufacturing town. Several years of sales en-
gineering followed this training period. With the onset of the war,
I joined the Navy.

I started with the V—7 engineering training, and then attended the
radar schools at Harvard and M.LT. This led to an assignment as
industrial officer at Brooklyn Navy Yard, where I planned and
supervised the shipboard electronic installation program for the
scores of DDs and DEs that made this yard their home base. The
application of radar and sonar to these ships was a field in which I
“found myself.” There were endless comings and goings of fine
ships, and there was endless variety in the skills to be seen operating
within the yard. Under the pressure of war there was a general
sense of high purpose. All this to some extent made up for the fact
that I never did get out on sea duty.

During these years I lived in New York City, at Rainsford House,
a bachelor stronghold on Stuyvesant Square. At this time, too, I
met my bride-to-be, a fine and lovely Wellesley girl from Ohio.

With the end of the war I succumbed to the lure of electronics,
gave up ball bearings, and came to Boston to join General Communi-
cation Company and to start married life. Up to the present I have
remained with that company and have managed to hold onto my
wife. In my work, although subject to wanderings into administra-
tive and sales activities, I seem by a process of gravitation to return
again and again to the design and development type of activity,
where I am apparently best able to contribute creatively. I am
responsible for technical development of a line of radio frequency
switching devices and the preparation of technical proposal material.

At home Pat and I run a typical three-ring circus. In our colorful

family, Bill, our elder boy, now attends preparatory school in Maine;
our second son, Winston, is in junior high and Emily is in third
grade. When the house is teeming with ball players and bird
watchers and Pat is working up Sunday School courses on the
typewriter, I frequently retire to the basement to “console” myself
with a large and powerful pipe organ which I have designed and
assembled there. With this I further pursue my old interest in
Bach and dip into the modern organ literature. I am also a base-
ment tinkerer and handyman of long standing and get much relief
from bill paying through experiments in electroacoustics,

[212 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We live among many friends in the congenial town of Weston.
I do some singing in the local choral groups and in our church choir.
We have been caught up in countless community activities. One of
my specialties has been the management of fund drives and canvasses.
Religion has become more important to us as time has passed and we
subscribe to the philosophies of the liberal church. Politics and
foreign policy are for others. I observe the stratagems and harangues
with amazement and some day hope to evolve a philosophy in an-
swer to the question “Why do the nations rage so furiously together,
and why do the people imagine a vain thing?” Meanwhile I con-
tinue to rage and to imagine privately as each of us does in search of
his own “New Jerusalem” of complete fulfillment. I find that a few
odd lines of long-remembered poetry like those of Blake, and others
from Kipling and Gilbert and Sullivan and Sir Henry Newbolt and
— yes — the words of “Fair Harvard” fill me with the strongest
sentiments and provide much of the drive on which I continue to

operate year by year. As Robert Frost might say, “These make all
the difference.”

GEORGE PETER BYRNE, JR.

 

HOME appreEss: 74 Lookout Circle, Larchmont, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 53 Park Pl., New York 7, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N.Y3 McBurney School, New
York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE!
Univ.), 1941,

Marriep: Eleanor R, Westervelt, Jan, toga. CHtemreN; Barbara Anne, Jan. 23,
1944; Karen Louise, Nov. tt, tgg7; Richard Chase, July roy tase

[ 213 ]

1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, cunt bride, 1938) Li. (Bostoa

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occupation: Legal counsel and secretary for national and local trade associa-

tions,

OFFICES HELD: President, Byrne Organization, Inc., since 1950, secretary, Tubu-
lar Exchange Manufacturers Association, since 1949, Bright Wire Goods
Manufacturers Service Bureau, since 1955, Tubular & Split Rivet
Council, since 1959, U.S. Wood Screw Service Bureau, since 1957, Casket
Credit Bureau, since 1950, Alumina Ceramics Manufacturers Associations,
since 1958, and others,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Westchester; New York County
Lawyers Association; American Bar Association, Antitrust Section; So-
ciety of Former Special Agents, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Inc.;
Larchmont Shore Club; Horseshoe Harbor Yacht Club; Boston University
Club; Scout Dads Association; Yacht Racing Association of Long Island
Sound; American Society of Association Executives.

SINCE 1938 I spent three years in law school, five years as a special
agent of the F.B.I., and since 1946 have had an interesting and stimu-
lating legal and business life as legal counsel and secretary to trade
associations. Increasing interrelation of American business with all
spheres of economic, social, as well as government life has made busi-
ness associations vital and essential. Operating some of them has been
a worthwhile challenge to me. My work is unusual because I serve,
with my organization, a number of associations whose members
manufacture a wide variety of industrial and consumer products
such as screws, nuts, rivets, heat exchangers, hand tools, burial
caskets, alumina ceramics and others. I travel considerably, especial-
ly in the major industrial area of the U.S.A., north of the Ohio and
east of the Mississippi Rivers.

My wife Eleanor and I and our three children live in suburban
Westchester County and, like others similarly situated, find life
more than full. We are thankful for the blessings our wonderful
country and society provide. Our two younger children are in
Larchmont-Mamaroneck public schools and our elder daughter is
a freshman at the College of Wooster, Wooster, Ohio. We are
active in the Larchmont Avenue Presbyterian Church.

About five years ago, after the near acquisition of miscellaneous
ills such as “ulceritis” (probably common to many of the Class of
1938), I took up sailboat racing in the annual regattas of the Yacht
Racing Association of Western Long Island Sound. Our small boat,
a Rhodes 18, is happily the joint property of myself and a partner,
W. H. James, M.LT., ’40, and vice-president of the New York Daily
News. We and our familics have found pleasure and reward in the
competition of sailboat racing as an antidote from other pressures.

I believe my service in busincss is important. My family has been

[214 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one of my most successful ventures. I hope I shall be able to con-
tribute enough in my areas of work to repay some of the benefits it

was my good fortune to receive at Harvard, Boston University and
other places.

JOHN JEROME CABITOR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Somerset St., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bartlett-Brainard Co., 75 Talcott Rd., West Hartford, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Vermont Academy, Saxtons River, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938(39).

MmarrigpD: Lucille Edmunds, June 7, 1952.

occupation: Sales promotion, home improvements.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut.

SINCE this report requires a mental stretch of twenty-five vears,
I find real pleasure i in recalling the wonderful people at the Shady
Hill School in Cambridge, w here I spent my first vear as athletic
supervisor. In September, 1939, I signed on as ordinary seaman with
the Isthmian Steamship Lines, a subsidiary of United States Steel.
I knew nothing nautical, and I recall w ‘ith some amusement my
initial experiences as a seaman!

I was introduced to the war scene long before any of my class-
mates. The Steel Ranger sailed from New York only days after the
Nazis attacked Warsaw. Her cargo consisted of ethyl g gas, oil and
gas tanks for oil companies in Saudi Arabia, locomotives for India.
Our ship was well-lighted at night and huge American flags were
painted fore and aft and on both sides, We were stopped several
times by British and French destroyers before we reached Fyv pt.

[215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Our several weeks in Alexandria were highlighted by a visit to the
Pyramids and the Sphinx 1 in full moonlight!

The rest of the itinerary took us to several ports in the Persian
Gulf, including Basrah, to Bombay, Ceylon, Madras, Rangoon and
Calcutta, the eastern terminal for Isthmian. It was from Calcutta
that I rode the Delhi Express to Agra and the Taj Mahal which I
was lucky enough to view in full moonlight also. Of the many
exotic places I visited as a seaman, only the Taj exceeded expecta-
tions. It defied description. On the Delhi Express I was befriended
by two British Tommies who lodged me at their barracks in Agra
and made me feel it was all a page out of Kipling!

I visited Ben Dillingham, ’39, in Honolulu during one of my trips
around the world and I shall not forget Ben predicting war with
Japan. And this was in the spring of 1941. Shanghai was the most
popular port for American seaman, and Saigon the most beautiful.

I joined Pratt & Whitney Training Department in the fall of 1941.
Deferments notwithstanding, I went back into the Merchant Marine
in 1944 and spent the entire winter and spring of 1945 in Belgium.
My final trips at sea were with the Army Transportation Corps
bringing back homesick soldiers and marines. My career in sales
has extended from selling industrial machinery to home improve-
ments for the home owner. .

I have the usual number of regrets as I scan twenty-five years.
Mostly, I regret not going to Jaw school for the law has so many
ramifications. I shall always be grateful for the years spent at
Harvard whose influence has reached into every facet of my life.
A quarter of a century cannot alienate my quest for intellectual and
spiritual integrity which Harvard so authoritatively implanted
in me.

I married a lovely girl from New Hampshire in 1952, and we
have lived in Hartford ever since.

[ 216 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR TRACY CABOT

 

HOME ApprEss: 41 Dunbarton Drive, Nashua, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Martha Failes, Dec. 26, 1941. cHiLpREN: Arthur Tracy, Jr. Nov. 2,

1942; Edward James, July 15, 1946; Susan Mary, Nov. 25, 1951; Betty Ann,
Oct. 21, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Administrative consultant, most recently credit manager for a
community hospital.

MEMBER OF: Air Force Association (charter member); Delta Upsilon Fra-
ternity.

A TWENTY-FIVE-YEAR report has a way of making us stop and
take stock. It has been a turbulent period i in the history of this
world of ours and, in a way, in the lives of all of us. In this short
span, we have passed from a world of relative stability into a world
where uncertainty is the rule of the day. We are passing through
a period of massive change in scientific know ledge, inventive ingenu-
ity, social upheaval, and sociological conscience.

In the above framework, we are proud to know that many of our
classmates are in the forefront. How, therefore, can one objectively
equate twenty-five years spent in keeping the human side as a
main objective? After a year at the Harvard Business School, I have
been putting into practice the balance between the psychology of
human beings and the demands of the business world. After six
years in the Air Force, the after effects were very clear, and, like
so many others, I fele the need to get the taste out of my mouth.
My family became the center of all that was really important. It
has grown quire satisfactorily, but that has been re ported previously,
My cldcr son is now an information specialise with the Air Force,

[217]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

with a younger brother still trying to master the demands of
secondary education. My girls are staying even with their older
brothers in keeping the pot at a high boil at home. Outside, my
concern has been with people and their problems. In personnel,
branch management, and hospital credit management, the main line
of interest has been with service to people and their needs.

Life has been satisfying, relatively peaceful and unexciting. The
great Challenge is still there, but somewhat mellowed by time.
While personal satisfaction has been strong, the financial rewards
have sometimes been less than the best. A good wife, a good family,
a home, and a measure of personal happiness is not such a bad

bargain for a twenty-five-year period.

EDWARD THEODORE CALDWELL

 

MAILING AppREss: P.O. Box 1515, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.

[218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN LEONIDAS CALVOCORESSI

    

HOME ADDRESS: 62 Concord St., West Hartford 7, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pelgrift, Dodd & Stoughton, 24 Lewis St., Hartford 3, Conn,
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1938; LLB. (Univ.
of Connecticut), 1956.

MARRIED: Francis Seward Whitall, Feb. 18, 1939. cHtpreN: Josephine Zelie,

July 26, 1941; Leonidas John, March 10, 1948; Thomas John, April 28, 1953.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American, Connecticut and Hartford County
Bar Associations; University Club of Hartford; Hartford Golf Club; Hart-
ford Club.

MARRYING soon after leaving college, I have managed (with the
important assistance from my wife) to produce one daughter (about
to graduate from Smith) and two boys (one at St. Paul’s and one at
home). This took a bit of time, with the interruptions of business
and military life.

After a brief and boring tour ina bank, I was employed by Apple-
ton & Cox, marine underwriters, spending 1942-43 as their state
agent in Pittsburgh. The next two years were spent with OSS,
variously in Washington, Cairo and Greece, in which latter place I
zigged when I should have zagged, but was fortunate enough to
leave the country before the October ’44 revolution. Returning to
the United States, I was gulled by a medical colonel (who said I
should get my draft status straightened out before dying) into
volunteering for the Army, was selected alone out of five hundred
essential war workers in New Haven, and w eighed into the Infantry
at 100 pounds. This radical treatment prov ed good for my health,
and I have since put on weight. T moved on to Transportation OCS,

[219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

arriving on V-J Day, was duly commissioned, and spent the next
year assisting personnel of much higher morale from Camp Kilmer
to discharge centers. I have adopted the military as a hobby, and in
fact combined a pleasure and business trip to Europe in the summer
of 62 with active duty at Heidelberg.

In 1946, I became involved in the movie theatre business (stil]
very prosperous then), first with Skouras Theatres, and later as prin-
cipal in a chain (rather a few weak links) in Connecticut (thus mov-
ing to our present locus in 1948). One healthy unit of this venture
still remains, a drive-in in Boulton Notch, built by us in 1953.

Meanwhile, mistakenly believing I had time to spare, I went to
night school (law) for five years. This was not too onerous, since I
generally slept through the first hour. In 1957 a neighbor of mine
persuaded me that it was a pity to have a law degree and not use it.
1 joined his firm and am now happy to be a partner. I am mainly in-
volved in trial work, and do not look forward to another change.

With due apologies to Bob Bishop, I find the law the best and most
fascinating mistress,

A registered Republican, I have the Connecticut predilection for
ticket-splitting, and was active in the 1956 (unsuccessful) and 1958
(successful) campaigns of Thomas J. Dodd for the U.S. Senate. I
have resisted the lure of running for any office. In December, 1962,

I was appointed the minority (Republican) member of the State

Liquor Control Commission.

«JAMES LaPRELLE CAMP

 

Bown: Dec. 13, 1913, McAlester, Okla. parents: Thomas La Mar Camp, Ida
LaPrelle.

[ 220]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
PREPARED AT: Terrill School, Dallas, Texas.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Ariana E. Woodbury, June, 1941, Scarsdale, N.Y. CHILDREN: Thomas
M., Aug. 9, 1942; Brooks L., Oct. 18, 1944, Alex G., Oct. 23, 1950; Ariana
M., Jan. 29, 1952; Sterling E., Nov. 3, 1954.

DIED: Jan. 12, 1963, Dallas, Texas.

wipow: Mrs, James LaPrelle Camp, 6031 St. Andrews Drive, Dallas 5, Texas.

AFTER receiving his degree Camp spent a year with the United
Aircraft Corporation in Hartford, Connecticut, as assistant to the
manager of advertising and publicity. In 1940 he moved to Dallas,
Texas, and worked for a real estate investment firm and wrote an
aviation column for the Dallas Times Herald.

During World War II he joined the Civil Air Patrol and by the
end of the war had attained the rank of major and had participated
in hundreds of air search and rescue operations. In 1949 he was
promoted to colonel in the CAP and took command of the Texas
Wing, and in 1956 took over the entire Southwestern command.

After the war he joined Luscombe Airplane Corporation as head
of its public relations and sales promotion department. He later
left Luscombe and entered the real estate field. He was head of
Camp & Camp, real estate investments firm in Dallas.

He was survived by his wife and children.

COLIN DEARBORN CAMPBELL

SAH

  

  

HOME ApprEss: 9 N, Park Se.. Hanover, N.H,
OFFICE AbpRESS: Dartmouth College, Hanover, NEL
PREPARED AT; Cristobal Eligh School, Cristobal, Canal Zone.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, ct lade, 1938, an, (Univ, of
Towa), 19413 Pip, (Univ. of Chicago), rgso,

[220]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

marriED: Rosemary Garst, June 18, 1949. CHILDREN: William Garst, Jan, 18,

1952: Janet Adele, July 23, 1955.
OCCUPATION: Associate professor of economics, Dept. of Economics, Dartmouth

College.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Dartmouth National Bank of Hanover, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: American Economics Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Are Property Tax Rates Increasing?”, Journal of Political
Economy, 1951; “Hyperinflation in China, 1937-49,” with Gordon C.
Tullock, Journal of Political Economy, 1954; “Soviet Price Reductions for
Consumer Goods, 1948-54,” with Rosemary G. Campbell, American
Economic Review, 1955; “Investments in United States Government Se-
curities by State and Local Governments,” National Tax Journal, 1957.

SHORTLY after publication of the Eighteenth Anniversary Report,
we moved from Washington, D.C., to Hanover, New Hampshire.
Teaching economics at Dartmouth College really appealed to me
after spending four years in the federal bureaucracy. I had had
enough of adding up figures for the government. At Dartmouth I]
have been teaching courses in the principles of economics, money
and banking, and business cycles. I have the reputation — at least
among my colleagues here — of being a conservative, but actually
am a nineteenth-century liberal concerned about the growing power
of the federal government.

In 1960, I decided to do my part to help the backward nations of
the world. My family and I spent nine months in Seoul, Korea. I
was with a tax advisory group sent to assist the Korean Ministry of
Finance. The group failed to accomplish anything, and I regret to
say that this was not entirely due to the Koreans. My family did
discover what it was like to be in the midst of a revolution. Presi-
dent Syngman Rhee was deposed while we were there. Also, being
in the Far East again rekindled my interest in that area. | am now
working in my spare time on a study of the velocity of money in
South Korea. Another result of this trip— we developed an even
deeper attachment to the calmness and charm of rural New England.

[ 222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS BAIRD CAMPION

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Paradise Rd., Bronxville 8, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Times, 229 W. 43d St., New York 36, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938(39)3 S.M., 1940.

MARRIED: Narcissa Reeder, July 5, 1941. cuitpren: Thomas Baird, Jr., May 1,
1942; Edward W., 2d, Jan. 6, 1945; Frederick R., Feb. 22, 1948; Narcissa R.,
Feb. 6, 1951; Russell R., 1956.

OCCUPATION: Production supervisor, New York Times.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Sarah Lawrence College Westchester Committee,
1959-61; vice president, Andover Alumm Council, 1959-60, Bronxville
P.T.A., 1962-63; member, Production Engineering Committee, American
Newspaper Publishers Association Research Institute.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Bronxville Field Club; South Fork
Country Club, Amagansett, Long Island, N.Y.

ROBERT BENCHLEY, I understand, summed up his life for his
25th Reunion by stating: “I have two sons, both of whom think I
went to Colgate.” Well, I have five children, all of whom know
Papa went to Harvard. They've been waiting years for this fabled
Reunion.

My life seems to have been compounded of soap and newspapers.
After graduating from Harvard Business School, I spent eight vears
with Procter and Gamble in Cincinnati, mainly in) production
management. In 1948 I came to the New Fork Times, where I have
worked ever since. It’s a large paper, sir, but there are those who
love it, including the seven Campions who live at 5 Paradise Read,
Bronxville, New York.

Like many another Harvard man, I found fate waiting for me at
Wellesley College. Twenty-two (TWENTY-TWO?) years ago |
married an “army brat” named Nardi Reeder, Wellesley, °38. Our

[223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

contributions to the population explosion may be assorted as fol-
lows: Tom, a junior at Dartmouth; Tad, a senior at Andover; Toby,
a candidate for Andover next year; Cissa— our only girl—a 6th
grader in the Bronxville School; and Russell, aged 6, our answer to
the geriatrics problem.

My wife and I| participate in the usual P.T.A., scout, school and
church activities. She has somehow found time to write three and
a half books. One was made into a movie called “The Long Gray
Line” and that resulted in a merry trip to Europe. Couldn’t even
pay the income tax when we returned. Easy come, easy go.

My job at the New York Times is that of production director,
which involves all the aspects of a newspaper manufacturing opera-
tion. It is exciting and challenging and nerve-wracking and I
wouldn’t trade it for anything else that I can think of.

Gardening, hunting, skiing and mountain climbing absorb as much
of my time as possible, on week-ends and vacations. We spend our
summers at Amagansett, Long Island, and I believe sun, sand and
surf are the correct antidote for tension, middle age and high
cholesterol. I can still read and do sometimes. I was pleased to find
my favorite book this year, The Making of a President was written
by a classmate. Politically, my wife and I man a small Democratic
fortress, entirely surrounded by Republicans (family, village, county
and state). My pet hates include staying in motels, looking at tele-
vision (presidential press conferences and Danny Kaye excepted),
and writing a biography for my Harvard Reunion. Now that it’s
done, I look forward with great anticipation to June, 1963. Inci-
dentally, I want to pay tribute to that marvelous flood of prodding
cards, letters and other inter-continental missiles from our omni-
present Reunion Committee. On to Reunion! In vino, VERITAS.

[ 224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD MORSE CARLETON

 

HOME ApDpDRESS: 208 Churchill Drive, Wilmington 3, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Advertising Dept., E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Wilming-
ton 98, Del.

PREPARED AT: Penns Grove High School, Penns Grove, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938(39).

MARRIED: Romayne Barner, June 7, 1941. CHILDREN: Jacquelyn Romavyne, Oct.
12, 1944; Richard Douglas, Jan, 8, 1947; Stephen Edward, May 3, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Personnel manager, Advertsing Dept, E. I. duPont de Nemours
& Company.

MEMBER OF: Wilmington Squadron of U.S. Power Squadrons, Northeast

River Yacht Club.

MOST of the twenty-four years (I started a year late) have been
spent in one location, Wilmington, and aside from my service in
the Navy, with one employer, the duPont Company. There have
been several different jobs but with one exception, all in the per-
sonnel field.

My free time is spent for the most part with my family. My
favorite recreation is boating —I own a small power crusser. The
Chesapeake Bay has many rivers which in turn have many creeks
and coves which call for exploration.

I am firmly convinced that freedom of choice, economically,
politically and socially is best for most of us and hate to sce this
freedom gradually eroded aw ay by those in Washington who think
they know best and those all over the country w ho. want handouts
of one kind or another.

[225]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ALBERT BURNETT CARLSON

3
a
‘

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2560 Delaware Ave., St. Paul 18, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Waldorf Paper Products Co., 2250 Wabash Ave., St. Paul
14, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Barbara Jane Miller, Jan. 26, 1952. cHmLp: Susan Barbara, June 25, 1962.

occuPATION: Executive controller, Waldorf Paper Products Company; treas-
urer, Waldorf-Hoerner Paper Products Company.

OFFICES HELD: District vice-chairman, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Tax Executives Institute, Financial Officers’ Group, National
Paperboard Association.

AFTER graduating from Harvard in 1938 I left the East almost
immediately, taking up the adage “Go West, Young Man” and
progressed westward to St. Louis, Missouri, where I served an
apprenticeship in the accounting profession with Monsanto Chemi-
cal Company. By the time the war came along I was with this
company in Trenton, Michigan. In 1941, having been brought up
with boats and boating, I endeavored to join the Navy but finally
wound up the following year being drafted into the Army.
Strangely enough I found myself in the Engineer Amphibian Com-
mand working in a boat yard and teaching navigation and boat
handling on Cape Cod, as well as being for a time platoon sergeant
in the basic training company. Later I went to Officer Candidate
School] and then became a post exchange officer. This turned out
to be a career which ultimately took me to India, Burma and North
Africa, where I spent the last year of my service life in charge of
the liquidation of Post Exchanges in that theatre.

After leaving the Army as a captain and returning to the United

[ 226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

States in 1945, I became chief of finance and accounting of the
New York Regional Office of the Army Exchange Service. This
was a Civilian job and an interesting one until 1 became affiliated
in 1946 with Montgomery Ward & Company in Albany, New
York. With Montgomery Ward I moved during the next ten
years from Albany to Chicago to Oakland, California, to St. Paul,
Minnesota —in the last two cities being controller of the Mail
Order Divisions of the company in those locations. In 1952 while
working in Chicago, I met and married Barbara Jane Miller of
Freeport, New York.

After living in St. Paul for a short period of time I changed my
business affiliation and became the controller of the Waldorf Paper
Products Company, a company headquartered in St. Paul. This
change put an end to the periodic migrations involved with trans-
fers and we settled down, as a result, in 1956, to establish permanent
roots in a permanent location. Our abode is in a community known
as Sunfish Lake Village, where we acquired four and one-half acres
of land, built a home and acquired a lifetime project of landscap-
ing and gardening on the acreage. In between times (?) I have kept
busy as Race Committee Chairman of the Sunfish Lake Yacht Club
and engaging in other activities with the Republican Party, the St.
Paul Chamber of Commerce and the Boy Scouts of America.

A member of the family was added last year, when we adopted
a baby girl who was born in New York State and, due to the quirks
in the adoption laws of the various states, was adopted after estab-
lishing a six weeks’ residence in Bangor, Maine. Life has been
busy, life has been satisfying. Problems have been overcome.
Battles have been fought. Despite the turmoil in the world as the
press describes it, I have confidence in civilization and its future

and have a deep respect for Harvard’s contributions — past, present
and future.

[227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CONRAD HILMER CARLSON

 

HOME ApprEss: 7 Autumn Lane, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Wayland, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREES: s.B. (U.S. Naval Academy), 1940; s.B.EE.
(Mass. Inst. of Technology), 1948.

marrigD: Alice M. Lindgren, Oct. 3, 1942. CHILDREN: Jeanne Carolyn, June 8,
1945; Diane Roberta, June 23, 1950.

occuPaTION: Electronics engineer, Raytheon Company.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, U.S. Navy, Retired (Bronze Star with Combat “V,”
Letter of Commendation with Combat “V,” Pacific Theatre five battle
stars, Atlantic and European Theatres).

ON the occasion of our Twenty-fifth Reunion, I find myself em-
barking on a new career as a civilian, having recently retired from
the Navy. Alice, my ever loyal spouse, is in the throes of com-
pletely refurnishing the new domicile in Wayland. Jeanne, daughter
number one, is busy preparing for college next year, and Diane, aged
twelve, is thoroughly enjoying her days at Wayland Junior High,
but at the same time praying for snow so that she won't have to
go to school.

After two years as an undergraduate at Harvard, I received an
appointment to the Naval Academy through the NROTC program
and graduated in 1940. I saw quite a bit of the war in the Pacific,
first in the heavy cruiser Astoria, then in the destroyers, Foote,
one of the Little Beavers made famous with Arleigh Burke, and
Douglas H, Fox at Okinawa. Let’s hope we never have another
such war. One of the best ways to insure this is continued support
for a strong military organization in peacetime, It is expensive,

f 228 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but there is no other satisfactory alternative with our world-wide
interests and problems.

For my first tour of shore duty I applied and was selected to take
a course in electronics at M.I-T. Needless to say, it was rugged and
absorbed more of my hours than any Navy job before or after. I

received an S.B.E.E. degree in 1948, and have the utmost respect
for our compatriots up the river.

The most satisfying and rewarding experience of my career was
a two-and-a-half-year tour as commanding officer of USS Brownson.
We made two trips to the Mediterranean with the Sixth Fleet,
visited Northern Europe, South America and most of the islands in
the Caribbean. A three-year tour in Norway was the most pleasant.
We lived in a lovely house, thoroughly enjoyed skiing, and made a
host of friends, both Norwegian and American. We all developed
respect and understanding for many of the European ways of living
and doing things in contrast with the helter-skelter manner of living
here at home.

My last job in the Navy was in the office of the Chief of Naval
Operations, where I found out what makes the wheels of progress
turn. The work was interesting, but somewhat frustrating. Ninety
percent of the personnel there are involved directly or indirectly
in the battle of the budget with a disproportionate amount of effort
spent on the man in the Navy. We need long-term, well-motivated,
career personnel to man our wonderful ships, control our marvelous
weapons, and project our foreign policy overseas. Without such
men, our Navy, and in fact our whole military organization, will be

a sham, impressive to look at, but nothing but a hollow shell when
the chips are down.

The transition to civilian life was essentially the same as a routine
change of duty. Even the work at Ray theon, as in any such large
corporation, is strikingly similar to that in the military —a battle
of the budget with practically everything reduced to terms of dollars
and cents. “The big change is that we are e looking forward to becom-
ing permanent members of the community and taking an active
part in politics, the church and other local activities.

[229]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HANS LOUIS CARSTENSEN, JR.

   

ji BLS Ms ING u DSA Rag ya 5 hss

 

HOME ApprEss: 5 Highview Drive, Radnor, Pa.

OFFICE ApprEss: N. W, Ayer & Son, Inc., West Washington Square, Philadel-
phia 6, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

MARRIED: Judson Scribner, Feb. 20, 1943. CHILDREN: Judson 5$., Jan. 9, 1944;
Hans Louis, 3d, July 14, 1947; Carolie S., Sept. 29, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, manager, Philadelphia branch office, N. W. Ayer
& Son, Inc., advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Member of board, Children’s Aid Society of Pennsylvania, since

1954.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Harvard Business School Club of
Philadelphia; Gulph Mills Golf Club; Military Order of Foreign Wars.

AS I look back twenty-five years, the one thing that stands out in
my mind is the fact that I didn’t have the slightest idea what to do
after getting out of college. I didn’t have too much time to con-
template the problem because I had to leave on a Naval Science
cruise for three weeks, missing graduation and delaying the decision.

Later I did what today is commonplace — when undecided — go
to graduate school. Two years later I finally did attend a Harvard
graduation when I was asked to stand along with 800 other guys to
accept an M.B.A. degree. By that time I thought I wanted to be in
the advertising business, and I actually found a job with N. W.
Ayer, Philadelphia. But apparently Ayer and I were the only ones
who thought that was where I belonged. Everyone else said go out
and get some business experience, particularly selling.

I took the advice and went to work for the Scott Paper Company
in Chester, Pennsylvania, and then in Chicago. It wasn’t long there-
after, in January of 1941, that the Navy called me to duty in

[ 230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Washington. I was not destined to leave Washington unul the war
was over and half the personnel were released. That sounds pretty
unexciting, and it was, but it proved to be the most important penod
of my life for several reasons. First, I got married in 1943. Secondly,
my elder daughter was born in Washington and third, I probably
assembled the biggest list of acquaintances possible because of the
jobs I had in the Bureau of Naval Personnel. At first 1 had the job
of approving applications for commissions in the Naval Reserve, and
with the hot breath of the draft on everybody’s neck, my popularity
soared.

Later I had the job of releasing people from the Navy for special
hardship reasons before the war was over. Automobile and ap-
pliance franchises were sure-fire moneymakers at that time. I have
no way of knowing how many hardships actually could be traced
back to the desire for personal gain, but I am sure they represented
a very healthy proportion. Rather late in the game, | finally got a
chance to let myself out, but the war was well over by that time.

Having achieved a fairly comfortable pay scale in the Navy, it was
pretty tough to drop back and return to Scott Paper Company as
district manager, covering Baltimore, Washington and Norfolk.
(I could hardly expect anything else, however, since I didn’t have
much business experience.) Baltimore was home for the next two
years. My son was born there just before I got transferred back to
headquarters and to the Philadelphia area. I have been here ever
since. Work at Scott was fine, and I was making good progress, but
the hankering to get into advertising became too great. I got hold of
Ayer once again and surprisingly they stull agreed that 1 belonged
with them. So, in March of 1948, I joined the plans and m: arketing
department where I stayed for twelve years, the last five of which 1
was vice-president in charge. Early in the twelve years — in 1949 —
Carolie, second daughter and third child was born. Just a vear ago

I was put in charge of the Philadelphia branch office, responsible for
all of the accounts that we serve from this point.

This is a very demanding business, and frequenely vour nme 1S
not your own. Commitments to community undertaking and the
like are difficult to live with; so T have made very few. Tam on the
board of the Children’s Aid Society of Pennsylvania, but that’s about
the limit of my community activities at the present ime.

It seems to be the order of the day to philosophize a bit in these
biographies. I think the mose importante thing T have learned as that
being too quick ta judge can be fatal. Paradoxically, the olfer you

[231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

get the less certain you become of your own judgment. Yet with in-
creasing age and responsibilities, the need to make quick judgments
is more and more a requirement.

-« JOHN FRANCES CASEY, JR.

   

BoRN: Dec. 23, 1916, Allston, Mass. parents: John Francis Casey, Elizabeth Mc-
Dermott.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marriep: Jane Alden Kenyon, 1948 (died April 4, 1952); Mary Drane Kirby,
July 24, 1955. cuitprEN: Francis Kirby, Nov. 3, 1941; Ann Casey, Aug. 9.
1943; Bartholomew Casey, Dec. 7, 1948 (all stepchildren).

piep: Dec. 6, 1962, Rochester, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. John F. Casey, Jr., 62 Welbeck St., London W.1, England.

In November, 1962, Casey sent in the following story for our
Report. The Secretary is printing it instead of a formal obituary.

“I became interested in advertising while I was on the Harvard
Crimson and have been in various phases of the business ever since,
except for five years in the Army where I became a major in the
Field Artillery, and received the Silver Star and Bronze Star. I ac-
quired a taste for traveling when I was in the Army and spent some
time in the Pacific and in Europe. Since the war I have worked in
Chicago, Boston, New York and, most recently, in London, England.
The family has grown up very quickly. Frank Kirby is a senior at
Colby College, Ann Casey is in her sophomore year at Marymount
College, Tarrytown, New York; and Bart is entering Downside, one
of England’s well-known public schools.”

At the time of his death, Casey was director of Young & Rubicam,
Ltd., in London, England. He was survived by his wife and children.

[ 232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD LEAVITT CASEY

 

HOME ADpRESS: 369 Hatherly Rd., Egypt, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; State Street Bank and Trust Company, 199 Washington Sc.,
Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MARRIED: Jeannette Moses, March 1, 1941. CHILDREN: Mildred L., Aug. 14, 19433
Richard L.,, Jr., Dec. 19, 1944; Jay W., Sept. 17, 1949.

OccUPATION: Banking; vice-president, Corporate Trust-Transfer Division.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Bank Officers’ Association, 1962-63; President,
National Bank Cashiers Association, 1958,

MEMBER OF: New York Stock Transfer Association, American Society of

Corporate Secretaries; National Investment Company Service Association;
Scituate Harbor Yacht Club.

FOR the past twenty-five years I have traveled down the path of
a Boston banker. After school I spent three years in Law School
and five years in the Army. We do have a daughter and two sons,
and enjoy living on the South Shore, facing the Atlantic Ocean.

After the war I settled in State Street Bank and Trust Company
in Boston and have been employed there ever since, in the Corporate
Trust-Transfer Division which includes the servicing of Mutual
Funds. This phase of banking is extremely interesting and exciting
and subject to continual change.

My primary interests are my family, banking, fishing and sailing.

[ 233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WILLIAM DONALD CASTLE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 336 Wailupe Circle, Wailupe Peninsula, Honolulu, Hawaii.
OFFICE AppREss: Bishop Trust Co., Ltd., 141 S, King St., Honolulu, Hawaii.
PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Washington, Seattle), 1940.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Cabell Meredith, Oct. 25, 1944. CHILDREN: William Donald,
Jr., Dec. 20, 1945; Alfred Lowrey, zd, Dec. 22, 1948, Randolph Meredith,
July 21, 1951; Carlyle Fairfax, Aug. 4, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and manager, Investment Research Department,
Bishop Trust Company, Ltd.

OFFICES HELD: Central Intelligence Agency, 1947-48; trustee, Samuel and Mary
Castle Foundation, 1960, 1961, 1962 and perpetual until death or replace-
ment, U.S. Naval Reserve, 1941-45 (ensign to lieutenant commander, re-
signed commission 1949); internal auditor, Alexander and Baldwin, Ltd.,
Honolulu, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Fox Club, Cambridge, Mass., Chevy Chase Club, Chevy Chase,
Md.; Army and Navy Club, Washington, D.C.

I WAS commissioned ensign in the U.S. Naval Reserve in January,
1942, and remained in service until my separation in the fall of
1945, with the rank of lieutenant commander. I was stationed for
the first two years at the Kaneohe Naval Airbase on this island
(Oahu), as a staff officer. Supply Corps duties (chiefly aviation
parts) occupied most of my time. In 1943 I was transferred to duty
on the staff of the Naval Air Technical Training Center, Jackson-
ville, Florida (the Recreational Department) where we scheduled
movies, USO shows, and other entertainment for the base, both
officers and enlisted men. In 1944 I was transferred to the Navy
Japanese Language School at the University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colorado (one year training). However, I took time out (two
weeks) to get married in October, 1944. My last assignment in the

[ 234 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Naval Reserve was to the staff of CincPac (Commander and Chicf,
Pacific Fleet, stationed at Pearl Harbor, Oahu, Hawaiian Islands).
This duty, mostly the supervision of the postal censorship office,
continued until my separation from the service in the late fall of
1945. I spent most of 1945 with CincPac.

The year 1946 was largely one of delightful travel and some
casual studies in journalism at the University of Minnesota. In 1947
and 1948 I spent a year and a half working for the Central Intelli-
gence Agency in Washington, D.C. The work was fascinating but
confidential.

After a year of travel (in 1948) I joined Alexander and Baldwin,
a Honolulu corporation, to audit the accounts of this company and
certain companies on Kauai and Maui islands in which the company
had and still has a substantial interest. In the spring of 1952, I joined
Bishop Trust Company, at a higher salary, as an investment analyst
and manager for trust accounts, assisting others. In subsequent years
there were various promotions, title increases, and salary increases,
to my present position as a vice-president in the company. The
Bishop Trust Company is not a commercial bank; strictly trust
business, with no banking activities. I now have over-all supervision
of 500 fiduciary accounts (investment management), including
profit-sharing accounts of other companies in the islands, eleemosy-
nary trusts (of which McInerny Foundation, with assets valued at
approximately $11,000,000, 1S the largest), guardianships, various
types of trust accounts, and two Common Trust Funds of the
company, valued at several million dollars each (which pool fiduci-
ary funds). In addition, I manage the investments for the Employee
Pension Trust and the Profit-Sharing Fund for Employees.

The work at Bishop Trust Company is a challenge to one’s ability
to adapt to changing investment and market conditions. It ts never
cut and dried. The wide variety of accounts handled permits
working toward many different objectives, and investments that are
right for one account may not be adaptable to others.

As usual, the most delightful part of living is a wife and sons
whom you dearly love and who make it all w orth-while.

[ 233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WILLIAM HENRY CAUNT, JR.

 

HOME AppREss: 177 Hobart Ave., Short Hills, N.J.
OFFICE AppREsS: Public Service Electric & Gas Co., 80 Park Pl., Newark 1, N.J.
PREPARED AT: Lyons Township High School, La Grange, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938; M.B.A., 1940.
MarriED: Dorothy Roberts, Oct. 5, 1940, cHiLpREN: Margaret, Nov. 23, 1941;
David William, June 21, 1945; Christopher Lawrence, March 7, 1950.

occupation: Department head, Public Service Electric & Gas Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Depreciation Accounting Committee, 1960-61; treas-
urer, various Lutheran churches, 1943-52.

MEMBER OF: Depreciation Accounting Committee of Edison Electric Institute
and American Gas Association, since 1949.

GARTH WILLIAM CAYLOR

YO re ines fe meanencmne ge Beaters elie tates
2 : eg

 

HOME Abpress: 2161 EF. 27th St, Tulsa, Okla.
OFFICE appress: First National Bldg., Tulsa, Okla.

[ 236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936. DEGREE: s.8, (Oklahoma Univ.), 1938.

Marriep: Norma Ann Stovall, Aug. 17, 1936. cHiLpreN: Garth William, Jr.
May 23, 1937 (m. Patricia Jusola, Oct. 8, 1960); Norma Diane, Oct. 7, 1940;
Carole Margaret, July 9, 1944. GraNpcuitp: Margaret Caylor, Sept. 9, 1951.

occuPaATION: Petroleum geologist and oil producer.

OFFICES HELD: Staff geologist, Shell Oil Company, 1938-47; consulting geologist,
since 1947; partner and director, The Oil Capitol Corporation, since 1954;
vice-president, Homestake Production Company, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Petroleum Geologists; American Insti-

tute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, Tulsa Geological Society,
Tulsa Country Club, Petroleum Club.

puBLications: “The Devonian of the Centralia-Salem Area, Illinois.”

AFTER departing from Harvard as an undergraduate in 1936 to
attend my wedding it was never quite possible thereafter to return
to Cambridge.

In 1938, after graduation from Oklahoma University, my profes-
sional career began with Shell Oil Company. Although the objective
of searching for new oil and gas reserves may have been clouded as
an employee of a big company, it became crystal clear when, in
1947, an independent career was launched and survival was put on
the stake. Since that time there has been very little security (actually
none) but lots of independence and personal satisfaction in achieve-
ment. As time passed the family quickly adjusted to chicken on
Sunday and feathers on Monday and fortunately never learned to
assume that prosperity was eternal, since it was all related somehow
to dry hole ratios, foreign oil imports, well allowables, luck and
the whims of some liberal-minded politicians from Harvard.

In spite of this it is a pleasure to report son Bill is scheduled to
receive his degree in architecture this spring from Oklahoma Uni-
versity and will strike out with his wife and my granddaughter on
his career. Diane got her degrce last spring and is now working
in San Francisco. Carole is a freshman at Washington University.

All of us are Presbyterians, Republicans and Conservatives. That's
about it!

[ 237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

NAZZARENO FRANCIS CEDRONE

 

HOME ADpRESS: 71 Ten Hills Rd., Somerville 45, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cambridge Junior College, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass., Huntington
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938(39)3; A.M., 1939; PH.D., 1940.

MARRIED: Ida Zani, April 30, 1944. CHILDREN: Gerald Louis, May 2, 1946;
James Nazzareno, April 8, 1949; Ronald Andrew, March 9, 1952.

OccUPATION: College instructor, Romance Languages, Cambridge Junior Col-
lege.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, University of Vermont, 1942-43.

PUBLICATIONS: National Anthology of Poetry.

JAMES FLETCHER CHACE

   

HOME Appress: 2242 Decatur Pl., N.W., Washington, D.C,
PaepareD AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREE: 8.B., 1938,

[ 238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Betty Luscombe, 1938 (divorced 1946); Patricia McKeon, August,
1950. CHILDREN: Daphne Kathleen (mm. Thomas Maytham), Diana (7.
Alfred Hoyt); James Fletcher, Jr.; Kathleen, Cynthia.

HARVARD SON: James Fletcher Chace, Jr., 66.

occupation: Oil.

MEMBER OF: Explorer’s Club.

MY four years at Harvard did more than stimulate the traditional
desire to increase one’s intellectual horizons. They seemed to give
me a curiosity about places as well and as a result it was twenty
years before I began two consecutive years at the same geographi-
cal spot. That happened to be in Tokyo, where I remained for four
additional years before going on to different assignments on the
Continent. For the past six months, Washington, D.C., has been our
home and my wife and young daughters are most enthusiastic about
the American way of life.

Oil, with an assist of two wars, has been the magic carpet that has
kept me moving and I expect one or the other will again take me
abroad before the moss gets too thick. Besides the obvious oppor-
tunities of learning about different languages and cultures, this wav
of life has given me several chances for both theoretical and actual
archeological digging.

In this jet age, with Americans rushing to all parts of our globe
either to improve their financial status or to help the U.S. govern-
ment try to do this for other nations, I am sure that many of my
classmates will have a similar travel report to make. I wonder how
many will agree with my conclusion about people around the world.
At first any American taking up residence abroad, especially if it is
not in a place frequented by tourists, will feel that there is a great
fundamental difference between himself and the people of his new
country. He will suffer from cultural shock at the first real impact
of the new customs and thinking. He will probably reject most of
it, but then slowly he will come to admire and understand the best of
this new land. Sometimes he will become a more nationalistic sup-
porter of their unique ways than they themselves. Finally, if he has
gone through both of these phases, he will end up with the conclu-
sion that there is after all a great gap between the Americans and the
people of other lands and it will remain. But as long as each side re-
spects the rights and ways of the other, and is true to its own na-

ture and background, all should be able to live in harmony and
friendship.

[ 239]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

H. LINCOLN CHADBOURNE

pore ey
.

rg

    
 

  

es
PEEL TE Te AE ES ee ti ORL

   

 

HOME AppREss: 2577 Ardath Rd., La Jolla, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Navy Electronics Laboratory, San Diego 52, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Evelyn Smith, July 17, 1948. camp: Thomas Lincoln, Oct. 12, 1950.

occuPATION: Editorial manager, Navy Electronics Laboratory (government
research and development organization).

OFFICES HELD: Fellow and member of original board of directors of the Tech-
nical Publishing Society (subsequently merged with Society of Technical
Writers and Publishers), 1954-57; chairman of judging committee, So-
ciety of Technical Writers and Publishers, for the San Diego High School
Student Papers Competition, 1960, 1961, 1962; secretary, 1956, chairman,
1962, Inter-laboratory Committee on Editing and Publishing.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; Society of Technical Writers and
Publishers; Harvard Club of San Diego.

PuBLicaTions: “Technical Reports for Quick Reader Comprehension,” ILCEP
Monograph 2, 1961. Have also ghost-written a large number of technical
and scientific reports and other publications.

FOR the past twenty years I’ve specialized in the writing and editing
of scientific publications — principally research and development
reports. Prior to this ] worked in the office of a small (now defunct)
electronics company and in the advertising department of a chain
grocery company in Canada.

My technical editorial work has been done entirely for the U.S.
Navy Department. From 1942 through 1945 I was with the Elec-
tronics Division of the Bureau of Ships in Washington, D.C.; since
1946 I’ve been employed by the Navy Electronics Laboratory in
San Diego, California. I’ve been head of NEL’s editorial group since

1948.
[ 240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Evelyn Smith of St. Louis and 1 were married in 1948. We've
brought up her son, Dick, who recently completed his second hitch
in the Army and is working for a San Diego television station. The
family at home now includes Eve’s niece, Marilyn Smith, who is
thirteen, and our son, Tommy, who is twelve. Tom will, we hope,
be in the Harvard Class of 1972.

Eve and I are well pleased with life in southern California. Her
hobbies are gardening and fixing up the house, I spend my spare
time in possibly less practical pursuits, such as designing and building
communication receivers and DXing with them when they happen
to work. Also, as part hobby and part profession, I’ve recently de-
veloped a new method of preparing R&D report manuscripts. This
method reduces the time that scientists and engineers must spend in
reporting, and permits readers to get the gist of the information
presented by merely scanning through the documents. Initial re-

sults have been quite promising, and I hope to be able to continue
with this work.

EDWIN AMBROSE CHAMPNEY

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 115 Pine Fill Rd., Bedford, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: a.B., ctomt laude, 1938.

MarRIED: Josephine Delanis, June 18, 19g9. cHitpren: Margaret, May 27, 1980;
George Mather, April 30, 1954.
OCCUPATION: Construction.

[240]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

KENT CHAPPELOW

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 6331 Waterman Ave., St. Louis 5, Mo.

DAVID GRAEME CHASE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Pennymeadow Rd., R.R. 2, Sudbury, Mass,

OFFICE appress: Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories, Bedford, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Kathryn Louise Roller, Feb, 2, 1945. CHILDREN: Pamela Louise, May
4, 1946; Marilyn Janet, Oct. 31, 1949.

OccuPATION: Electronic engineer, Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories.
MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers,

AFTER finishing a year in the Harvard Engineering School, I found
very little demand for a person of my particular talents. Conse-
quently, after holding for a few wecks a night job on a vacuum

[ 242 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tube production line, I followed the line of least resistance into the
family business. For two years I designed elastic suspender webbing
and scheduled the output of 1324 loom shuttles, trying with varying
success to anticipate the likes and dislikes, patternwise, of the con-
suming public. |

Shortly after Pearl Harbor, I returned to Cruft Laboratory for
three months pre-radar training. Following this I went to the Naval
Research Laboratory and, in brief, spent three months short of fif-
teen years there, working on various projects having to do with
design and application of microwave devices.

During the early part of this fifteen-year stint, I met Kathryn,
then a Wave, at a young people’s church group and we were mar-
ried a few months later. In 1946 our first daughter was born, a year
or so later we moved to a Maryland suburb, there our second daugh-
ter increased the family to its present size.

Annually we made our way to the Vermont mountains and New
Hampshire seashore for a two-week escape from Washington heat.
Through the years a desire to return to New England increasingly
accumulated and eventually snow and cold seemed less formidable
than the long hot summers we were then enjoying. We moved to
Massachusetts where I worked for a large electronics firm for two
years. The relative advantages of working for Uncle Sam seemed
preferable to those offered by private industry, so I began com-
muting north from Sudbury instead of east when a position opened
at Hanscom Field. At present I am engaged in activities relating to
telemetry and recovery of data from small experimental rockets.

During the years I have been fortunate in witnessing at close hand
a few developments in the burgeoning sciences of radio astronomy,
rocketry and satellite technology. However, I find it a source of re-
gret that I have not more actively participated in contributing to
them.

As parents we have done much vicarious living, watching our
youngsters taking part in their school and church activities, and are
ever amazed at their ability to keep pace with the intense program
offered in junior high and high schools, seemingly much more ime-
demanding than what we experienced.

Last year the girls pulled me from my armchair and Civil War
books to transport them and their paraphernalia to far-off New
Hampshire ski runs. Much to my surprise, I found myself buying
boots, renting skis and slithering” down some of the gentler slopes
These forays, apart from being companionable outings, have had the

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

opposing effect of giving me a temporary illusion of resurgent
youth, followed later by a realization that many years separate me

from my former suppleness. But we are looking forward again to
more bouts with the unwieldy boards this winter.

ROBERT HATFIELD CHASE

WY KY NOME TT TIGR GIG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 309-10 Stanford Village, Stanford, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Peekskill High School, Peekskill, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; M.F.A. (Boston
Univ.), 1957.

MARRIED: Jean Kay, June 9, 1961.

occupation: Graduate student, Stanford University, working toward PHD. in
theatre.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher, Rollins College, Winter Park, Fla., 1957-62; instructor

and associate director, 1957-61, artistic director, 1961-62, Annie Russell
Theatre, Rollins College.

MEMBER OF: American National Theatre Association; Speech Association of
America

PUBLICATIONS: One-act play, “Children of the Earth.”

AFTER twenty-five years, I find myself exactly what I was in 1938
—a college student. There are a few minor differences: Instead of
clutching my Harvard A.B. degree in economics, I am a long year
away from my Stanford Ph.D. in theatre; instead of bachelorhood,
I have an attractive and vivacious wife who is not only an excellent
cook but a registered nurse, whose professional skill keeps the wolf
(just barely) from the door.

In spite of grey hairs, twenty added pounds and problems of
phone book print, I find it impossible to believe that I am forty-eight

[ 244]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years old! This brief backward glance at my life only reinforces
the feeling that I am just now ready to begin living.

After two years’ experience as an actor and technician, starving
in small theatre groups, I decided to cash in on my economics degree
by accepting a job as a statistical clerk in the U.S. Labor Deparment,
Washington, D.C.;, thence progressing to economic analyst in the
War Production Board, the Foreign Economic Administration and,
finally (at $3200!), in the War Labor Board. Near the end of the
war, I served a short hitch as an A.B. in the Merchant Marine. De-
barking in Philadelphia, I joined Hedgerow, a remarkable profes-
sional repertory theatre. I spent my next busy decade acting, build-
ing and designing scenery, stage-managing and, like everyone else,
struggling to keep the theatre afloat in the economic sea of rising
costs and limited income.

In 1955, | abandoned the sinking ship and spent six glorious months
of freedom in Mexico, studying the customs of the Mixtec Indians
in remote mountain villages. Taking the advice of my theatre col-
leagues, I turned from the jungles of Broadway and Hollywood to-
ward college teaching. With an M.F.A. from Boston University,
and by sheerest luck, I found my niche for the next five years as a
teacher of acting, drama and speech at Rollins College, winding up
in 1961 as artistic head of the theatre department.

Like all resolute bachelors, love came upon me unexpectedly in
the form of a joyfully warm and generous nurse who energetically
stuck me with needles, battling a virus which I had transported, along
with my Indian masks and artifacts, from Guatemala. In June, 1961,
the unbelievable had happened — Marriage!!

Politically, I am still an Independent, convinced (with reserva-
tions) that Kennedy is doing a more competent job, but just as
convinced that the old techniques of power politics are outdated, and
new techniques must be devised if the world is to survive.

All in all, no sharp changes are visible in the external man, in social
status, wealth or fame — but looking inward there has been growth
in self-knowledge and the capacitv to love, which may be why I
feel, at last, ready to begin.

[ 245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

GILBERT ALLAN CHENEY

 

HOME ApDpREsS: 70 S. Main St., Cranbury, N.J.

OFFICE appREss: 68 S. Main St., Cranbury, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1938.

MaRRIED: Grace M. Smith, March 9, 1940. CHILDREN: Allan, 2d, Jan. 13, 1941;
Gilbert Edward, Oct. 31, 1943; Robert Mitchell, Feb. 2, 1945; Ronald Wil-
liam, Feb. 9, 1947; Gary Frederick, March 1, 1053.

OCCUPATION: Heating and air conditioning contractor; partner, Cranbury Realty
Company.

O. DONALD CHRISMAN

 

HOME Appress: 21 Franklin St., Northampton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 264 Elm St., Northampton, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Springficld High School, Springfield, Mo,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: 8.8., 1938, M.D., 1942.

[ 246 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Miriam Usher, Nov. 29, 1943. ciitpren: Nicholas Ramsey, Sepe. 18,
1950; David Abbott, Oct. 1, 1952.

OccUPATION: Orthopedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of orthopedics, Cooley Dickinson Hospital, Northamp-
ton, Mass., associate college physician, Amherst College, assistant clinical
professor of orthopedic surgery, Yale University School of Medicine,
consultant, Massachusetts Crippled Children’s Program, Hampshire-Frank-

lin area; medical director, Northampton Therapy Unit for United Cere-
bral Palsy of Western Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Hampton County District Medical Society; American Academy of Ortho-
pedic Surgery; Bone and Joint Association, American Academy of Cere-

bral Palsy; Orthopedic Research Society, Boston Orthopedic Club,
Appalachian Mountain Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on orthopedics in professional journals.

TRUTH is the daughter of time. However, if I tried to analyze the
ideas of half a lifetime as requested by the Reunion Committee the
attempt would end as a series of awkward half-truths. How can
one assess how the years at Harvard, however pleasant, influenced
one’s present thoughts? The facts are more easily recited. Harvard
graduation was followed by four years of Harvard medicine. In-
ternship, the Navy and residency at Johns Hopkins prolonged my
institutionalization for another eight years or so. Reacting against
large cities and large insticutions, my wife and I moved to western
Massachusetts. We find Northampton a delightful and interesting
place to live and work, permitting a two-professional household in-
volving orthopedic surgery and Reformation history. These pur-
suits provide us good reasons for foreign travel when we can find the
time. Two active boys, along with mountain climbing, skiing, boat-
ing and amateur archeology, fill in the remaining gaps.

Feeling the need to do some medical teaching and research, I
spend my day off at Yale. This docs not come about through mis-
sionary spirit, but is the result of a long-term desire to find out why
people’s joints wear out. In this effort we have recently had some
success, and the hope is that if we can illuminate the process, some
method of control may be found. Who knows, perhaps the joints

We save will be my own and yours, But if so. which univervcy will
be more responsible, Harvard or Yale?

[ 247]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WILLIS KENNEDY CHRISTOPHER

 

LAST KNOWN Appress: 125 N, i8th Se, Montebello, Calif, (Lost.)

CHARLES CHRISTOPULOS

wes tee ay

  

Saal
(Wil reli SRO Saga, A od I> sce

HOME AbpREss: 34 Buzzards Bay Ave., Buzzards Bay, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Buzzards Bay Hotel & Restaurant, Buzzards Bay, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Bourne High School, Bourne, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES; A.B. 1938; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1939-

Marriep: Tarsia Marangos, Feb. 20, 1949. CHILDREN: Anne Elizabeth, April 23,
1951; Jean Frances, Jan. 23, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Restaurant manager.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Kiwanis Club, 1952; president, Kiwanis Club in
Bourne, 1953; Member, 1951-54, chairman, Bourne School Committee;
president, Bourne Chamber of Commerce, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club of Bourne.

[ 248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALEXANDER MacWILLIAM CLARK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Green St., Newbury, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Edgerton, Germeshausen & Grier, Inc., 160 Brookline Ave.,
Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MarriED: Barbara Peck, June 19, 1937 (divorced 1952); Jane Lee, 1953. CHIL-
DREN: Barbara MacWilliam, April 11, 1941 (m. Austin Victor Lau Zecha,
June 23, 1962); Sarah MacWilliam, Jan 10, 1944; Nancy Lee Harder, Aug.
17, 1943; John Bradley Harder, July 28, 1949.

occupaTION: Lawyer; vice-president, general counsel, clerk and director, Ed-
gerton, Germeshausen & Grier, Inc,

OFFICES HELD: Associate and partner, Hale & Dorr, Esqs., Boston, 1946-56;
member, vice chairman and chairman, Finance Committee, Town of Win-
chester, 1948-51; director, Pi Eta Graduates, Inc., since 1950; member,
Greater Newburyport Economic Development Committee, since 1962;
member, New Industries Committee, Greater Boston Chamber of Com-
merce, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Society of Former Special Agents of the F.B.1.; Union Club of
Boston; Harvard Law School Association; American and M{assachusetts
Bar Associations, American Management Association, Oldtown Country
Club; Wm. Parkman Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Lake Mansfield Trout Club.

THREE careers, ten residences, one divorce, no peace and quiet and
twenty-five years later I nevertheless cheerfully conclude: (1) that
anything can happen, (2) it will; and (3) it probably should. Six
years ago, when my scientist (non-liberal arts) associates started
talking about nuclear rocket engines for interplanetary travel, I
(liberal arts) laughingly referred to them as “space cadets.” Now

we earth people are getting ready to occupy acreage on the moon
and on a planet or two.

After three confusing years at the Law School, followed by grad-

[ 249 ]

L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

uate work in industrial administration at the Business School, career
number one began in August of 1942 at Washington and Quantico
in training as an F.B.I. agent. Assignments to the St. Paul, Chicago,
Boston and New York field offices of the F.B.I. during the next three
and one-half years involved, most of the time, investigations of Rus-
sian espionage, although more mundane sleuthing in connection with
White Slave Traffic Act, theft of government property and other
criminal violations took up part of the time, along with a stint in one
of 1945's best selling motion pictures, “The House on g2d Street,” an
epic which, I am told, can still be viewed occasionally on television’s
late, late, late shows. There are many great organizations in this
country dedicated to public service, and the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation is the greatest of them all.

Career number two began in February of 1946, as an associate
and subsequent partner in the law firm of Hale & Dorr of Boston.
Ten years of long hours in the practice of corporation and business
law, and in community, political and civic affairs, coupled with the
experience of a divorce, produced a withdrawal from old haunts and
friends. But a busy and satisfying law practice in association with
great lawyers who were also great human beings, and the sanctuary
of a new marriage and home in a 200-year-old house, opened many
vistas leading to career number three, which began in January of
1956.

Back in the days when men were first discovering and harnessing
the power that is now the nuclear and thermo-nuclear bomb, three
scientists named Edgerton, Germeshausen and Grier, at M.I.T., lo-
cated in the shade of Harvard farther down the banks of the Charles,
were working on triggering, timing and control problems of the
nation’s first atomic bombs. Late in 1947, a corporation bearing the
names of these three scientists was organized, and they and their
associates, who now number more than 2,000, continue to work on

such problems, as well as on many others including the instrumenta-
tion and testing of nuclear rocket engines for space travel, light
sources and instrumentation for space vehicles, and devices for prob-
ing the secrets under the seas. Although my titles of vice-president,
general counsel, clerk, director and member of the executive com-
mittee of this corporation may suggest that my status is knowledge-

able, every day brings new wonders to amaze and mystify. After

more than six years of labor in the midst of technological explosions
and scientific magic, the unique business and legal problems gen-
erated by these fantastic developments have become more fascinat-

[250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing than frightening. While the career I now pursue has its chaotic
moments, the rewards in challenge and in material well-being have
been tremendous for this non-scientific, liberal arts product of
Harvard.

In spite of the wars, the international alarms, the fear of nuclear
destruction and the other agonies of the past twenty-five years, I
wouldn’t erase a day of them. They have steadily marked our ap-

proach to a new beginning. The next twenty-five years look real
interesting.

JOHN ROBERTS CLARK

Re rte te regen errr an ere ve 2a

  

HOME ADDRESS: 634 Conestoga Rd., Villanova, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: Dechert, Price & Rhoads, Sixteenth Floor, 3 Penn Center
Plaza, Philadelphia 2, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938, LL.B, (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1941.

MARRIED: Cecily Geyelin, July 7, 1942. caepreN: Susan Roberts, April 13, 19445
Camilla Geyelin, Sept. 13, 1946; Jeffrey Rawle, Oct. 29, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of managers, Pennsylvania Hospital, [ying-in
Hospital, Philadelphia Dispensary for the Poor, and Maternity Hospual
(all since 1950); trustee, White-Williams Foundation (high school scholar-
ships), since 1958, The Bartschi Foundation (horticulture and ornithol-
ogy), since 1958; trustee, St. Paul's School, tys3-7; trustee and seeretary,
Racquet Club of Philadelphia, 1949-55; chaimnan, Elarvard Club of Phila-
delphia Scholarship Committee, tgso-5¢; president, Harvard Club of
Philadelphia, 1955-57; director, Harvard Alumni Awsociation, tecg $7)
chairman, Special Gifts, Philadelphia, for Harvard Program, veseryman,
Christe Church, Ithan, 1957-62,

MEMBER OF: American, Pennsylvania and Philadelphia Bar Awociations, Phila

[2st]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PAUL FRANCIS CLARK

 

HOME AbprEss: P.O. Box 41, Pebble Beach, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1037.
OCCUPATION: Mercantile business.

HAVE been tied up of late working on a case of Jack Daniels.
Nothing much changed here from Eighteenth Anniversary Report
except presently I live alone and like it. Hope to make the T’'wenty-
fifth Reunion. Also hope Harvard remains as I remember — the
worst football team, the best band and all the rest. May it all
endure long after you and I have had our last whiskey sour.

PRESTON RICHTER CLARK

  

HOME appress: 175 Main St., Wenham, Mass.

[ 254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE appREss: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 60 Garden St., Cam-
bridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B,, 1938.

MARRIED: Phyllis Rowe, June 15, 1946. CHILDREN: Judith, Nov. 16, 1948; Pres-
ton Richter, Jr., Nov. 5, 1951.

occupation: Administrative officer, Photographic Satellite Tracking Program.
MEMBER OF: Wardroom Club, Boston, Liberty Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

HAVING been a naval ROTC undergraduate I worked in a Maine
newsprint paper mill for only a year after graduation when I recog-
nized the inevitability of U.S. embroilment in World War II. De-
siring a modicum of choice I applied for a commission in the regu-
lar Navy Supply Corps and was accepted, following in the path of
Classmates Fuller and Whittemore.

After a quick indoctrination into the prewar supply and disbursing
system, I joined the heavy cruiser Houston (CA30) as disbursing
officer and went in her to the Philippines where she became flagship
of the Asiatic Fleet. After seventeen months of increasing tension
we found ourselves to be a token force which was, to say the least,
“too soon, too few,” to be particularly effective against ‘immensely
superior Japanese forces. After three months of cat-and- -Mouse-ty pe
operations, we were sunk in Sunda Strait between Java and Sumatra.
A nine-hour swim to shore with a kapok life jacket assist in shark
waters and capture by a Japanese Army Infantry unit six hours later
was pretty much enough to stun even a well-balanced Harvard man.
There followed a succession of prison camps in Java, Singapore,
Burma and Thailand for forty-two months during which time many
classmates applied their abilities in our armed services which finally
brought about my repatriation. In retrospect, there was verv lircle
boredom during this period; in each camp rules were different.
working conditions were better or worse than before, food was
more or less plentiful, moving or rumors of moving were endless —
all of which tended to keep cach day ditferent from those previous,

I firmly believe that the pattern of survival under such conditions
is an alchemy of many things but specitically not race, national-
ity, physique, education, branch of service, rank, or age had a great
bearing on the fate of the yo who did net survive in the pron
camps of which I was a resident, During this period such minor acts
of sabot: age as piercing five-gallon cans of oil loaded} into ships phe-
ing nails in new storage battery cells, “greasing” truck parts with
solder flux made us feel better about our nen- productive role in the

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

war. In 1943 it was brought home to those of us who were in
Burma building the Moulmein-Bangkok railroad that a cubic yard of
earth, although only 3.39 inches shorter on a side than a cubic meter,
is only 75% of a cubic meter in volume. Moving cubic meters of
earth with pick, shovel and bamboo pole suspended woven mats
made cubic meters seem even larger than they were. If nothing else,
I learned during this period that economy of effort, not necessarily
of time, was a strong factor in survival. Long hours at work not
working very hard were less tiring than earnestly applied effort over
shorter periods in order to meet quotas. When quotas were met
quotas were increased!!!

Fach of us may not remember his circumstances too clearly on
December 7, 1941, but each of our generation must remember his
circumstances on August 14, 1945. I was enroute from one prisoner-
of-war camp fifty miles west of Bangkok to another seventy miles
northeast. At two o'clock in the morning goo of us learned of the
end of the war in the railroad yards west of Bangkok. We remained
under Japanese control until we could be flown out of Calcutta in
U.S. Air Corps planes two weeks later. After three months re-
habilitation leave I was ordered to Washington to catch up on things
I had missed from a professional point of view. In the ensuing years
I became a tolerable supply officer and recommissioned the battle-
ship Wisconsin (BB-64) and served aboard as supply officer in
1951 and 1952. :

I retired in 1960 as a commander and returned to New England so
grandparents could become acquainted with their grandchildren
who have unfortunately grown beyond the years when grandparents
hold a special charm of their own. The nomadic life of twenty years
in the Navy, including my forced camping trip with the Japanese,
has left its mark. Although I thoroughly enjoy my job, my old New
England home and my family, I still have itchy feet and want to be
on the move again.

I am presently an administrative officer in the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory’s photographic satellite tracking program, pro-
viding film, photographic chemicals, electronic parts and compo-
nents for precision clocks and special cameras at twelve stations
world-wide. My contributions to the space age although hardly
scientific are required in order to acquire scientific results for study.
I enjoy doing my part in the program and feel I am proof that a mid-
dle-aged Harvard man can be useful in the space program, even
though not in a space suit or suchlike glamorous aspect,

[ 256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BURDICK GREEN CLARKE

   

HOME appreEss: Hotel Jefferson, 235 South West Jefferson, Peoria, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 804 Jefferson Bldg., Peoria, Ill.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938, MD., 1942;
s.M, (Univ. of Illinois), 1947.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Urological surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor and head of Division of Urology, Tufts Uni-
versity School of Medicine, 1957-1962; chairman, Post-graduate Education
Committee, New England Section, American Urological Association,
1957-62; ensign to commander, Medical Corps, U.S. Naval Reserve, since
1941; consultant, Urology, U.S. Naval Hospital, Chelsea, Mass., since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of Boston; Massachusetts Medical
Society; Massachusetts Horticultural Society; American Medical Asso-
ciation; American Urological Association, New England Section, Ameri-
can Urological Association, Urological Investigators’ Forum; American
Board of Urology (diplomate); American College of Surgeons (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Urology, B.G. Clarke and L.R.N. Del Guercio, McGraw-Hill
Book Co., 1956; articles in medical, surgical and scientific journals.

BRIEFLY, my biography since leaving College has been as follows:
Four years at Harvard Medical School, then a year of internship at
the Massachusetts General Hospital. Three years as a doctor in the
amphibious forces of the Navy during the Second World War were
followed by a year of research, and a Master's degree at the Univer-
sity of Illinois in 1947. Thereafter, three years of training in gen-
eral surgery followed by another year in the Navy, W ith the Ma-
rines, during the Korean emergency. Then an excellent final period
of training in urological surgery under Dr. Clyde Deming at Yale
and later under Dr. Wyland Leadbetter at Tufts. In ty33 I joined
the staffs in Boston of Tufts Medical School and the closely aysoci-

[257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ated New England Center Hospital and Boston Dispensary. In 19 57
I became head of urology at these three institutions and en-
joyed the combination of teaching, research and academic adminis-
tration with the practice of urological surgery. In 1962 I left full-
time academic surgery to enter private practice in Peoria, Illinois.

During the past twenty years the practice of medicine has, for me,
been productive of intellectual, technical, scientific and personal
satisfactions as I suppose it has been for most of us who have been
engaged in it, now and in the past. The two decades have been of
particular interest because of remarkable technical advances: anti-
bacterial treatment, blood transfusion, new drugs, the application of
biochemistry to medicine, emergence of new specialties and of bet-
ter methods of training doctors. The growth of knowledge and im-
provement in results of treatment have been spectacular.

Increasing cost of medical care and increasing specialization, with
a trend toward depersonalization of medical practice, have been evi-
dent and undoubtedly in part are effects of these important advances.
Doctors, I believe, are as solicitous as ever about patients, and the
problems will be met with the help of the community and its leaders.
I favor improvement and expansion of private medical insurance in
preference to large-scale government administration of medical care.
Overhead costs of the latter tend to be large and centralized adminis-
tration cumbersome. I hope the government will continue the im-
portant programs of subsidy to hospital construction, support of re-
search, and of medical education which have grown rapidly during
the past fifteen years. Improving medical education should help
offset undesirable features of specialization. Military medicine con-
tinues to improve constantly in both technical excellence and
esprit; I believe that younger doctors entering the services will find
their experiences largely rewarding and that even in periods of in-
creasing international tensions their recruitment will not be difficult.

[ 258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ERIC THACHER CLARKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Moon Hill Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Technical Operations, Inc., Burlington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Barnard School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B. 1938; PH.D. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1944.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Hewitt, Oct. 9, 1944. CHILDREN: Rebecca, Oct. 2, 1948;
Hans, May 12, 1950; Heidi, March 9, 1953; Benjamin, Dec. 17, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president for research and development, Technical Opera-
tions, Inc., performing R. & D. services on contract.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Operations Research Society; Amenri-
can Nuclear Society; Nondestructive Testing Society; American ‘Geophys-
ical Union; Explorers’ Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous technical papers and patents.

DAVID CLAYMAN

 

HOME Appress: 551 Lowell St, Lawrence, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: Mathematics Dept. Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass

[259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MarrieD: Corinne Rhoda Kunian, June 28, 1953.

occupation: Teacher of mathematics, Lawrence High School.

OFFICES HELD: Sales agent, Yeaton Manufacturing Company, Div. of J. F.
Bingham Company; sales manager, Arthur H. DuGrenier, Inc. Haver-
hill, Mass.; president, Clayman-Perri Engineering Company, Inc., January,
1959, to December, 1961.

DURING the war, I taught meteorology, mathematics, and celestial
navigation as a Civilian instructor, Bureau of Aeronautics at U.S.
Naval Air Station, Glenview, Illinois. It was a most profound
experience and I am still proud to have received the Meritorious
Civilian Service award. I still feel a tremendous respect for the
U.S. Navy, its men, its organization and the great feeling of com-
radeship engendered, After the war, I became interested in the
vending machine industry and was instrumental in making a few
changes here and there. I introduced a new concept in merchan-
dising the cigarette and candy vending machines and organized a
company to manufacture and sell coffee vending machines.

In 1961, I felt a strong restlessness and a strong desire to go back
to the books. I resigned in December, 1961, as president of the
engineering company, sold my stock and started teaching mathe-
matics at the Lawrence High School, which is what I wanted to
do when I graduated from Harvard in 1938. The remuneration 1s

ridiculously low, but I am happier now than I have ever been since
my college days.

ARTHUR JOSEPH CLEMENT, JR.

   
 

Spe segrgy TEEIEN LPNRF DeHT RINIT TA S

MAILING ADDRESS: 2511 Fairmount Ave., La Crescenta, Calif,

[ 260 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD VAN BUREN CLEVELAND

coomgenpere ora

   

eS EN. ars cll MT i oh Ee Biennale Eee Sar aomiaes 25+

HOME ApprRESs: 10 Ash Street Pl., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: Council on Foreign Relations, 68th Street and Park Avenue,

New York, N.Y. ,
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Summa cum laude, 1938; LL.B. Ig7a
cum laude, 1942.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Morse Flanders, Sept. 14, 1938. cumpren: Helen Hoyt,

Dec. 12, 1939; Marian, July 12, 1943; Mark, July 3, 1953; Hollis, Oct. 11,
1955-

occupation: Lawyer; counsel, Corporate Law Department, John Hancock
Mutual Life Insurance Company; director of the Atlantic Studies Program,
Council on Foreign Relations, New York City, after March 1, 1963.

OFFICES HELD: Adviser to Committee for Economic Development, member, In-
ternational Committee, National Planning Association, director, Boston
World Affairs Council; secretary-treasurer, Greater Boston Economic
Study Committee; member, Research Committee, New England Council.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Bar Associations; Association of Life In-
surance Counsel,

PUBLICATIONS: The Political Economy of American Foreign Policy, New York,
1955; Making Western Europe Defensible, Washington, D.C, tgst (co-
author in both volumes); articles on economics, foreign affairs and legal
subjects in professional journals.

THIS Class Report, like the one before it, finds me about to change
jobs and careers. Then I was employed as assistant director of
research and international economist of the Committee for Fice-
nomic Development in Washington, following fourteen years as a
bureaucrat and economist. At that time I was contemplating a
return to the practice of law. The return was duly accomplished,
and with it a return to New England. For the past six years [have

[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

been on the legal staff of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
Company in Boston, lately as counsel.

But the lure of large events is powerful these days. I have recentl
abandoned the comforts of corporate security and the pleasures of
life in New England to join the Council on Foreign Relations in
New York, as director of a new Atlantic Studies Program.

On the personal side of things, it is distressing to have to report
that Betty and J have separated. Hoyt has graduated from Hollins
College and Marian is half-way through Connecticut College —
mature and lovely young ladies both. The two little ones, Mark
and Holly, attending Wellesley public schools, wax large and
promising.

It would be good to be able to write that these twenty-five years
have been lived as they should and could have been lived, or that
I have built on Harvard’s gifts to me what might have been built
there. Still, another twenty-five are coming. We live in hope.

DONALD GEORGE CLIFFORD

 

HOME AND OFFICE Appress; Sacred Heart Church, 1321 Centre St., Newton
Center, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

‘YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREES: A.B. (St. John’s Seminary), 1943; DR.PHIL.
(Laval Univ., Quebec), 1955.

UN MARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Priest, Archdiocese of Boston; curate, Sacred Heart Church;
lecturer in philosophy, Regis College, Weston, Mass.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I entered St, John’s Seminary in Brighton,
to study for the priesthood in the Archdiocese of Boston. I was or-

[ 262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dained a priest in January, 1943, and assigned to St. James’ Church
in Medford, 1943-44; to St. Sebastian’s Country Day School in
Newton, as a teacher, 1944-46; to Laval University in Quebec City
for graduate study, 1946-49, receiving an M.A. and Licentiate dur-
ing that time and a doctorate in philosophy later in 1955; to St. Ann’s
Church in Dorchester, as a curate, 1949-59; to Sacred Heart Church
in Newton, as curate, in 1959; and to a teaching assignment at

Regis College in Weston, in 1950.

WILLIAM EUGENE CLIFFORD

 

[OME ADDRESS: 217 Forest Drive, Falls Church, Va.
FFICE ADDRESS: Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Dept. of
the Army, Washington 25, D.C.

tEPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

PARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: S.B. (U.S. Military Academy), 1941.

ArRIED: Marie Ann McGlain, June 14, 1941, CHILDREN: William Eugene, Jr.
Dec. 28, 1942; Paul H., March 3, 1944; Mark F., Dec. 21, 1948; Jane F.
Nov. 1 1950.

SUPATION: Army officer, colonel — assistant chief, Plans Division, Othce of
the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Hq., Department of the Army.

ICES HELD: Executive officer and commanding officer, 241st Fichd Arallery

Battalion, Europe, 1944-45; intelligence officer, Third US. Army, Heidel-

berg, Germany, 1946-47; English instructor, U.S, Military Academy, West

Point, N.Y. 1941, 1950-51; intelligence officer, Hq. Far Fast Command,

Tokyo, Japan, 1954-57; commanding officer, First Howitzer Barrahon

76th Artillery, Fort Devens, Mass. 1957-59.

CH to my regret, I left Harvard after compl eting my freshnian
I then sct my sights 1 in the U.S. Military Academy, where |
: four important and, to sav the least, very confining yearn.

[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Upon graduation in 1941, I entered upon a life far different from
anything I visualized in my days at Harvard.

I fear that life proved far different, too, for my good wife —a
Cambridge girl who grew up just a stone’s throw from the Yard,
We have lived and served from Germany to Japan, with numerous
stateside stations in between. Our children were born in Oregon,
Oklahoma, Arkansas and New York —at least all within the U.S.A.
[ have found myself in assignments that varied from feeding refu-
grees in Bavaria to teaching English at West Point, from studying
in various service schools to helping beat down Hitler’s Reich. Life
has been interesting, seldom routine, never dull.

One of the great influences upon me—apart from my loving
wife, four wonderful children and the U.S. Army — has been an abid-
ing faith in the teachings of the Catholic Church, to which I have
devoted most of my civic and social effort. I make no claim to fame

or great success, but I do hope that I have made some small contri-
bution to the cause of freedom in our troubled times.

WILLIAM JACKSON CLOTHIER, I

oe erm

    

HOME appress: Valley Hill Farm, Valley Forge, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 228, Wayne, Pa.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marrieD: Iréne Theresia Greif, Dec. 14, 1962. corto: Henry Rawle Clement,
Sept. 24, 1952 (stepson).

occupation: U.S. Government,

OFFICES HELD: Associate trustee, University of Pennsylvania, since 1956; treas-
urer, National Tennis Educational Foundation; member, board of mana-
gers, Graduate Hospital, since 1956, University Museum, since 1962; di-

[ 264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rector, Boone County Coal Corporation, 1950-58; district director, Com-
munity Chest, 1948-50; member, board of directors, since 1947, president,
1948-50, 1953-56, Pan American Association of Philadelphia, chairman,
Council For International Visitors, 1954-55, secretary, 1955-573 governor,
National Lawn Tennis Hall of Fame & Tennis Museum, since 1954; presi-
dent, Philadelphia Tennis Patrons Association, since 1952, Middle States

3
Lawn Tennis Association, 1956-59, tournament director

, Pennsylvania
Lawn Tennis Championships, since 1948, delegate-at-large, U.S. Lawn

Tennis Association, since 1958; member, board of governors, 1948-52,
1958-62, vice-president, 1963, Merion Cricket Club; member, board of
governors, Racquet Club of Philadelphia, since 1961; chairman, USLTA
Grass Court Circuit Committee, since 1957; vice-president, Harvard Club

of Philadelphia, 1949-51; vice-chairman, Associated Harvard Clubs Meet-
ing, Philadelphia, 1948.

MEMBER OF; Philadelphia Club; Racquet Club of Philadelphia; Merion Cricket
Club; Pickering Hunt Club; Faculty Club, University of Pennsylvania,
West Side Tennis Club; Harvard Clubs of Philadelphia and New York,
Harvard Varsity Club; Queens Club (London); Hanstown Club (Lon-
don); Royal Tennis Court, Hampton Court Palace, England, English-
Speaking Union of the United States (Philadelphia Branch); Internauonal
Lawn Tennis Club of Great Britain; International Lawn Tennis Club of

the United States; Society of Former Special Agents of the F.B.I., The
Courts, Wynnewood, Pa.;

; Franklin Institute; Academy of Natural Sci-
ences; Citizens’ Council on City Planning, Council for Latin American

Affairs; International House of Philadelphia, Inc.; Philadelphia Committee
on Foreign Relations; United States Court Tennis Association, World
Affairs Council of Philadelphia; Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadel-
phia Anthropological Society; A.D. Club, Cambridge, Mass

\FTER leaving college, I took a final fling at the eastern grass
ourt tennis circuit, before starting to work for my father’s coal
ompany in Sharples, West Virginia. Since the future outlook
f the bituminous coal industry at that time was uncertain, I left
1c family business after a year and started in with a highly profit-
le ethical specialty drug firm in Philadelphia, in the research
partment. After a year and a half with this company, it was
litely suggested that I might do better elsewhere, so I applied for
ob in the sales end of a large independent oil company. Here I
»gressed from a service station attendant in one of the company
‘ions to becoming a furnace oil salesman, which involved door-
door selling in the Wilmington, Delaware, area. At about this
2, the war clouds were gathering, and although my family

ited me to join the City Troop, I instead sent in an application
in the FBI as a special agent. One of the most exciting moments
y life came when I received a telegram from J. Edgar Hoover

y in September of 1941, telling me that I had received the
[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

important than ever in this atomic age. In spite of the Russian
threat (and also the Chinese), I hold an optimistic view of the future.
Although using so much of the Gross National Product for defense
purposes is a strain on this country’s resources, I believe it is a much
heavier burden for the Russians to carry, and I feel that eventually

they will become convinced of the futility of attempts at world
conquest.

SIDNEY COBB

 

HOME AppRESs: 1715 Hermitage Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich. .

OFFICE AppREss: Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, Uni-
versity of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Fountain Valley School, Colo-
rado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938; M.D., 1942; M.P.Hy
195k.

MARRIED: Rosalind Wiggins, Sept. 13, 1941. cHttpREN: John Stanley, July 28,
1942; Patricia, Dec. 8, 1943; Peter Wiggins, Nov. 14, 1946; Elijah, July 13,
1950.

HARVARD SON: John Stanley Cobb, ’64.

occupation: Program director, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social
Research; research epidemiologist, Mental Health Research Institute and
lecturer in epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michi-

an.

orrices HELD: Chairman, Epidemiology Section, Planning Committee, American
Public Health Association, 1960; president, Pittsburgh Rheumatism Asso-
ciation, 1956-57, Central Rheumatism Society, 1956-57; chairman, Com-
mittee on Chronic Disease & Geriatrics, Allegheny County Medical So-
ciety, 1955-59, Committee on Epidemiological Studies, American Heart
Association, New York, 1959-60; member, Medical and Scientific Commit-
tee, Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, New York, 1957-60; member,
United Mental Health Committee, 1952-56, Public Health Nursing Study

[ 268 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Committee (consultant), 1958-60, Advisory Group on the Rehabilitation
Study, 1960-61, Citizen’s Committee on Disease Control, 1959-61, Health
and Welfare Association of Allegheny County, Pittsburgh, member,
Medical Advisory Committee, John J. Kane Hospital, Pittsburgh, 1958-60,
member, National Advisory Committee on Epidemiology & Biometry,
Bethesda, Md., since 1960; member, Medical Advisory Committee, Visiting
Nurse Association of Allegheny County, 1956-61; member, board of
trustees, Ellis School, 1958-61; member, board of directors, Harvard
Alumni Association, since 1962; member, editorial board, Arthritis and
Rheumatism, 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: American Public Health Association; American Rheumatism Asso-
ciation; American Medical Association, American Epidemiological So-
ciety; American Psychosomatic Society, Association of Teachers of Pre-
ventive Medicine; American Heart Association, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Thirty-nine technical articles including: “The Epidemiology of
Rheumatoid Arthritis,’ Academy of Medicine of New Jersey Bulletin,
“On the Estimation of the Incubation Period in Malignant Disease,” with
M. Miller and N. Wald, Journal of Chronic Diseases, 1959, “Frequency of
Peptic Ulcer among Executives, Craftsmen and Foremen,” with J. P. Dunn,
Journal of Occupational Medicine, July, 1962; “Family Structure in Re-
lation to Health and Disease (A Review of the Literature)”, with E. Chen,
Journal of Chronic Diseases, 1960.

MY first move was across the river to the Harvard Medical School,
then to Johns Hopkins, with wife and child added to my entourage.
After a year of internship came the trip to Europe with Uncle Sam
and a return to Hopkins and Sydenham for residency. A persistent
interest in preventive medicine took us (numbering five by that
time) to the Harvard Medical School and conditions that made me
permanently allergic to commuting. We lived at Harvardevens
Village (at Fort Devens about forty miles out of town) and our
transportation was a Crosley. Its main virtue was that it could be
propelled scooter fashion if it got too weary; its evil, that when
heater and lights were used together complete collapse ensued. The
skiing that winter was superb from Thanksgiving to Easter. Next
we moved to Groton to a real house with apple trees and hedges and
a job as director of the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health.
With a Master’s degree in public health and an instructorship un-
der the belt, growing interest in epidemiology of chronic diseases
moved us (six strong by now) to Pittsburgh and the School of Public
Health there. After a few years of settling and shifting, I landed
in the Department of Epidemiology as an associate professor and the
traveling began to pile up as projects appeared in scattered parts of
the eastern sector of the country. With a good bit of teaching, life
was busy. We moved once within the city of Pittsburgh, bringing

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

our count of moves to the point that we decided not to move again
— sixteen was enough. The kids grew up — the eldest went to Har-
vard, the youngest was all day at school and we were getting settled
into a comfortable rut. Then a friend from camp and sailing days
appeared — he was working at the Institute for Social Research —
and stirred up all the old longing to explore the area between the so-
cial and the medical sciences. So, we upped stakes again and are now
settled in Ann Arbor where my interests give me a toe hold in the
medical school via the Mental Health Research Institute, a teaching
appointment in the School of Public Health and a base of operations
as a program director at the Institute of Social Research. The re-
search potential of this position is fantastic.

Incidentally, I can ride my bicycle to work, there is skung ten

minutes from the office, skating five minutes from the house and the
fishing is great.

EVERETT ROBERT COBURN, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Bennington College, Bennington, Vt
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B, cu7m laude, 1938; A.M. 1940; PH.D.,
1941.

maraiep: Jean A. Flagg, June 21, 1939. cHttpren: Marilyn Flagg, July 14, 1947;
Pamela Jean, June 12, 1950.

occuPaTION: Professor of chemistry, Bennington College.
MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society.

GRADUATE school was followed by a year of postdoctoral work

and then a period of building bombs and working on incendiaries
under NDRC at Harvard.

[ 270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For the past twenty years I have been teaching chemistry and
Jean has been lab assistant at Bennington College where life is pleas-
ant and the students beautiful or brilliant and sometimes both.

We live in a remodelled farmhouse on a hilltop and spend the
summers at our cottage in Meredith on Lake Winnipesaukee in New
Hampshire — moving, as it were, from the country to the country.

A consulting affiliation with Sprague Electric Company helps to
combat technical loneliness and provides another role to play when
teaching palls.

Our elder daughter is attending the Cambridge School of Weston,
and our younger daughter is in the local junior high school.

+ HAROLD COBURN

 

BoRN: Nov. 10, 1916, New York, N.Y. Parents: Abraham Kaplan, Fannie

Efronson.
PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S$.B., ctim laude, 1938.

UNMARRIED.
piED: Killed in action, Sept. 25, 1944, over the coast of Holland.

AFTER two years as an examiner for the U.S. Civil Service Com-
mission in Washington, Coburn volunteered for service in the Army
Tank Corps and was stationed in Texas for a year. He was then
admitted to the Army Air Corps and after training was commissioned
as a second lieutenant. In August, 1944, he was sent to Ireland as
1avigator and in September was sent on a supply mission to France.
Te was killed in action over the coast of Holland and was awarded
he Purple Heart posthumously, He was survived by his mother.

[271]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

+ EDWARD BOATNER COCHRAN

Foe seis

x
&

 

BORN: July 3, 1915, Tampico, Mexico, parents: Reid Burchfield Cochran,
Eddie Boatner.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1938-1940.
UNMARRIED.

piep: Killed in action, April 29, 1944, over Rabaul, South Pacific.

AFTER college Cochran worked for a stock exchange firm and then
worked in the oil fields until his entry into military service. He en-
listed in the Marine Corps in March, 1942, and received his com-
mission as first lieutenant in the Marine Air Corps in January, 1943.
He was a fighter pilot and had been overseas since February, 1944.
He was declared lost in action when his plane was shot down while
strafing a Japanese ship. He was posthumously promoted to captain
in May, 1944. He was survived by his parents.

[272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

  

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Borland St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 Broad St., Boston 9, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Virginia May Sellars, July 22, 1939. cHtprREN: Douglas MacGregor,
Aug. 2, 1942; J. Bruce, March 22, 1947; Deverton Carpenter, Dec. 15, 1948;
Jean Ferguson, March 18, 1951.

occupation: General insurance broker; owner, Albert G. Ferguson Insurance
Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Sergeant, Massachusetts State Guard, 1941-44; member, Draft
Advisory Board No. 44, 1943-46; treasurer, Rivers Country Day School
Alumni Association, 1943-46, since 1951; Brookline Town Meeting Mem-
ber, 1945-52, since 1954; member, Town of Brookline Advisory (Finance)
Committee, 1946-50, since 1962; president, Young People’s Republican
Club of Brookline, 1943-46, vice-president, Brookline Junior Chamber
of Commerce, 1948-50; member, Republican Town Committee of Brook-
line, since 1946; general chairman, Brookline Red Feather Campaign,
fall, 1950; chairman, Massachusetts Council of Young Republican Clubs,
1951-53; member, executive committee, Massachusetts Republican Strate
Committee, 1951-53; auditor, Young Republican National Federation,
1953-55; delegate to Young Republican National Conventions of 194°,
1949, 1951, 1953, 1955; alternate Delegate-at-Large to Republican National
Convention in Chicago, 1952; president, Brookline Taxpayers Association,
1954-56; treasurer and vestryman, Church of Our Saviour, since 195%)
chairman, Lawrence School Council, PTA, 1958-60; president, Dividend,
Inc., 1957-58; assistant treasurer, Brookline High School P.T.A. 1961-63;
director, Brookline Citizens Committee, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Boston; Craigville Beach Association, We
quoquet Lake Yacht Club; Beth Horon Lodge, A.F. & A.M, Brookline,
BPOE, Brookline No. 886,

AS the listing of my biographical data led me to review my lot
twenty-five years, I was curious to sce what had motivated me all

[ 273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

boiling over with wit and devilment, keeps the family scholastic
banner high while getting his freshman football numerals and learn-
ing wrestling. Paper routes fill the last chinks in busy schedules for
both these boys. Jean, age eleven and quite large for her age, is now
visibly changing from awkward to graceful teen-ager. She’s the
top family scholar, full of fun and a leader in everything. Riding
is her favorite sport, learned at that wonderful Camp Owaissa at
Pocono Pines, Pennsylvania, which is run by the wife of our class-
mate, and my best man, Ned Skinner.

Truly, at this Twenty-fifth, and by God’s continued Almighty
Grace, there’s tremendous promise ahead for the Cochrane Clan!

DAVID PAGE COFFIN

sSeimisgees POND RI TN SEM Ts

  

ES RIAN TERT EP mo

a

HOME ADDRESS: 1235 Rebecca Drive, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADpREss: Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938, M.B.A., 1940, A.M., 19§2.
MaRRIED: Elizabeth Gring, June 4, 1944. CHILDREN: David Page, Jr.. May 24
1948; Elizabeth Katherine, Jan. 27, 1951; Robert Winthrop, July 22, 1952;

Ann Woodward, Sept. 17, 1956; Sarah Shefheld, Nov. 27, 1958.
OccUPATION: Intelligence officer.

AFTER graduating in 1940 from the Business School and fired with
enthusiasm for the lively art of advertising, packed off to my first
job with N. W. Ayer & Son, advertising agents in Philadelphia, the
enthusiasm didn’t last long. By the end of a year, I found that it
was impossible for me to identify my interest with the products and
firms which were thrust at me to promote. Since it was then 1941,
it should not have been hard to find other pressing matters with

[ 276 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which to concern myself, but the several armed services were, at
that point, not interested in me to the point of waving the require-
ment that one be able to see unassisted beyond the end of his nose.
So I went to work for the State Department, where this requirement
did not exist.

After another year and a half, the Army overcame its reluctance
about me, picked me up, shipped me around in various assignments,
and finally dropped me in a Chinese language training program at
Cornell. I never learned very much Chinese, but I developed an
interest in the Orient, which I have retained and have happily been
able to indulge ever since.

After my undistinguished military career, in which I never heard
a shot fired in anger, I returned to the State Department and served
tours as a Foreign Service officer in China and Japan. Although I
found Foreign Service challenging and absorbing, I had a yen for
more schooling and the uncomfortable feeling that children raised
in a Foreign Service environment ... particularly in the exotic
and troubled lands to which I was committed ... have more than
the usual difficulties. I accordingly resigned from the Foreign Serv-
ice in 1950, went back to Harvard and picked up a degree in anthro-
pology.

The bizarre combination of skills and interests that I then had to
offer the world did not find a ready market, but I ultimately settled
with the Central Intelligence Agency, where I have been ever since.
Although a veil has to be drawn over the specifics of my activities
here, I can report that they are most rewarding and have enabled

me to indulge a number of my favorite interests . . . reading, writ-
ing, foreign travel, and stimulating associations. For me, at least,
public service —despite its well-publicized drawbacks — brings
many rewards in psychic income, and I can only regret the number
of false starts which delayed my discovery of this fact.

My wife will give a lady-like snort on reading this, but my main
interests outside my job are my children, who have arrived in goodly
profusion and in an amiable assortment of temperaments; my home,
which is half-glass and overlooks a spectacular view by Washington

suburbia standards at least; and . . . belatedly —tennis. I also re-
tain a lively interest in Harvard and I am happy to observe that no
matter where you go in this world, you always run into a Harvard

man, and... to verify an old tradition . . . they are not difficult
to identify.

[277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ALBERT COHEN

s
&
Ree
:

 

HOME ApprEss: 29 Cotton St., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1095 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1942.

MarriED: Nancy Rogal, October, 1953. CHILDREN: Stephen, Dec. 27, 1954; Ann,
June 19, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant cardiologist, Children’s Medical Center; visiting pedia-
trician, Beth Israel Hospital; clinical associate, Massachusetts General
Hospital (all in Boston).

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics; American Heart Association;
New England Pediatric Society; Massachusetts Medical Society; Temple
Mishkan Tefila; Foreign Policy Association.

WHEN I left Harvard in 1938, my course for the next few years
seemed fairly definite. There were to be four years of Tufts Medi-
-al School, some few years of postgraduate training and then prac-
ice. Unfortunately, there was a four-year hiatus in the military to
elp clear up a festering sore on the body politic. Through a typical
it of military planning, I was assigned to lead a medical company
vefore I had the mixed blessing of G.I. training. I weathered this,
Ibeit a bit shakily, and then off overseas to join the 25th Infantry
Jivision in the South Pacific. We worked our way slowly through
he southern and central Solomons, had a delightful respite of several
qonths in New Zealand and then up to New Caledonia for advanced
-udy for the invasion of the Philippines. I still recall vividly our
iitial landing on the island of Luzon where we hit the beach at D
lus three and raced forward under heavy protective fire. At the
dge of the jungle we were met, not by a determined foe, but by

[278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

even more determined swarms of Filipinos selling Japanese invasion
money at cost before the market collapsed. At the end of hostilities
we embarked for Japan where I served in the Army of Occupation
for six months prior to discharge. I was at the edge of the Hiro-
shima district and had a good deal of free time to inspect the area,
visit the hospitals and examine many of the victims of this tragedy.
Even more than the antecedent destruction and death of ground war,
it reinforced my feelings of the need to make an unceasing effort for
peace and understanding no matter how gloomy the prospect may
seem.

Following the end of my army service I spent a year in Chicago
and a second in New York finishing off my pediatric training.
Along the way I acquired from a wise and inspiring chief an in-
terest in the field of pediatric cardiology. At the end of my formal
training in pediatrics I went off to Johns Hopkins Hospital to spend
a year in this Jatter field with Dr. Helen Taussig. This completed
my formal training, it seemed propitious to return from whence I
had come and so back to Boston to set up in practice. After the usual
dreary start, I slowly gathered momentum, until, at the moment,
between the practice of pediatrics, pediatric cardiology and a
moderate amount of teaching at the Children’s Hospital and Beth
Israel Hospital here in Boston, my professional life is full.

Beyond the pale of the profession the nicest and most important
thing that happened to me was meeting Nancy Rogal early in 1953.
In October we were married. A year later Stephen came and four
years later he got a sister, Ann. These three are the cornerstones of
my existence and the sources of my deepest satisfactions.

Politically, my orientation has not changed greatly . . . I have
taken only a few short steps from the New Deal to the New Fron-
tier. My exposure to human ignorance, want and suffering both
here and abroad has firmly fixed in my mind the great obligation of
the well educated and well fixed. Like many other doctors, I don't
like and have tried to oppose Organized Medicine’s inadequate ap-
proach to our numerous problems.

In our lighter hours we are steadfast theatregoers, Tuesday night-
ers at symphony and readers of all sorts of things up to and including
Berenson with special emphasis on foreign affairs. As my son gets
older, we are starting to go to football games at the Stadium, swim-
ming meets, Watson Rink, all sorts of museums and P.T.A. meetings
(damn them).

Twenty-five years ago I had looked askance at the Class of ‘13
[279]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

acting up. It may be all the propaganda, but I do confess to a real
sense of anticipation of June, ’63.

OSCAR PAUL COHEN

 

HOME ApprEss: 626 Laurel St., Longmeadow, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Monsanto Chemical Co., Plastics Div., Springfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; a.m. (Clark Univ.),
1939; PHD, (ibid.), 1941.

MarRieD: Bernice Arden Cohen, June 1, 1947. CHILDREN: Kenneth Michael,
Dec. 12, 1948; Martha Jean, Nov. 21, 1951; Emily Jane, Sept. 25, 1956.
occupation: Assistant research director, plastics and resin manufacture, Mon-

santo Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Research group leader, 1952, research section leader, 1957, assist-
ant research director, 1960, Monsanto Chemical Company.

MEMBER OF: Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry; American
Chemical Society and Division of Polymer Chemistry; Society of Plastics

Engineers; Forest Products Society; Harvard Association of Chemists.
PUBLICATIONS: Sixteen patents.

CHEMICAL jobs were not aplenty when the Class of °38 was
graduated, and I for one landed in graduate school on a fellowship.
There I found that my undergraduate training was adequate to get
me started on a professional career in chemistry. And before |
realized it, 1 was a misfit Ph.D. in the U.S. Army. Finally the
Army activated a Chemical Warfare Laboratory unit, thereby creat-
ing a suitable job for me. With this unit, I traveled the United States
and Europe and received a first-hand impression of the havoc created
by the Third Reich. I'm still reading Shirer’s record of the same.
With this experience behind me, I started my industrial career

[ 280 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the Merrimac Division of Monsanto Chemical Company in
Everett, Massachusetts. The company has treated me well and has
given me a broad experience in the fields of chemistry, engineering,
personnel management, sales, business principles and patent law. I’ve
been with Monsanto since 1946 and am now an assistant research
director in the Plastics Division, Springfield, Massachusetts. This, in

brief, is my life’s history since June, 1938; and now for some of the
details.

Additional training: certificate in chemical engineering, Tufts
College, 1941; certificate in supervisory training, Sales Analysis
Institute, 1957; course in creation and evaluation in research, Ameri-
can Management Association, 1958; certificate in plastics properties,
M.1.T., 1959; IBM business management training, 1959.

My wartime experience actually allowed me to practise my
chemical training. Our small laboratory company was deeply in-
volved in analysis of the German V bombs, chemical munitions and
the new German plastic protective devices against chemical war-
fare. After the German surrender, I joined Chemical Intelligence in
Germany to size up what was left of the chemical industry. My
European tour of duty included a six-month stay in Paris, w hich was
an education in itself.

After the war, I met a young lady chemist (red-head) from the
University of North Carolina. Our interests were well matched
and Bernice A. Cohen changed her name to Bernice C. Cohen. She
gave up her job at Sharpe & Dohme, Philadelphia, in the pharma-
ceutical assay department and came to live in Boston. She brought
with her a dowry of Sharpe & Dohme samples, mostly Caligesic
Ointment and APC pills. After fifteen years and moving four times,
during which time Sharpe & Dohme merged with Merck & Com-

pany, we still have remnants of this dowry knocking about the
house. I hopefully promised her that it rarely snowed in Boston —
just as in Philadelphia and Greensboro, but that first winter both of
us skied from our apartment doorstep to the Commonwealth
Country Club, where we did our practising. It snowed every other
day that winter from the middle of December to early March.

Kenneth Michael was born while we lived in a garden-ty pe apart-
ment in Watertown. This type of dwelling enables one to make
many friends and we found our share, Ww ho have withstood the
test of time and space. By that time it was quite the vogue for

budding young couples to build their own home. This, we did too;
a Cohen version of the “Revere House” in Newton; and it is still

{ 281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

known as the Cohen house even though we’ve been gone since 1955.
Martha Jean was born while we lived in Newton and it was time to
move again, About this time, Monsanto concentrated all of its
plastics division research at the Springfield, Massachusetts, labora-
tories and I was “asked” to move. We relocated in the beautiful
town of Longmeadow, well known for producing ex-Governor
Furcolo, but not voting for him. Emily Jane was born here.

A very interesting part of my work at Monsanto derives from the
company’s international interests. Monsanto frequently sells proc-
esses to Overseas Companies or sets up associated enterprises with
them, wherein we supply the technology and part of the capital.
Research becomes deeply involved in certifying that the foreign
versions of our processes and products are equivalent to their U.S.
counterparts, Research is also involved in maintaining the technical
progress in these foreign plants since the contracts usually call for
continuing know-how.

Back in the laboratory I have the responsibility of creating and
maintaining a creative research atmosphere and program, under the
careful economic surveillance of general management. This is a
major industrial challenge and is not unique to Monsanto or the
chemical industry. And from this challenge has resulted my broad
experience, all the way from process cost accounting to Ziegler
Catalysis. Last fall I toured Norway, Denmark, Belgium, France,
Switzerland, Germany and Italy, covering the company’s plastics
interests. As a direct result — of my making this trip alone — Ber-
nice and I returned the following summer to celebrate our fifteenth
anniversary touring Western Europe in a red Volkswagen.

In recap, I need bow my head to none for my Harvard training
but I must admit that the school has lots of first class competition
in the field of chemistry. Philosophically, the past twenty-five years
have given me extensive contact with life and death as meted out to
classmates and friends. P’ve been both sad and proud but never un-

convinced that the school had made a positive and major contribu-
tion to the Harvard Man and his life’s work.

[ 282 ]

&
4
&

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE ALBERT COLE, JR.

 

HOME ADbRESS: g Burditt Ave., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 104 South St., Hingham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Virginia Vaughan, Jan. 4, 1947. CHILDREN: George Albert, 3d, Feb.
24, 1948, Cynthia, Oct. 3, 1949; Nancy Vaughan, May 11, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker, self-employed.

MEMBER OF: Hingham Yacht Club; Hingham Rotary Club.

TIME between graduation and World War II was pretty short,
and my accomplishments during that interval were not very im-
portant. After a short stint in a Boston department store, | en-
tered the service. After nearly five years of active duty in the
Anti-aircraft Artillery, a tour which saw me in the U.S., Puerto
Rico and Iceland, I was discharged as a first lieutenant along with a
lot of other people at the end of 1945.

Time between discharge from service and marriage was also
short, and my accomplishments again were not worth reporting in
great detail. My work was in the machinery manufacturing field,
and as I look back this was a waste of time, for my total mechanical
and technical knowledge could be written on the head of a pin.

In 1949 I went into the real estate business with my father in our
home town of Hingham, Massachusetts. Dad had a small insurance
business which was really incidental to his real estate activities, but
it was insurance rather than real estate which absorbed my genuine
interest. During the next nine years I sold residential real estate, had
little success for a brief period as a full-time life insurance salesman,
enjoyed considerably more succes for about two years in the mort-
gage brokerage business.

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Steadily, during these entire years, I built up a small general in-
surance business for myself. In 1958, my father and I purchased a
local insurance agency which we added to another one acquired by
him in 1954. For the past two years I have been owner of this or-
ganization. My father (Harvard 1899), although pretty much re-
tired, helps out on a part-time basis.

Our home in Hingham is modest and too small, but the surround-
ings are most pleasant. My project at the moment is painting the
exterior of the house myself, and as most of this can be accom-
plished from a stepladder, there seems little danger of my killing my-
self. Projects like this are endless for me because my wife Ginny is
never at a loss in lining up at least a dozen more once one is com-
pleted.

I enjoy small boat sailing in the summer, but when the weather
closes in my devotion to sport consists of sitting in front of that pur-
veyor of nothingness, the Tee Vee, and watching others flex their
muscles on gridiron, diamond, etc.

Our children are happy in our excellent and constantly improving
public schools and it is, of course, my keenest wish that my son
gets the chance to go to Harvard. Having looked at what the
camera records as me, 1962 (see accompanying picture), I have
added another project which is doomed for failure before it even
starts: DIET.

FRANKLIN WEBSTER COLEMAN, JR.

   

HOME AppREss: 328 Spruce St., Philadelphia, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2000 Lewis Tower, Philadelphia, Pa,
PREPARED AT; Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

[ 284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
MARRIED: Mary Louise Nicholson. cup: Coral Jean.

OccUPATION: Consultant, owner, Web. Coleman: management and employee
communications; Philadelphia, Chicago.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Belmont Hill and Middlesex Schools; scoutmaster,
Troops 7 & 10; assistant treasurer, Christ Church; ambulance driver,
American Field Service; property officer, Manhattan Project, manage-
ment trainee, Monsanto Chemical; ceramic engineer, Cook Electric Com-
pany; associate director, English Study Groups; copywriter, account execu-
tive, president, Technographics, Advertising, senior consultant, depart-

ment manager, Edwin Shields Hewitt & Associates, Towers, Perrin, Forster
& Crosby, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Training Directors, Harvard Clubs of Boston

and Philadelphia; University Barge Club, Philadelphia, Brant Beach Yacht
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various company brochures, employee booklets, educational and
training films, talks and articles. (Recent example: “Preparing Your Em-
ployees for Retirement” in Proceedings of the 1962 National Conference
of Health, Welfare and Pension Plans.)

OUR apparently aimless meanderings through teaching, wartime,
engineering, business, advertising, adult education and consulting
activities all seemed finally to fall into place in our present work.
We feel fortunate indeed in having the independence of our own
firm, the satisfaction of a somewhat creative specialty, the oppor-
tunity to contribute a little to people’s understanding of one another.

With perhaps the smallest nationwide management consulting
organization outside of Peter Drucker, we assist companies in setting
up internal communications programs to explain and sell corporate
plans and policies to varied groups, from directors to union locals
to college seniors. Identifying, learning, testing, sharpening and
applying the techniques and skills of effective written, verbal and
visual communications have developed into a fascinating and reason-
ably rewarding career.

We are beholden to our Harvard math major — undistinguished
though our record —for its training in deductive reasoning and
logical analysis, which proves invaluable in organizing, simplifying
and dramatizing the salient facts of legal, financial, statistical and
technical material. The variety of new assignments, the challenge
of solving practical problems, the pressure of client deadlines — all
combat our natural indolence and help keep us mentally alert and
responsive to new ideas in this world of rapid change.

To keep in correspondingly fair physical trim, we do some skiing
and skating in the winter, sculling on the Schuylkill in the spring

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

and fall, sailing and swimming in the summer. Our well-beloved,
belatedly acquired better half, with a Lake Placid school and early
Stowe ski-bum background, leads the way in winter sports. We in
turn try to restore our male ego as blustering skipper of the good
small sloop Mistral, cruising and MORC-racing on the Sound, the
Chesapeake and Barnegat Bay.

Politically less active than we should be in these days of Sturm und
Drang, we nonetheless stand for such old-fashioned saws as a sound
dollar, balanced budget, free enterprise system and smaller, more
efficient federal bureaucracy — along with increasing foreign trade,
decreasing foreign aid and educational exchanges such as the Ameri-
can Field Service International Scholarships. We did hold a cam-
paign kaffee-klatsch for Bill Scranton, and are studying Russian — not
just to hedge our bets, but because if we ain’t gonna lick ’em, we
mought as well plan to jine ’em, one of these days, in more construc-
tive pursuits.

Off to a late start as usual, so with no delusions about overtaking
the Lexington Joneses, Harknesses and similarly prolific classmates,
we yet hope to stay youthful bringing forth and up a bit of a brood,

while the rest of you dodder into dotage grumbling over your un-
grateful grandchildren.

Quarter-century greetings and Gemiitlichkeit to one and all of
our great ’38!

+ GEORGE BLOCK COLEMAN

 

BORN: Aug. 22, 1916, Oneida, N.Y. parents: Frank Bourland Coleman, Irma
Hard,

preparep at: St. Louis Country Day School, St, Louis, Mo,

{ 286 }

nO las dak Ad ikl

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MaRRIED: Elise Shane, Oct. 7, 1944, Des Moines, Iowa. cuit: James Stephen,
Aug. 16, 1947.

prep: March 5, 1957, St. Louis, Mo.

wivow: Mrs. George B. Coleman, 1502 Swallow Drive, Brentwood 17, Mo.

WHILE at college Coleman was a member of Adams House football

team, Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770 and the Speakers’ Club. After

graduation he entered the field of journalism with the St. Louis Post-

Dispatch and later became associated with the Des Moines Register.

During World War II, he served as an Infantry staff sergeant in
New Guinea and Australia. After the war he worked for the St.
Louis Star-Times until October, 1949, when he organized and began
operating the St. Louis County News Bureau, serving newspapers,
radio and television stations in St. Louis. A short time before his
death he sold the news bureau to the Globe-Democrat, of which he
had been a staff member. He was a member of the Harvard Club of
St. Louis and the American Newspaper Guild. He was survived by
his wife and son.

SHELDON VANCE COLEMAN

 

HOME appress: 28 Porter Pl., Montclair, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Classical High School, Worcester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Ruth Wright Townsend, Jan, 6, 1943. CHtLores: Ann, May 14, 1946
Joel Townsend, Nov. 11, 1947; Marcia, April 21, 1930; Wayne Townsend
and Jane (twins), Oct. 5, 1953.

OccUPATION: District sales manager, Newman-Crosby Steel Company.

OFFICES HELD; Executive Board, chairman Schools Committee, seeretary-treae
urer 1957-61, Harvard Club of Worcester, president, 19gasa, Worvester

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Chapter, National Aeronautics Association; vice-president, 1946-48, Wor-
cester Chapter, Reserve Officers of Naval Service.
MEMBER OF: Registered Professional Engineers, Massachusetts.

AFTER Cambridge, started as a trainee at Newman-Crosby Steel
Company, Pawtucket, Rhode Island. This is a cold-rolling strip
mill, and I worked throughout the mill spending some time on
practically every phase. After once around and still not a vice-
president, decided the future was too indefinite and left to work at
Norton Company in Worcester.

This was interrupted early in ’41 by my enlistment in the Navy
V-5 program. Incidentally, Dave Gardiner and Joe Kennedy
started in at Squantum, in the same flight. After receiving wings and
a commission as ensign at Pensacola, I instructed there for eighteen
months, and had numerous Harvard students.

January 6, 1943, I married Ruth Wright Townsend (Colby Jr.
"35) in the Naval Air Station Chapel.

Various military assignments sent me both to the Atlantic and the
Pacific, and at the end of World War II, I was exec of a squadron
based in Perth, Australia.

Returning to civilian life, I worked for Norton Company in
various sales and engineering capacities. My family grew, as re-
corded earlier, and with the advent of the twins in ’53, we definitely
moved into the large-house, station-wagon, always-broke bracket.

In the meantime, I had found myself active in Harvard Club of
Worcester activities which frequently led to functions at Cambridge.
In ’58 I was honored by being asked to serve at Commencement as
a Marshal and had the pleasure of leading my father’s Class, ’06, in
the procession.

At the same time I had remained active in the Naval Reserve and
had an ASW squadron at Squantum. However, I found it in-
creasingly difficult to maintain what I considered necessary flying
skills and regretfully retired after 2500 flying hours.

Hobbies are primarily centered about our family, their activities,
and our summer log cabin on Stiles Lake, in Spencer, Massachu-
setts, Swimming, boating and water-skiing are wonderful ways to
pass the summer and last year all seven of us went skiing in forma-
tion — and have pictures to prove it!

In mid ’61, I left Norton Company to return to my first employer,
Newman-Crosby Steel Company, as district sales manager for
metropolitan New York. This resulted in moving to Montclair,
New Jersey (a lair of Princeton tigers). The children have made a

[ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

good adjustment and currently are converting these New Jersey
people to the proper New England pronunciation of the spoken
language.

DONALD JEROME COLEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 97 Wilton Rd., E. Ridgefield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ruder & Finn, Inc., 130 E. s9th St.. New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: 8.B., Cum latide, 1938; S.M., 1942.
MarRiED: Marcia Sufrin, April 17, 1943. cuttp; Bernard D., Aug. 23, 1946.
occupaTION: Public relations; vice-president, Ruder & Finn, Inc.
MEMBER OF: American Economic Association, American Rocket Society.

FOR years, I’ve been a card-carrying ghost, an organizing member
of Ghosts Anonymous, and the perpetrator of some of the more
nauseating political and economic clichés of our time. My alter
egos have made the front pages of the New York Times and the
back pages of Women’s Wear Daily. But suddenly, the idea of
describing twenty-five years of my own life in a few hundred words
seemed insuperable. I blocked. i tried to be funny, which was a
disaster; and thoughtful, which was an unmitigated bore. For in-
spiration, I got out our yearbook.

I must have been a pack rat then. Tucked inside the cover, I
found something called a “Certificate of Admission.” There were
other pieces of paper: a note to appear at the Dean's office, Com-
mencement programs, etc.; but none nearly so valuable as that Cer-
tificate, which I’m certain is the reason that the past twenty-five
years are worth writing about,

I didn’t come any closer to my “Intended Vocation” of investment

[ 289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

banking than being an analyst for a brokerage house for about six
months after graduation. I’ve been a design engineer (aeronautical)
and I’ve written newsletters for businessmen predicting the next
move in the Kremlin, as well as what to expect from Tapioca, pfd.
But for the past dozen years or so, I’ve been in public relations and
it looks as if that’s where [ll remain, clients willing. I’ve polished
some of the country’s top industrial brass and I’ve become somewhat
of an expert on Orgthink and Orgspeak. Clients have transformed
me into a free-wheeling backstop to problems associated with the
missile industry and urban renewal, the Alliance for Progress and
the lumber industry of the Pacific Northwest. It’s been possible —
and fun.

Peggy Sufrin (Smith ’42) and I were married in 1943; our son,
Bill, was born in 1946. Peg was working then as a magazine editor,
and now that Bill is away at South Kent, she’s gone back to work,
this time in public relations. In those sixteen years, we’ve had a ball,
especially the last ten in Ridgefield. We put our fingers into all the
local pies. I managed Peg’s campaign for the State Legislature
(Democrats don’t win in Ridgefield); we worked to bring planning
to the town and to improve education.

But lately, we’ve pulled out almost completely, for we’re about
to complete the cycle. The house is up for sale and we’re planning
to move back to the city. Ten years of commuting four hours a day
is enough and I want that time to try my typewriter on a book
about the ins and outs of the upper echelons of business. My working
title is “Kiss and Tell.”

I’m a sailing bug, a regular Bus Mosbacher I like to think; and a
creditable cabinet maker, a regular Duncan Phyfe. And because
Peg and I became nuts on early Americana, I’ve also acquired the
skills of an expert faker of American antiques, which should help to

provide retirement income someday. And so for our Fiftieth, I
expect to tell you how we made it to a house on Cape Cod selling
Colen antiques “by appointment only” in the morning and sailing
in the afternoon.
Meanwhile, there’s this Twenty-fifth. And getting thougheful,

I suppose the reason I put so much stock in that Certificate of Ad-

mission is simply that since 1938, I’ve been thinking more and enjoy-

ing it more. That should make the Dean happy, whatever he wanted.

[ 290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LESTER ALBERTSON COLLINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1619 33d St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Collins, Simonds & Simonds, 1619 33d St., N.W., Washington
7, DC.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1938, M-LA., 1942.

MaRRIED: Petronella leRoux, July 8, 1947. cHiLpREN: Abigail, June 10, 1949;
Lester Adrian, March 19, 1959 (died April 4, 1960).

occuPATION: Landscape architect.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Harvard Department of Landscape Architecture,

1950-53; Fulbright Fellowship (Japan), 1953-54; president, Innisfree Foun-
dation, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Landscape Architects, Signet Society, Har-
vard Mountaineering Club; Harvard Travellers Club; Harvard Club of
Boston; Cosmos Club.

IN the past twenty-five years I have traveled almost everywhere, in-
cluding Tibet and Peking. I have lived, among other places, in an
ambulance at El Alamein, a schoolhouse in Weston, Massachusetts,
on Karasuma Street in Kyoto and with the head hunters in Bornce.
I have owned, at one time or another, two Afghan hounds, an
Aeronca Chief, a small wife, a large daughter, a poodle. a 1948
Jaguar and a macaw. I have taught landscape architecture and
studied it and am now making a living at it in Miami and Maine and
many places in between.

[ 291)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ALFRED HAVEN COLWELL

  

wos

{Ree RO MERU ENT aL NR aneEeN AD: Heo nD

HOME aAppRESS: 4369 Three Mile Drive, Detroit 24, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Grosse Pointe University School, 1045 Cook Rd., Grosse
Pointe Woods 36, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1939-

Married: Marguerite Cushman, 1940. CHILDREN: John Glynn, Jr., 1941, Victory
Lorraine (7. Frederick Vatalaro, 1962) and Marguerite Cushman (twins),
1945; Kevin Christopher, 1960.

occupation: Teacher of English, French, Latin; adviser for school newspaper.

orFices HELD: Executive Board, American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan,
since 1958; associate editor, Independent School Bulletin.

MeMBeR oF: Michigan Council Teachers of English; American Association of
the Teachers of French; American Civil Liberties Union.

[ 292 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Columnist for more than four years, East Side Shopper; writer
of frequent letters to editor; winner of Hopwood Award for Creative
Writing, University of Michigan, 1962; writer of school news for local
paper.

I LIKE to think that my years at Harvard were just one very memor-

able part of a continuing process: like Solon, “I grow old, learning

still.” The formal steps after college were an A.M. at Harvard in

1938-39; summers of study at Middlebury in 1940 (Italian) and in

1955 (French), at Boston University in 1946 (Reading) and at the

University of Michigan in 1962 (English). Besides these, I have

taken many night courses in Detroit in education, which I have uni-

formly enjoyed —I think the tendency among “liberal arts people”
to downgrade them is pomposity and affectation.

The real education in this life, however, is not at the academies
nor in the lecture halls — not even in our Fair Harvard; one has to
seek it out in the highways and byways and “through certain half-
deserted streets” — in controversy, debates, at Ford Hall Forum and
the Community Church back in Boston, in the Labor Forum and the
American Civil Liberties Union here in Detroit, and in the less well-
known but seminal news sources like J. F. Stone’s Weekly, The Na-
tional Guardian (with its Russ Nixon, a former Harvard instructor),
Monthly Review (with its Paul Sweezy, also a former Harvard in-
structor), and the York (Pa.) Gazette and Daily (with Harvard men
Gitt, Higgins, and Wesley).

In an earlier Class report I said, ‘Politically, my hopes and sympa-
thies are always on the left.” They still are. I do not admire the ac-
tion and involvement of Harvard men — some in the Class of 1938
even — who were close enough to John F. Kennedy to have played
a decisive role in the events of October, 1962; they have their re-
ward. History will not absolve them.

As a teacher, I am happy and busy at my school (it has to be one
of the finest anywhere), active in professional associations, in the
writing of various kinds of school news, an associate editor of a na-
tional school publication. I generally get to New York each year in
March for a secondary school conference. In class, | continue to en-
joy reading aloud to my students, and I love teaching literature in
general and poetry in particular. I hope I occasionally succeed.

My family is now in two generations: Glynn, at twenty-one, 1s
majoring in English at Wayne State University in Detroit. Ele’s a
former high-school all-state fullback, now assisting as a part-time
football coach at my school and working, too, as a play leader for the

[ 293 ]

}

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Detroit Department of Parks and Recreation. The twins have been
divided (a continental divide, you might say) by the marriage of
Vicki to a young man with an Italian name and a sort of Irish-
Huckleberry-Finn look, if being big and having red hair and freckles
qualifies him for that imprecise description. Vicki now lives near
San Francisco, and Tina is still in school in Detroit. Kevin, at age
two, will be, we assure each other, the darling of our sunset years,
but frequently this boisterous cherub does remind us of the parent
who, having brought up children in one generation, sighs at the
prospect of repeating the process anew, saying, “I can stand misery,
I can stand poverty, but not twenty more years of P.T.A.!” My
wife? ‘The scriptural pearl beyond price.

Religion? Well, to quote Paul of Tarsus, “when I was a child, I
spake . . . understood . . . thought as a child: but when I became
a man, I put away childish things.” Then in the late 30’s and qo’s I
was, religiously, largely an observer, a non-involved one, an eclectic.
In the early s0’s, having Unitarianism denounced by one whose de-
nunciation made me feel that I really must look into a movement so
capable of stirring a bigot, I did look and am looking still and liking
what I see. I am, in short, a long-time member. Go thou and do
likewise.

For Harvard and books and all those things that concern teachers
and students allow me this valedictory quotation from Cicero, which
I used to see engraved on the Boston Public Latin School building,
when we lived near there in the early 1940’s. Forgive this pedagogue
his pedantry, but it s in pretty easy Latin and sounds best that way.

“Haec studia adulescentiam alunt, senectutem
oblectant, secundas res ornant, adversis perfugium
ac solacium praebent, delectant domi, non impedi-
unt foris, pernoctant nobiscum, peregrinantur,
rusticantur.”
P.S. And look up Oliver Wendell Holmes’s “The Boys.” It’s good
reunion reading.

[ 294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD POTTER CONNETTE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1120 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, 11, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stanray Corp., 200 Michigan Ave., Chicago 4, III.

PREPARED AT: Lynbrook High School, Lynbrook, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia),
1941.

MARRIED: Sara E. Peace, June 1, 1944. CHILDREN: Ruth Potter, March 21, 1945;
Richard Potter, Jr., Sept. 25, 1951.

occupaTion: Manufacturing; secretary and treasurer, Stanray Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, secretary and treasurer, John Gillen Company, P. I.
Steel Corporation, Traveler Manufacturing Company, Inc., Standard
Railway Equipment Company, Traveler Manufacturing Company, Ltd.
Stanray Foundation; director, Joseph S. Duncan YMCA; governor, Lake
Geneva Country Club.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Corporate Secretaries; Kane Lodge, F. &
A.M.; Delta Theta Phi Law Fraternity; Harvard Clubs of New York and
Chicago; University Club of Chicago; Lake Geneva Country Club; Lake
Geneva Yacht Club.

A CAPSULE version of my prior reports: 1938-41, University of
Virginia Law School; 1941-45, U.S. Navy, ensign to lieutenant
commander; Naval Intelligence in New York, subchaser duty in
Caribbean and South Pacific, assistant to force intelligence officer
on Admiral Halsey’s staff, more intelligence duty in New York,
married Sara in 1944; 1945-59 in New York, American Car &
Foundry Corporation, ACF Industries, Inc.; assistant to the prest-
dent and later assistant vice-president, manufacturing. Daughter
Ruth born in 1945 and son Dick in 1951. Active in the Brick Pres-
byterian Church as a deacon and usher, president of the Men’s Coun-
cil of the Presbytery of New York for three years, also active in
Kane Lodge, F. & A.M.

[ 295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

At midyears in 1959, we moved from New York to Chicago. The
children transferred to their mother’s old school, Chicago Latin,
where the headmaster is our classmate, John McD. Graham.

We moved because I joined Stanray Corporation, where I am
secretary and treasurer. Like my former employer, ACF Industries,
Inc., Stanray is in the railway equipment business — with diversifica-
tion in other fields. One line we enjoy particularly in the summer
is the Traveler fiberglas boat.

My civic time is divided between the Fourth Presbyterian Church,
where I am a deacon and usher, and the Joseph S. Duncan YMCA,
of which I am a director and chairman of the Men’s Physical
Education Committee.

We travel a lot —on the same road — back and forth to Lake
Geneva, Wisconsin, on weekends during spring and fall. Sara and
the children spend the summer there and we are raising a boy tennis
player and a sailing daughter. Sara and I play a lot of golf — not too
significantly.

Here is where we are after the first twenty-five — they have been
rewarding years and we start the next twenty-five in much the same
manner as the first — worrying about college admission. Ruth has
applied for Wellesley and awaits the word.

JAMES THOMAS CONNOLLY

 

HOME appress: 9 Summit Pl., Newburyport, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: 65 State St., Newburyport, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLPGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B, IQ4I.

Markiep; Mary J. Welch, June 1, 1946. CHILDREN: James Thomas, Jr., Oct. 7,

[ 296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1947; Julian W., Oct. 19, 1949; William S., March 5, 1954; Elizabeth Ann,
Sept. 26, 1958.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Essex County Conveyancers Association, 1959-60,
Newburyport Bar Association, 1960-61, National Day Sailer Association,
1962; vice-president, Newburyport Health Centre, 1957-62; director, New-
buryport Public Library, 1958-62, Essex County Bar Association, 1958-59,
Lone Tree Council, B.S.A., 1960-62, Newburyport YMCA, 1957-60; vice-
president, New England Family Campers Association, 1961; trustee, New-

buryport Five Cents Savings Bank, 1950-62, Anna Jaques Hospital, 1956~
60.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club; American Yacht Club; National Day Sailer
Association; Tuesday Night Club; Appalachian Mountain Club; Oldtown
Country Club; U.S. Eastern Amateur Ski Association, Northeastern DX
Association; West Gulf DX Club; ARRL; Newburyport Rotary Club.

LIKE many another classmate, I went on from college to Harvard
Law School, where we studied law at the knees of Landis and Gris-
wold, and philosophy at Lincoln’s Inn. After graduation in 1941, I
had a few months’ practice in Boston, but the week after Pearl Har-
bor was taking a physical exam for the Naval Reserve. A year of
communications duty in Florida and a year of escort and patrol duty
off the Carolina coast as commanding officer of the SC 987, plus
some months of training, were followed by a Cook’s tour of the
broad Pacific as commanding officer of the LST 880. Memories in-
clude Bob Scott coming aboard with the pilot in San Francisco and
again in Pearl Harbor, seeing Arthur Howard in Lingayen Gulf,
and the less pleasant sights of the devastation in Sasebo and Nagoya.

A South Carolina belle whom I had met in Charleston was waiting
when the ship docked in San Francisco in 1946, and Peggy and 1
were married in June. I have been actively engaged in a rewarding
Jaw practice in Newburyport since 1946, and have no plans to make
any change.

My chief hobby is still sailing. Besides various cruises (some with
Everett Black) and ocean races, including two Bermuda Races with
Wells Morss, I have done some small boat racing. After a winter of
labor in the cellar, building from plans, I emerged proudly into the
sunlight with a 14’ Rhodes Bantam which won its local class for
two years. Then into a Lightning, which won its very small local
class. Finally, on Alan McClennen’s recommendation, into the
rapidly growing Day Sailer class, racing in Marblehead with one of
my three sons as crew. After winning the New Englands in 1961 we
trailed: the boat to Annapolis to annex the Nationals, repeating in
Marblehead in 1962, with son Julian as crew. In between races my

[ 297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

three sons and I have assaulted the New Hampshire 4000-foot peaks,
climbing the 46th and final one in October of 1962. Winter sees us
all on skis, while in moments in between I search for new countries
on “ham” radio, with a current total of 137.

The usual civic and social organizations make further demands on
time, but are part of the life of a small city, and Peggy and the chil-
dren make life well worth-while.

JERROLD KELLEY COOK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1510 Ruxton Rd., Ruxton, Baltimore 4, Md.

OFFICE AppREss: Marketing Services Co., 31 E, 21st St., Baltimore 18, Md.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

UNMARRIED.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

occupation: Management consultant, international operations (export sales
management; licensing and technical assistance agreements; overseas ac-
quisitions, joint ventures and wholly-owned subsidiaries; import pro-
cedure).

TO sum up twenty-five years in a narrative style on less than two
pages does, indeed, require some conciseness. It is doubtful that the
Class is really interested in an autobiographic sketch of a relative
nonentity. Yet, the failure to send in some kind of a report would
be comparable to neglecting to vote in an election.

Vocation. Wave remained in the field of business. Most of the
time has been spent on the secure and comfortable payroll, perform-
ing accounting and statistical duties, of the State Street Trust Com-
pany, Bethlehem Steel (Quincy), Container Corporation of America
(Baltimore) and USS. Steel (Pittsburgh). After retraining in foreign

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trade at the Latin American Institute, the unbridled initiative of

free and competitive enterprise took hold and I formed the Cook

International Company, the principal functions of which were to

sell United States products in foreign countries (exporting) and to

sell foreign goods in the United States (importing). Later, after the
worries of risk-taking became burdensome, an offer from the Export

Department of Republic Steel Corporation proved tempting and I

became their foreign marketing research analyst. At the present

time I am a consultant in the field of international operations. In the
summer of 1962 I studied at the International Marketing Institute at
the Harvard Business School with representatives of thirty-three
nations.

Military service. Was commissioned in the Navy as ensign in

January of 1942. Spent one year as Personnel Officer of the Air-

craft Delivery Unit in New York. After a six-weeks training course

was assigned to the carrier Monterey (CVL26). Later was ordered
to Hoggatt Bay (CVE 75) as Arresting Gear Officer. As time went
on was put in charge of the Flight Deck Division (V—1). At Oki-
nawa for forty-four days was Air Pilot Officer. Found this the most
rewarding and active job of my career. The ship, its crew, squad-
rons and escorts received the Navy Unit Commendation Medal for
destroying nine Jap subs and enemy installations in the Philippines,
Okinawa and other areas. At V—J Day we were preparing to escort
a Russian convoy from the Aleutians to Vladivostok. Press corre-
spondents aboard actually seemed disappointed at missing such a
scoop. In 1946 was released to inactive duty at Philadelphia where
I had been conducting load and stress tests on experimental aircraft.
In June, 1962, completed twenty years of commissioned service.
Found the reserve program useful and interesting, particularly the
courses in Advanced Operational Intelligence and Strategy and
Tactics.

Travel. Before the war I had the pleasure of traveling throughout
Europe by auto, bicycle, train and coastal steamer. During the war
I visited most of the Pacific area at government expense. Since then
I have been back to Europe and have visited places in the Caribbean
and in Canada.

Hobbies. Enjoy producing 16mm documentary films in sound.
Favorite sports include skiing, sailing, riding, tennis, golf and ocean
bathing. Plan to continue with a stamp collection if I am able to find
time (which means if I am able to stay away from TV at night).

Thoughts and convictions. It is true. A rolling stone gathers no

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

moss. Having been fickle with employers and girls, I find myself
with no important position and with no wife. (Perhaps some class-
mates will envy me, but I doubt it.) When things are going well and
prosperously, one is apt to be a Republican. When the outlook is not
so bright, one becomes a Democrat. I have been both. The two or
multiple party system is a good thing. Would like to see more unity
among the religions of the world. In the Christian Church would
like to see not only more unity but less hierarchy and protocol.
(Very few leaders of the Church remind me of the Lord giving his
sermons to the poor and the sick in the land of Galilee.) There
could be much improvement in business and political morality.
Having had a case as plaintiff in a U.S. District Court for five years,
I know some of the reasons for the delays. We do not have equal
(and swift) justice under law. But to any classmates who may read
this report, I have one last thing to say. Let us forget our worries
and disappointments and think of only the good times we have had
in life: skiing on a cold sunny day with fresh snow; dining and
dancing at the Plaza; drinking with shipmates on an atoll after forty-

five days at sea; driving through the English countryside; watching
Harvard beat Yale!

JOSEPH RANDOLPH COOLIDGE, IV

Sar RRR

   

fa ER a ER PI ME
a
~~

HOME ADDRESS: 153 E, 61st St., New York 21, N.Y.

orFice appress: Performing Arts and Music, Inc., 1619 Broadway, New York,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B, 1938(39).

MarRIED: Peggy Stuart, Nov. 8, 1952.

[ 300 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Story editor, theatrical productions.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant director, Television Dept., Van Diver & Carlyle, Inc.
(advertising), 1949-50; secretary of board, Goddard Neighborhood Cen-
ter, 1955-56, Fred Feldkamp Productions (films), 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Coffee House Club,
New York; International Sportsmen’s Club, London; Red Mountain Lodge
No. 68, F. & A.M., Center Sandwich, N.H.; Harvard Lodge, AF. & A.M.,
Cambridge, Mass.

PUBLICATIONS: Various technical, newspaper and magazine articles.

TEN thousand sons are quite a handful even for so discerning a
foster parent as Harvard to keep an eye on, and having bestowed a
degree on me with more grace than could possibly be deserved, she
must have shrugged off the indulgence with, at best, a wry smile.

In any event, my education seems only to have begun, for a re-
view of previous essays in autobiography for the Class suggests a
perennially sophomoric mind. Who knows? In 1936 1 may have
known all that was necessary. Now the clues are rarer; the evidence,
more conflicting; the facts, more elusive. I wobble around among
Doctor Menzel’s extrapolations of the expanding universe, Whyte’s
Organization Man, de Nouy’s Human Destiny, anyone’s political
speeches, Ardrey’s African Genesis, Riesman’s The Lonely Crowd,
Schweitzer’s thoughts, Lawrence’s U.S. News & World Report, La
Farge’s Each to the Orher, the Sears Roebuck Catalogue, and stops
in between.

Like Ulysses, I am “always roaming with a hungry heart,” but
luckily, my Penelope does not stay at home with her weaving. She
not only adorns our Argo, with grace and music and laughter, she
knows the sea, and for both of us, “all experience is an arch where-
thro’ gleams that untravell’d world whose margin fades for ever and
for ever” as we move. Thanks to insatiable curiosity, to business
and to war, the log is voluminous and often bizarre. It includes names
like Grand Canary, Bab el Mandeb, Tangier, Chichen Itza, Bu
N’gem, Barbados, Ashby-de-la~Zouch, Spotted Horse, Ouagadou-
gou and Natal. We have been north to Labrador and Iceland, south
to Bass Strait, west to Hollywood, and east from Glasgow to Saigon,
most of Africa north of the equator and across the equator itself six
times.

More important than the sights of Himalayan peaks, desert sun-
sets and storms at sea are people — people of ev ery imaginable hue
and disposition from squalid, illiterate Hindus to Madison Avenue,
from aboriginal Mayans to Tin Pan Alley, from Annamese Commu-
nists to the House of Lords, from Singhalese mahouts to Down Fast

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

lobstermen, from opera singers to glass blowers, from Wyoming
cow pokes to Cambridge dons, from Bedouin belly dancers to
machine-tool operators, from Ethiopian shepherds to self-styled
liberals, from a Tangier pimp to an Anglican canon — and so on and
on.

The facts of a career thereby become as trivial as our dental affairs,
the trouble with our landlord, and where we buy our groceries, By
the time this is published we may be in Istanbul (another concert
for Peggy) or in Brazil (another movie production for me). Our
passports and vaccinations are ever up to date, for it never seems too
late “to seek a newer world.”

What do we seek? To some extent, to escape parochial bounds,
but escape toward what? For an artist, perhaps subconciously, the
quest for ultimate beauty. For a philosophic sort like me, it is the
compulsion to get nearer truth, to find more wisdom, to add even a
small measure of maturity. I believe in putting men on the moon and
beyond, but without reference to the space race or military advan-
tage or possible mineral deposits. It simply adds to the possibilities
of life. It would be foolish to minimize the worth of industry, com-
merce, personal and public service, but to stay alive in relative com-
fort, perhaps to play golf, to go to football games, to drink, to play
chess — what you will — seems not enough. If we have lost or stulti-
fied the faith of our forebears in things eternal, perhaps in the vast-
ness of outer space or in the miracle of the atom and the gene we
shall lose superstition and find that God has weathered the ages of
our mysticism, our skepticism, our anthropomorphism, our emo-
tionalism to emerge with luster that is closer to inchoate truth.

Being story editor for a film company sounds removed from the
Odyssey, but movies combine business, art, technology and a wide
variety of people and places. Having no children we are more free
than most to set sail. Peggy’s film scores, recordings and concerts
and my work provide opportunity and funds. If we go a few leagues
beyond required destination, there serendipity blossoms: the unex-
pected scene, object, person, idea that becomes part of us.

With all this, there comes back to me again and again the remark
of a French artisan who was fitting a piece of curved stair railing
into place with painstaking attention to detail. He suddenly looked
up at me and said, “I wonder what God will think of me? It took
Him two hundred years to grow this picce of wood, and what am
I doing with it?” It took two or three billion years to evolve the
Class of 1938, and I wonder what we are doing with it.

[ 302 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES LORD COOMBS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 375 Paramus Rd., Paramus, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Ridgewood High School, Ridgewood, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, LL.B., 1941.

MaRkiED: Barbara Bassett, June 17, 1939 (separated). cHttprEN: Colby Cornish,
May 3, 1940; Elizabeth Lord, Nov. 14, 1942; James Lord, Jr.. Nov. 12, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Sheet metal mechanic.

I AM recovering from an unhappy marriage and a couple of unsuc-
cessful small business ventures, which only succeeded in enriching
my experience and background.

JOSEPH WILLIAM COPEL

 

HOME appress: 185 Tappan St. Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE ADPRESS: 483 Beacon St, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. €17 laude, 1938; M.D. (Tufts Coll.),
1942.

marrieD: Marcia N. Kagno, July 28, 1946. cuiLpreN: Joshua Abbott, Sept. 9,
1953; Marjorie Ann, March 27, 1955; Matthew W., Jan. 18, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Orthopedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in surgery, Harvard Medical School; instructor in
orthopedic surgery, Boston University Medical School; associate in sur-
gery, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston; associate visiting physician, Massachu-
setts Memorial Hospitals, Boston. i

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons (fellow); American
College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of Orthopedic Surgery
(diplomate).

ALTHOUGH not world-shaking, yet to date my life and career has
necessarily had a considerable impact on many people by virtue of
my being an orthopedic surgeon and in the overall I would classify
it as quietly exciting.

After leaving Harvard I secured an M.D. at Tufts Medical School
in 1942. I spent a bit over three years as an army “Doc” and fol-
lowed this with five and a half years of general surgical and ortho-
pedic training at various hospitals. Thus it was not until July, 1952,
that I finally opened my office, but things have gone extremely well
since then.

My practice and teaching commitments unfortunately leave less
than the wished-for time for family, hobbies or reading, but on the
other hand time never hangs heavy on my hands and the main prob-
lem seems to be finding enough time in which to do things.

Politically, I suppose I am closest to the ADA line although I
become definitely apoplectic discussing socialized medicine. Socially,
we are not High Society or newspaper material but my wife and I]
have many friends and warm relationships. Our religious convic-
tions are quiet but firm and we have found Reform Judaism quite
satisfying, morally and ethically.

Actually, it is not with smugness or complacency but rather
with a mixture of thankfulness, happy satisfaction and a certain sense
of surprised bewonderment that I look back on these past twenty-
five years.

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM LAMB COPITHORNE

FO ni rman me any

}

    

HOME AppRESs: Box 392, East Norwich, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Oil Co. (N.J.), 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1948.

mMarrigp: Elizabeth Atwater, June 28, 1947. CHILDREN: Robert Stephen, July 10,
1950; David Atwater, June 18, 1953.

occupation: Latin American area coordinator, Department of Public Relations,
Standard Oil Company (N.J.).

puBLicaTions: Short stories and articles in New Y, orker, Atlantic Monthly, etc.

FROM 1938 till 1943, I taught at Ruston Academy, Havana, Cuba,
for part of that time with another member of the Class of 1938 —
Al Harkness.

I spent the war years doing cryptographic work with the USAAF,
mostly in Newfoundland. In 1946 I returned to Harvard to get a
Master’s degree in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and to
teach freshman composition at Harvard and Radcliffe for two
years. From 1948 to 1951, I taught English literature at Kenyon
College, Gambier, Ohio. During these years I did some magazine
writing as well. During the summers of 1946 and 1948 I taught
English literature at the University of Havana. From 1951 till 1955
I worked for the Cooper-Bessemer Corporation of Mount Vernon,
Ohio, in community and employee relations, sales training and sales
promotion.

Since 1955 I have been with the Standard Oil Company (N.J.) in
its department of public relations. For the last three years I have
been coordinator of Jersey’s affiliates in South America as far as
their public relations activities are concerned. This has meant quite a
bit of travel all over South America. In fact this is being written

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

(November, 1962) in Caracas, Venezuela, where I am spending two
months with Jersey’s affiliate, the Creole Petroleum Corporation.

ALEXANDER JOSEPH COREY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 40 Union St., Littleton, N.H.

JOHN JOSEPH COSTELLO, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 334 Marsh St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 131 Clarendon St., Boston 16, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarrizpD: Patricia Ann Fallon, Aug. 21, 1943. cHiLprEN: John Joseph, 3d, June

11, 1944; Peter, April 24, 1946; Michael, June 16, 1947; Gail and Mark
(twins), Oct. 2, 1950.

HARVARD SON: John Joseph Costello, 3d, '66.

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Treasurer, J. J. Costello Company, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Director, St. Sebastian’s Country Day School, since 1960.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Harvard Club of

Boston.
AFTER a short stay in the Graduate School of Engineering, I set-
tled down to the practice of engineering. The war intervened and
I was ultimately assigned by the Air Corps to the National Adviso
Committee of Aeronautics, Langley Field, Virginia. After the war I
returned to Boston and entered the family business as a salesman of
electric power equipment, where I am still employed.

Our youngest children, twins, are now entering their teens and it
is a source of pride to the whole family to realize that the eldest boy
is now a member of the Class of 1966. All of the children show
promise of being better students than their father.

Our summers are spent on Cape Cod where we have a cottage on
the shores of Buzzards Bay. The annual threat of hurricanes make
it an exciting and sometimes quite expensive investment.

SHERMAN PAGE COTTON

      

 

ance.

   

HOME AppRESS: 40 Leslie Rd., Auburndale 60, Mass.
OFFICE appRESS: Massachusetts Hospital Service, 133 Federal St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1938.
MARRIED: Elizabeth Neale Fitts, Oct. 12, 1946. CHILDREN: David Waldron Fite,
Oct. 12, 1942 (stepson); Sherman Page, Jr., Sept. 21, 1947; Dudley Neale,
Aug. 25, 1950.

occupation: Sales representative for Massachusetts Blue Cross-Blue Shield.

THIS fourth report of our class finds me with a son in his junior

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

year at Bowdoin, a need for glasses when | read, and a conviction
that our national government is interfering too much in our personal
lives. I am leisurely teaching myself to play the piano, helping my
son with his high ‘school French, and living an active community
life.

After graduation and a cruise to Europe with a jazz band, I went
to work at the Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company. Not two
vears passed before the National Guard regiment I had joined was
inducted into Federal service and for five years I was a soldier. My
experience as a lieutenant in the European ‘Theatre has left me com-
pletely prejudiced against camping out. To my best recollection
the only ume I have used a sleeping bag is on the annual Cub Scout
overnight and I’ve had my share of them since none of my three
boys were Cub Scouts at the same time.

Army service done, I became a salesman for E. H. Barbour
Company, a small sales office handling building specialties and fire
protection equipment. It was at this point in my life that I was
fortunate enough to persuade a charming girl from Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, to become my wife. We have made our lives to-
gether, and our boys’ lives, our career and feel with pride that it is
a success.

I left E. H. Barbour to work as New England sales representative
for the Tappan Stove Company. This was high pressure selling and
involved a lot of traveling, for neither of which did I feel suited. I
resigned and went to work with Blue Cross where I have been hap-
pily situated and which, incidentally, is also celebrating its twenty-
fifth anniversary.

[ 308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANIEL COVEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Nobscot Rd., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 262 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.BA. 1940.

marrieD: Ruth Goldband, May 31, 1942. cHttpren: Linda, Jan. 28 194s, Jull,
Nov. 11, 1948.

cccuPaTION: Certified public accountant; senior partner, Coven & Suttenberg.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Cole National Corporation, Cleveland, since 1959, Well-
co-Ro-Search Industries, Inc. Waynesville, N.C, since 1961, treasurer,
1958-60, member, board of trustees, 1955-61, Temple Shalom of Newton,
Inc,

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants; Massachusetts Society for
Certified Public Accountants.

‘THE “teen-age” generation, at least in my home, not so jokingly
refers to our generation as having lived in the stone ages. With two
and one-half decades elapsed since graduation, I think that there
may be something to their reference.

After two years at the “B” school and an MLB.A. degree, 1 took
a position in public accounting with a firm in Newark, New Jency.
I fully believed that I would remain in that ficld until PP could
observe and find a more interesting line of endeavor in private indus-
try. However, a few short months later [ sat for and passed the
C.P.A. examination. As a result, Twas “hooked.”

I moved back to Boston, marred the girl (then and sll the
greatest) I had courted for cight vears. Classified as 4F by all the
Services, I spent most of the war years in the Audit Section of the
Boston Ordnance District. In July, 1944. Lopened my own othce to
engage in the practice of public accounting amd in’ 1946 formed a
partnership with Lawrence Surrenberg. Tam pleased to sy that

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

we still continue to make fine progress, and have admitted two
more partners since that date.

Meanwhile, back home, we were blessed with two daughters,
They have now grown to beautiful young ladies. You'll meet them
at the June Reunion. My eldest daughter, now seventeen, is anxiously
awaiting replies from the various colleges to which she has applied
for admission. My youngest daughter, fourteen years of age, is
busily concerned with those matters that generally concern fourteen-

ear-“olders.”

If all of the above appears to be routine, it is. However, the every-
day problems of my profession are interesting, require flexibility
in pace and thinking and have been intellectually satisfying. I do
regret that they have absorbed so much of my time that they have
limited my time with my family and with civic and charitable
affairs. I have, nevertheless, participated in various fund-raising
events and been treasurer and member of the board of my Temple.

EDWARD HYDE COX

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Crow Island, Manchester, Mass.

[ 310 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALLACE HERBS COX

 
  
  

Lf PTET LEP I OGY RIGS ME SIL LES

HOME ADDRESS: 103 Chestnut St., Nutley, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wilkata Folding Box Co., 300 Hoyt St., Kearny, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnical Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

MARRIED: Marguerite Mattoon, Aug. 24, 1946. CHILDREN: Linda Louise, April
23, 1948; Jameson MacLean, Sept. 10, 1949; William Wallace, Aug. 30,
1951; Suzanne Marguerite, April 23, 1955.

occupation: Controller, Wilkata Folding Box Co., manufacturers of folding
paper cartons.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Administrative Committee, The 300 Pension Plan,
since 1957; vice-chairman, Nutley Red Cross Drive, 1955; vestry, Grace
Episcopal Church, 1955-57; president, Franklin School P.T.A., 1961-63,
Nutley P.T.A. Council, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants; Harvard Business School
Clubs of New York and Northern New Jersey; Folding Paper Box Associ-
ation of America; Employers Association of North Jersey; Nutley Town
Club; Grace Church Couples Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Simplified Cost Accounting Methods, Part III,” published by
Folding Paper Box Association of America.

BEFORE I started this Twenty-fifth Report, I received instructions
from my Ever-loving to make it sound “more exciting” than the
Eighteenth. In that one, I reported that life was concerned almost
exclusively with the production and raising of two boys and two
girls, leaving little time for the spectacular. a Il try,

In the seven years since then, my progress in the folding box in-
dustry has been satisfying, if not spectacular. It has been satinfying
especially in its variety of interests. A small company executive may
have only one title (ofttimes meaningless) but his job covers a wide
range. There is some hard work, and some pressures — but usually

(3tr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

not of the ulcer-producing variety. It is a career to be recom-
mended for one who wants his work to be an important part of his
life, but not all of it. Besides, few of us Harvard ’38’s can claim a
spectacular career when we are so often humbled with the familiar
“Why aren’t you in the Cabinet?” routine. (And just when I was
beginning to hope that the “Not the Wally Cox!” comment was on
the way out.)

Our family of six, the smallest in the immediate neighborhood, is
having a great time growing up—and older — together. Many
weckends and vacations are spent camping in luxurious style at a
state or national park near a large body of water for the use of our
trailer boat. It is quite a caravan when we take off with the boat
loaded with equipment and the wagon with people. In winter, when
the boat is stored, we replace the water skis with the narrower,
longer variety. So far, the only casualties resulting from all this
activity have been one fracture apiece for the grownups. The kids
just bounce.

We are proud to have been quite active in the community life of
our town. That is to say, We haven’t been too successful in warding
off requests to serve in the chairmanships and presidencies of the
school and charitable organizations. These duties and our family
junkets haven’t left enough time for hobbies, except for Margie's
occasional hops to nearby states in a Cessna 150. ’'m not sure what
she sees in flying around all by herself (as yet she is licensed for self-
destruction only). An escape, perhaps; but from what, I can’t
imagine — and J don’t intend to ask. It is a stopper though, when
you're chatting with acquaintances on the street, to have your
youngest point up to the 10:05 jet to Los Angeles and yell, “Look,
Daddy! There goes Mommy!”

Politically, we prefer to vote for the candidate of our choice rath-
er than against the other one. That it seems increasingly difficult
to do this we hopefully ascribe to our growing more critical with age.
We don’t expect a nuclear war; partly because of the standard “de-
terrent” argument, but mostly for the pragmatic reason that life
wouldn’t be worth living if we did.

We know our religious convictions are too liberal for the Episco-
pal Church we attend, but we doubt we could find a church that
suited us perfectly without starting one of our own. We were dis-
cussing Christian Unity the other evening and the fact that everyone
is struggling to find a way to achieve it. We wondered how many

had first asked themselves if the goal were a desirable one in the first

[ 312 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

place. Might not monopoly in religion have some of the same dan-
gers it has in business?

Greetings from the Cox family to Harvard 738. We look forward
to seeing you in June. Wear name tags, please. While it seems like
yesterday, it has been a long, long time.

MALCOLM LINNELL CREIGHTON

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 84 The Fenway, Boston 15, Mass.

CHARLES HENRY CRETZMEYER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 429 E. Sedgwick St., Philadelphia 19, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 S. Ninth St., Philadelphia 7, Pa.

prepared AT: Algona High School, Algona, Iowa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREES: S.B, 1938(39); s.M. (State Univ. of
Iowa); m.p. (ibid.).

[ 313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MarkigD: Patricia Walsh, Oct. 13, 1956. CHILDREN: Anne Pegeen, Feb. 19, 1958;
Stacy Meghan, Oct. 27, 1959; Mary Regan, April 18, 1962.

occupation: Medical practice, general surgery.

MEMBER OF: Union League of Philadelphia; American Medical Association,
Philadelphia County Medical Society; American College of Surgeons

(fellow); Committee for the Study of Breast Cancer, Philadelphia; Ameri-
can Geriatrics Society (fellow).

INTERNSHIP, 1946-47, residency in general surgery, 1950-54,
Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, Certified by the American
Board of Surgery, February 14, 1955. Army Medical Corps, captain,
September, 1947, to August, 1949. Elected to Alpha Omega Alpha
Honor Medical Society, 1945, and to the Society of the Sigma Xi,
1946.

Assistant surgeon to out-patients, 1954-56, assistant surgeon, 1956-
61, associate surgeon, since 1961, Pennsylvania Hospital. Instructor
in surgery, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, since
1954:

ROBERT CRIMMINS

 

HOME appreEss: 176 Long Neck Point Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thomas Crimmins Contracting Co., 624 Madison Ave., New
York 22, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; 5.8. (Columbia Univ.), 194?

maraizp: Violet Hamilton Rothwell, Jan. 26, 1946. cHILDREN: Sally, Aug. 22)
1948, Anne Van Wyck, July 27, 1950; Susan Hamilton, June 3, 1953-

occupation: Contractor; vice-president and chief engineer, Thomas Crimmuins
Contracting Company.

orrices HELD: President, Crimmins Equipment Corporation; vice-president,
Vanta Corporation; secretary, vice-president, president, 1961-62, Harvard

[314]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Engineering Society; member, Engineering Council, Columbia University,
1955-62; member, board of governors, The Thomas Egleston Associates
Columbia, secretary of the Moles, 1961-62; director, Noroton Yacht Club,
1957-62; member, Representative Town Meeting, Darien, 1954-62; member,

Admission Committee, Harvard Club of New York; trustee, Low Heywood
School, Stamford, Conn.

SINCE graduation I have been fortunate in being able to follow a
career which really interested me and held my attention.

Even the five years spent in the Army were not wasted, as I was
with a combat engineer battalion and, being the only graduate en-
gineer, had many duties that differed from the regular routine. Spent
three and one-half years in the Pacific and made three assault land-
ings. Left the Army with a sigh of relief and a feeling of boredom
on listening to veterans expound on their bravery and prowess.

Upon arriving home, went to work for the family construction
firm which had been founded in 1848. After working for a few
weeks, was fortunate enough to be able to marry my wife Vi. With-
in four years, my father, Thomas Crimmins, ’oo, turned over the
company, lock, stock and barrel, to me and my cousin, Holmes
Crimmins, ?3z. We have been able to increase our volume ten-fold
and still keep going in a business that entails a great deal of risk. We

specialize in excavating and installing foundations for lar
small buildings. The more difficult a job, the more desirable.
We have done the foundations for the New York Coliseum, East
River Power House, 74th Street Power House, Pan Am Building,
Union Carbide Home Office, Huntington Hartford Museum, CBS
Home Office, United Nations Delegate’s Building and the Flushing
Stadium, besides about two hundred more large and small projects.
I am the proud possessor of three small wooden sailboats and have
learned, to my dismay, that my wife and my three daughters are not
only better racing skippers than I am, but are willing to prove it in
competition.
I firmly believe my years at Harvard have helped me in many
ways, not the least being that it gave me the ability of seeing two
sides to the question and not being overawed by stuffed shirts.

ge and

[315]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HERBERT WILSON CRISPIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9552 Skylark Blvd., Garden Grove, Calif,

OFFICE AppREss: Shelby Corp., Shelby, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1938.

MarRIED: Muriel Louise Lindahl, July 3, 1943. cHitpREN: Jean Louise, Oct. 21,
1950; Douglas Fred, Feb. 9, 1952; Bonnie Lynn, May 24, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative, Shelby Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Shelby Lodge No. 250, F. & A.M.; Builders Hardware Club of
Southern California, Harvard Club of Orange County, California.

_

WELL, I'll put down a few facts and thoughts about the last twenty-
five years. I find that my recollections of the days of World War
II following graduation have dimmed considerably, especially since
my service was non-combatant. These years now seem important
to me for two events — the beginning of a happy marriage which
will be twenty years along at Reunion time, and the three years |
resided in the western United States while in service.

I have a lot of memories associated with the thirteen years from
1946 to 1959 spent in the pleasant northern Ohio city, Shelby. Here
our three children were born. Here we purchased our first home,
our first television set, our first new automobile. Here we became
avid followers of the Cleveland “Indians,” the Cleveland “Browns,”
the Ohio State University “Buckeyes.” Here I began my career as a
salesman, a profession I have now followed for seventeen years.
For five years I worked as a publisher’s representative for Harper &
Brothers, calling on schools in citics like Cleveland, Cincinnati,
Columbia, Indianapolis, Fort Wayne, South Bend. Then in 1952 1
joined the Shelby Spring Hinge Company, a small manufacturer of
builders’ hardware. With this firm I have held positions of sales

[ 316 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

correspondent, assistant sales manager and, from 1956 to 1959, ficld
sales manager. During these years I supervised a sales force of
twenty manufacturers’ representatives and traveled extensively in
thirty-six of our then forty-eight states, calling on all the leading
hardware wholesalers and contract builders’ hardware distributors.
My favorite stops were Los Angeles, San Francisco, Dallas and At-
lanta, but I enjoyed many other cities also. At times I felt as if 1
should write my own version of Inside U.S.A.

In 1960 the opportunity came to relocate in southern California
with this same employer, as a sales representative. So, in January,
1960, we joined the great twentieth-century migration to the land
of freeways and smog. We had experienced “‘Monotonously bad
weather in Ohio — we now decided we would try monotonously
good weather in California. We selected Orange County as the
best all-around location, and the city of Garden Grove as our specific
home. It was quite an abrupt change from a small city of 10.000 to
the second largest metropolitan area in our country, but also an
exciting change. Orange Country is full of transplanted middle-
westerners and easterners. As native Bostonians, we found it easy to
resume life in a large city again. We bought a home immediately,
made friends with our neighbors, joined the local Methodist Church
the first month, and in six months’ time felt like native Californians.
Like other Orange County commuters I became a charter member
of “Knights of the Santa Ana Freeway” — up the freeway to Los
Angeles every day.

And so it looks as if southern California will be our home from
now on. I expect to continue to be a salesman in the builders’ hard-
ware industry. And I expect to see many amazing changes in this
dynamic, fast-paced metropolitan region in the next few years,

[ 317 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

G. FERRIS CRONKHITE

 

HOME ADpRESS: 316 Fall Creek Drive, Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: College of Arts and Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y,
PREPARED AT: Hudson Falls High School, Hudson Falls, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1939;

PH.D., 1949.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Assistant dean and lecturer in English, College of Arts and Sci-
ences, Cornell University.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; American Studies
Association; Modern Language Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Transcendental Railroad,” New England Quarterly, 1951;
“Walt Whitman and the Locomotive,” American Quarterly, 1954; “How-
ells Turns to the Inner Life,” New England Quarterly, 1957; “Some
Varieties of Inspiration,” Aspects of American Poetry.

THE distinctive fact about these twenty-five years is that I never
really left college. I have changed location but that’s about all;
I’m still hanging around a university. For a while I was in the Army
and in the war, but I came back and took up my graduate work
again at Harvard and my teaching in the tutorial program in the
English Department. In 1947 I shifted to Cornell where I have been
ever since, teaching English and American literature and, of course,
some freshman English. All this sounds so donnishly innocent that
I have a guilty twinge when I recall Hawthorne’s admonition:
“Show freely to the world, if not your worst, yet some trait whereby
the worst may be inferred.” Very well—I’m also mixed up in
college administration. It began with a seemingly innocuous cir-
cumstance, my being put on the freshman English committee at
Cornell. But ah! in a few years I found myself directing that big,
sprawling course. And that in turn branched into sub-committee

[ 318 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

work for a Ford Foundation project called, rather cumbersomely,
The School and College Study of Admission with Advanced Stand-
ing (which the College Board took over under the more manageable
name of the Advanced Placement Program). Then, in a couple of
years after that, despite a year off, which I spent in Widener and
Houghton Libraries hoping my mistreadings would be forgotten, I
was over the edge and into a part-time deanship. To be sure, some
enticement was offered: the promise that my interest could be in
doing something for the good student rather than to the bad one,
but there’s no blinking the fact that I am two-thirds a dean.

The other one-third of me—the saving remnant — is still de-
voted to teaching. My frustrations and annoyances I ascribe, over-
simply of course, to my administrative efforts. But, providentially,
these irritating moments are most pronounced in the winter season
when, if the weather is right, I can take off for some nearby skiing
and shake them into perspective. I only hope that muscle and energy
and nerve let me resort to this cure for a few more years.

For me, a university community is a satisfying atmosphere in
which to live. Intelligence and perception are respected rather
than suspected. Moreover, because Cornell is not in or next to a
large city, the sense of community is stronger than at some other
universities. Particularly stimulating are the scope of Cornell’s ac-
tivities and the diversity of its staff. Just in terms of personal pur-
suits I find it a joy to have friends around whom I may call on to
join in an evening of recorder playing, an afternoon of skiing, or an
expedition to trace abandoned railroad lines. The happy diversity
which comes from bringing together persons of many interests and
many origins has its price, of course. Some of my friends are always
leaving to teach elsewhere: England, Iceland, Germany, Japan. And
though one in academic life resigns himself to the fact that his par-
ticular friends seem always to be spreading themselves more and
more thinly over the world, there are nevertheless unforeseen and
gratifying meetings again at the British Museum, in Florence or
Rome, in Copenhagen or on the steps of Widener.

[319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CORWIN ROBERT CROPPER

MAILING ADDRESS: 229 S. Broadway, Lebanon, Ohio,

WILLIAM SELEY CROSBIE

SS

-

m oN
2 |
e

x eX
:

ie —

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10534 Blumont Rd., South Gate, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Roy C. Seeley Co., 610 S. Main St., Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1942.

MarrieED: Pauline Perry, June 29, 1940. CHILDREN; William Perry, Aug. 19,
1947; Marianne, Feb. 19, 1951.

occuPATION: Real estate appraiser and broker; manager, appraisal department,
Roy C. Seeley Company.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers; National Associa-
tion of Real Estate Boards; California Real Estate Association; Los Angeles
Realty Board; Ninth Infantry Division Association; American Philological
Association; Harvard Club of Southern California.

ONE of the highlights of my early life was my father’s Twenty-
fifth Reunion in 1929. I was fourteen at the time, and I recall with
pleasure the wonderful week spent in Cambridge. I had a strong
impression, however, that the members of the Reunion Class ap-
peared ancient, old and worn. I have now arrived at the same point.
Upon seeing my Reunion photograph and comparing it with my
graduation picture, | can readily understand why I had such an im-
pression years ago of the ravages of age that occur during the
twenty-five years after graduation. Since having my picture taken,
I have stopped smiling at the younger generation of females and I
now realize why for some time now I have been addressed as “sir.”

Looking back over the last twenty-five years I find there have

[ 320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been changes in my thinking, places of residence, professions and
health. Upon graduation I taught Latin at a Quaker School on Long
Island, New York, for five years. During this time I was married,
and also received a Master’s degree in the classics from Columbia
University. Because of the need for teachers, I was allowed to finish
the school year of 1943, but I was immediately inducted into the
Army when school closed. From then until the end of the war in
September, 1945, I served with the Army. After a number of
months of training in this country, I was sent to England where I
was attached to the Ninth Infantry Division, landed on Utah Beach
four days after D-Day in France, and then continued with the divi-
sion across France, Belgium and Germany. During the winter
months I froze my hands and feet and picked up some kind of in-
ternal trouble. Other than this I came through the war unscathed.
Considering that our division had 4,581 men killed, 16,961 wounded,
and 750 missing in action, I must count myself fortunate indeed. The
life of an Infantry division in combat is difficult to explain except to
those who have known it first-hand. Many of our classmates have
had the experience.

For two years after the war I taught Latin in Holderness School in
Plymouth, New Hampshire. The long, cold winters were depress-
ing to me and I was happy to receive an appointment in 1947 to
teach at Choate in Wallingford, Connecticut. The war had made
me restless, however, and teaching with its confining life and modest
rate of pay seemed not to be the course I wanted to follow for the
rest of my working years.

In June, 1949, we packed up our worldly goods including one
son and moved to California where we bought a house in South
Gate, a suburb of Los Angeles, and have lived in the same place ever
since. This I believe is the longest time I have ever lived in the same
house in my life.

My first business endeavor here was as a real estate broker special-
izing in the selling and leasing of industrial properties. This field was
most unfamiliar, and it took some doing at first to learn my way
around. Teaching is not a way to prepare oneself for business. After
five years during which I learned much about real estate and real
estate appraising, I concentrated my attention on appraising only. I
became a candidate for membership in the American Institute of
Real Estate Appraisers, a select organization of appraisers which has
members throughout the United States and several foreign countries.
In 1957 I passed my final written and oral examinations for member-

[321]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ship in the Insticute. The amount of work required for membership
is, in my opinion, roughly equivalent to that needed for getting a
Master’s degree. Needless to say after expending this amount of
effort, I am spending my full time in appraising. I have been quali-
fied in court as an expert in real property valuations and have testi-
fied on numerous occasions. This is quite a different type of life
from that of a teacher.

California has given us the chance to live in a mild climate, has
offered good business opportunities, has afforded many varied ex-
periences and has introduced us to many good friends. Our daugh-
ter was born here and she will be a native of the largest state in the
nation at the time this is published. Certainly there is much to be
said for the varied character of California. I have traveled over al-
most the entire state and find it a very satisfying place to live. Bar-
ring some catastrophe that forces us to leave, this will be my home
for the rest of my life. We do travel around the western states, how-
ever, and trips are made to the east coast whenever our finances
allow.

As is usual with most families with children, we are active in
civic affairs including extensive activities with the local Episcopal
Church. Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Kiwanis Club and other local
activities keep the family almost overly busy.

It has been sixteen years since our last eastern trip. We are looking
forward to seeing some amazing changes around Boston which we
expect will be similar to the amazing changes we have seen here in
the same period. We welcome visiting classmates from other areas
to inspect with us this interesting area in which we live.

[ 322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT ARTHUR CROSMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4313 Knox Rd., College Park, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: History Dept., University of Maryland, College Park, Md.

PREPARED AT: Brunswick High School, Brunswick, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1938, A.-M. IN TEACHING,
1938; A.M., 1944; PH.D., 1950.

MarRRIED: Adelaide Ross, 1933. cHiLp: Robert True, Feb. 18, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Robert True Crosman, ’61.

occupation: Teacher of Latin American History, University of Maryland.

DALE RICHARD CRUCKSHANK

 

HOME AppreEss: §18 Centre St., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Frank Gair Macomber, Inc., 22 Batterymarch St, Boston 9
Mass,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1938.

MarriED: Marguerite EI, Zinck, Nov, 8, 1947.

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OccuPATION: Fire and casualty insurance supervisor.
MEMBER OF: Association of Casualty and Property Underwriters.

AFTER graduating from college in 1938, I entered the real estate
and insurance business for myself in Mattapan Square, Boston.
Business was pretty good for a while until the outbreak of war in
1941 when most of my insurance customers cancelled their policies
and entered the armed services. In May of 1942, I gave up my busi-
ness and took a position with Frank Gair Macomber, Inc. as a cas-
ualty insurance underwriter and have remained with this company
to the present. I was classified 4F on the first draft call and was
forced to fight the war on the home front, which included working
nights as a volunteer on the Fuel Oil Rationing Board and clerk of
one of the substations of the Milton Auxiliary Police Department.

I remained a bachelor until November 8, 1947, when I was married
to Marguerite H. Zinck in Martins River, Nova Scotia, Canada.
This is a little village in Lunenburg County settled by people of
German ancestry in the middle of the last century. Since that date,
I have made over twenty trips to Nova Scotia, which has become
almost a second home to me. My wife and I have collected many
pieces of china over the past fifteen years and have every spot in
our home displaying our collection. We have a very large collection
of Royal Doulton figurines.

Besides my formal education at Harvard, I have studied account-
ing at Burdett College for two years at night school. I have also
taken several insurance courses. At the present time I am tinkering
with radio and elementary electronics via a home study course
offered by FCA Institutes. I find this very enjoyable with the ex-
ception of the mathematics.

My future outlook seems to be a bit more of the past. I am for-
tunate to have built a small business of my own which keeps me
quite busy along with my regular employment. If I were to state
the greatest benefit derived from my four years at Harvard in light
of the past twenty-five, I would say it is the ability to think and
grasp the true meaning of the written word.

[ 324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GRAHAM CUMMIN

se en meme

  

HOME apprEss: R.D, 1, Malvern, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938, M.B-A., 1940.

MaRRIED: Phyllis C. Warner, June 15, 1935 (divorced 1940); Elizabeth Starr
Mcllwain, April 21, 1951, CHILDREN: Graham Jeremy, March 11, 1936 (mm.
Eleanor Hutchinson Dawes, Feb. 24, 1962); Knox Mcllwain, Apni 17,
1953; Maria Starr, Jan. 25, 1956. GRaNpcHILD: Graham Jeremy Cummun,
Jr., Aug. 10, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Farming and private trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Director, secretary and treasurer, Export Associates, Inc., 1947-
48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Phi Beta
Kappa Association of Philadelphia, The Athenaeum of Philadelphia;
Pennsylvania Society of Sons of the Revolution; Welcome Society; Merion
Cricket Club; Pickering Hunt; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences (Philadelphia); American Museum of Natural
History (New York); Zoological Society of Philadelphia; National Geo-
graphic Society; Philadelphia Society for Promoting Agriculture.

TWO years of Harvard Business School (accounting) followed
graduation from Harvard, after which came a short spell of account-
ing work and about three and a half years in the Navy during World
War II. My career as a naval officer in communications was about as
unspectacular as possible. I was never shot at, and even the ship I
was on was listed as “unclassified.”

I then resumed my vocation in accounting in various companics
until 1954, when I took up small time farming (poultry and horses).
This doesn’t mean I gave up accounting. Record keeping and tax
forms for the farm and various trusts kept me busy in that field; 1
just didn’t get paid for it any more.

[ 325]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

After my first marriage dissolved, I went eleven years before try-
ing again, but it was worth the wait. I now have two children in
the early stages of school, who are closer in age to my grandson than
they are to their elder brother.

My weight averages about seven pounds less than the maximum I
reached in college. “My hair, which was turning gray before I left
Harvard, is now all gray and turning white. I look something like
the late Boris Pasternak. If anyone asks if I kept up my swimming,
I can answer yes. In anticipation of that question and in preparation
for the Twenty-fifth Reunion, I swam 128 miles during the past
spring and summer.

ROBERT JAMIESON CUMMING

 
  

Page SH RR mI am eat ae ALAA Nahr er,

HOME ApprEss: 29 Claremont Ave., New York 27, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 713 Philosophy Hall, Columbia University, New York 27, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., agna cum laude, 1938; PH.D. (Univ.
of Chicago), 1950,

MARRIED: Jeanne Anne Hannan, 1948. CHILDREN: Charles, July 7, 1951; Anne,
July 11, 1954.

occuPATION: Professor of philosophy, Columbia University.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Journal of Philosophy, since 1957; chairman, Dept. of

Philosophy, Columbia University, since 1959, Fulbright professor, Uni-
versity of Paris, 1959.

PUBLICATIONS: Translated some dialogues of Plato; articles on Descartes and
existentialism.

WRITING this report is going to age me. Up till now I’ve been
growing up with my children; now I feel P’m going back to the
beginning of time —to 1938, when I went on to Oxford on a

[ 326 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Rhodes for two years. The Army took me in tow for four years
(Purple Heart, Legion of Merit, Croix de guerre avec etoile). My
active service was liaison with the 2nd French Armored Division
and with units of the 5th French Armored Division. The European
tour arranged for me included the liberation of Paris, from which
I have never entirely recovered. To be exposed to the French, after
Harvard and Oxford, was to recognize that not all culture, ways of
living and responding, were Anglo-Saxon. I lingered with this
recognition, staying on for a year at the Sorbonne after the war.
Since then my life has been academic tranquillity. But the names
of some of the French army officers I had met have kept turning up
in the news, as they continued fighting in Indo-China and North
Africa and finally became implicated in successive conspiracies
against the French state. Discreditable as their politics — and De
Gaulle’s politics — have been, the political struggle 1 in France, from
the Resistance on, has remained more interesting to me than any
spectacle America or England has offered. With this background,
I hope to complete a book on French existentialism, which still seems
to me the only intellectual movement of any scope that bears the
marks of contemporary experience. A Catholic president in Paris,
a Catholic president i in Bonn, the fact that a Catholic president could
be elected in the United States — this array seems to be sufficiently
symbolic to suggest that wherever the New Frontiers may be lo-
cated, they are not in the area of intellectual comprehension of
recent experience. Our cold-war politics have gone on without any
impressive advance in the theory of political behavior; having been
able to defeat German Fascism, we have also been able to contain
Communism, but without anyone offering any explanation (e.g. in
social psychology) as unprecedented as what has taken place under
Fascism and Communism.
These remarks by way of a stab at the editorial stipulation of
information about my “social, political and religious convictions.”
Educational convictions are not mentioned, probably because we
are all assumed to share already the only important one — that we
should get our sons into Harvard. But since I am in education, my
remarks lead up to the conclusion that although the quality of stu-
dents is improving every year nearly everyw here, there is no com-
mensurable i improvement in the quality of college teachers or in their
insights. At a time when the particular institution our son does get
into is the decisive rung in his social climb, it is becoming doubtful
if it will be as instrumental to his ascent to any other heights as the

[ 327]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

less crowded educational institutions of the past, where the pro-
fessors were less overwhelmed, less preoccupied with their publish-
ing contracts and with their prospects for government service. |
ain recalling, of course, the Harvard we knew.

Back to my story. Having discovered France, I discovered Ameri-
ca by doing my graduate work at Chicago. Since then I’ve been
teaching in the Philosophy and Government Departments at Colum-
bia, with summer interludes of farming and sailing in Maine.

JOHN MISKELL CUNNINGHAM

Soe SST

 

MAILING ADprEss: Edgewater Hillside, R.D. 3, Westport, Conn.

+ SYLVESTER CUNNINGHAM

 

BorN: March 5, 1916, Boston, Mass. parents: Guy Cunningham, ’87, Frances

Newell.
[ 328 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Park School, Brookline, Mass.,; Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marRiED: Amy Porter Ranney, Dec. 2, 1940, Weston, Mass. cHiLp: Dudley,
June 25, 1943.

piep: Killed in action, Dec. 7, 1944, in the Pacific area.

AFTER college Cunningham spent two years at the Law School.

Commissioned in the Naval Reserve on the day he graduated from

college, he entered active service in August, 1941. After temporary

duty aboard the USS Eagle, he was assigned to the USS Dubuque

which was used as a training ship for gunners for the armed merchant
marine. Cunningham taught gunnery and later was executive officer
and then commanding officer. He was successively promoted to
lieutenant (j-g.), lieutenant and lieutenant commander. He was trans-
ferred to the Submarine Chaser Training Center and in August, 1944,
was assigned as executive officer on the USS Liddle, a destroyer
escort which had been converted to carry troops. He was awarded
the Purple Heart, the American Defense Service Medal with Fleet
Clasp, the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with bronze battle star
(Leyte and Ormoc Bay), the World War II Victory Medal and the
Philippine Liberation Ribbon. He was killed in action at Ormoc
Bay, Leyte, Philippine Islands. He was survived by his wife and son.

JAMES HENRY CURRAN, JR.

 

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chief, Navy Section, Military Assistance Division, Hdqtrs, US.
European Command, Fontainebleau, France.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MARRIED: Barbara Jeanne Fox, May 25, 1942. CHILDREN: James Henry, 3d, April

[ 329]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
6, 1946; Lucinda Dianne, June 8, 1948; Robert Ralston Fox, Sept. 12, 1951;
Lael Louisa, Sept. 29, 1952.

occupation: Captain, U.S. Navy; chief of the Navy Section, Military Assistance
Division for Europe, North Africa and the Middle East.

IN comparison with the current inspirational Agony and Ecstasy
depicting the life of Michel Angelo or even the writings and careers
of many of our illustrious classmates, my life has been relatively un-
eventful, but enjoyable. Nor do I feel that it has been lacking in
purpose during our period of history, because our armed forces
have been a major instrument of national policy as the struggle goes
on between the two ideologies of the worth and dignity of the indi-
vidual versus materialistic totalitarianism.

The year following graduation in 1938 was one of studying for a
Master’s degree in Education at the Harvard Graduate School.
Then came the call to active duty as an ensign in the Naval Reserve
in 1940. December 7, 1941, was fast moving on an old battleship
in Pearl Harbor. The pace didn’t let up for four years in the Pacific
other than for a short marriage respite in 1942 to Barbara Fox of
Seattle. We met skiing at Mt. Rainier and are still tempting our luck
at this romantic pursuit.

At the time of capitulation by the Japanese, I was a student at the
Naval War College at Newport, Rhode Island. It soon became ap-
parent at that institution that Russia was going to be a long-range
problem for the United States. Therefore, with mixed emotions, I
gave up plans for teaching and boys’ camp work in favor of a mili-
tary career. It wasn’t too difficult a decision as the salt of the sea had
gotten into my blood.

Since my embarking as a professional military man, my wife and I
have been blessed with two boys and two girls, plus a varied and
interesting life. My duties moved from the Naval War College
Staff to executive officer of a Pacific destroyer. During 1948-49, as
commanding officer of an attack transport in China, my responsi-
bilities included command of a task group to evacuate Americans
and foreign nationals out of the upper Yangtze Valley as the Com-
munists subdued the area. In 1950, the officer promotions desk was
assumed in the Bureau of Naval Personnel. Then back to destroy-
ers in 1952, as commanding officer for two years in North and South
American waters, plus the Mediterranean. Next came an assignment
on the Destroyer Force Atlantic Fleet Staff as operations officer. A

tour of duty on the Joint Staff of the Joint Chiefs in the Pentagon
followed. Happily I was back as a destroyer division commander in

[ 330 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Atlantic and Mediterranean by 1959. It’s difficult to become de-
tached from staff work once initiated, however, with the result that
the next two years were spent as logistics plans officer for the

CINCLANT/CINCLANTFLYT staffs. It was pleasant to return to
the sea in 1961 aS commanding officer of one of our destroyers’ ten-
ders in the Atlantic and Mediterranean Fleets. My family joined me
in the Mediterranean for a delightful summer of swimming and
boating.

At this writing I have been detached from my sea duty again and
the Curran family is touring western Europe en route to Paris as the
pot boils in Cuba. Our next duty will be as chief of the Naval Sec-
tion of the Military Assistance Division for the European Command,
which will cover Western Europe, North Africa and the Middle
East.

This brings us to philosophy. The military life has been very
active and purposeful. However, I must admit that my garden,
sailing, skiing, skating and the fireside with family and friends in
Newport, Rhode Island, on a continuing basis have ever increasing
appeal. I guess it’s the urge to plant roots, become a constructive
member of a community and stabilize one’s life that is catching up
with me.

Would that I could be at the Twenty-fifth Reunion with the rest

of you solid citizens to swap a few years and indoctrinate my family
in the ways of such a life.

WILLIAM WALLACE CURRIE, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Concord Road, Sudbury, Mass,

[ 331 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PHIL HENRY CURRY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2585 Fairfield Pl., San Marino 9, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Little, Curry & Hagen, roo Rowan Bldg., 458 S. Spring St,
Los Angeles 13, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Schenley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936~1938. DEGREES: $.B., 1938; LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Susan Swanson, July 11, 1942. CHILDREN: Nicholas Antony, Feb. 25,
1944; Caren Susan, July 25, 1945.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Little, Curry & Hagen; trial work for firm.

OFFICES HELD: President, Sports Car Club of America, Los Angeles Region, Inc.,,
1954; Member, National County Board, Sports Car Club of America,
1954-5 5-

MEMBER OF: Automobile Competition Committee for the United States, C.F.LA.,
Inc.: San Marino City Club; University Club of Los Angeles; Harvard
Club of Southern California, Yale Club of Southern California; Cali-
fornia Yacht Club; State Bar of California, NACCA; NADLCC.

PUBLICATIONS: “Some Observations on the Settlement of Terminated Cost —
Plus-A-Fixed-Fee War Contracts,” Los Angeles Bar Bulletin, 1945.

AT the time of my graduation from college, my major concern
then, as it had been during my academic years, was Quo vadis?
Other than, with advancing age, to conclude that Homo homini
lupus, the major focus of my interest still is encompassed in that cry
out of the wilderness, but directed now, not just to myself, but to
the entire human race.

Perhaps I have come closer to possible answers than in earlier
years, as the result of three(3) terribly interesting, challenging
and stimulating courses which I’ve taken during the past couple of
years at UCLA, entitled “Sensitivity Training for the Professions”
and “Advanced Sensitivity Training.” In fact, several of my asso-
ciates refer to me as the “perennial school-boy” because I’m always

[ 332 ]

1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

taking some kind of an extension course, or night school class, or
what have you?

Like Paul Gauguin, I too dream of sailing off to that never-never
land which many call Tahiti, chucking everything here and gaining
immortality through ART! Yet, insofar as that is concerned, see
People of the State of California vs. Matlock, 51 Cal. (2d) 682; 336
Pac. (2d) 505; 71 ALR (2d) 605 —a case wherein I successfully re-
versed a death sentence imposed upon a defendant whom Id never
met until after he’d been returned from San Quentin’s “Death Row”
for a new trial here in the County of Los Angeles, a retrial which
was handled by other counsel, lost again, but this time with the
imposition of a life sentence.

All the rest — the effort, time and tears — is equivalent to but the
proverbial “sound and fury — signifying nothing!”

ROBERT ELIOT CURTIS (formerly Robert Eliot Kitsis)

 

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Red Spring Lane, Glen Cove, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MaRRIED: Edna Fox, July 12, 1942. CHILDREN: Jeffrey Alan, Aug. 14, 1943; Diane
Sherry, May 25, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Free-lance musician.

PUBLICATIONS: Your Future in Music, Richards Rosen Press, 1962; numerous
musical compositions,

THE world of the free-lance musician has been a stimulating and
exciting one for me. It has given me the opportunity to travel ex-
tensively, but, most of all, it has allowed me to do what I think I
have always liked best. Playing the piano, conducting, arranging,

[ 333]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EDWARD LEAROYD CUTTER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Woodland Rd., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 88 Freeport St., Dorchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MarRiED: Helen Morse, May 23, 1940. CHILDREN: Wendy Leigh, March 12, 1942;
Edward Learoyd, 3d, March 9g, 1947; Timothy Morse, Nov. 6, 1948.

occuPaTION: President, D. J. Cutter & Company, Inc., retail fuel and electronic
sheet metal.

MEMBER OF; Milton Hoosic Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club.

HAVING been born and raised in Milton, still living there and
working nearby, I suppose I should now be classified as a typical
conservative New Englander — one who drives west via Dedham.

On graduating from college I went to work in a family retail fuel
company which is now in its ninety-first year of operation under
four generations of Cutters. No glamor, fame or great fortune there
but adequate rewards.

A Reserve ensign by way of NROTC, I received orders in May,
1941, to report to the Boston Navy Yard where (typical Navy) they
had a hard time finding something for me to do for quite a while.
After four years there and two attempts to get sea duty which were
unsuccessful because of poor eyesight, they finally shipped me off
to Dutch Harbor in the Aleutians as ship repair officer. A year later
the war was over and I had accumulated plenty of points but no
battle ribbons.

Home in September, 1945, and then, after a few months of relaxing
and one futile ski trip to Mt. Tremblant where there was no skiable
snow for the first time in fourteen years, I went back to work at
D. J. Cutter & Company. As the fuel division of the business grew

[ 336]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

after the war, the coal business gradually fell off. In 1952 I decided
to convert some of the dollars that used to be in the coal inventory
into sheet metal machinery. We now have many dollars invested in
machinery and men. What started out as a small side line is, at the
moment anyway, a successful electronic sheet metal job shop.

I have been happily married to Helen Morse from Concord, Mas-
sachusetts since May, 1940. Wendy, our eldest, is a senior at Smith
this year and the two boys are at Milton Academy. Wendy is major-
ing in art and an active member of the glee club while Edward and
Tim show signs of becoming hockey players. My interest in hockey
has continued over these twenty-five years and has been wherted by

an artificial rink at Milton Academy and the Harvard teams of recent
years.

EDWARD CURTIS DAHL

bia cAiei i BNR cant ELE Rte ath ie 5 “Se REET ig Bint see

 

HOME apprEss: 1908 N. Racine St., Appleton, Wis.

OFFICE ApprEss: First Congregational Church, 121 W. Lawrence St., Appleton,
Wis.

PREPARED AT: Hopkins Grammar School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. magna cunt Lrude, 1938, pp. (Vale
Univ.), roq1.

Marriep: Anna Kurko, July 7, t945. cuitoren: Christopher, Aug. 26, 1946,
Mary Elizabeth, Oct. 28, 1948; Edward Ely, June 19, 19¢0.

occuUPATION: Parish minister; pastor, First Congregational Church (United
Church of Christ).

OFFIces HELD: Member, board of dircetors, and vice-chairman, Congregational
Christian Service Committee, 1993-58; member, editorial board, Daily
Devotions 1950-59, terms as president, Brattleboro (Vit) and New Britain
(Conn,) Ministerial Associations, and as moderator, local Awocianonme of
Congregational Churches in Vermone and Connecticut.

[337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MEMBER OF: New Britain Club; New Britain Saturday Night Club; Shurtle
Meadow Country Club of New Britain.

PUBLICATIONS: Sermons published in The Pulpit Digest and The Pulpit; articles
in Advance and United Church Herald; numerous devotional meditations
in Daily Devotions and Daily Devotional Guide.

UPON my graduation from Harvard in 1938 I spent two years at
Union Theological Seminary in New York City, serving as student
assistant at the West Center Church in Bronxville, New York, dur-
ing 1938-39, and as a member of the Church School staff at the
Riverside Church in New York City, during 1939-40. During the
summer of 1939 and again in 1940, I served as “summer pastor” of
the Eden Congregational Church in Eden Mills, Vermont.

I completed my theological courses at the Yale Divinity School,
returning to my home in New Haven for this final year of profes-
sional training, graduating from Yale with the degree of B.D., magna
cum laude, just in time to begin my ministry as pastor of the Trini-
tarian Congregational Church in East Northfield, Massachusetts, a
few months before Pearl Harbor and the outbreak of World War IL.

During the period when the lives of so many classmates were be-
ing disrupted by the war, I was fortunate in being able to continue in
my chosen profession, attempting to make my contribution on the
home front in the work for which I felt best prepared.

In 1944 I became minister of the Centre Congregational Church in
Brattleboro, Vermont. During my years in Vermont I was actively
involved in church youth work on the county and state level, serv-
ing as director of various summer camps and conferences for young
people held under denominational and inter-denominational auspices.
Anna and I were married a year after I moved to Brattleboro, and
our three children are all native Vermonters.

In 1952 I became minister of the First Church of Christ, Congre-
gational, in New Britain, Connecticut, an old, down-town church,
with a glorious past history but (at the time) a rather static present

and probable future. After several years of self-study by the church
and consideration of its role in the community and after considerable
growth in program and ministry as well as membership, the church
decided to relocate away from the center of the city, where it was
paralleling in program and ministry another large Congregational
Church only a block away. A very successful building program was
carried out, resulting in the erection of a magnificent contemporary
church building to serve the growing southwestern section of the

[ 338 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

city of New Britain. We moved into this new building in the spring
of 1961 and it was dedicated in June of that year.

After a ministry of eleven years in New Britain, I accepted a call
to become the minister of the First Congregational Church in Apple-
ton, Wisconsin, where I commenced my pastorate on September
first of this year. Appleton is surely known to all Harvard men as
the former home of Nathan Pusey who moved from being president
of Lawrence College, only a block or two away from our church, to
Harvard. The ministry of the church, both to the college com-
munity and to the rapidly expanding industrial city in which the col-
lege is located, presents an unusually interesting challenge and
opportunity.

] have found many satisfactions in my work and have felt that I
was quite fortunate in being in a field of endeavor that enabled me
to be of service to others and that I could consider to be one of im-
portance and significance. In the midst of a troubled world where
so many of the jobs men do are routine or monotonous, I have been
glad that my job, though often demanding and exhausting, was one
that could bring me many of life’s truest satisfactions and set me in
the midst of the most meaningful kind of human relationships. I hope
I have been able to be of some service to others and to the church as
I have worked in it and on its behalf.

STEWART MAURICE DALL

 

HOME apprEss: 540 Atlantic Ave., Cedarhurst, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: The Allen-Stevenson School, 132 E. 78th St. New York 24
NY.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

[ 339]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marrieD: Margaret Meyerkort, Feb. 5, 1944. CHILDREN: Stewart Maurice, Jr,
Aug. 8, 1944; Henry Appleton, Oct. 8, 1945.

occuPATION: Mathematics teacher, independent elementary school.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Rockaway Hunting Club,
Cedarhurst, N.Y.; Lawrence Beach Club, Atlantic Beach, N.Y.; Cedarhurst
Yacht Club, Cedarhurst, N.Y.

SINCE the last report seven years ago when I had just left my job
with a small electronics firm to become a math teacher, I have been
trying to incorporate the new ideas of the so-called “Modern Math”
into elementary courses of arithmetic and algebra without giving up
the basic simplicity of the traditional approach. Being conservative
by nature I don’t like to abandon entirely the old ways just to satisfy
a latter-day sophistication. However, if the new math can teach
fifth- and sixth-graders to program an IBM computer, and this has
been done, there must be something more than mere fashion to it.

Having summers free from a daily routine enables me to spend
more time with my wife and two teen-age sons. ‘The boys, approach-
ing college age, keep us busy and occasionally frantic, but generally
a sense of humor rescues us in the nick of time. Now I can under-
stand my father’s parental scowls and laughter.

Asa family we play squash in the winter, tennis in the summer and
go skiing in spring vacation. My activity has been curtailed recently
by a knee operation but I expect to be back on the squad soon. The
sooner the better, for I’m rapidly getting “fat and scant o’ breath.”

ALBERT DAMON

   

jaa wi le a aki

ORCS TIT AL TBE PAE SOT eR

     

HOME AppRESS: 98 Homer St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

[ 340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard School of Public Health, 1 Shattuck St. Boston 15,
Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1938, Cert. (Ox-
ford Univ.), 1939, pHw. (Univ. of Chicago), 1946, mv. (Harvard Univ.),
1951.

marrieD: Selma Thomsen, Sept. 17, 1952. CHILDREN: Elsa, Jan. 3, 1954; Maria,
April 29, 1955; Kristina, Sept. 9, 1957.

occuPATION: Physician, anthropologist; associate professor of epidemiology,

Harvard School! of Public Health.

OFFICES HELD: Henry Fellowship to Harvard, 1938-39; Social Science Research
Council, U.S. Public Health Service and American Heart Association re-
search fellowships, between 1941 and 1957; established investigator, Ameri-
can Heart Association, since 1962; clinical fellow in medicine, Massachusetts
General Hospital, since 1958; consultant to U.S. Armed Forces, Veterans
Administration, Public Health Service, and various research organizations;
major, U.S. Air Force Reserve,

MEMBER OF: American Association of Physical Anthropologists, American
Public Health Association; various scholastic honor societies Phi Beta

Kappa, Sigma Xi, Alpha Omega Alpha (medicine), Delta Omega (public
health).

PUBLICATIONS: The Human Body in Equipment Design, senior author, 1963; An
Anthropometric Survey of Turkey, Greece and Italy, with four co-authors,
1963; chapters in other books, about forty articles in medical and anthro-
pological journals and in one encyclopedia.

MY life since college may be summed up as getting ready to begin.
I have now begun. For a while it looked as though I might remain
arrested like one of the figures on Keats’ urn, the middle years of
potential achievement leading swiftly into retirement, with some
big deal just around the corner and the achievement still potential.
(A more objective observer might say that this is indeed the case,
but who asked him?) Within the last few years, the show has
finally got on the road. This Report therefore finds me not at the
peak, as with some of us, or even in mid-career, as with most, but still
early in the game and pleased that the game has at last been defined.

Professionally, I have never been far from universities, hospitals
or research laboratories, with occasional forays into military or in-
dustrial settings. After college and a year at Oxford, along with
Classmates Cumming, Dampeer, Moore, and Sinith, I spent two more
years of graduate study at Harvard, then moved to the University
of Chicago. After four years in the Air Force, I returned to Chicago
and a Ph.D. degree in “human development.” Having come to realize
that the best education in human biology is through medicine, I spent
four more years at Harvard Medical School, interned at the Afassa-

[ 341]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN LYELL DAMPEER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2465 Marlboro Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thompson, Hine and Flory, 1100 National City Bank Bldg.,
Cleveland 14, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1938; LL-B., 1942; Dipl.
(Oxford Univ.), 1939.

MaratepD: Lucie Augustin Kennerdell, June 30, 1950. cHmLDREN: Lyell Buckwell,
July 28, 1951; David Kennerdell, June 5, 1953; George Geoffrey, July 5,
1955.

occupation: Attorney, partner, Thompson, Hine and Flory.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Corporation Law Committee, Ohio State Bar Associa-
tion, 1959-62 (member since 1949); member, Executive Committee, Cleve-
land Bar Association, 1958-61; vice-president, Schools and Scholarships,
1947-51, president, 1951-53, Harvard Club of Cleveland, president, 1959-
62, trustee, since 1951, Family Service Association of Cleveland; member,
Visiting Committee of School of Applied Social Sciences, Western Reserve
University; director and officer of The Van Dorn Iron Works Company,
The J.M. Smucker Company, The Hansen Manufacturing Company, Albee

Homes, Inc., and Gilmore Industries, Inc.
MEMBER OF: The Union Club, Cleveland; Philosophical Club, Cleveland.
PUBLICATIONS: Reports in the Ohio State Lew Journal on changes in the Ohio
Corporation Law.

IT’S tough enough trying to be what Lucie calls a “good father” to
our three boys without having to find additional evening time to
write this account. (Writing is still hard going for this Math major,
now attorney, and I know no way of doing this piece quickly.)

That first paragraph was designed to conjure up a very accurate
picture of a brief case at home too often. And it’s not that the day-
time hours are idly spent, it’s a case of involvement in what I fortu-
nately enough find to be personally satisfying legal work.

[ 344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Pll return to the legal work, but first I must record the even greater
satisfaction of being one of our family, of “doing things” with Lucie
and the boys, both at home and on trips. Lucie and I have had our
vacations alone, but more often all three boys are very much with us.
So far our family vacations have been spent on the seashore or at
Lake Placid. The western trip, motel style, comes in ’64 or 65. My
greatest claim to success as a father came in my taking all three boys,
then aged four, six, and eight, to Washington, D.C., without their
mother, and, most unusual these days, on an overnight train ride.
It was then I discovered how much fun it could be to show them
the Capitol and to give them the chance to climb up and down the
upper bunk ladder in the B&O bedroom.

My civic activities have centered on the Cleveland Welfare Federa-
tion Agencies and Committees. A Harvard friend started me in the
Family Service Association of Cleveland in 1951 as a Board member.
I finished my two-year term as president in 1961, but am still a
trustee and a firm believer in the Agency and its work.

Law schoo] at Harvard followed the Henry Fellowship year at
New College, Oxford, during 1938-39. After three and one-half
years with the F.B.1, it was back to the law firm where I had
clerked in the summers of 1939-41. My principal legal work has
been “in” corporations and securities registrations. In Ohio the
State Bar Association Corporation Law Committe has been the
author of what we are confident is an excellent state corporation law;
it has been my good fortune to be a committee member since 1949
and to have been chairman between 1959 and 1962, a principal
draftsman of a major corporation law revision in 1951, and the drafts-
man of the 1961 revisions.

Corporate Jaw and securities Tegistration work can hardly fail to
be interesting, but even more important to me have been the un-
planned personal legal experiences which have come my wav. I
have been permitted to enjoy the experience of w orking with a
second and third generation family team as they have expanded their
jam and jelly business and as they ‘ ‘went public.” The founder's
son and the Jatter’s son are truly gentle people whose major concern
is always the quality of the product. They have also been innovators

in an old industry, and their business, relatively small in an industry
of giants, has been remarkably successful.

My “classic” experience, the one which demands a detailed case
history, was the six-year battle with a corporate raider by a manage-
ment which refused to recognize the impossibility of its task as the

[ 345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

raider’s control increased from 20% to 494+ %. Surprisingly enough,
the same management is still running the business (very successfully
I must add) and the 49+ % shareholder can only make the noises of a
minority director. Management stretches the facts to credit me with
origination of the plans which permitted the extremely satisfyi ing
result, but thereby management displays one of the real reasons for
its success.

It has been natural for Lucie and the boys to grumble about my
concern for a client’s problems and my apparent willingness to
spend too much time on work that keeps me away from home, or at
home inside that brief bag. It comes then as welcome vindication of
my personal reactions to find that, with few exceptions, my wife is
as sold on my clients as I am and this despite her original conviction
that all clients are unaware that lawyers have souls, families, or a
family life.

My principal problem is still one of communication — the prob-
lem of voicing to Lucie and the boys my personal reactions to and
convictions on matters of ethics, public affairs, and theories on the
care and feeding of young fry. I have finally come to realize that
all answers cannot be found in working long and diligently for
clients and friends; there was recently some cause for believing that
Iam not completely dumb when I came upon a school piece written
by our eldest on what he wanted to be and do and there found that
I, as well as Lucie, had communicated.

JACOB BERNARD DANA

 

HOME avpress: 160 Sherman Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: International Fabric Co., 163 Lincoln St., Boston, Mass.

[ 346 ]

ee AML tele ne ah

[ri ncaa ane cnt ete Adobe Battie aa hth atin. Mad

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B. cu72 laude, 1938(39).
marrieD: Eve Neudel, Dec. 21, 1958.

occuPaATION: New England sales representative, women’s shoe fabric,
MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Jewish Big Brothers’ Association.

HAVING spent two pleasant and fruitful years at Wm. Filene’s
Sons Company of Boston, I succumbed to the appeal of the women’s
shoe field and went to work for the International Fabric Corpora-
tion of Boston, an organization specializing in shoe fabrics for
milady’s footwear. I am their sales representative for half of New
England.

Spent too long a period as a bachelor in the pursuit of “distant”
young ladies. Luckily 1 hit the jack-pot in 1958 in winning a wife
dwelling under a native tree.

Have enjoyed through the years many of the evening Harvard
University Extension Courses. This year my wife and I are taking
a course in Western European History under Professor Jameson.
Some two hundred students take this course, half for credit; some
four hundred take it in the college during the day. Have just dug
out my notes of old History 1 under Professor Merriman, which
was the parallel course given twenty-five years ago. Today’s course
puts more emphasis on the intellectual-sociological background as
compared to our earlier economic-political emphasis.

One of my most stimulating outside activities is my association
with the Jewish Big Brother Association of Boston where I am an
active Big Brother and board member. The Big Brother Association
is an organization dedicated to help and guide growing youngsters
—usually without fathers — who have the need of male guidance
and companionship. We try to become friends of growing boys
who — because of their background or fatherlessness — might lose
their way in life. We strive to prevent juvenile delinquency by
nipping it before it has a chance to bud. The slogan of the Big
Brother movement is “It is better to build boys than to mend men.”
The Jewish Big Brother Association of Boston was founded in 1919
and has always proceeded on its principle of “One Man and One
Boy.” The Big Brothers are volunteers — men who realize the in-
fluence that a man of good character can have in molding the life
of a boy trying to find his way.

A professional staff indoctrinates the volunteer Big Brother and
assigns him a boy who might share common interests and hobbies.
The primary purpose of the Big Brother — Little Brother relation-

[ 347 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ship is the building of 2 mutual friendship which often
co a wondertul degree between the one man and the ONe bo
ggsistance given to the boy 1s not one of Monetary aid but rath €
advice, counsel and guidance. It is perhaps that one bit of ant
at 2 crucial cross-road that can so help a youngster, when he adie
st from a reliable and trusted friend, that may make all the differ Ret
hetween success and failure or whether he will drift into wat
dclinquency or grow Up to de a mature citizen. Wvenile

My last case was a fifteen-year-old lad who, shortly after bein
assigned to Me, ran afoul of the law in being with a Gang appropriat
Mg a cat without permission. Shortly thereafter he was expelled
from high school and destined to be one of tens of thousands who
do not graduate from high school in these United States. It has been
quite a thrill to me over the years to see this boy go back and finish
high school, go on to evening college while working, and now on
to day college! Married, he is now firmly on his way. One man—

helping one boy.

JOHN LOTHROP DANIELS

   

HOME ADDRESS. 129 College Ave., Poughkeepsie, N-Y. ie. NY:
OFFICE appREss: Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Poughkeeps* "™
PREPARED at: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn,
FEARS IN COLLEGE, 1934-1038. DEGREE: S.B., 1938. jr. June
Marino: Elizabeth Adams, March 21, 1942. cuttpren: John Lothrop:
20, 1943, Eleanor B., Aug. 29, 1944, Sherwood A. (daughter),
1946, Ann B., Nov. 17, 1952.
Maayan som: John Lothrop Daniels, Jr, °65.

L348)

Nov.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REP.

ON: Stockbroker, account executive, Merri

h. . .
i Poughkeepsie Tennis Club; Chadwick —
pMpeS

M 7
giMEKEEPER and matériel control departm

t Corporation, 1939-42. US. Marine Corps,
cr . Quantico, Hawaii, South Pacific, Ph,
ca e : major, Retired Reserves. Soap salesman,
19 reas 46. Started and operated the first la
ion rkeepsi, New York, 1946-48. In 1948 sold
Po count executive with Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
it p oughkeepsie office, where I have been eve.
ide from marriage, my second major decision
lve ina small town rather than on Long Island, com
York. So far — no regrets. My wife is an associate p
Vassar faculty, so we have one foot in academic circ
the town. J am still actively playing tennis and chess. .
chairman of the Poughkeepsie Day Schoo! Building Fe
trying to raise $250,000 for a new school. I find life
prises and very much worth living.

a

* CARLOS COLTON DAUGHADAY, JR.

 

oes Apel 28, 1916, Chicago, Il. parents: Carlos Colton Daughaday, Mars
pe.

Prep, .
wean n ’ x 7: North Shore Country Day School, W innecka, Hl.

NaReton, OLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE! A.B. 1938.
ran Dec. 31, 1942; Carlos Colton, 3d, March 26, 1946.
BROTHER: William Hamileon Daughaday, '40-

[349]

Rachryn J. Reed, Get. 12, r9go, Kansas City. Mo, caneones: Pamels

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

piep: July 20, 1957, La Jolla, Calif.

wwow: Mrs. Carlos C. Daughaday, Jr., 1433 E. 2qth St., National City, Calif.
WHILE at college Daughaday was a member of Leverett House
football and wrestling teams, Phillips Brooks House Association,
Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770 and Phoenix-S.K. Club. After col-
lege he became associated with Armour & Company in Denver,
Colorado. During World War II he was a second lieutenant in the
Infantry, attached to Intelligence, and served in the United States
and Japan. Since 1952 he had been a teacher at San Miguel School
for Boys in National City, California, and had been dean of the
faculty since 1956. Active in community affairs, he served as cub-
master at an elementary school, member of the Bishops’ Committee
for St. Andrew’s Church and treasurer of San Diego Country Wrest-
ling Association, a chapter of the AAU. For several years he offici-
ated at AAU wrestling meets in California and in 1955 translated
from the French the Olympic rules on wrestling for the AAU. His
translation was accepted, published and distributed nationally to
AAU wrestling groups. He was survived by his wife and children.

RUSSELL GEDNEY DAVIES

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 300 14th St., Honesdale, Pa.

[ 350 ]

Mitel eM habbo ted

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALTON WOOD DAVIS

 

BorRN: June 29, 1915, North Westport, Mass, parents: Leslie Burdette Davis,
Mary Wood.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.1.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(40).
piep: Killed in action, September, 1942, in Atlantic area.

AFTER graduation Davis worked for a motor company in Fall
River, Massachusetts, until October, 1940, when he enlisted in the
USNR in Boston, and in January, 1941, was called to active duty.
Appointed a naval aviator, he advanced to ensign, USNR in Decem-
ber, 1941, and received his gold wings. Later he was sent to Florida
where he received training in the Martin Mariner, a larger type
patrol plane. In April, 1942, his squadron went to the advanced base
at Bermuda and was operating from there when his plane was lost
at sea. Davis was reported missing on June 3, 1942, and in September
was declared officially dead. He was posthumously awarded the
Purple Heart. He was survived by his parents.

[351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EDWIN FOLSOM DAVIS

 

HOME AbDpREsS: Boyd Road, Willows, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Willows Daily Journal, P.O. Box 731, Willows, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1938(39).

MarriED: Marie Bobrinskoy, Dec. 26, 1941. CHILDREN: Natasha Fersen, Nov. 2,
1943; Minot, Dec. 10, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Newspaperman, editor and publisher, Willows Daily Journal and
Westside Shopper.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Central Valley Publishers, Inc.; vice-
president and director, Central Valley Properties, Inc., chairman, Luther
Burbank Centennial, Santa Rosa, California, 1949; director, California
Newspaper Publishers Association, 1954-55; California regional chairman,
Program for Harvard College, 1958-59; California coordinator, Food for
Peace, since 1961; chairman, Western States Food for Peace Conference,
San Francisco, January 29, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; University Clubs of San Fran-
cisco and Seattle; Commonwealth Club, San Francisco; Press and Union
League Club, San Francisco; California Newspaper Publishers Association;

Glenn County Golf Club.

HARVARD'S Class of 1938 should incorporate itself and go into
the bill-collecting business, headed by aggressive and persistent
Class Secretary Richard Davis and Report Vice-chairman Crocker
Wight. Then each of us could return to our soth Reunion in his
privately owned railroad car.

After receiving the third brusque “Your-25th-Anniversary-Bio-
graphy-Is-Long-Overdue” reminder in the space of days, I implore
my unimaginative Underwood to digress from editorials to biogra-
phy, and get the job done pronto without hackneyed phrases, plati-
tudes, or references to greying or balding hair, expanding girths, or

[ 352 ]

cmN

a kat eM ah di lite BA le ste a dees

SBMA ke then

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

other indications of approaching youthful middle age in the Class of
38,

; To answer a question asked by several classmates: Where in hell
is Willows and how in hell did you wind up there? First, it is ninety
miles north of Sacramento in the Sacramento Valley, and secondly,
I became an early captive of an interesting and ego-satisfying pro-
fession. How in the world could a 25th Anniversary Report ever be
published, Davis-Wight Reminders notwithstanding, if even the
most self-effacing classmate didn’t get a mite of satisfaction from see-
ing his name in print, no matter how trite the tripe beneath it?

Speaking of which, I remind Mr. Underwood of the Davis-Wight
suggestion that biographies be “concise” and urge him to forego
platitudes, and buckle down to work.

My graduation, held up by a knee operation until 1939, was fol-
lowed by postgraduate journalism at the University of Washington,
Seattle, and marriage to a most attractive girl who has steadfastly en-
dured the peregrinations and trials of a newsman seeking a vehicle
for expressing his own views rather than reflecting those of another.

Four years as cub reporter, sports editor and Sunday editor of
the (Tucson) Arizona Star ended in 1944 with a year’s stint attached
to the French First Army with the American Field Service in
France and West Germany, and a Croix de Guerre.

After the war, editorial duties ranged from reporter to associate
editor and editorial writer of the Seattle Star, Tacoma Times, Santa
Rosa (California) Press Democrat and the San Francisco Chronicle.
In May, 1953, I latched onto the opportunity to buy a small daily
newspaper in Willows, and here am. You're always welcome if you
can find the town.

My most satisfying experience to date: participating last Novem-
ber in California’s long-past-due achievement of retiring Richard MM.
Nixon from public office — a retirement richly earned. My politics,
perhaps as indicated, a somewhat free-wheeling Roosevelt-Truman-
Kennedy-Pat Brown Democrat.

An enduring obligation: to Harvard College, for its persisting tra-
dition of cherishing responsible freedom of thought and expression.

Family-wise, daughter Natasha is studying at the Mannes School
of Music, New York City, majoring in piano, and son Minot is en-

tering the Fourth Class at Milton Academy, majoring in Sports Illus-
trated.

[353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EDWIN GRIFFITH DAVIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1201 23d St., S., Arlington 2, Va.

OFFICE appREss: Air Force Technical Applications Center, 2525 Telegraph Rd.,
Alexandria, Va.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1940; PH.D.,
1942.

MarrigD: Willoughby Todd, Sept. 27, 1950. CHILDREN: Griffith Evan, April 13,
1952; Christopher Todd, March 6, 1954; Phoebe Anne, June 5, 1955.

occuPATION: Scientist; assistant scientific adviser, Air Force Technical Applica-
tions Center.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Ornithologists Union,
Cooper Ornithological Society; National Audubon Society; Audubon
Naturalists Society of the District of Columbia; Arts Club, Washington,
D.C.; Army-Navy Country Club, Arlington, Va.; Harvard Club of Wash-

ington.

AFTER eight years in the Chemistry Department, I emerged in
1942 with the expectation of joining duPont or one of the other
industrial giants to which Harvard organic chemists are accustomed
to go. However, four years of Army service as an artillery and in-
telligence officer effectively disposed of my industrial ambitions. I
have worked for the Army and Air Force in various scientific capaci-
ties since 1949. My life in Washington has certainly not been what
I expected when I left Harvard. It has, however, been thoroughly
rewarding even though I am not one of the Harvard men in govern-
ment who make the vital national decisions.

The most significant event in my post-Harvard life was my mar-
riage in 1950 to Willoughby Todd, Radcliffe ’42. Willow shares my
liking for classical music, birding and vacations in New England as
well as the million and one things which make life in Washington

[ 354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interesting. We are struggling to keep up with three lively and en-
tirely different children. It is far too early to think of college, but
possibly at least one will follow our footsteps to Cambridge.

Piano-playing continues to be my avocation. I find the time to

give two or three public performances a year in the vicinity of
Washington, although recently (1961) I ventured as far as Center
Harbor, New Hampshire, to perform in the annual festival. My
most exciting concert performance was a debut recital in Town Hall,
New York, in 1948. I no longer entertain my desire for a profes-
sional career in music and can value the piano solely as a medium
for self-expression and relaxation.

My time for other activities is necessarily somewhat limited. How-
ever, my lifelong interest in birding has found an outlet in the local
Audubon Society which I have served at various times as officer and
director. My membership in the Harvard Club of Washington has
enabled me to keep in touch with a number of old friends and class-
mates as well as to meet a few members of the “New Frontier.” I
had the honor of representing the Class as marshal at the 1960
Commencement exercises. I am an ardent Kennedy supporter and
have been delighted to see the Harvard influence pervade the federal
government. May it long continue!

JAMES KEITH DAVIS

    

HOME abpREss: 1009 S. Green Bay Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.
OFFICE ADpREss: General Cable Corp., Chicago, Ill.
PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N,J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

[355 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

marrieD: Kathryn Marilyn Gripp, April 16, 1955. CHILDREN: Jeffrey Keith, Oct.
4, 1957; Kathryn Marilyn, July 6, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, General Cable Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Knollwood Country Club; Fin ’n Feather Club; QB.

LAURENCE LAIRD DAVIS

 

HOME apprEss: 6910 Given Rd., Cincinnati 43, Ohio.

OFFICE ADpREss: First National Bank of Cincinnati, Fourth & Walnut Streets,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19034-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MaRRIED: Charlotte Rowe Nichols, Oct. 12, 1940. CHILDREN: Sally Laird, May
12, 1942, Laurence Laird, Jr., Feb, 11, 1947; Thomas Jefferson, 2d, Aug. 24,
1948.

occupaTIoN: Banker, vice-president, director and secretary of the board, First
National Bank of Cincinnati.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee and treasurer, Cincinnati Sym-
phony Orchestra, Christ Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Camargo Club; Queen City Club; Cincinnati Country Club; Queen
City Association, Commonwealth Club.

SEVEN years later, I’m still doing business at the same old stand and
still having a happy time.

Two sons are at Choate and a daughter is at Columbia, all hand-
some and doing well. In the recreation line, we have given up horses
and taken up skiing; the falls are more frequent, but not nearly
as far.

I send my best wishes to my classmates for health, happiness and
enough wealth to have a little jelly on their bread.

[356]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
NATHANAEL VINING DAVIS

iia ER ET
, , 3
% o" eo
. a
3
5

[
'
(

  

HOME ADbRESS: 3050 Trafalgar Ave., Montreal 6, P.Q., Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Aluminium Limited, Box 6090, Montreal 3, P.Q., Canada.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. cU72 laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Lois Howard Thompson, April 15, 1941. CHILDREN: James Howard
Dow, June 23, 1943; Katharine Vining, June 8, 1948.

OCCUPATION: President, Aluminium Limited, international aluminum business.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1951, president of board, since 1959, Middlesex
School; director, Canada Life Assurance Company, Toronto, since 1960,

Bank of Montreal, since 1961; member, Harvard Board of Overseers, since
i961.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Boston; The Country Club; University Club, New
York; Mount Royal Club and St. James’s Club, both Montreal.

TO report briefly what has been recorded in the Tenth Report —
from Harvard to the London School of Economics for one year,
then into the international aluminum business for three years before
joining the Navy and serving as an A.C. officer. At the war's end,
back to business, moving to London, returning to the United States
in °48. From a personal viewpoint these mundane statistics are
dimmed by my marriage to Lois Thompson in 1941 and the appear-
ance of a son in 1943. Not previously recorded, but falling within
this period, one hour after the baseball game at our Tenth Reunion,
we added a daughter to the family —a doubly joyous occasion.
And now to the foregoing is added fifteen years which have been
considerably more constant in purpose and considerably more rapid
in passing. Fortunately, both family and business life have been kind
to me. The fascination of being in an international business has not
dulled, in fact has grown year by year. It has involved frequent

[357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

traveling and a high degree of tolerance —amply given — on the

art of my family. Throughout, it has been heartening to work with
close colleagues of many nationalities, constructively I trust, toward
a common goal.

With a rather nomadic background and job, we were fortunate to
be able to make family headquarters for nearly twelve years in the
Boston area where roots go down quickly and deeply. A change
came four years ago when the pattern of business brought about a
move from Boston to Canada. We are now happily at home in this
northern and neighborly country. However, with our son at Mid-
dlebury College, a summer place on Cape Cod and continuing friend-
ships in Boston, the warm ties with New England will not, I trust,
be lost.

To stave off another jolt from our energetic Class Secretary, I
complete the questionnaire by reporting the following convictions:

Religious: Episcopalian.

Political: A degree of conservatism on national issues and a degree
of liberalism on international issues. Thanks in part to my strongly
held belief that the differing standards of living between countries
pose the underlying threat to a peaceful future, I am an ardent sup-
porter of the principles of foreign aid and the removal of trade and
other artificial barriers among the nations of the Free World.

RICHARD TALLIESYN DAVIS

 

HOME aAvprEss: Lake Drive S., Riverside, Conn.
OFFICE ApprEss: Sherpick, Regan & Davis, 165 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.
prepared AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass,

[358 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE:
laude, 1942.

MARRIED: Charlotte Easterbrook Upham, Dec. 18, 1942. CHILDREN: Evan Ander-
son, Jan. 18, 1944; Owen Taliesin, June 5, 1945; Jonathan Upham, Jan. 19,
1948.

HARVARD SON: Evan Anderson Davis, ’65.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Judge, Town Court of Greenwich, Conn., 1949-50; president,
1955-57, member, board of directors, since 1955, Community Centers, Inc.;
member, board of directors, Greenwich Community Chest & Council,
1955-57; president, 1958-59, member, board of directors, since 1959, St.
David’s Society of the State of New York; member, Town Committee,
since 1952, Executive Committee, since 1952, Democratic Party, Green-
wich; counsel, New York State Legislative Committee on Integrity and
Ethical Standards in Government, 1953-54; member, Charter Revision
Commission, 1960-61, Board of Education, since 1961, Greenwich, Conn.

MEMBER OF: American and New York State Bar Associations, Association of
the Bar of the City of New York; New York County Lawyers’ Association;
Federal Bar Association of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut; Har-
vard Club of New York; The Lawyers’ Club; St. David’s Society of the
State of New York.

1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1938; LL.B., Cum

I KNOW now that it is the matter of composing the first sentence
of this account that causes all the trouble, and had I tried to write
my “Life” before asking you to write yours I think I would have
enclosed with your questionnaire some suggested “first sentences”
to get you on your way. Once that ice is broken it’s not too tough
a chore.

As I look back, my years at Harvard were among the happiest
of my life and certainly were the most important. I had come from
a good school, but one where “facts” were taught as facts and where
there was little chance to develop a reasonable scepticism or to con-
sider the interrelationship of knowledge as a whole. To me it was
an exciting experience to learn that postulates are not inviolate and
that philosophy dealt not only with ethics but also with matter.

After graduation I went to Emmanuel College, Cambridge Uni-
versity, as the Lionel de Jersey Harvard Student. As such, I lived
in John Harvard’s rooms and took very seriously my obligations in
this representative capacity. This was a rewarding experience, more
so because of the opportunities for further travel which it afforded.
I managed to see a good deal of Europe and some of Africa — from
Stockholm to the North, to Ouargla, well into the Sahara Desert, to
the South. I did have problems, I had hardly arrived in Cambridge
when I was invited to share the platform w ith the public Orator of
the University, the wittiest and most splendid orator in a nation of

[ 359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

able paralysis. Nevertheless, despite the tremendous extra effort and
ingenuity it has required, he has managed to live a very full life and
to take advantage of most opportunities available to a boy growing
up. Owen is now a senior at Greenwich High School and we are
presently surveying the college situation with him. Having spent last
summer as an apprentice in a summer theatre, he believes he would
like a career in the theatre. Jonathan is in the ninth grade at our
local junior high school. He wants to be a physician. Fortunately,
Evan is concentrating in economics and I sure hope he learns fast —
particularly about deficit financing.

Apart from a fondness for digging in the dirt and planting hap-
hazardly, I have little in the way of avocations. Most of my “spare
time” has been spent in various bar association and community
activities. | am presently engrossed in my duties as a member of the
Greenwich Board of Education. I have discovered that it is not easy
to secure what seems to be the best for public education even in this
affluent community and I can well imagine the difficulties in com-
munities where tax dollars are more difficult to come by. I hope that
classmates everywhere are doing their bit to provide for others that
of which we had such a full and generous share.

I am most grateful to the Class for having the privilege of serving
as its Secretary for these twenty-five years. Certainly it was none of
my doing, but we have stuck together — we have never been with-
out an active, functioning Class organization, and we have never, I
believe, failed to satisfy any obligation, as a Class, to the College.

As a result of the numerous influences exerted upon me I have de-
veloped certain attitudes concerning life which I am willing to de-
fend. These revolve around a vehement belief in liberty; the sense
that we are individually responsible to search for the truth in all
things and to guide ourselves accordingly; and tolerance, having its
root in the realization of the probable errors in my own conclusions.
I am grateful to Harvard for the opportunity and the inspiration to
have started to think about such things.

[ 362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARREN OSBORNE DAVIS

 

HOME AbDpRESS: 94 Warren Ave., Plymouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. S, Morton & Co., 31 Bay St., Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MaRRIED: Ruth Marien Vickery, May 28, 1947. CHILDREN: Richard Warren,
Feb. 21, 1949; Russell Allen, March 28, 1951; Lawrence Albert, Dec. 13,
1952; William Leonard, Feb. 11, 1954.

occuPATION: Manufacturer of shoe last supplies.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Plymouth Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1953, 1955; High Priest,
Samoset Chapter, Royal Arch Masons, 1946-47, commander, Old Colony
Commandery No. 15, 1952; P.C.W. of Abington Council, Royal & Select
Masters, 1962-63; trustee, Plymouth Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1958-63; treasurer,
Samoset Chapter, 1951-63; trustee, Abington Masonic Association, 1959-63.

MEMBER OF: Plymouth Yacht Club; Eel River Beach Club of Plymouth; Rof-
Mar Lodge; Play Boy Club; Aleppo Temple, A.A.O.N.MLS., Southeastern
Shrine Club of Massachusetts; National Small Business Men's Association;
Plymouth Chapter, O.E.S., No. 163; Massachusetts Horticultural Society;

. Plymouth Alumni Association, First Church of the Pilgrimage.

AS my sojourn in Harvard was of short duration, I feel quite honored
to be considered a member of the Class of ’38. Possibly some of you
will remember the “beanpole” who went blind late in our freshman
year, and had to leave college.

My plans for the future had to be sharply revised, but I have had
a very satisfying life running mv present business, which has been in
the family since 1887; namely, E, S. Morton & Company, manufac-
turers of shoe last supplies. Am very thankful to say that my eves
improved greatly and now, with moderate care, carry me through
daily activities.

After the war, I met a beautiful blonde student nurse, who gave up

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

her career to marry me. We now have four very active sons, who
certainly keep me busy with Scouts, boating and other young boys’
activities.

Sports are still among the loves of my life. Once I participated in
baseball, football, basketball and tennis. In these, now I am reduced
to an enthusiastic rooter. However, I am still an active hunting, fish-
ing and boating enthusiast. My wife and I enjoy philately and corre-
spond and trade with other stamp collectors all over the world. Have
been very active in the Masonic fraternity and have made literally
hundreds of friends through it.

Since I am so close to Dick’s deadline, I had better cut this short
and put it in the mail. Hope to see you all in June.

HUGH GORDON DEANE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 19 West Way, Mount Kisco, N.Y.

oFFice apprEss: Hotel Trades Council, AFL-CIO, 707 Eighth Ave., New York,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938(39).

MaRRIED: Courtney Wilson, June, 1939 (annulled 1946); Beverley Mary Mc-
Carthy, Sept. 1, 1949. CHiLDREN: Hugh Gordon, 3d, Feb. 1, 1951; Winifred
Allison Geneva, Feb. 17, 1953; Michael Browning, Oct. 23, 1954-

occupation: Reporter and editor; member, editorial staff, Hotel Trades Coun-
cil, AFL-CIO.

AS an undergraduate I had spent the year 1936-37 as an exchange
student at Lingnan University in Canton, and in 1939 I went back to
China. Until early 1950 I lived in Asia most of the time, reporting
and trying to appraise some of the events of that tumultuous period

[ 364 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
that saw the swell of revolution and the United States response
to it.

I worked out of Chunking from 1939 to ’41, caught up in chroni-
cling the disintegration of the Kuomintang order. After Pearl
Harbor I spent a year in the Office of War Information in Washing-
ton and New York, writing radio propaganda beamed to Asia. ]
then joined the Navy, took the Japanese language course at the Uni-
versity of Colorado, and spent the next years editing translations of
captured documents in Brisbane, Manila and Tokyo. After the war,
1946-50, | worked at the reporting trade in Tokyo, absorbed both
with the revival of the tough Japanese establishment and the begin-
nings of the neutralism that came to be one of the realities of the
Asian periphery. I made several trips to South Korea in the critical
years 1947-48 and did my best to report the shaping of the ultra-
rightist answer that the American occupation gave to the Communist
challenge in the north; in 1949 I went back to China to catch a bit of
the last act. Looking over some of the several hundred thousand
words that I wrote during those years, as I did recently, is a chasten-
ing experience. Still standing are some articles published in Amera-
sia, The Nation and The China Weekly Review, a booklet on the
Eta people published in Japanese, and a thinnish folder of newspaper
clippings.

From 1950 to ’52 I had the happy experience of working under
Ted Thackrey and Tom O’Connor on the New York Daily Com-
pass. I wrote series of articles and columns on Asian and other sub-
jects, got a taste of United Nations reporting, and generally had the
good feeling that I was doing exactly what I wanted to. The Com-
pass (born PM) had some obvious defects, but its death was a sad
event; the inability of such publications to survive helps to explain
the differences between American opinion and world reality.

Shortly before the Compass shut down I was summoned to testify
before the Senate Internal Affairs Subcommittee in the course of its
investigation of the Institute of Pacific Relations, conducted to build
the myth that a conspiracy of our Far East experts, diplomats and
others played a key role in bringing on the Chinese revolution. I
pleaded the first and fifth amendments (the latter accepted) on some
questions. I'he Navy then presented me with a bill of particulars
like catch-22 and I resigned my commission as a reserve junior grade

lieutenant under threat of court martial. For a year I tried to geta
job in my trade, then gave up and went into the laundry business,
opening a laundromat in White Plains, New York, and several years

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

later another in Tarrytown. I neither liked the business nor found it
intolerable. These years were enlivened by occasional visits from
FBI agents in pairs, and by one urgent visit from a man with a propo-
sition who said he was from the Department of Defense.

And during these years Beverley — a New Zealand girl who mar-
ried me in the Yokohama Consulate in 1949 — and I settled in our
yellow house on two-thirds of a pitched acre in this village in the
outer commuter zone, and found our lives occasionally encumbered
and vastly enriched by the emergence from babyhood of our two
sons and daughter.

In 1960, through the good offices of a former co-worker on the
Compass, 1 was able to get out of the laundry business and go to
work on the weekly newspaper published by the Hotel Trades
Council, an AFL-CIO industrial union organization representing
New York City’s 35,000 hotel workers. This union is livelier than
most, with ambitious medical care and neighborhood service pro-
grams, and for me the change has been all for the better. I am still
drawn to newspapers; every edition is like a newborn baby, with a
touch of magic to it.

Politics: An independent socialist who would settle for a period
of really vital centrism. Religion: None. Organization: Northern
Westchester Peace Committee. Escapes and activities: I learned
early from my father, and rediscovered in Japan, that a garden is a
world within the world, and we have made and are constantly re-
making such a retreat from the distresses of our time where we can
listen to the clapping of a single hand; also good talk over food and
drink, good reading, frequent family forays into my native New
England, a few monastic hours weekly in the New York Public Li-
brary and at my typewriter.

[ 366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM NORVELL DEARBORN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 4427 E. Brookfield Drive, Nashville 5, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dearborn, Berry & Warner, 605 Commerce Union Annex,
Nashville 3, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MARRIED: Virginia Lee Hyde, Nov. 14, 1942. CHILDREN: Anne Gayle, July 7,
1945; Virginia Mason, Dec. 9, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Committee work for Tennessee and Nashville Bar Associations
(currently on latter’s Grievance Committee).

MEMBER OF: American, Tennessee and Nashville Bar Associations; Harvard
Club of Nashville; Harvard Club of Nashville and Middle Tennessee
(member, executive committee); Belle Meade Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional notes or book reports in professional works.

MANY years ago (twenty to be exact) a Connecticut Yankee, five
years out of college and two out of law school (Harvard, of course),
married a Boston girl (very proper) and set out to see if his mother’s
Southland was still fighting the Civil War — excuse me, the War be-
tween the States. All these years and two minor Southern Belles
later, ’'ve decided it is almost over, though the dying pains were
severe. A little mutual conversation, mutual adiniration, mutual
participation, or just plain “oil,” helped.

I’ve been surprised at the number of so-called Ivy League repre-
sentatives there are to be found in this area. As the leg: al aid con-
tributor to the founding of the brand-new Harvard Club of Nash-
ville and Middle Tennessee, I was amazed to find almost 200 poten-
tial members (those who had attended college and graduate schools
for a few months at least) in this sphere of influence, of all ages,
sizes and degrees. Even more unusual is that, of the relatively few

[ 367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

undergraduate prospective and active members, there are three in
Nashville of the famous Class of 1938 (Kenneth Ward-Smith, Lyman
Burbank and myself). As to association with those connected with
other eastern colleges, Harvard’s relative improvement in such
scholastic fields as football, hockey and crew in recent years has
given a noticeable lift to the Dearborn head in the company of var-
ious friends of Eli and Tiger hue.

I have missed greatly my participation in crew and hockey. The
former, I am sure, will never show here, but I am delighted to report
that professional hockey began this year. However, I regret to re-
port that, as of the time of writing this magnum opus, the score of
this fledgling team is three won and fifteen lost —I hope that the
effort survives as the conversion of enough “natives” to try was
quite a job.

Business-wise, the practice of law has been comparatively unevent-
ful. With the exception of a brief episode in the “Guarda Costa,”
inland water species, the books and the court rooms have held sway,
briefly in New York City and the rest of the time in Nashville. Up to
two years ago, I was fifth partner in a fairly large (by Nashville
standards) or tiny (by New York standards) firm. Now, by death
and other unavoidable accidents, I find myself senior partner of a
new and somewhat smaller firm —a frightening experience I assure

ou.
* At last count, the family was and is somewhat over-balanced fe-
male-wise. The proper Bostonian (father, H. Stanley Hyde, Harvard
or) is still with me and we’ve added one, seventeen, about ready for
college and one, twelve, who thinks she ought to be. My only
masculine help is a large but very friendly male collie.

Lawyers, of course, are not allowed to advertise but I can say sin-
cerely that I hope no classmate passes nearby without making some
kind of contact.

[ 368 ]

Dbavn vate dk ee de al

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PIERRE STUART pe BEAUMONT

 

RAI TG IERIE IOI OLE PEN L Y

enue

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Worthington, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938 (39).

MarRiED: Barbara Anne Longstreth, Aug. 29, 1942 (divorced 1955); Mary
Deland Kelley, Oct. 18, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager; general manager.

OFFICES HELD: President, Massachusetts Gamma Chapter, Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
1938; ensign to lieutenant, USNR, 1942-45, management engineer, US.
Naval Aircraft Modification Unit, Johnsville, Pa. 1944-45; assistant chief
engineer, Bostitch Inc., Westerly, R.L, 1948-51; vice-president, general
manager, Miller Ford Company, Stonington, Conn., 1953-59.

MEMBER OF: Sports Car Club of America, Antique Automobile Club of
America; Country Club of Pittsfield.

PUBLICATIONS: Four automotive patents; numerous magazine articles,

VARIETY is the spice of life. A rolling stone gathers no moss.
I’m beginning to think both are right, for ’ve probably been in and
out of more occupations than practically anybody. Chronologically,
they run something like this— embryonic yacht designer, automo-
bile engineer, economist, aircraft production consultant, automobile
historian, editor, writer, management engineer, design engineering
in the appliance and office equipment industries, Ford dealer, sales
manager for a capital machinery manufacturer. At the moment,
I'm “at liberty” and seriously considering the idea of starting a small
book publishing venture.

Anyway, with respect to those two adages, it has been fun — lots
of fun. And very little moss has been gathered (even the thatch on
top is a mere fringe).

It has taught me two things. First, experience isn’t what it’s
cracked up to be, I’m not exceptionally intelligent, nor particularly

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

well-informed, yet I’ve never had any difficulty taking on a job |
knew nothing about. (If you look deep enough, few of the “pros”
know all that much about it, either.) So I can only conclude that the
universal demand for experience, in things like Help Wanted ads,
reflects not wisdom, but timidity; a reliance on statistical rather
than personal assets.

The other thing I’ve learned is that moving is exhausting, unset-
tling and, in various ways, costly. Thus I’m now doing my level best
to spend the rest of my days in our recently purchased antique
house, even if it is in an area of almost negligible economic activity,
past, present or future.

As to wives, I’ve been perhaps the most fortunate of all—two
absolute gems, even if the first one did divorce me. Moreover, all the
in-laws, despite tradition to the contrary, liked me.

Hobbies sneak up on me. Something starts a little spark of interest
and then it’s where do I find the time. It’s worse that none of these
interests ever really dies; they submerge and come up again. The
latest is colonial architecture and construction. Others have been
cars of all sorts, machine shop, photography, industrial history, book
collecting, Dixie Jazz.

Politically, I consider myself a practical conservative — a “good”

Republican.

HENDRIK DE KRUIF

f
:
:

 

HOME Appress: 737 Alden St., Meadville, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 386 Chestnut St., Meadville, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

[ 370 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.p. (Yale Univ.), 1942.

marriep: Cecille King, July 30, 1945. CHILDREN: Susan Elizabeth, Dec. 28, 1949;
Mary Irene, April 13, 1951; Katherine Ann, March 24, 1954.

occuPATION: Physician — self-employed — internal medicine.

oFFICES HELD: Member, medical staff, Spencer Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American, state and county medical associations, American College
of Physicians (associate); vestry, Christ Church Episcopal, Crawford
County Cancer Society (advisory); Meadville Country Club.

puBLicaTions: Scientific publications in Journal of American Medical Associa-
tion, Minnesota Medicine, Bulletin of Staff Meetings of University of
Minnesota Hospitals.

AN interest in athletic pursuits, even though whetted by the hopes
and despairs of limited ability, can prove useful in a variety of ways.
For it was while going down to miserable defeat in an intercol-
legiate squash tournament at New Haven that I was fortunate enough
to obtain interviews leading to entrance into medical school at Yale.
There, special interests centered about physiology, bacteriology, me-
tabolism and internal medicine; and during a year and a half at
Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester, New York, all the previous-
ly apparently unrelated disciplines seemed to fall into place.

Then, the service. Carlisle Barracks, the deep-freeze of the uni-
verse in January and February of 1944, was probably visited by many
a Harvard graduate now in medicine. Brief stops at El Paso, River-
side, Camp Beal and Vancouver culminated in a delightful excursion
to New Guinea, springboard for very fruitful experiences with in-
fectious diseases in semi-tropical and tropical climates: graduates of
the SWPA know them too well to bear hearing them repeated. The
important points were (1) that material was virtually unlimited and
(2) that we learned by experience, not out of books. We learned,
for example, that hepatitis virus was carried in plasma and could be
spread by injections; and that (in retrospect) we didn’t get amebic
dysentery until we stopped taking atabrine, our old standby in the
prevention of malaria.

But out of all the chaos, burnt-up records, patients trying to sur-
vive in the inch-thick dust of passing vehicles, finally came order —
order in the form of a very fine army nurse, a graduate of Johns
Hopkins Hospital School of Nursing and member of J.H.H. unit, the
118th General Hospital in SWPA during World War II. We were
married just in time for her to return to the Z/I while I went on to
Japan for lack of points.

After the war and a brief course in medicine at Harvard came
tremendous sessions with my father, still then at the height of his

[371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

career in writing and its by-product, catalysis of medical investiga-
tion. :

Since then, with the growth of a family of three fine girls, life
has begun to gain stability. At Minnesota, where the girls were all
born, the years 1947 to 1950 were consumed teaching bacteriology
to medical students and in raw attempts at virological research. Here
the clinical approach almost slipped away. After three years, how-
ever, it took about three days in a medical outpatient department to
show me where J belonged; and so from 1950 to 1958 group practice
at Fergus Falls, albeit making us many fine friends, led to two con-
clusions: (1) that solo practice should be explored, and (2) that
there were many places — even my wife’s home town of Meadville,
Pennsylvania — more desirable than the barren subarctic wastes of
out-state Minnesota.

In short, I enjoy the hills and the trees of the East, not to mention
the people, with whom I feel more at home. So here we've been
since 1958, and here we are — practising internal medicine, raising
a family in which my only male companion is a (spayed) Siamese
cat, and squabbling over who is going to bury which 102-year-old
grandmother. Again sports enter the picture, this time as a safety
valve. To prevent blow-ups in the increasingly serious situation of
too-few doctors and too-many patients, imploring a little white
pellet to ride easy and straight and avoid the jungle on the right

has its points,

ROBERT HARE DELAFIELD, JR.

 

MAILING ApprEss: Valdez, Alaska.

[ 372 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ROBERT MASON DERBY, JR.

 
  
 

ENE IED TON ES PE See, SIE

BORN: Sept. 9, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Robert Mason Derby, Ruth
Hubbell.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

marriED: Elisabeth Millet, Oct. 5, 1940, Stockbridge, Mass. cumLpreN: Robert
Mason, 3d, Feb. 23, 1942; Peter B., April 13, 1953; John Bradford, Jan. 6,

1956.
pIED: Sept. 2, 1962, Williamstown, Mass.
wwow: Mrs. Robert M. Derby, Jr., Verna Hill Road, Fairfield, Conn.

AFTER eleven years with a major oil company, Derby entered the
publishing field and spent three years in the national advertising de-
partment of the New York Times. Since then he had been associated
with the New Yorker Magazine, where he was assistant retail adver-
tising manager at the time of his death. During World War II, he
served with the Army in Europe and Japan. He was survived by his
wife and children.

[ 373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOSE pe VARON

 

HOME AppREsSS: 94 Lake View Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastern Gas and Fuel Associates, 250 Stuart St., Boston 16,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MarriED: Lorna Marguerite Cooke, May 14, 1944. CHILDREN: David Cooke,
Oct, 10, 1947; Joanna Lee, Oct. 11, 1949; Cristina Luisa, March 26, 1955;
Alexander Mark, July 10, 1961.

occuPATION: Lawyer; assistant general counsel, Eastern Gas & Fuel associates;
secretary and general counsel, Midland Enterprises, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director and chairman of Executive, Nominating
and Finance Committees, World Affairs Council in Boston, incorporator
and director, Boston Council for International Visitors; director, Interna-
tional School for Girls in Spain; director, Cambridge Society for Early
Music.

MEMBER OF; Phi Beta Kappa; St. Botolph Club.

TO go back to 1938, my first great surprise after graduation was the
basic difference between the study of law (first year courses es-
pecially) at the Harvard Law School and the study of things in
general, with some emphasis on American government, economics,
history and literature, a course in Greek, all a continuum of fun
without any serious break during my years at Roxbury Latin School
and at Harvard College. The Law School approach was so different
(except in Professor Sheldon Glueck’s course in criminal law), and
although I learned to love Professors Seavey, Scott, Morgan, Willis-
ton, Griswold, Hart, Hall and all the rest at the Harvard Law School,
there was never at first the excitement such as I had experienced in
George Northrop’s class on Milton at Roxbury Latin School, James
Buell Munn on Elizabethan poetry, Mason Hammond in Greek B,

[ 374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

reading Plato’s dialogues, C. H. Mcllwain on William the Conqueror,
Magna Carta, and early English constitutional law.

During my second year in law school I broke a leg and spent a
winter in North Conway building a new one with time to reflect on
the state of the world and the sad state of my learning. By my third
year in law school the differences between law school and college be-
came less distinct, the courses more interesting.

Since law school graduation in 1941 I have been in the General
Counsel’s office of Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates in Boston, with an
interruption for another long vacation at government expense, which
included a year at Harvard at the Harvard School for Overseas Ad-
ministration — a most enjoyed year, although theoretically in the
armed forces, studying the history, political thought, economics and
even some of the literature of central Europe, refreshing my knowl-
edge of Russian in an intensive course and again attending lectures
by some of my favorite professors, in sociology, economics and
psychology. Then into the Infantry — roqth Infantry, 26th Division

—Tennessee, then Fort Jackson, South Carolina; then overseas move-
ment, Normandy, France, Germany, the Bulge, Austria, Czechoslo-
vakia, where I helped establish one of the first academies in the Euro-
pean theatre which, with complete cooperation from our regimental
commander, offered the equivalent of the last two years of high
school and the first year of college, at least in substance matter if not
in credits, from May 7, 1945, until late November in that year. For
my work in orientation and education and for my other duties as
Infantry sergeant I wore the Combat Infantryman’s Badge and the
Bronze Star Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster.

We have had our share of tragedy, too, as I guess many have had
by the time the 25th is here, and we have learned how inconclusive
and conflicting can be the judgments of top medical people.

We like living in Cambridge, just off Brattle Street, where I guess
I have actually now lived more years than anvwhere else. I ‘have
twice enjoyed going back to Spain to see the place of my birth and
my many cousins, who stil] seem to live in the 13th Century.

While I pursue a business-legal career, Lorna continues with her
music as conductor of the New England Conservatory Chorus. For
the ten years when Charles Munch was the conductor of the Boston
Symphony Orchestra her chorus sang several times each year with
the orchestra and recorded a number of choral works with RCA
Victor. I would particularly recommend three great Berlioz works
in which her chorus shines — “L’Enfance du Christ,” the great “Re-

[375]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

uiem,” and the lovely “Romeo and Juliet.” She has several concerts
in Jordan Hall every year conducting chorus and orchestra, and
finds juggling her musical career and the demands of all the rest of
us keep her thoroughly busy. In the summer she teaches choral
conducting at the Berkshire Music Center of the Boston Symphony
Orchestra’s Berkshire Festival at Tanglewood. This gives us all a
chance to spend some of our summers in the Berkshires on Stock-
bridge Bowl, although we are still waiting for a time when my work
and her work can relieve their respective pressure at the same time
so we can take a long vacation together.

The World Affairs Council in Boston has been my main extra-
curricular activity and I still feel much must be done to raise the
level of information and understanding general citizen interest in the
problems of United States foreign policy, and the problems of sur-
viving on a dangerous planet.

JOHN CHUBB DEVELIN

 

LAST KNOWN Appress: 7017 McCallum St., Philadelphia, Pa. (Lost.)

[ 376]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILTON CHARLES DEVOLITES

a
|
i
5

 

HOME apprEss: 173 Artillery Loop, San Antonio 34, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hq., Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Nashua Senior High School, Nashua, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: AB. 1938; M. Hosp. apMin. (Baylor
Univ.), 1952.

MARRIED: Victoria Xenos, March 8, 1942. caitprex: Philip John, Dec. 31, 1943;
Mary, Sept. 5, 1948; Charles M{., Jan. 22, 1954; John A, Apnil 5, 1955.

occupation: Colonel, Medical Service Corps, US. Army; comptroller, Brooke
Army Medical Center, since 1960.

OFFICES HELD: President, Heidelberg, Germany, Chapter and San Antonio
Chapter, American Society of Military Comprrollers.

MEMBER OF: American Hospital Association; American Socicty of Miltary
Comprrollers; Association of Military Surgeons of the US.; National Geo-
graphic Socicty.

PUBLICATIONS: “Factors Influencing the Staffing of Military Hospitals.” October,
1955, “Improvement Program for a Federal Hospital,” July, tgs 4, “Seatfing
Standards for the Radiological Service,” February, 1954, Miltary Surgeow,
“Resources Management,” December, 1959, “Manpower Unlizanon,” Apa,
1959, Medical Bulletin, US. Army Europe.

FOLLOWING graduation [ began to work on a Master's degree in
education but along came the draft in tgyo and Twas the fint man
selected from New Elampshire. I reported to Fort Devens for In-
fantry training but the Army soon discovered Thad) schooling in
biology and chemistry, so T was reassigned to Camp Fdwards. There,
with 150 other sclectees, we worked to open up a new sooebed
hospital. No sooner had we moved the equipment in place than the
Yankee Division moved into the post, Inno time at all, we had a full
hospital and were working like mad. Tre was February, rage. te was
too cold for outdoor training and the haspical was warm. And to
make things exciting the “Yankees” tangled with arallery unin whieh

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

had come from the deep South, so we had new “Civil War” battle
casualties every weekend.

In June, 1941, I was selected to attend the first Officer Candidate
School of the Army Medical Service at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsy]-
vania. After three strenuous months, I became one of the thousands
of “ninety-day wonders” as a second lieutenant in the Medical
Service Corps. That was the beginning of a long army career.

During World War II, I had a variety of assignments in Army
medical training centers and hospitals. On March 8, 1942, I got
married in an Army chapel at Little Rock, Arkansas, to a girl from
my home town, Nashua, New Hampshire.

Early in 1945 I trained at the Command and General Staff College
for the invasion of Japan. However, I was sent to the Pentagon
Army Service Forces Staff College to learn the lessons of World
War I] logistics so that I may pass them on to younger officers later
on. At the end of the war I decided to make the Army a career.
Since then I have served as executive officer in Army hospitals over-
seas and in the U.S. I had a two-year tour in medical research and
development and four years in the office of the Army Surgeon
General. There I worked on organizational and improvement
projects for all Army hospitals.

In 1957 I had a tour in Heidelberg, Germany, for three years.
There I served with a dynamic colonel named James L. Snyder,
Medical Corps, who was my company commander at OCS back in
1941. As Deputy Army Surgeon in Europe, he was effecting a major
reorganization and improvement of the Army Medical Services in
Germany. I assisted him in this as his comptroller. Now as a major
general, he is commanding Brooke Army Medical Center at Fort
Sam Houston, Texas, and ’m his comptroller again.

An Army officer’s life is not rich in money but is very rich in
opportunities to travel all over the world and in the U.S. Over the
years you make a lot of friends you run into as you move about. I

have met only a few Harvard men as career officers. While there
have been good opportunities to leave the service and make more
money in civilian life, I find in these times of great stress that I owe
a lot to my country and shall continue to serve for another ten years.
In our own generation our country has been at war three times.
Sinister forces threaten its security now. The U.S, must maintain a
position of strength requiring large military forces and the expendi-
ture of vast sums of money for research and for weapons of war. A
flexible readiness must be maintained for an indeterminate period.

[ 378 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The effective and economical management of tremendous military
resources in men, money and material requires officers with a degree
of competence and skill generally desired in large corporations.
There is a challenge in an Army career, an opportunity to serve your
country, and a satisfaction that comes from service and membership
in the forces that defend the free world.

The wonderful education I had at Harvard and the inspiring
teachers have been a source of strength throughout the years. I have
forgotten most of the facts and details I learned. But I retain many
of the general impressions and ideas | acquired there. And it is a
source of pride to know that some of our classmates are now direct-
ing large industries and playing major roles in government and

foreign policy.

NICHOLAS be VORE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Navy 133, Box 267, FPO, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREES: A.B. (Carroll Coll, Wis.), 1939; SM.
(Boston Univ.), 1950.

OFFICES HELD: Major, U.S. Air Force (Ret.).
MEMBER OF: Lions International,

1939-42. Journalism, editorial, layout, production offset, letterpress,
editor-publisher, Bayside Life, Bayside, New York.

1942—Present. Pilot, Air, command pilor, U.S. Air Force.

1950-60. Public relations, Information Office, U.S. Air Force.

1960-Present, University thesis, travel, yachting.

Military decorations: “Distinguished Flyi ing Cross, Aw Medal six
campaign medals; French Pilot Certificate, 1947.

[379]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Countries traveled or lived in: France, ten years, Germany, three

years; most of Europe, Pacific Islands, India, Near East, North Africa,
all of U.S.A.

Hobbies: Yachting, flying, swimming, bridge, astrology.

 

HOME appreEss: 1 Old Winter St., R.F.D., South Lincoln, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Baird-Atomic, Inc., 33 University Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; s.D. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1941.

marRieD: Anne D, Perkins, Feb. 8, 1947. CHILDREN: Davis Rich, 3d, July 9, 1948;
Helen P., May 25, 1950; Peter M., Feb. ro, 1954.

OCCUPATION: President, Baird-Atomic, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Baird-Atomic, Inc., since 1957; vice-presi-
dent and director, High Voltage Engineering Corporation, 1951-57; techni-
cal director, American Research & Development Corporation, 1946-51;
active duty, USNR, lieutenant commander, 1943-46; technical aide, Na-
tional Defense Research Committee, 1942-43; research associate, M.I.T.,
1941-42; director, Hampshire Chemical Corporation, since March, 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; American Nuclear Society, Commercial Club of

Boston; Merchants Club; Sigma Xi, St. Botolph Club; Concord Country
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Six issued patents and miscellaneous occasional publications,

IMMEDIATELY after graduation, I moved down river to M.LT.,
and three years later had a Doctor’s degree in chemical engineering,
together with a fascination for visual study of fluid flow via a phe-
nomenon known as “streaming virefringence.” I had enjoyed my
thesis work in this field so much that I stayed on as a research asso-

[ 380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ciate in the chemical engineering department with the idea of con-
tinuing indefinitely to push back a very small segment of the frontiers
of scientific knowledge.

About six months later a problem arose in connection with Japan,
and this work was set aside for a more urgent assignment on a Na-
tional Defense Research Committee contract to develop small port-
able oxygen manufacturing equipment which might be used on ships,
aircraft and at advance bases. I left M.IL-T. to continue this work as
technical aide, NDRC, until early in the summer of 1943, when I was
commissioned in the U.S. Naval Reserve. I concentrated on the prob-
lem of oxygen manufacture and supply to our advance bases and
fleet in the Pacific. This had by then become quite a serious problem.
The program was a successful one and resulted in nineteen well-
staffed and operating compressed gas manufacturing facilities all
over the South Pacific and as far off as the shadow of the Himalayas.
I was based in Washington, Bureau of Ships; and our classmate, Sandy
Blodget, based in San Francisco, made sure that our people and equip-
ment were properly dispersed to their destinations.

Once this problem was under control early in 1945, I was assigned
to technical intelligence activities, reporting to the Naval Technical
Mission in Europe investigating German progress in liquid oxygen
systems and some of the glamorous new rocket fuels which are now
either obsolete or commonplace.

Finally a civilian once more in the summer of 1946, I took a couple
of months’ vacation at the family summer place in New Hampshire,
during which time I began to realize that the little girl across the
street had changed quite a bit during the years I was out of town, and
had, indeed, become a most attractive individual. This observation
culminated in a wedding the following February.

During this time a rather brief investigation of opportunities forced
me to conclude that the fields of science and engineering had de-
veloped so fast under wartime stimulation, and I had become so en-
grossed in administrative problems, that it might be well to recon-
sider my earlier ideas of a scientific carcer. T was extremely fortunate
to find a happy and fascinating compromise in the founding of a new-
type company in Boston, American Research & Development Cor-
poration, which was the first of the venture capital groups set up to
provide funds and management help to new scientific companies
largely based on the wartime technological advances. T joined that
company as technical director and over the next five vears not only
found a great deal of intellectual satisfaction and contact with many

[ 381]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

fields of science and business but had an opportunity to learn about
the problems of starting to build up small businesses. In 1951 I joined
one of the first ones we financed — High Voltage Engineering Cor-
poration, as vice-president. Over the next five years, and for that
matter ever since, I have been actively involved in the problems and
opportunities of growing scientific businesses as a participant rather
than an observer.

Early in 1957 I joined Baird-Atomic, Inc., as president. This was
another company which I had known for many years and was, in
fact, located only half a block away from High Voltage Engineer-
ing. This company has grown rapidly, too, and as of this writing has
about 850 people, having over the past few years passed through the
interesting transition from a relatively small and informal operation
to a business organization. There still are, however, and, hopefully,
always will be new challenges and problems to overcome and from
which to learn.

Through the last fifteen years a very pleasant home life and family
have developed also — now comprising wife, fourteen-year-old boy,
twelve-year-old girl, eight-year-old-boy, three enormous Irish wolf-
hounds, a cat, and a horse, housed in the semi-country suburb of
Lincoln. My wife runs the family, my daughter rides the horse, my
elder son actively shares my hobby of restoring an old Rolls-Royce,
and my younger son participates in all these activities. I would not
have it otherwise.

ROBERT CARVER DISERENS, JR.

* 25, OPE AER ORNS ERR EE EN

Sal

2S ER Zr

soeeed Pe REN IEEE SEE

    

HOME AppREsS: Tripp Street, Mount Kisco, N.Y.
OFFICE appress: Benton & Bowles, Inc., 666 Fifth Ave. New York 19, N.Y.

[ 382 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: AB. 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

MaRRIED: Helen L. Barnett, April 5, 1947. cHttoren: Deborah Fairbanks, Jan.
25, 1951; Robert Carver, 3d, June 12, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and account supervisor, Benton & Bowles, Inc,
advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and vice-president, Harvard Business School Club of
New York, 1953-55; member, since 1952, former chairman, Republican
District Committee, New Castle, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Delta Upsilon Fraternity; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard
Business School Club of New York; Bedford Golf and Tennis Club,
Bedford, N.Y.

JOHN EDWIN DODGE

 

HOME ADDRESS: Taugwonk Road, Stonington, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 163 Water St., Stonington, Conn,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934—1938. DEGREES: S.B., C17 laude, 1938; B. ARCH, 1942.

MarrRiED: Carlota Saint-Gaudens, June 30, 1938. CHILDREN: David Tristram, July
29, 1940; Nathaniel Pendleton, Dee. 5, 1942; Elizabeth Gilman, Nov. 1,
1944.

OCCUPATION: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, 1948-56, president, treasurer, various
years, Pine Point School; member, since 1961, vice-chairman, since 1963,
Stonington Planning and Zoning Commission.

MEMBER OF: WWadamanuck Club; Orf Soundings Club.

AFTER graduation I studied architecture at the Elarvard Graduate
School of Design. I graduated from there immediately after Pearl
Harbor and was then hastily converted into a naval architect at
MILT. 1 worked as a civilian naval architect at the Portsmouth
Navy Yard and in i944 went into the Navy as an ensign, spent the

[ 383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

rest of the war as an engineering specialist at the Brooklyn Navy
Yard and was separated in 1946 as a lieutenant (j.g.).

Since 1947 I have been in the practice of architecture in Stoning-
ton, Connecticut, largely in residential work. From 1956 to 1959, I
was in New York, associated with Robert Hayes Rosenberg, a class-
mate at Harvard Graduate School of Design. Small-town practice
has its advantages but you have to get out and see the world once in
a while lest you fall asleep.

I now live in the country with a magnificent view of pasture land,
woods and the sea in the distance —- just about midway between New
York and Boston. The inescapable question whenever you look out
of the window is, what’s going to happen when New York and Bos-
ton meet and fuse together? I find I am getting more and more con-
cerned with problems of town and regional planning.

WILLIAM von EGGERS DOERING

   

   

HOME ADDRESS: 286 Prospect St., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1901A Yale Station, New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: 8.B., cum laude, 1938; PH.D., 1938.

MaRRIED: Ruth Margot Haines, Aug. 17, 1947 (divorced 1954). CHILDREN:
Christian, March 20, 1950; Peter, May 25, 1951; Margaretta, Dec. 3, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Professor of organic chemistry.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor to associate professor, Columbia University, 1943-52;
chairman, Advisory Panel for Chemistry, National Science Foundation,
since 1960; director, Division of the Sciences, Yale University, 1962; co-
chairman, Council for a Livable World; consultant, Humble Oil & Re-
fining Company, Houston Carwin Company, Esso Research & Engineering
Company (N.J.), Procter & Gamble Company; regional editor, Tetrahe-
dron, 1955~60; director, Hickrill Chemical Research Foundation, 1947-59.

[ 384]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: National Academy of Science; American Academy of Arts and
Sciences; American Chemical Society, London Chemical Society, Swiss
Chemical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Total Synthesis of Quinine,” 1945; “Synthesis of Tropolone,”
1950; “Cycloheptatrienylium (Tropylium) Ion,” 1954, “The Addition of
Dichlorocarbene to Olefins,” 1954 (all in Journal of the American Chemical
Society); “Heptafulvene (Methylenecycloheptatriene),” Tetrahedron,
1960.

CHARLES WILLIAM DOHERTY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Colonial Ave., Larchmont, N-Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: Air Reduction Co., Inc., 150 E. 42d St, New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MaRRIED: Ruth Roslyn Renahan, Oct. 8, 1955. CHILDREN: Ruth Anne, April 14,
1957; Charles William, 3d, Sept. 8, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Accountant; systems manager, Air Reduction Company, Inc, in-
dustrial gases and chemicals.

MEMBER OF: Systems and Procedures Association; American Legion, Reserve
Officers Association,

GLANCING back over my shoulder at those brief twenty-five
years, as I keep my direction toward the future, I can easily sav that
[have truly enjoyed them. Even allowing for the human trait of for-
getting the unpleasant and recalling only the pleasant, T must con-
clude that good fortune has smiled on me consistently.

My business carcer has been in the accounting field. Frankly, 1
was not inspired to find my life’s work in this area : rand I certainly ‘did
not plan it this w ay. Rather, it was a case where the opporcunities

opened up for me and I followed what interested me along lines of
least resistance.

[385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

The companies for which I have worked have provided surprising-
ly enjoyable and rewarding experiences. After sixteen years with the
Robert Gair Company, I suddenly found it a division of Continental
Can. Mergers can be disconcerting to the people affected, but I en-
joyed the change and even profited by it, for the change made me
understand that I would have to take definite steps to further my
career. Accordingly, I left Continental Can and joined Air Reduc-
tion about five years ago, a move that has proven to be a successful
one.

The great adventure of our generation was World War II. Like
all veterans of all wars, I can talk endlessly about my service life. The
war left no deep scars on my character, but rather provided me with
broad experiences in human nature that made me deeply aware of the
world about me and its people. I have remained active in the Army
Reserve and have found this an interesting and educational hobby.

I was sure for a long time that I would be the last member of my
class to venture into matrimony, if ever. Then suddenly it happened.
After seven wonderful years, I still refer to my wife as my bride and
will continue to do so. We are amazed and often bewildered by our
two children. We keep asking that rhetorical question, “Were we
like this at their age?” If I dared to slow down, they would happily
trample me in their onward rush, so I attribute my youthful outlook
to my absolute need to keep ahead of them.

In the matter of housing, I disregarded the warning of my father
about never having any time to myself and being property poor. I
bought a house and in my time I too will warn my son about home

ownership. I am the handy man having tried my hand at every trade
that is concerned with the building and maintenance of a house.
Where is this leisure time that the social scientists say is available to
modern man? I never seem to find any.

Yes, Iam more than satisfied with what Harvard did for me. Ad-
mittedly, it was difficult to get started because I had an A.B. degree
and was competing with business school graduates who had a skill
they could offer immediately to the business community. However,
it is the type of education I got at Harvard that keeps the fu-
ture bright, because it was a true education and not merely training
in a narrow and limited field. When my son is ready for college, I
hope he can make Harvard.

At Commencement, I was eager to get out into the world to find

what the future held for me. Now after twenty-five years I con-
tinue to look forward with enthusiasm. If there is one thing I have

[ 386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

learned from life it is that wisdom is what pays off in the long run
because unfortunately brains do not imply judgment. If I were
asked what I wanted out of life, I would answer that it is to feel that
I have done the best I could with the means with which God en-
dowed me.

DANIEL BACH DONOVAN

  

:

HOME ADDRESS: 75 Werimus Rd., Woodcliff Lake, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Jane Mary Hatheway, June 14, 1944. campren: Daniel Hatheway,
Feb. 20, 1947; John Hatheway, Oct. 22, 1952; Andrew Hatheway, March
20, 1958.

DAVID RUMSEY DONOVAN

  

HOME appress; Chapel Hill Farm, Berryville, Va,

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shenandoah Motor Co., Inc., Winchester, Va.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MarrieD: Mary Grandin, June 17, 1939 (died July 25, 1955); Rosamond Eddy,
June 2, 1960. cHiLpREN: Patricia Hazard, May 13, 1941 (mm. Raymond R.
Guest, Jr., June 16, 1962); Deirdre Mary, Aug. 19, 1945; William James,
Dec. 6, 1946; Sheilha Ann, May 8, 1948 (died Dec. 31, 1951); David
Grandin and Mary (twins), April 6, 1949.

occupation: Livestock farmer; heavy duty truck specialist for Ford agency.

OFFICES HELD: President, Battletown Transfer, Inc., 1946-58, member, Financial
Advisory Board, Marymount College, Arlington, Va., 1960-63; director,
First National Bank, Berryville, Va., 1952-58.

MEMBER OF: Shenandoah Traffic Club; Millwood (Va.) Country Club.

LEFT Harvard after my sophomore year to spend eighteen months
going around the world with Irving Johnson, in the schooner
Yankee. Returned in May of 1938 and spent the next year as a
special agricultural student at Cornell. After marriage in June of
1939, I started farming a newly acquired so00-acre grazing farm in
the Shenandoah Valley. Things had not quite started rolling smooth-
ly when I reported for duty with the Navy, as an ensign in January,
1942. I found myself in England in July of the year to begin twenty-
four months in the ETO. Took part in the invasion of North Africa
(Oran), Sicily, Salerno and Normandy (Omaha Beach) without a
scratch, despite being involved in amphibious work in all these af-
fairs. Returned to the States in September of 1944 and put a new
fleet tug (ATF) in commission as exec and navigator. A few months
later found us supporting operations against Okinawa and subse-
quently the occupation of Korea and Japan. By this time I had taken
over as commanding officer, which is probably the most gratifying
job a man can have. I was released to inactive duty in March, 1946,
and returned to the plow.

Shortly thereafter I formed a trucking firm with a group of
associates and by the time we sold the operation in 1958 we were
running twenty-five pieces of equipment in fifteen states. This was
a very interesting and educational experience but a rough one in
light of the competition in the transportation field today. Since then
I continue in the farming business, but as a rentor of high grade
pasture and barn feeding space to large cattle interests. This makes
for an assured profit picture and time to pursue other lines of en-
deavor. For the past few years I have been in the Ford business
with special attention to the setting up of specifications and sale of

heavy trucks.
[ 388 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Being outdoors and active most of the time, I usually find more
exercise than I need, but it’s fine for the figure. I can still wear my
first navy uniform. We live in a conservative section politically and
vote the same way ourselves. As Roman Catholics we find we have
considerably more company than was true twenty-five years ago
in this rather peaceful valley.

I consider that my principal job over the years probably has been
the raising of children. Whether that job has been well done or not
remains to be seen, but now that they are all spread out in schools
from New England south, it is interesting to watch them start to try

their own wings. If some of what I have learned has rubbed off
on them, then I have succeeded.

THEODORE TAYLOR DORMAN, Il

 

HOME AppREss: Liberty Hall, Manokin, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Ninth St., N.E., Washington 2, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MARRIED: Virginia E. Corwin, 1935. cHitprEN: Catherine W., March 14, 1943:
Elizabeth T., April 1, 1947.

occuPaTion: Administrator, United Church of Christ Home, Inc. building and
operating homes for people over sixty-two years of age.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Dorman Mills, Parsons, W. Va.; president, West
Virginia Board of Control; Commissioner of Public Institution for West
Virginia; assistant director, White House Conference on Aging; chief,
Federal Relations, Special Statf on Aging, Dept. of Health, Education and
Welfare.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Orient (N.Y) Yache Club, AF. &
A.M,

HAVING spent but one year at Harvard, my life naturally was

[ 389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

blighted at its beginning, To overcome this handicap I have thrown
myself into several different fields of endeavor, from woolen manu-
facturing, to politics, to the study of aging — not meat, not whiskey,
but people. There seems to be a future here as many people find
the alternative unwelcome.

I became interested in this calling upon my fortieth birthday. It
was a Sunday and the Baltimore Sun supplement carried two articles.
One was entitled, “You can’t get a job if you're over forty.” The
other read, “Prostate trouble is inevitable.” Fortunately, so far, I
have managed to avoid both of these inconveniences.

Applications for my Old People’s Homes are now being accepted.
One in Washington, the other in Baltimore. It’s later than you think.

HUME DOW

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Reeves Ct., Kew, E.4, Victoria, Australia.

OFFICE appREss: English Dept., University of Melbourne, Parkville, N.2, Victoria,
Australia.

PREPARED AT: Staten Island Academy, St. George, Staten Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., summa cum laude, 1938.

MarRiED: Gwyneth M. Terry, Jan. 17, 1948.

occupation: Lecturer in rhetoric, University of Melbourne.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant editor, 1942~44, editor, 1944-46, Salt (Australian army
magazine); talks editor, Radio Australia, 1947-49; sub-editor, Melbourne
Argus, 1950, master for English, Kilburn Grammar School, Middlesex,
England, 1952, senior tutor, English Dept., 1953-54, lecturer in rhetoric,
since 1955, University of Melbourne; member, Victorian District Com-
mittee, Australian Journalists’ Association, 1947-48; sometime member,
1940's, executive, Fellowship of Australian Writers (Victoria); member,
executive committee, Australian Council for Civil Liberties, since 1948;
secretary, Australian Indonesian Association, 1956-58, member, Board of

[ 390 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Studies in Journalism, University of Melbourne, since 1956; member,

Standing Committee, Australasian Universities Language and Literature
Association, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: University House, University of Melbourne, Twenty Club, Mel-

bourne.

PuBLICATIONS: World Unknown: an Anthology of Australian Prose, co-editor
with John Barnes, Oxford U-P., 1960, editor, Science Speaks: a Selection of
English Prose, F. W. Cheshire, 1962; “Eureka and the Creative Writer,”
Historical Studies: Australia and New Zealand, 1954; articles, reviews, etc.,
in both general and professional journals.

IT’S surprising, even now, to find myself addressing classmates all of
whom are older than the President of the United States. I don’t
know that IJ relish the task of examining my life in the terms of Dick
Davis’ invitation. I have written no great book; I have attained no
great distinction; I have not even satisfied my own limited aims. I’m
tempted to refer you to “Offices Held” above and let those definitions
of a busy but undistinguished life speak for themselves. And yet
they do call for some explanation.

My first dozen years after 1938 were spent in journalism, the
most irritating, frustrating and infuriating of professions. Yet | am
glad I was once a journalist. Those years did give me one abiding
satisfaction: editing the Australian Army’s magazine, Sult, during
the war was one of the most exhausting tasks of my life, but it was
one I still feel was very much worth doing.

But to go back to daily journalism again afterwards — that was
madness. It took five years, and the prodding of a year’s free-lance
work in Fleet Street, to teach me how wrong I was. However, in
1951 in London, my wife had the good sense to talk me into applying
for a teaching post. The committee at a London grammar school
chose me instead of an Oxford graduate not because they understood
the superiority of Harvard — but because they reckoned that any-
one who had been in charge of even a few Australian soldiers (and
survived) would just possibly be able to control London school boys.
Surprisingly, they were right. I discovered very quickly that I loved
teaching — and could do it. Since the first week I have never once
considered the possibility of returning to journalism.

When we returned to Australia in 1953, I joined the English De-
partment at Melbourne University and there I have st ay ed. After
two years of tutoring second-year students, I was appointed lee-
turer in rhetoric, and since 1955 I have been developing this course
as an Arts subject, partly along my own lines (courses in written
English composition and prose sty le are very rare at Australian uni-

[391]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

versities). I also give a short course in writing to large numbers of
students in the Engineering Faculty, and now all Applied Science stu-
dents come to me for a year as well. This whole field of teaching
the humanities to science and engineering people interests me more
and more: hence, my anthology, Science Speaks, devoted to prose
about scientific method and the aims and implications of science
(three Harvard teachers — Whitehead, Walter B. Cannon, and P.W.
Bridgman — somehow turned up among the authors). But, despite
my bias toward teaching rhetoric and being concerned with engi-
neers, I still take some part in the usual literature courses at Mel-
bourne, lecturing and tutoring on such novelists as Hawthorne, Con-
rad (a particular interest), and Hardy. I like working at the Uni-
versity of Melbourne. | certainly find it a good one to be at for many
reasons, some personal—one being that my wife now teaches
there too (in the Education Faculty) and I have the satisfaction of
knowing that she is more distinguished an academic than I am.

But does what I have been saying answer Dick’s request to “reflect
myself and my point of view”? What sort of person am I? Well,
I’m still much the same sort of inveterate talker as J was in Weld
and in Lowell. I am much less preoccupied with politics than I used
to be — that is, much less preoccupied in the sense of trying to or-
ganize other people into acting the way I think they should. I do
occasionally do something of that sort, on a civil liberties issue or,
recently, in trying to persuade my fellow Australians how unjust
and unjustified our “White Australia” immigration policy is. But
for the most part I’m likely to read the New Statesman and the
London Observer and discuss my views only with friends. A foot-
note to all this, however: I am still quite capable of getting worked
up about issues of policy at the university, and I must admit that my
wife says I still do try to organize people.

My wife and I divide most of our time between home and uni-
versity. To the amazement of many, I have taken to gardening in my
middle age, and wish I could find more time for it; we’re very proud
of some of our native Australian trees and shrubs. One of the reasons
I don’t find enough time is that academic work can be very demand-
ing. Another is that Melbourne beer, luckily, happens to be the best
in the world. And I have come to think well of good wine and good
food too; in fact, I have also come to like cooking. Spare time occu-
pations — other than eating and drinking and talking and cooking
and gardening? Well, putting a Bach cantata or a Handel organ con-

certo on the radiogram (I still bless Peter White and Sanford Gifford

[ 392 ]

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Tommy Emmet for introducing me to those two gentlemen),
or, perhaps, with a week or two free, driving our aging Peugeot to a
seaside resort we know, which has beach, lighthouse, pub, and good
company; or perhaps an occasional sortie to Canberra or Sydney.

Plans? We are off to work in England and to have pleasure in
Europe on sabbatical leave in 1963 — but not, I’m afraid, to Cam-
bridge in June. The A.N.Z. Bank, 263 Strand, London, W.C.z, will
find me, if any of my friends should be over there during the year:
I’ve still seen no classmates other than Ted White and John Purcell

since 1938. After 1963? Well, asI said, I like working at Melbourne
University.

ROBERT ARTHUR DOWD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4131 23d St. N., Arlington 7, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Defense Intelligence Agency, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N.Y.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cttm latide, 1938.

MargigeD: Ruth Suplee, April 6, 1942. cuitpren: Barbara Clare, Oct. 30, logs:
Joan Audrey, Aug. 28, 1947; Robert Craig, Dee. 5, 1950.

occuPATION: Captain, U.S, Navy; chief, Management Analysis Division, De
fense Intelligence Agency.

MEMBER OF: Army-Navy Country Club.

UPON graduation your correspondent embarked on what was to
have been a legal career, After two years at the Law School and one
year at Boston University Law School, supplemented by summer
work in law offices in New York and Boston, one had the audacity to
take and to pass the District of Columbia bar exam. Since the Ma-

[ 393]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

rine Corps required an unreasonably high degree of visual acuity,
one managed to persuade the Navy to take on a pink-cheeked en-
sign as a staff type.

Just after the arrival of our first daughter, Barbara, the Navy de-
cided to send its younger bureaucrats to fight the war, which in my
case meant two years in India. In 1944 1 worked for several months
in the Admiralty (London), accompanied the British Army into
Germany, and used Harvard-acquired German to considerable ad-
vantage with the British and with our own people until the end of
1945. Spent a thrilling summer of 1946 in the Arctic, then worked
on plans for the 1947-48 Antarctic expedition. At this juncture our
second daughter, Joan, arrived, and we bought a home (in Arling-
ton) which we still own. In 1950 we were fortunate to be sent to
Berlin; I stayed a year — but sent the family home at the outbreak of
the Korean conflict in order to insure that our son would be born in
the U.S.A.

From 1951 to mid-1953, we lived in London, where Ruth really en-
joyed being a “Navy wife,” while I was serving as an assistant naval
attaché. Back home again after the Coronation, we settled down to
two bureaucratic years in Washington and then off to Hawaii for
three years of Pacific experience. We returned by way of San
Diego, where we spent not quite two years observing the rapid pace
and “progressive” features of California life.

In Arlington again in 1960, we began to estimate what Papa might
do upon retirement when — much to our surprise — he was selected
for captain, which ordinarily means at least five more years in the
Navy. At any rate, as job insurance my evenings are passed in the
pursuit of an A.M. in history at George Washington University —
with the hope of being able to push on for a doctorate in another
couple of years. Current professional attention is concentrated in a
new agency of the Defense Department dedicated to “achieving
efficiency and economy,” toward which illustrious end your corre-
spondent attended an eight-week Management Program for Execu-
tives at the University of Pittsburgh in 1962.

With Barbara in her junior year at Connecticut College at New
London, Joan a junior in preparatory school in Alexandria and
Craig in the seventh grade, we look forward to a couple of years of
continuity in education, employment, golf and bridge. We haven't
made a lot of money, but we have had some fun. It does not seem
possible that twenty-five years have gone by, until one observes
the current crop of undergraduates as well as their quaint customs

L 394]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and media of expression and communication — at which point one
doesn’t feel a day over eighty.

ROBERT CHOATE DOWNES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1431 Martha Custis Drive, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Small Business Administration, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Wisconsin),
1941.

MARRIED: Jeanne L. Merling, 1946. CHILDREN: Robert Choate, Jr. March 7, 1947;
Christine Merling, Dec. 17, 1950.

occupation: Attorney; acting chief, Compliance Branch, Program Administra-
tion and Compliance Division, Office of Investment, Small Business Ad-
ministration,

OFFICES HELD: Special Agent, F.B.L, 1941-51, assistant to secretary, Director of
Employee Training, Timken-Detroit Axle Company, Detroit, Mich, 1951-
54; industrial relations representative, Chrysler Corporation, Detroit, 1954-
56; manager of labor relations, Wyandotte Chemicals Corporation, Wyan-
dotte, Mich., 1956-58; attorney, Compliance Branch, Civil Aeronautics
Board, Washington, D.C., 1939-62.

MEMBER OF: Wisconsin State and Federal Bar Associations.

LOOKING back over the past tw enty-five years, highlights appear
to be the acquiring of a wonderful family, Most patient ‘with me; 3
trip to Europe in 1938 with Russ Allen which neither of us will
forget; a three-week visit to Peking in 1939 when twenty Japanese
yen could be had for one dollar; working as an F.B.I. agent in all
sections of the country; living on marvelous G rosse Ile in the Detroit
River for several years—very hard to leave; and returning to
Washington which we all love. Some major disappointme NES po pped

up, bue they fade in the gratitude to some wonderful friends

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Through all — I find I am still an optimist who has greater reverence
today for the significance of Veritas than twenty-five years ago.

 

HOME ADpRESS: 59 Tennyson Ave., Nashua, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hemphill, Noyes & Co., Lowell, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

Marrigp: Geraldine F. Richards, June 17, 1944. CHILDREN: Joseph Warren, 3d,
June 10, 1945; Deborah, Aug. 17, 1947; Sarah Louise, Sept. 25, 1948.

occuPaATION: Manager, Lowell office, Hemphill, Noyes & Company, members
of New York Stock Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Committee, Dunstable, Mass., 1953-55; president,
Harvard Club of Lowell, 1953-55; treasurer, Lowell Day Nursery Associa-
tion, since 1957.

MEMBER oF: Yorick Club, Lowell; Nashua Country Club; Harvard Clubs of
Lowell and New Hampshire.

WITH about $5.00 in my pocket, I graduated with an addiction to
gray flannels and sport jackets, strong Republican convictions and a
firm belief that skiing, Red Sox, Boston Symphony, Cambridge and
New England summers were the best the country had to offer.

For three years I worked with Goodyear in various capacities
and places in Pennsylvania, New England, Ohio and New Jersey.
In 1941 I went into the investment business as a salesman and in 1951
opened an office for Hemphill, Noyes & Company in Lowell, Massa-
chusetts.

In 1944 I ventured as far west as Minnesota to take a bride and
subsequently had three children. The next fifteen years were the

[ 396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prosaic ones—of Cub master, orthodontia, camping, etc., and
the incredibly swift passage of time.

Looking back upon this last fall 1 did go to Ithaca to the Harvard
game, attended a coffee party for the Democratic nominee for
governor of New Hampshire (a fine fellow, John King, Harvard,
"38, of course) and with the Boston office (headed by Dud Brad-
lee, ’38) looking askance at tweed jackets during business hours, I
even went so far as to buy a gray suit — but with daughters Debby
and Sarah at Abbot Academy, son Joe at Holderness School, I find
twenty-five years later I still have strong Republican convictions and
about $5.00 in my pocket.

ALBERT CORNELIUS DOYLE

«
held webct Bie F

ow wii

  

HOME ADpREss: 188 Moraine St., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 106 Main St. Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B., IO41.

MaRRIED: Ruth Buckley, Sept. 13, 1941, cHiLpREN: Winnefred Finn, July 14.
1942; Susan Harvey, Aug. 28 1943; Deborah Ann, April 3, 1946, Ellen
Mary, May 23, 1950; Ann Cornelia, Oct. 21, 1956; Albert Cornelius, Jr.
April 1, 1961.

occupaTion: Lawyer (self-employed).

OFFICES HELD: M{ember, Brockton School Committee, 1952-62; member execuuve
committee, president, 1959-60, campaign chairman, 1y62, Brockton United
Fund, trustee and member exceutive commuttee, Brockton Elospical, tras:
tee, Brockton Savings Bank, trustee, president, ty62, Massachusetts Society
for Prevention of Cruclty to Children.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of Brockton, Old Colony Harvard Club (member,
Schools Committce); Chapequoit Yacht Club (commodore since tytt),

[ 397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Woods Hole Golf Club; American, Massachusetts and Plymouth County

Bar Associations,
FOLLOWING graduation, I attended Harvard Law School, gradu-
ating in 1941. After the bar examination I went to work for the
Navy Department in Washington, as a civilian. Was commissioned
a few months later and assigned to Naval Intelligence in Washing-
ton. Thence to Savannah for a few months and finally to a carrier
for a couple of years of operations in the Pacific ending up as com-
munications officer and, at General Quarters, officer of the deck.

I was supposed to have had a job waiting at one of the big Boston
law firms but decided to give the practice of law in my home city
a try. I have never regretted the decision despite near starvation for
the first couple of years. I now have a well-developed general law
practice, with offices in Brockton.

Shortly before I joined the Navy, I married Ruth Buckley
(Wellesley 741). We have six children. Winnefred is a junior at
Boston University; Susan, a sophomore at Wellesley; Deborah, a
senior at Emma Willard School, Troy, New York (from which the
elder two also graduated); Ellen, an eighth-grader at West Junior
High School in Brockton; Ann, a first-grader; and A.C., Jr., much in
evidence at home.

We have a summer house on Chapoquoit Island, Cape Cod, where
we sail, fish and occasionally golf at Woods Hole. We have also
sandwiched in a couple of trips to Europe.

I am a director of a number of local business firms, a savings bank
trustee, director or trustee of a number of charitable institutions and

was chairman of the only Brockton United Fund campaign which
made its goal in recent years.

To conclude, life has been filled with family, filled with matters
largely of local concern but always to the point of the frantic. I
hope it keeps on this way.

[ 398 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL KERSTEN DOYLE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1459 Sunnycrest Drive, Fullerton, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Union Oil Co. of California, Box 7600, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum latide, 1938; M.B.A.. 1940.

MaRRIED: Annette M. Schurich, April 11, 1942. CHILDREN: Judith Ann, Jan.
14, 1943; William Kersten, Oct. 11, 1946; Alice Jean, March 11, 1950;
Louise Marie, June 13, 1957.

occuPATION: Manager of industrial relations, Refining and Marketing Division,
Union Oil Company of California.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Harvard Club of Orange County.
1958-62; president and director, A.1L.D.— United Givers of Orange
County, Calif. 1958-61; director, Fullerton (Calif.) Community Chest,
1958-62; vice-president and treasurer, Family Service of Orange County,
Calif., 1956-62; vice-president, Personnel and Industrial Relations Associa-

tion, 1959-60; member, Industrial Relations Committee, National Petroleum
Refiners Association, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Orange County and Southern California; Har
vard Business School Club of Southern California; Univ ersity Club of Los
Angeles; Southern California Industry Education Council; Joe Berg Foun-
dation for the Development of Science Seminars.

AFTER twenty-two years in the Boston-Cambridge area spent being
born, attending grammar and prep schools, matriculating at Harvard
College and the Graduate School of Business, I decided on what was
to me a great leap to the unknown — California. Target was Los
Angeles to join Union Oil Company of California as a “trainee.”
Venturing for the first time west of Syracuse, scene of an earlier
Harvard-Cornell baseball game, I headed for Detroit to pick up a
new car which was to be ferricd to southern California as my cit
ployment transportation, To my amazement, the city was crowded

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

with others interested in new cars who actually spoke of coming
“to the East” to make their purchases.

Needless to say, despite honors in International Relations and
having qualified, in Professor Dariot’s term, as a “Master” of business
administration, I feared a severe effort would be required to acclimate
myself to this new country of palm trees and continuous summer.
The concern was unfounded. I married a wonderful California girl,
developed an enjoyable and I believe productive career in industrial
relations with Union Oil, and have become uncommonly well
traveled throughout the West and Far Eastern areas.

Perhaps because of distance from Cambridge, I have found Har-
vard friendships and associations particularly meaningful. Member-
ship in the Harvard Club of Southern California and the local Har-
vard Business School Club has always provided enjoyment and the
opportunity to make new friends. Four years ago, several members
of the Southern California Club seceded to form a new Club in the
Orange County (Disneyland to you) area. With a potential mem-
bership of 150, sixty per cent are dues-payers, and almost ninety
per cent of these active —and we have our own clubhouse! Last
year, it was our privilege to host for one day President and Mrs.
Pusey and the Associated Harvard Clubs at, you guessed it — the
Disneyland Hotel.

One of the brightest spots in these past years has been the joint
effort by Annette and me to rear a family of four children. The
challenge, its joys and heartaches, are no novelty to those of you who
are going through the same experience. One interesting and reward-
ing by-product for me has been the development of a great interest
in the secondary educational system. I have found there are many
ways of participating actively in improving the level of college pre-
paratory training in addition to the usual P.T.A. One of my current
active projects is to represent the Joe Berg Foundation which spon-
sors science seminar programs pointed to the accelerated develop-
ment of talented high school math and science students. I have also
been active in the Southern California Industry-Education Council
which strives to identify common goals of business and the local
school system and then develop active cooperative programs.

Like many of our class, my business and family career was inter-
rupted by military service. A choice of Navy resulted in a return
to the Business School for training followed by three years in naval
aviation, One of the rewards for a long period of overseas duty was

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a month’s “occupation” of Shanghai following the end of hostilities.
At this distance Harvard still seems close and vital.

ROBERT BATES DOYLE

 

HOME AppREss: 98 Hyde Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hartford National Bank & Trust Co., 777 Main Se, Hartford,
Conn,

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarRRIED: Mary Doris Freaney, June 4, 1939. cHipren: Robert Bates, Jr April
30, 1940; Judith Anne, March 2, 1942; Corinne Rita, July 5, 1947; Philip
Kevin, May 2, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Time Payment Loan Department, Hartford Na-
tional Bank & Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1948-49, president, toso-s1, Highland Park P.T.A.
Manchester, Conn.; chairman, St. Mary's Boy Scout Troop, Manchester,
1952, 19533 section chairman, Greater Hartford Community Chest, 1os*,

1958; vice-president and member of board, Connecticut Automotive Trades
Association, Hartford, 1959-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Hartford Club.
PUBLICATIONS: “A Banker's Eye View of the Automobile Dealer.” New Bruns

wick, June, 19613 articles on consumer credit and commercial lending prac
tices in banking journals and automotive trade journals.

[yor |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DENNIS JOSEPH DRISCOLL

    

HOME ApprEss: 31 Donna Rd., Newton 59, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: B. F. Goodrich Footwear Co., 36 Nichols Ave., Watertown,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1947.

marRiED: Rita Mary Waite, Sept. 22, 1951. CHILDREN: Dennis Joseph, Jr., Dec. 2,
1956; Rita Mary, Oct. 6, 1960.

occupation: Manager, personnel, B. F. Goodrich Company.

OFFIcEs HELD: Director, Better Business Bureau of Greater Boston, since 1960,
Newton Boys’ Club, since 1961; member, advisory council, Family Service
Association of Greater Boston, since 1960; member, Watertown Service
Unit, Salvation Army, since 1960; commander, Supply Corps, USNR.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar, since 1947.

AT long last the Class of 1938 has arrived at that important mile-
stone, the T'wenty-fifth Reunion, a time when all of us are asked to
look back, reflect and comment. At times I look with envy at my
classmates, many of whose children are now fully grown. It is no
easy task, at a very weary forty-five, to find myself greeted — per-
haps I should say challenged — at the door nightly by a five-year-
old son who never tires of roughhousing before dinner. As I manage
to struggle wearily and breathlessly to my feet, my two-year-old
daughter is invariably waiting to be taken for her pre-dinner walk.
Neither seems to realize that I have had all the fight and walk taken
out of me long before I struggle up to the front door each night.
Yet a few days away from home makes you realize that you wouldn’t
part with these two demons and their nightly routine for the world.
Rita has finally found an answer to our problem of coping with all
these young, enthusiastic parents that monopolize PTA meetings —
she has gone blonde. I haven’t come up with a solution yet.

[ 402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since graduation my business career hasn't carried me too far
from Cambridge. For over twenty-two years, interrupted only by
naval service during World War II and Korea, I have worked within
a mile of the Stadium, at the B. F. Goodrich Footwear Company.
This is the largest single footwear manufacturing plant, with about
6300 employees. During these many years, in my quest for the al-
mighty and elusive dollar, I have knocked about our plant in a
variety of capacities: as a member of production supervision, as an
industrial engineer and, finally, in the field of personnel.

This day-to-day routine has been twice interrupted by a call to
active naval service. In retrospect these interludes were welcome.
Even World War II had its good points —a chance to see areas of
the world and people beyond my wildest imagination. And at times,
the Solomons, New Guinea and the Philippines look like a rest camp
compared to a strongly unionized plant during negotiations. Korea
was also a disruption but we had two unforgettable years in Washing-
ton while I was assigned to the Office of Naval Materiel. As 1 write
this, ] am watching our President declare a naval blockade of Cuba.
So possibly my ready-reserve status may entitle me to a third “thrill-
ing” interlude. It looks as though my determination to finish u
twenty satisfactory years of naval service may have backfired again.

Since our little girl came to live with us, Rita and I have come to
realize that our traveling days are over for the present. Consequent-
ly, we have acquired a summer home in Hyannisport and spend many
pleasant weekends as well as my vacation time on the Cape. Aside
from occasional trips to Akron, Ohio, the B. F. Goodrich corporate
headquarters, and our spring recruiting drives on New England
campuses, I am fortunate in being home most of the time.

Prior to our marriage Rita and IT made a ritual of lunch and the
football games at the Stadium on Saturday afternoons during the fall.
In the intervening years, I drifted away but the atmosphere of the
Twenty-fifth Reunion i is already closing i in on me. This past year I
have found my way back into that old Saturday afternoon routine.
In vain each week I search for some familiar face from the Class of
1938 in the stands, I hope that the Yale football, hockey and base-

ball games this year will give me a chance to say hello again to some
of my old classmates.

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

SYDNEY GOODWIN DUFFY, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 20 Sutton Pl, S., New York 22, N.Y.

ROGER FENN DUNCAN

 
  

FE SRS ARR EE EES BE ER

HOME appress: 19 Upland Rd., West Concord, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Belmont Hill School, 350 Prospect St., Belmont, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Mary Hamilton Chandler, Dec. 20, 1940. CHILDREN: Robert Cameron
and William Chandler (twins), April 7, 1942; John Hamilton, Jan. 3, 1945.

HARVARD SON: John Hamilton Duncan, ’66.

occupaTION: Teacher of English, Belmont Hill School; coaching soccer and
rowing; faculty adviser to public speaking group.

OFFICES HELD: Member, General Building Committee, Town of Concord, 1950-
59, chairman, 1957-59, Concord Schoo] Committee and Concord-Carlisle
Regional School Committee, 1959-62, and since 1962, vice-chairman of both
committees.

[ 404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: A Cruising Guide to the New England Coast, fifth edition, co-
author with Fessenden S. Blanchard; articles in Yachting, July, 1955, and

Boats, December, 1955; “Exploring Down East,” Inland Waterway Guide,
Fall, 1962.

ON the morning of September 21, 1938, I broke a window in the
Fenn School to celebrate the beginning of my teaching career. I
taught four classes in the morning. In the afternoon New England
experienced one of the most destructive hurricanes in its history and
school was closed for a week. So it has gone. Here are a few high
points.

I taught at the Fenn School in Concord from 1938 to 1945. Dur-
ing this time I learned more about teaching than I taught about
English. I married Mary Chandler and we became the parents of
twins, Bob and Bill; later, John completed the family. In 1945 I
moved to Belmont Hill School to teach English, to coach crew and
various other sports as occasion demanded, and to produce plays,
magazines, and debates at various times. Our three boys made their
several ways up the academic ladder, graduated at last, and are now
in college. Bill is a junior at University of Pennsylvania, Bob is a
sophomore at Lawrence College, and John is a freshman at Harvard.

I didn’t have any war record. The doctors found all kinds of
things the matter with me, things which I had ignored for years, and
I was labelled as “damaged goods.” The only job I could find that
needed badly to be done and that was not being eagerly sought by a
dozen others in search of draft deferment and high pay was the one
T held at the Fenn School. So I did that job, During the summers I
worked in a machine shop, in a shipyard, and on a farm in the hope
that I was being some immediate help to those of you who were
fighting the war.

In 1949 at a P.T.A. meeting I stood up and made a suggestion. |
found myself on a committee. This led to my appointment to the
General Building Committee in 1950. I resigned in 1959 to run for
School Committee and was re-elected in 1962. In an unguarded
moment in 1947 I accepted a position as a Sunday School teacher. To
my surprise, this turned out to be so interesting that now my wife
and I are co-directors of the First Parish Church School in Concord
with nearly 300 children and twenty-five teachers to marshal every
Sunday.

During the summers we have been pretty regularly wet with salt
water. We had built in 1956 a Friendship sloop, Eastward, in which
we sail parties out of Boothbay Harbor, Maine. In rg61 and 1962 we

[ 405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

won the Friendship Sloop Society regattas in her. In 1960 we visited
nearly every harbor between Marblehead and Grand Manan. I re-
wrote the eastern section of A Cruising Guide to the New England
Coast for the fifth edition, a book which my father and my co-
author Fessenden Blanchard had steered through four successful
editions.

This fall I find myself back at Harvard enrolled as a student in the
Graduate School of Education. A sabbatical half-year is the occa-
sion. Harvard is better than ever. Exciting, demanding, stimulating,
possessed of men as good as those with whom we studied twenty-
five years ago, the oldest university still leads the way.

After twenty-five years one may reasonably take a quick look back
and a long look ahead and ask, “What am I doing here?”

It seems obvious that we live in revolutionary times, and that the
greatest revolution must come in human relations. New solutions to
human problems are vitally necessary. Right now, we don’t even
see some of the problems, to say nothing of the solutions. The future
of our country, indeed the future of mankind, requires that in the
next twenty-five years there be men of strong, imaginative and
flexible minds. The education and encouragement of such minds

seem well worth working for.

JOHN TAYLOR DUNTON

 

HOME aApprEss: 134 School St., Bradford, Pa.

OFFICE AppREsS: Dresser Manufacturing Div., Dresser Industries, Fisher Avenue,
Bradford, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.; Governor Dummer
Academy, South Byfield, Mass,

[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: 8.B., 1938.

marrieD: Dorothy Phyllis Holcomb, Aug. 30, 1941. CHILDREN: John Taylor,
Jr., Sept. 16, 1944; Charles Holcomb, Aug. 27, 1947.
HARVARD SON: John Taylor Dunton, Jr., 66.

OCCUPATION: Development of new products; senior engineer, Dresser Industries,

manufacturer of flexible pipe couplings, repair fittings and accessories for
gas, oil and water markets.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, 1957-59, 1962-64, Secretary, 1958,
vice-chairman, 1959, 1962, Olean Section, American Society of Mechanical
Engineers; vice-chairman, P.T.A., 1957; first reader, First Church of Christ
Scientist, Bradford, 1960-62; professional engineer, State of Pennsylvania,
1947-62; lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval Reserve (Retired).

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Valley Hunt Club,
Bradford; Delta Upsilon Fraternity.

PUBLICATIONS: Patent No. 2980449, two or three pending.

AS one rushes through the daily tasks week after week, there is
little time to reminisce or to examine things in their true perspective.
Perhaps this is the blessing of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report,
that we take time to recall the steps already taken. The highs and
lows of yesterday merge into a smooth curve to form what we call
progress.

Except for two years right after graduation, when jobs were
particularly scarce, I have worked continually in engineering of one
type or another, covering shoe machinery, ship repair for Uncle
Sam, manufacturing, locomotives and pipe line products. All quite
different, yet all interrelated by the same basic principles of engi-
neering.

Along with this engineering activity has been the fun of the
family, where Dorothy and I have been raising two bovs. All to-
gether we have followed the Wizard of Oz through Cub Scouts as
Cubmaster and Den Mother, P.T.A., dancing classes, music recitals,
school plays and band concerts. Now we are starting a new cycle
as John, Jr., enters Harvard and Chuck continues at Exeter, while
Mom and Dad rattle around at home, alone.

Oh, things at home are not entirely quiet, for I have been working
for the past two years on a program to establish a Council Manager
Form of government in the City of Bradford. This started with a
group of citizens, of which we were a part, meeting informally to
study the types of government available; then a Charter Commission
was elected and they have made their recommendation for the Coun-
cil Manager Form. The final vote comes this November 6th. Let us
hope the culmination of all the study, planning, public speaking and
circular distribution will be the establishment of a new Charter which

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

should bring to Bradford a more efficient government and endless
ossibilities for development.

Church plays a large part in our life with service on many com-
mittees. For the past three years I have been First Reader in our
Church, which is First Church of Christ, Scientist, Bradford, and
have found it an opportunity for much study and growth in the un-
derstanding of Man and his relation to God. We are most grateful
for our Church and its activity. Though a person cannot see into the
future to know where he is going, if each day can be in the direc-
tion one calls progress, the end will fulfill his desires.

As for diversion, I guess I am not a bug at anything but, being
located as we are in the mountains, skiing brings the winter months
to life, swimming and golf in the summer, photography the year
round and my special hobby, geology, dating back to Kirtley Mather
in Geology 1. My rock collection, humble as it 1s, has been packed
and unpacked, moved and removed many times.

In our travels since college we have been from Maine to Cali-
fornia, but to me, there is no place like the shoreline of good old
New England. And one more bit of homespun philosophy: the
hustle and bustle of daily affairs cannot hold a candle to the charm
of home around the fire on a snowy winter’s evening.

ALDRICH DURANT, JR.

2

23

a

%

“y

a

veel

Log
DG

 

HOME aAppreEss: Alden Street, Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE appress: U.S. Naval Underwater Ordnance Station, Newport, R.I.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

UN MARRIED,

[ 408 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
occupaTION: Materials Engineer, U.S. Navy (civil service).
MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club; Old Colony Club, Plymouth, Mass.

TWENTY-FIVE years have brought me thirty-five pounds of
polysaturated fat and a certain amount of resignation. They find
me with a pleasant government job that allows me to afford an in-
terest in a non-profit (not planned) Plastic Toy Factory, whose
motto might well be “We don’t make much money but we have a
lot of fun.”

Passage of years has changed my relaxations from mountaineering
and skiing to sailing, clamming and cooking. 1 fear the answers to
the whys and wherefores of life have eluded me, but in the words of

the French Resistance fighter when questioned about his role in
war, ‘“J’ai vecu.”

HN DWINELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 495 Washington St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Insurance Co. of North America, 4o Broad Sc, Boston, Mass
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MaRRIED: Penelope Hill, Sept. 7, 1940. cHitpren: Michacl, Feb. 2a, 1943: John
Alexander, July 2, 1945; Duncan Dexter, July 23, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Michacl Dwinell, 64.

occupaTion: Manager, New England, Insurance Company of North Ameria.

OFFICES HELD: Elected Town Meeting Member, Dedham, since to47, chaimman,
Insurance Committee, Dedham, since ryso, vice-president, Dedham Real
Cross, 1956-58; chairman, Dedham United Fund Drive, tasg, Boston

Metropolitan vice-chairman, United Fund Drive, tyto-42.
MEMBER OF: Iarvard Club of Boston,

NEXT October will mark my twenty-fifth vear with the Insurance

L 409 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Company of North America, While that may seem dull to many,
the years have been interesting. I am happy in my job, have found it
challenging, and I am proud of my company.

My three sons have kept me active, both mentally and physically.
However, I have long since given up trying to keep pace with them
in either capacity. The Cambridge School for Adult Education is
approximately my current intellectual level, and fishing in Asquam
Lake, New Hampshire, is now closer to my normal physical exer-
tion and relaxation.

A few years ago a next-door neighbor convinced me that even |
could build my own hi-fi system, and I was fortunate enough to
prove him correct. It has been one of my pet (and most expensive)
hobbies ever since. With the exception of a new house started in the
summer of 1962, bird walking, stamp collecting, church choir and
the Boston Symphony take care of most of my leisure time.

During the war my military duty was spent “guarding” the Boston
Airport with the Massachusetts State Guard. Fortunately, I had
seen Europe before it was blown up, when Charlie Andrews, Henry
Stone, Andy Young and I took a three months’ trip right after gradu-
ation. That trip has been the extent of any major traveling.

Local politics has interested me, and I have tried to be as active
as possible. I am strongly opposed to the Welfare State, and have
proudly fought every Democratic candidate with vigor. I believe
we should rely on ourselves instead of the government, and I have
done my best to instill these thoughts into my children. They have
been taught at an early age that life is dificult and I have encouraged
them to be self-reliant. Combined with faith in God, I firmly believe
that these tenets are what has made Harvard what she has been in
the past and that they are needed to keep her as she ts today.

[ 410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MELVIN LAWRENCE DWORET

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 332 Centre St., Newton 58, Mass.

MORRIS EARLE

 

HOME apprEss: 88 Nod Hill Rd., Wilton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Earle & Rimer, 17 Center St. Wilton, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B, 194t.

MARRIED: Virginia Sturges Osborn, Jan. 14, 1949. CHipreN: Walter Keese, 2d,
Oct. 21, 1949; Ralph Harding, April 4, 1951; Frederick Osborn, Nov. ta
1952; Morris, 3d, Dec. 3, 1955.

occupaTION: Attorney-at-Law, partner, Farle & Rimer.

OFFICES HELD: Prosecuting Grand Juror, tosq-57, Town Counsel, 1958 Town of
Wilton; member, House of Representatives, Connecticut General As-

sembly from the Town of Wilton, 1959-62; trustce, Fdwin Gould Founda
tion for Children, New York City, 1947-63.

C4i1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MEMBER OF: Bar Associations of; State of Connecticut, Norwalk-Wilton, Cit
of New York, New York County; Wilton Riding Club; Kiwanis Club ¢
Wilton.

I HAVE had twenty-five quiet, happy years, the largest single num
ber of which, ten and a half, have been spent in Wilton, Connecticut
practising law and observing the surroundings.

Outside of my work and home, my principal interests are ir
political science and in philosophy, specifically in working up idea:
useful in maintaining a strong and free America, a Republicar
Party which is neither too conservative nor too liberal, the home as
the unit of society, and the individual as the unit of moral re-
sponsibility. Between the Space Age, the Russians, the population
explosion, and a number of other circumstances, this gets difficult
sometimes, but I keep plugging.

Biographically, after college, I had three years at the Law School,
four and a half in the Army (at Fort Shafter, T. H., and way stations
en route, in the Field Artillery in ranks from private to captain), and
six practising law in New York City, first with Shearman & Sterling
and then with Meyer, Kissel, Matz & Seward.

I have a wonderful wife and four fine sons. I am looking forward
to the next twenty-five years and wish all my classmates well. The

only thing is 1 hope the U.S.A. does better and the Russians, or who-
ever else carries the ball for the other side, worse.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2222 Las Canoas Rd., Santa Barbara, Calif.

orrice appress: Santa Barbara City College, 721 Cliff Drive, Santa Barbara,
Calif.

[412]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara High School, Santa Barbara, Calif., Phillips
Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B., 1938; AM, (Univ. of California),
1960.

MARRIED: Jane Faust, Sept. 24, 1940, CHILDREN: Joan, Nov. 7, 1940; Katherine,
April ro, 1942; Ellen, July 18, 1947; Jane, Aug. 10, 1951.
occuPATION: Writer, teacher, faculty member, Santa Barbara City College,

staff member, U.S. Naval Civil Engineering Laboratory, Port Hueneme,
Calif.

puBLIcATIONS: Author and co-author of various books, stories and magazine
articles.

AFTER Harvard I tried a year of Jaw at Stanford, then became one
of the editors of Coast Magazine, then tried cowboying and worked
as a ranch hand for several years, during which time I married and
published my first stories and book. Went into Uncle Sam's army
in the spring of 1942 and spent most of four years there, serving in a
number of different areas and capacities and finally ending with the
infantry in Europe; came back to Santa Barbara and then to Texas
where we lived for four years, producing more daughters and es-
tablishing and helping establish a newspaper and radio station, then
to Italy for a year; then back to California and into various pursuits
which finally have stabilized, for the moment at least, into teaching
and writing. Our daughters now number four, our horses three,
our dogs two, our pet wild pigs one. We have no complaints and
not too many debts. The shingle is out and the coffee pot near the
fire for one and all who come this way. Harvard days, though for a

long time dim, are now looming closer, a sure sign of old age, no
doubt.

L403]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FRANCIS CHURCH EATON

 

HOME AppreEss: 1652 Central Ave., Needham, Mass,

OFFICE ADpRESS: The Curtis Publishing Co., rozo Statler Office Bldg., Boston
16, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Janet B. Nichols, September, 1944. CHILDREN: Lesley, Feb. 17, 1946;
Bradley, Aug. 10, 1948, Whitney, March 25, 1950; David, Dec. 28, 1953.
occupation: Magazine advertising sales, New England sales manager, Ladies’

Home Journal.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Needham Republican Town Committee, 1956-60, mem-
ber, since 1960, executive committee, since 1960, Massachusetts Republican
State Committee, Needham Town Meeting member, 10 years, various
town committees, 10 years; assistant professor of Naval Science, Dart-
mouth College, 1946, member, Alumni Council, Belmont Hill School, 1948-
50; president, plus board, Needham High Rock School P.T.A., 1955-58.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Country Club, Wellesley, Mass.; The Seventy Six Club
of Boston; Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York.

THERE have been occasional months in my life since college, espe-
cially while in the Navy, that might have been slow-paced, even
though I am in the advertising end of the magazine publishing busi-
ness. But anyone who has followed the fortunes of The Curtis Pub-
lishing Company lately will understand why I wanted to write this
Report close to the deadline to give an accurate inventory of my
current career, and also why things are a bit hectic right now. Under
the new management of some very dedicated and hard-working
people, this fine old company is now making a comeback, but it
takes every ounce of energy. Add a home filled with scholastically,
socially, and athletically active teen-agers, plus younger son—a
beloved, project-creating wife, who enjoys with me the good sub-

[ 414 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

urban whirl, and I can see this is going to be an active reunion year.

1 went to work in Boston for a glass company for my first job.
Soon we had a hurricane — but it was not the night and day demand
for plate glass, but a yen for advertising, that led me into agencies
all over town, where I only met people on the way out, not the way
up. Consequently, I took an advertising job purely on spec — you
sell the accounts and we'll pay you for each one. I liked it, soon
earned some money, and have been a salesman ever since.

Jan and I met at a Navy dance at Wellesley College the night
before Pearl Harbor. I had then gone three months to Annapolis
to get a commission — quite a contrast to Harvard, but good train-
ing. We were not married until 1944 after my minelayer got back
from landings in North Africa, Italy and Sicily. Then I took off for
the Pacific and she went back to graduate, much to the surprise of
her parents in Binghamton, New York. We finally closed out our
Naval career with the fascinating title of assistant professor of Naval
Science and Tactics at no less than Dartmouth College. Since then,
besides raising kids and vegetables at a country place in Needham,
I play much tennis, coach Pee-Wee hockey teams at the town’s
indoor rink, attend town meetings and work on a few committees.
Brad, our fourteen-year old, is lucky to be at Noble & Greenough.
Our girl Sandy is a junior somewhere between Needham High and
Dana Hall School, and Whit and David are right at home in a good
junior high and fourth grade environment. The “ escape” activity I
have spent most time at and enjoy ed is working up to the Republican
State Committee from precinct worker and town chairman. Most
people talk politics a good deal, I find, but not enough take part.
Given the income and time, I would like to do more, even if there is
a certain Harvard and Massachusetts family which scems to have us
snowed in here now. I can always reflect on loaning my etforts to
some good wins, and will again.

Because I travel a good deal on business, [am still meeting members

of the Class of 19 38 and expect to meet and know a good many more
in June, besides seeing a lot of old friends.

[ats]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WILLIAM FREDERICK EBERLEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1350 Highland Ave., Rochester 20, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mathematics Dept., University of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Shawano High School, Shawano, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1938; A.M. (Univ.
of Wisconsin), 1939; PH.D. (Harvard Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Mary Barry, May 29, 1943 (divorced 1952, died December, 1960),
Patricia James, June 23, 1956. CHILDREN: Patrick, March 3, 1944; Kathryn,
May 31, 1945; Michael, Nov. 20, 1946; Robert, Jan. 20, 1949; Kristen, March
19, 1962; Sarah, March 6, 1948 (stepchild); Mary, Sept. 26, 1949 (step-
child).

HARVARD SON: Patrick Barry Eberlein, ’65.

OccUPATION: Professor of mathematics, University of Rochester.

OFFICES HELD: Democratic County Committeeman, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America, London Mathematical Society, Swiss Mathematical Society,

PusLications: About twenty papers in mathematics,

[ 416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GARRETT EDDY

  

   

HOME ADDRESS: 4515 W. Ruffner, Seattle 99, Wash.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Port Blakely Mill Co., 6100 Arcade Bldg., Seattle 1, Wash.
PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Mary Ford, Feb. 14, 1942. cHmpREN: Garrett Edward, Dec. 22, 1944;
John Whittemore, 2d, April 29, 1947; Barbara Ethel, Feb. 19, 1951.

OCCUPATION: President, Port Blakely Mill Company, timber land management.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant forester, successively director, secretary, 1947-52, presi-
dent, since 1962, Port Blakely Mill Company; director and executive vice-
president, Eddy Investment Company, since 1952; president, Siler Logging
Company, since 1952; director, Garrett & Shafer Engineering Works, since
1952; treasurer and trustee, 1956, president, since 1960, Washington Forest
Protection Association; director, Industrial Forestry Association, since
1957; trustee, Keep Washington Green Association, since 1956, Washing-
ton State Forestry Conference, since 1956, member, Washington State
University Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Forestry, Range, Wildlife
and Water Resources Advisory Board; trustee, Museum, College of Puget
Sound of Tacoma, since 1956; member, Seattle Foundation, since 19593
trustee, Lakeside School, Seattle, since 1960; vice-president and trustce,
University Club, Scattle, 1959; member, King County Republican Finance
League, 1962; precinct committeeman, Republican, since 1952; president,
Washington Society Sons of the Revolution, 1957-58; president, Pacific
Northwest Bird and Mammal Society, 1952-33; honorary research associ-
ate, University of Washington, since 1955; member, Washington Good
Roads.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Foresters; Seattle Yacht Club; Harbor Club,
Seattle; Seattle & King County Municipal League, Cooper Ornithological
Society; Wilson Ornithological Society; Nuttall, Ornithological Society,
Cambridge; Western Bird Banders Association; American Ornithologists
Union; Harvard Mountaineers.

WORKING in a family business has its rewards and also its special
problems. Timber and tree farming is a fascinating business, with

[417]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

rapid changes in technology over the last twenty years. My major
in biology turned out to be very helpful in this profession. The
hobby of ornithology and general natural history has fitted into both
training and profession.
As the years go by one is caught up in many projects. One wishes
to contribute to the good of the community and work for good
ideas. It seems that our present habit in America is to do all of these
things by committees and societies. The result is that all projects,
for society, politics, or just fun, must be group efforts. The individ-
ual finds himself always on a committee or a member of an associa-
tion. Is this good? Can a person today have fun or better his com-
munity with his lone efforts? It would hardly seem so. First, he
must join a group. Then be appointed to a committee. Next come
many meetings. Not until all of this has occurred is there action.
Just try to go casually bowling or skiing, or suggest to the City
Council that a park be acquired. We all know the pressures put on
one to join the group. One is hardly allowed to act alone, and is
usually rendered quite ineffective. How many hours a week do we
each spend going to meetings? Perhaps if half of that time were
spent on individual projects we could accomplish far more in our
lives. This is just a middle age thought.

FRANK WILLIAM EDLIN

 

MAILING AppRESS: The Maples, 56 W. Putnam Ave., Greenwich, Conn.

[418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT WILKINSON EDWARDS

HOME ADpREsS: Maryland Avenue, Braddock Heights, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Army Biological Warfare Laboratories, Fort Detrick, Md.
PREPARED AT: Numerous secondary schools.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREES: S.B. (Memphis State Coll.), 1948, s.m.
(Univ. of Tennessee), 1949.

MarRRIED: Ruth Mae Rawlins, April 19, 1941. cHup: Robert Wilkinson, Jr,
Aug. 20, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Research and development microbiologist, Department of Defense.

OFFICES HELD: Past president and current vice-president, OX-5 Club of Mary-
land.

MEMBER OF: OX-5 Club of America; Society for Industrial Microbiology,
American Association for Contamination Control; various committees on
problems of industrial and petroleum microbiology.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on medical and industrial microbiology.

I GOT fed up with college in 1937, left school and went back to
flying. This activity was centralized in the South with Memphis
being the home base. Decided to try college again in 1939, entering
University of Tennessee Medical College. After one year discovered
that being president of Edwards Aircraft Corporation and a medical
student failed to pay off in either respect, so I dropped the medical
effort. I acquired a second lieutenant commission in the U.S, Army
Air Corps and was abruptly ordered to active duty in the latter part
of 1940. Overseas service was spent in the Southwest Pacific area and
this resulted in a modest number of colorful ribbons and medical
retirement in 1945.

The market value of clipped wing birdmen was extremely low at
this time, so after a brief stab at non-flying aviation and advertising,
I took another crack at college. This time the exposure took, as I
finally cut out both an S.B., and an S.M. After this there was a
period of assistant professorship at Tennessee Polytechnic Institute,
and a tour as chief bacteriologist at Cook County Hospital in
Chicago, This job terminated w ith my recall to the “USAF during
the Korean War. Back to the civilian ranks in 1957 asa scientist w ith
the U.S. Army and here I remain.

Hobbies: calorie w atching, photography, writing aviation fiction
and history, woodw orking and traveling.

[419 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN ROBERT EGAN

Q
BS
a
i
i
f
&

i

 

HOME AbpREss: 91 Old Post Rd., Old Saybrook, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 840 Boston Post Rd., Old Saybrook, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.D. (Duke Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Marjorie Sampsell, Jan. 18, 1944. CHILDREN: Joan, May 22, 1945;
James, Nov. 27, 1947; Paul, Feb. 5, 1949; John Robert, Jr., April 24, 1951;
Nancy, Aug. 14, 1952.

occupaTion: Physician; general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Intern, Boston City Hospital, December, 1941, to July, 1942,
Johns Hopkins Hospital, July, 1942, to April, 1943; resident physician, St.
Mary’s Hospital, Pierre, S. Dak., April, 1943, to January, 1944; assistant resi-
dent, Johns Hopkins Hospital, January, 1944, to October, 1944; Medical
Corps, U.S. Army, October, 1944, to October, 1947; assistant to chief
medical officer, National Headquarters Selective Service System, Washing-
ton, D.C., June, 1946, to October, 1947; medical practice, Washington,
D.C., October, 1947, to April, 1949, Old Saybrook, since April, 1949; mem-
ber, House of Delegates, Connecticut State Medical Society, 1955-60;
councilor, Middlesex County of the Connecticut State Medical Society,
1960-62; member of vestry, Grace Episcopal Church, Old Saybrook, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Middlesex County Medical Society; Connecticut State Medical
Society; Graduates Club, New Haven; Madison Beach Club, Madison,
Conn.

pusLications: “A Study of Neuropsychiatric Rejectees,” Egan, Jackson &
Eanes, Journal of the American Medical Association, February, 1951.

IF freshman English composition accomplished its objective, then
this should be readable and reasonably intelligible. “Twenty-five
years later finds me fecling physically excellent and of average emo-
tional maturity. However, taking closer measure, the muscles are
somewhat softer and the wind a little shorter, and the problems and
decisions of greater magnitude come faster, but seem to produce less

[ 420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

anxiety. Each year passes with increasing rapidity. And the ensuing
one is shorter probably because each year, as a numerator over age
in years, becomes a smaller fraction of one’s total life experience.

Settling fourteen years ago in a community where I wanted to live
and raise my family solved the majority of my problems relating to
profession, family and personal satisfaction. In spite of great demands
upon my time by the general practice of medicine in a small com-
munity, I have given my family all of my affection and attention and
they have given me theirs. In addition to these blessings, I have been
able to keep up my medical interests outside of practice, and interest
in various outside activities including art, religion and literature.

My family look at me with raised eyebrows, when I state that I
would like to return to Harvard and spend a year taking the courses
of Geology-1, Fine Arts, Music Appreciation, and History of Reli-
gion; none of which I had time to crowd in as an undergraduate. Mus-
ing, in selecting the undergraduate curriculum, it might be more
appropriate that a person in “the pursuit of science as a major should
have an adviser from the liberal arts and a liberal arts major an
adviser from a scientific department.

Harvard’s greatest contribution to my outlook on life was its
cosmopolitan character; its opportunity to have the Indian Ocean of
knowledge within reach; to associate with men of all social and
economic status and religious belief and never to be self-conscious
about one’s own status.

Being a country doctor has great intangible rewards. My first
patient here, a child eleven years old with the measles, has just
been cared for through her second pregnancy. The tangible re-
wards are not as evident and retirement at age sixty-five surely
can not be clearly seen and contemplated.

Recently, I was approached by an insurance representative who
wanted to replace an expiring ten-year-term life insurance policy
with an extensive twenty-year program. To me, this was not only
humorous but ludicrous on the basis of my present judgment and
human experience. To look ahead too far is to be visionary and
impractical, The truth of this is apparent, if each member of the
Class of 1938 will ask himself, “Did I or could I have planned to

arrive where I am, and as I am today and by the same route, in the
year 1938?”

[420]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

KENNETH ALFRED EHRMAN

 

HOME AbpRESS: 28 Sylvan Rd., Monterey, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 499 Van Buren St., Monterey, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Menlo School, Menlo Park, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; LL.B. (La Salle Extension)
1960.

MARRIED: Jean Ransohoff, Oct. 12, 1946. CHILDREN: Michael James Colyer, Sept.
8, 1942 (stepson); David Alexis, March 5, 1949; Keith Arnold, Nov. 28,
1956.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, specializing in tax planning.

OFFICES HELD: Governor, Council of California Growers, 1959-60; four-county
representative, California Strawberry Advisory Board, 1958-60; secretary,
Central Coast Farm Labor Association, 1958-60; currently, director, Family
Service Agency, American Red Cross Chapter, Monterey Peninsula USO
Board of Governors; Carmel Music Society; treasurer, Del Monte Fair-
ways Property Owners, etc.

MEMBER OF: Pacheco Club; Corral de Tierra Country Club.

SOMEONE told me that the Anniversary Report is designed to give
us a chance to proclaim to classmates our success in the world while
at the same time appearing modestly to disclaim it. The standards
of “success” were not further described, however, so I feel I’m bet-
ter advised to stick to the raw facts.

From college I went to Europe for two years of “living.” The
war chased me out in 1940, and I came back to a job as a newspaper
reporter in San Francisco. The war almost immediately caught up
with me again, and I spent four years plus as infantry private, tank
lieutenant and counterintelligence captain, covering ground from
Hawaii to North Africa to Italy and Austria.

Back in San Francisco in 1946, I considered law school. Instead,
I went back to the newspaper and then took the more intelligent

[ 422 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

step of getting married. By 1950, besides a stepson, 1 had a year-old
boy and was groping for new horizons in the newspaper field when
Korea summoned me. Another year and a half in counterintelligence
(often a most descriptive word) followed.

Returned to civilian life in 1952, I again thought about the law,
but, as before, the newspaper was the easier path and I followed it.
At some point in the next two years I drifted from political report-
ing into farming, first as a part-time interest and investment, then as
a full-time occupation in which, from 1954 to 1960, I gained muscle
and lost money. That law bug kept hopping around in my head,
however, and in 1956, while farming, I started to study by corre-
spondence. In 1960 I took the California bar examination, and in
1961, at age 44, launched a new career.

At present I have a surprisingly busy practice in Monterey,
specializing in tax planning for small businesses and individuals, with
loyal clients scattered from Pasadena to San Francisco. I took the
long and hard way around to reach the profession I really wanted all
along, but it is amazing how the skills, experience and acquaintances
of previous “careers” supplement and enrich and improve the quality
of one’s present career.

Besides my long-suffering and adaptable wife, I have my stepson,
now twenty, and two boys, aged thirteen and six. I see a few class-

mates from time to time—TI have done some writing for Felix
Stumpf, whose program for the Continuing Education of the Bar in
California is a model for the rest of the country and an important
contribution to the practice (as distinguished from the theory) of
law; Bob Wernick turns up every couple of years; I correspond fit-
fully with Austin Sistare; and David Parry married my wife's best
friend in southern California.

Given time, I hope to do some constructive writing about the law

and legal education, keep my family happy and lower my golf
handicap, which is now lack of time to play.

[ 423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOSEPH HENRY ELCOCK, Jr.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 113 Bristol Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3 Park St., Boston 8, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cuv72 laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MarRIED: Mary Ellen Galligan, April 19, 1956. cumLpREN: Mary Ellen, June 14,
1957; Susan, April 13, 1959; Joseph Henry, 3d, Jan. 31, 1961.

occuPaATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Attorney General, Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
1953-60; vice-chairman, Massachusetts Turnpike Authority, since 1961,
lecturer in law, Boston College Law School, 1948-49; lecturer, Dalton-
Elcock Bar Review, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Longwood Cricket Club, American,
Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations.

FOR those of us who have lived our lives reasonably close to Cam-
bridge, the physical changes that have taken place across the Charles
have been assimilated by us gradually as they occurred.

We have become accustomed, for example, to the Stadium minus
its steel stands, to the modernistic house units along the Charles and
to Memorial Hall without its tower. But as much as these and
similar changes may startle some, the most significant changes will
probably be those which have taken place in ourselves. A. brief
chronicle of events may help explain.

As for myself, I spent three years at the Law School followed by
four years in the Navy during World War II. Thereafter, I plunged
into the practice of law with vigor. At first I was associated with
one of the larger Jaw firms here in Boston, but in a short time I
opened my own office and have been happily engaged in practice
ever since.

[ 424 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Perhaps the most far-reaching event in my life has been my
marriage to my charming wife. She has brought to the life of a too
busy lawyer that counter-balance whereby my family has become
my first delight and the law has taken second place.

We have three wonderful children and live in the Boston suburb
of Wellesley. We have the usual menagerie of pets, we love to
travel and we are continually on the lookout for a larger home.
Suburbia agrees with us.

In addition to practising law, I have engaged in some teaching of
law and have also ventured slightly into public life. A stint as an
Assistant Attorney General has been followed by an appointment
as a member of the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority. This latter
position has itself constituted a liberal education. I knew that it was
no small problem to construct a toll road through the heart of a city
like Boston, but I had no concept of the my iad problems w hich
would arise.

So much for myself. One small word for Harvard. As I look
back, I realize how well it taught me to think and to learn. These

tools J still carry with me. For them, | am most grateful. With them
I find life more full.

ALEXANDER STOWELL ELDER

 

HOME ApprEss: 310 W. Bel Air Ave., Aberdeen, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 210, IBL, BRL, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md

PREPARED AT: Howe High School, Billerica, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938; EDM. (Boston Univ), tog
A.M. (Univ, of Delaware), 1956.

MARRIED: Barbara Grace LeGallee, Feb. 22, 194

-. chitpren: David Stevens
July 11, 1948; Jonathan Symmes, Aug. 22, tyso,

(425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occupation: Mechanical engineer (applied mechanics); chief, Dynamics Sec-
tion, Applied Mechanics Branch.

OFFICES HELD: Member, official board, since 1957, superintendent, Sunday School,
1960-61, Grace Methodist Church.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Mathe-

matical Association of .America; American Mathematical Society; Pi Mu
Epsilon (mathematics fraternity).

AFTER graduating from Harvard I intended to enter the teaching
profession, as my Master’s degree from Boston University will
attest. However, opportunities at that time were slender, and |
finally accepted a minor technical position with the Buffalo, Lock-
port & Ontario Power Company, Buffalo, New York. From Jan-
uary, 1942, to January, 1946, | was a member of the U.S. Army,
serving three years in the continental United States and one year in
the Philippine Islands.

Events during the last year of the war were full of portent. We
had news of President Roosevelt’s death as we steamed into Manila
Bay, from Leyte. Shock and consternation were shown on every
face, as we recalled the words of Whitman:

O Captain! my Captain, our fearful trip is done,
The ship has weathered every rock, the prize we sought
is won.

During the following summer I had an eerie feeling that the war
was drawing to a close, in spite of obvious preparations for an in-
vasion of Japan. I even applied for my first postwar job from Manila.
I also remember the rejoicing when the atom bomb brought the war
to a sudden end. Even then the Filipinos were worried about future
Communist expansion in Southeast Asia.

I returned to Boston after the war, sound of wind and limb, but
with career and marriage deferred. I accepted a position as a physi-
cist at Watertown Arsenal and married about a year later. In 19501
transferred to Aberdeen Proving Ground, where I have remained
ever since. In 1956 I obtained an A.M. in mathematics from the
University of Delaware, I have been engaged in increasingly in-

teresting and basic work in applied mechanics.

During the last few years our two young boys have become
restless teen-agers. The fruit trees we planted about the old house
now bear fruit. Our life generally lies between the semi-rural and
outer suburban, with our tastes inclining to the former.

[ 426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CECIL DONALD FLFENBEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4106 Lomita Lane, Dallas 20, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3200 Southland Center, Dallas 1, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Strong Vincent High School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1938, 11.8. cum
laude, 1941.

MARRIED: Regina Nankin, March 16, 1947. cHiLpreN: Judith, Dec. 17, 1948;
Laura, Aug. 23, 1951; Jessica, Aug. 27, 1954; another child.

OccuUPATION: Attorney-at-Law.

IMMEDIATELY following graduation I entered Harvard Law
School where I graduated in June, 1941, in time to work a year
before entering the service. I attained the rank of captain in the
Air Force and returned to civilian life in 1946 as single as I had
entered. In the middle of 1946 I entered the practice of law and
before a year had passed had taken unto myself Regina Nankin of
Mexico City, Mexico, as my wife.

Beginning in December, 1948, and approximately every three
years thereafter we were favored with a child until the number of
children reached four. Since then the cycle has been broken, pre-
sumably because the fourth was a boy.

In 1951 I was recalled from my placid law practice in Eric, Penn-
sylvania, for additional military duty i in the Korean War. In the fall
of 1952, when my second military duty was over, we moved to
Dallas, Texas, which at that time was only a dot on the map. Elow-
ever, we have grown fond of the city, and also the state, and we are
truly happy here. For the first cizht years T was a corporate house
counsel but since July, 1961, I have been back in the law pracace,

Since 1941 I have only been back to Cambridge once and that
was during the war. I look forward to returning to Cambridge in

[ 427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

the near future. I have no time now for a photograph but let it b
said that my hair line has receded to form a deep U and the fringes
such as there are, are partially white. I believe, though, that my
general appearance would be commensurate with the Class age.

DWIGHT HOLMES ELLIS, JR.

  
 

  

LIN SME TOS AIO TE

HOME ADDRESS: 56 Bailey Hill Rd., Groton, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREss: Hartford National Bank & Trust Co., New London, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarRiED: Rebecca Ruth Perry, May 5, 1945. cHitpREN: Dwight Holmes, 34,

Aug. 4, 1947; Thomas Raymond, April 30, 1949; Jonathan Perry, June 3,
1953-

OCCUPATION: Bank trainee; retired lieutenant commander, U.S. Navy.

IN twenty-five years I have lost: my illusions about becoming
wealthy, my youth, my vigorous undergraduate constitution and
much of my hair.

In these twenty-five years I have gained: a lovely wife, three fine
sons, a house with a mortgage, and an interest in golf and bridge.

After twenty enjoyable and interesting years in the Navy, during
which I lived in various parts of the United States and in foreign
parts of the world from Indo-China to Alaska, I retired in June of

1962. At present I am employed in one of Connecticut’s finest banks
learning the banking business from the ground up.

[ 428 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DWIGHT WARREN ELLIS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 182 Farmington Rd., Longmeadow, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ely, Bartlett, Brown & Proctor, 294 Washington St., Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
MARRIED: Harriet M. Cottrell, Sept. 10, 1938. cHmpREN: Dwight Warren, 3d,

March 21, 1940; Calvert C., Oct. 28, 1943; Arthur D., April 29, 1949; Charles
P., March 9, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Woolen manufacturer.
OFFICES HELD: President, A. D. Ellis Mills, Inc., Monson, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Longmeadow Country Club; Colony Club; Springfield Misquami-
cut Club; Watch Hill Yacht Club, Watch Hill, RL

AFTER graduation I immediately entered my family’s woolen busi-
ness which had been founded by my great-grandfather In 1853.
Marriage followed September roth of that year and we settled in
the small New England town of Monson, Massachusetts, to learn
the woolen business and, hopefully, to raise a family which might
someday carry it on.

In June, 1941, with other classmates, reported to the Boston Navy
Yard for active duty. Assigned to Attack Transport duty, took
Marines to Iceland and, when war was declared, to the South Pacific
to begin the long trek to Tokyo via landings on various islands of
that ocean,

Discharged in Seattle, Washington, some four years later with the
strong desire to sce the ocean again only from the shore, T returned
to affairs of the woolen business and of family ~ Ten vears of relanve
peace and prosperity followed, but in common w ith the reve of the
textile industry it became increasingly dithicult and, finally, impos-

[ 4:9 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

sible to meet the competition of foreign-made woolen goods, }
ticularly those made in Japan. ‘That former enemy, supplied v
our most modern textile machinery, aided by our own technici:
and paying wages about one-tenth of ours, was able to undersel]
in our own market by an incredible margin. Appeals for help in :
way of protection having failed, and it becoming increasingly :
parent our government’s course was toward giving even lars
segments of our industries to foreign manufacturers, I underto
with the greatest reluctance and sadness the final liquidation a:
sale of the plant in December, 1961.

Some of the five hundred former textile workers were able to fir
other employment, but many were not. I have listened with a n
inconsiderable amount of nausea to the fine theories emanating fro;
Washington regarding the retraining of workers displaced by th
inflow of goods from abroad. Although I have been in a position t
observe this at first hand, I have not seen any of it in actual practice
I am, perhaps, understandably bitter over these developments, bu
I cannot understand how, as a nation, we can strengthen ourselve
by progressively giving away the sinews of our economy to others
I cannot see how we can strengthen our weak friends by weakening

ourselves, I do not expect to be called to Washington by the present
administration.

DAVID EMERSON

  

RETIRE
a.
f
%

§ fo &
bo oMe

  

HOME ADDRESS: Estabrook Road, Concord, Mass,

OFFICE Appress: J. M, Forbes & Co., 799 Washington St., Boston 8, Mass
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938,

[ 430 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MarRIED: Mary Holyoke Cochran, Sept. 7, 1940. CHILDREN: William, Dec. 14,
1941; Margaret, July 8, 1943, Ellen, Dec. 14, 1944; Lauran, Aug. 19, 1946;
Alexander Forbes, Sept. 4, 1947; Daniel Cochran, May 23, 1950, Raymond,

2d, Nov. 12, 1951; Amelia, June 15, 1954.
HARVARD SON: William Emerson, ’64

OCCUPATION: Investment management; partner and trustee, J. M. Forbes &
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Emerson Hospital, 1959-61; director, Concord Com-
munity Chest, since 1958, campaign chairman, 1960; director, Animal Rescue
League of Boston, since 1958, chairman, Alcott School Parent Teachers
Group, 1959-60, trustee, treasurer, Concord Land Conservation Trust,
since 1960; trustee, since 1958, president, Alumni Association, 1961-1962,
Belmont Hill School; member, Concord Planning Board, 1960-62.

MEMBER OF: Schussverein Ski Club; Quiet Birdmen; Air Force Association,
Boys Friendly.

IT is late. The second hand on my wrist watch sweeps towards the
deadline for submitting this account of my life since Harvard.
Getting the words on paper has taken exhortation, motivation, per-
spiration and inspiration, spiced with twinges each time the tele-
phone rings with a plea to expedite it, and pangs at the prospect of
saying “No” again to the chorus of cheery queries from my family
asking, “Is it done?” Well, here it is, with the apologies of a Last
Minuteman.

Each of us has had occasion to glance in the rear view mirror and
thank his lucky stars. There are nine in mine. Two years after
graduation, Sitta and I were married, and on that bright ‘September
day in 1940, someone put quicksand in the hourglass and the years
began to fly. Bing, Bay and Ellen are now at Harvard, Vassar and
Smith, respectively. Lauran, Alex, Dan, Raymond and Mimi are in
our fine Concord school system, spanning the range from high
school junior to third-grader. Catching their enthusiasm for tomor-
row is one of the nicest things about the passage of time.

For ten of our first sixteen years we lived in Connecticut, first
in Coventry and then in Glastonbury. In between we made homes
in Salisbury Cove, Maine, Concord, Massachusetts, Vandalia, Ohio,
and Danvers, Massachusetts. So when we returned to Concord in
1957, it was with fresh appreciation of an old town. We rent our
home in Concord, and we own a ski cabin in Jackson, New Hamp-
shire, keeping the emphasis on first things first.

From early childhood aviation had a magic appeal. Immediately
after graduation I went to work for Pratt & W hitney Aircraft, the
engine manufacturing division of United Aircraft C orporation at
East Hartford, Connecticut. There was a lot to learn, and at times

[ 431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

it was difficult to see the advantage in a Harvard degree. Then came
World War II, and I got my professional training with the USAAF
as a fighter pilot, and spent ten months with the Second Fighter
Squadron, 52d Fighter Group, in Italy, flying the queen of them all
— the P51 Mustang. What that taught me about men and machines
is etched deep in my heart. After World War II, four of us ran a fly-
ing school and fixed base operation— North Atlantic Airways, at
Beverly, Massachusetts; but the G.I. bill didn’t last forever, and in
1948, I went back to Pratt & Whitney Aircraft for eight more years,
doing sales and service engineering work, with a lot of traveling,
during the rebuilding of our Air Force.

In 1956 I had the opportunity of making a complete switch from
aviation to investment management and trustee work with the old
family firm of J. M. Forbes & Company in Boston. It has been an
absorbing and fascinating shift, and it tells me that solid experience
can be applied effectively to any career.

Aviation is still in the picture. It gives me pride and pleasure to
participate in the Air Force Ready Reserve program with the g4th
Troop Carrier Wing, L. G. Hanscom Field, Massachusetts, as an
operations staff officer with senior pilot rating. I have been with that
outfit since 1952.

Since returning to Concord there has been time for civic activity
and pleasure in sharing some of the responsibilities of citizenship.
A happy thing about the passing years is that people and the associa-
tions remain as young as yesterday. For time distills the essence of
life in love and honor and awareness of duty.

The only thing that worries me is that next deadline in 1988. T’ll
never beat it!

[ 432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EUGENE EMERSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5624 Greentree Rd., Bethesda, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Court House, Room 418, Fort Worth, Texas.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.B.A., 19423; LL.B. (Cornell
Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Sarah Scriven Dozier, June 19, 1947 (divorced 1949). cHILD: Cornelia
Dozier, April 1, 1949.

occuPATION: Lawyer; Tax Division, Department of Justice, Fort Worth, Texas.

OFFICES HELD: Commanding officer, DE-148, 1944-45; tial attorney, Dept. of
Justice, 1955-62; member, board of directors, Officers Service Club, Wash-
ington, D.C.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, I assumed that our Twenty-fifth An-
niversary would mark a major landmark in our respective lives. I
am inclined to believe, now, that this was an erroneous assumption.
Thus, since I am privileged to express, in print, certain present con-
victions, I would suggest that Harvard men should all make it their
practice to re-examine some of their assumptions. This is what, I
believe, our education was intended to accomplish. We are advised
that the Class wants to know all about our families, our war record,
our government service, and our social, political or religious con-
victions. Well, I have one of each. I have a fine daughter, aged
fourteen, who lives with her mother in Jacksonville, Florida. I have
a divorced wife, whom I have rather secretly admired. She was not
without the fortitude to speak the truth often. Yet in my view, she
would have been better advised to toy — just a little bit — with the
‘truth.

Now, I have a war record, too. Admittedly, I received no medals,
nor was I ever identified as a hero. On the other hand, I have felt

[ 433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

reat satisfaction in reaching the exalted rank of lieutenant com-
mander in the United States Navy; and, after all the shooting was

over, I proudly took command of the USS Brough (DE-148) at
Charleston, South Carolina. Thereafter, I was treated with great re-
spect. This all occurred after a good many months of sea-duty in
the Atlantic. As for government service, that has been my major
endeavor in more recent years. During the Korean War period, I
was associated with the General Counsel’s Office for the United
States Navy at Washington, D.C. Specifically, I was an assistant
counsel in the Bureau of Ordnance. In this capacity, I became some-
what familiar with procurement problems under the stress of limited
warfare. The Department of Justice has claimed my services during
the last eight years. It has been my privilege to represent the United

States Government in the Federal Courts of the United States dur-

ing this period. It is in the Tax Division that I practice my trade

as a trial lawyer. Initially, I was a so-called prosecutor for the Gov-

ernment for federal income tax evasion. More recently, I have been

defending the government’s interests in federal refund suits in-

volving a great variety of taxes, ie., estate, gift, Income, corporate,

excise, etc., etc., etc.

Now politics can be rather a touchy subject. You will all under-
stand whereof I speak since I work for two of Joe Kennedy’s
younger brothers. It has been my pleasure to remain over the
years a speaking acquaintance of the President; but, to give you
a fair idea of my exalted post in the Department of Justice, I must
confess that my path does not frequently cross that of the Attorney
General. You see, I am sort of a Republican spy in the Department
of Justice. P'm just about holding my own. Frankly, it’s lots of fun.

J am writing this account on October 29, 1962. This is the Mon-
day morning following the Cuban crisis when the Russians agreed
to withdraw their missile sites from Cuba. Certainly, we all feel a
sense of relief for the moment. But, this gets me back to where I
started. Don’t we have to re-examine some of our premises? Frankly,

I feel that we, in the United States, are a little too self-righteous.

I recall visiting with Joe Kennedy in the spring of 1941 after, or
before, I forget which, the Democratic National Convention. Joe
was not a close friend; but, as we all know, especially those from
Winthrop House, he had natural warmth, which was hard to resist.
When I told him I was going into the Navy, he told me of his plans

to be a Navy pilot. He even suggested: “You should do the same.”
My response, “Fell, no Joe; I don’t want to get killed.” And, as of

[ 434 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

today, I still don’t like the Warfare State. Finally, what are my
religious convictions? I believe my convictions can be summed up in
this way. I am told that the Puritan fathers of our Country, and our
University, feared nothing but God. I am wondering if future his-
torians will write of this generation — they feared everything but
God. Personally, I intend to stick with the Puritans.

GEORGE LOWELL EMERSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Rochester St., Scottsville, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: North High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938, M.D. (Univ. of Rochester),
1942.

marrieD: Marion Hamilton Storey, Aug. 12, 1943. CHILDREN: Jon Andrew, July
21, 1947; Lynn Storey, Jan. 25, 1952.

occuPATION: Private practice of thoracic surgery; clinical assistant professor of
thoracic surgery and radiology.

MEMBER OF: American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Upstate Society of

Thoracic Surgery; American Thoracic Society; American College of
Surgeons.

AFTER receiving an M.D. at the University of Rochester in 1943,
received hospital. residency training at Strong Memorial Hospital,
culminating in chief general surgical residency i in 1945. In 1947 held
thoracic surgical residency at Grace-New Haven Hospital. Since
1948 in private practice in the Rochester, New York, area.

Live in a village south of Rochester in an 18:0 Greek Revival
home with wife (Marion Storey Emerson, A.B, M.D., Stanford
University ) and two children, Jon (fifteen) and 1. vin (te n). Hunt-
ing, skiing and woodwork occupy spare time until summers on an
island in the Penobscot Bay bring life on the sale water.

[435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CHARLES KANE ENDLER

    

HOME AppDRESS: 58 Belcher Ave., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: City Realty Co., 106 Main St., Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Lillian Cynthia Berger, Feb. 25, 1940. CHILDREN: Dorothy, Oct. 15,
1942; Alan, Jan. 23, 1945; Richard, Aug. 24, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Real estate management; manager, City Realty Company.

MEMBER OF: Old Colony Harvard Club; United Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

I WRITE this in all modesty, as I cannot think of myself at all in
the same class with those who have attained fame or riches, and
have done so much more since leaving school. Yet I feel that I have
had the good fortune to have acquired some degree of success while
J am still young.

After several years in the steel business, I entered the real estate
field after the Second World War, and have since taken my place
among the average, stable citizens in the City of Brockton. My
political and religious leanings are liberal, and my interests in the
community have been in the usual PTA and various civic and social
organizations.

The companionship of a loving wife and the satisfaction of rear-
ing three wonderful children have given me a full, happy and well-
rounded home life of twenty-three years. My daughter Dorothy
plans to be married to Morton Polsky on December 16, 1962.

Time has increased for me a desire for the simpler things in life, a
taste for good food, an appreciation of the value and importance of
family ties and sincere friends, and a hope that one of my children
may have the good fortune of receiving the opportunity of a Har-
vard education. Over these years I have retained all my teeth, most

[ 436 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of my hair and some of my interest in reading. My one regret lies
in having lost contact with most of my schoolmates and not having
been able to attend class reunions, yet I yearn for bits of news about
them both.

If events of the last twenty-five years are in any way symbolic of
the trend of what the next twenty-five will be like, then I shall be
content to say that life has gifted me with much of its fruit.

WILLIAM CHARLES ENGERT

    

HOME ApprEss: 745 Esther Rd., Cleveland 24, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jos. T. Ryerson & Son, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Shaker Heights High School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Betty Jean Hawley, Aug. 6, 1949. cHitp: Harry Camerson, 2d, Dec.
30, 1951.

occupation: Steel.

{ 437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN WEBER ERHARD

   

HOME AbpREsS: 162 Cherry St., Wenham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chace, Whiteside & Winslow, Inc., 24 Federal St., Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MaRrRIED: Joan Francis Williams, April 19, 1949. CHILDREN: Joan Forbes, June
10, 1950; John Weber, Jr., June 1, 1951, Pierre Bobet, 2d, Aug. 21, 1952;

Nancy Alker, Feb. 16, 1955; Thomas Alker, March 6, 1956, Edward Wil-
liams, June 7, 1960.

occupation: Investment banking; registered representative.

OFFICES HELD: Commanding officer, VP Fasron 915, 1949-52; commander, Fleet
Air Detachment Trinidad, BWI, 1950-52; commanding officer, Patrol
Squadron 912, Organized Reserve, 1955-58; captain, USNR; member, Re-
publican Town Committee, Wenham, Mass., since 1960, Town of Wenham

Special Building Committee, since March, 1962; member of corporation
and trustee, Brooks Hospital, since May, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Boston Investment Club, Manchester Yacht Club; Wenham His-
torical Association and Museum, Inc.

AFTER graduation I entered the Naval Aviation Cadet program and
thus began a period of seven and a half years which were literally
crammed full of personal thrills and excitement. But there are
memories also of the many close associations made closer by the
exigencies of the moment, and of the many occasions for great ad-
miration and respect born of dependence on others and strengthened
oy realization of a common effort.

Most of the barriers which in normal life may tend to keep people
ipart became less important. Opportunities to observe, enjoy and
derhaps to gain a better understanding of other ways of life were
sountless. There were the “sand crabs” of Pensacola, a fascinating

[ 438 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

diversity of people throughout the Caribbean, the “Goofie Newflies”

of Newfoundland, the Eskimos in Labrador and Greenland, the

Hawaiian “eyes,” and those remarkable and practical souls, “me no

keep Jap me like big white master you bring calico please fella,”

of the South Pacific.

Next came a brief period of activity in the area of international
relations. The International Civil Aviation Organization is a technical
rather than a political arena, its purpose being to set standards and
operating procedures for controlling international air trafic. There
were very practical reasons why the major effort was to reach unan-
imous not just majority agreement among the members. Obviously,
a plane can’t safely fly all over the world and have the rules changed
each time it crosses some invisible border. It was intriguing to work
daily with so many people from other nations and to observe the high
degree of cooperation that existed here, where there was a common
purpose. It is significant that the U.S.S.R. would not join ICAO and
perhaps even more so that they felt compelled, nevertheless, to send
observers.

After eighteen months of hard labor, I left ICAO on July 4th and
returned to Boston to learn how to handle other people's money
in a prudent manner. I think it was also prudent, but I know it was
fortunate, that at the same time I joined a Naval Reserve Aviation
Squadron. But for this, I should never have met a girl named Joan,
who had left the Midwest, to visit her sis, who was renting a flat,

which was owned by a guy, who had joined the same group, and
who brought Joan along, to our annual fete, of wine, women and
song, and thence to the house that John built! Of course joining
the Organized Reserve also ripened me for plucking by the Navy
when Korea came along.

So it was back to active duty, along with Joan, one child, mv
whole Squadron, and lots of luck for a tour of duty on that remark-
able Island of Trinidad. My memory of Trinidad is one of colorful
scenery, colorful people and colorful speech. Here the Minister of
Labor appropriately enough had sixteen children. And is there really
a more expressive phrase for a pregnant woman than “Ah, she makin
baby”?

Then came a tour of duty on the Statf of the Atlantic Fleet in
Norfolk. No combat here either but many interesting and stmu-
lating experiences. " ~

After Korea we returned to Boston, myself to the general buanes
of investments and Joan to the general business of coping with an

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

expanding family. We are fortunate in having the facilities as wel
as the inclination for emphasizing the outdoor life. As the cold move:
in we look forward to skating and skiing, and as the snow thaws, it
is swimming, tennis and sailing. Of course there is never enough time
for the pursuit of all our interests, but life is still stimulating, so there
is never a dull moment.

DOUGLAS ERICKSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3952 Douglas Rd., Coconut Grove 33, Fla.
OFFICE appress: West India Shipping Co., Inc. P.O. Box 10355, West Palm
Beach, Fla.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1938.
marnriED: Irina Cantacuzene, Oct. 5, 1945. CHILDREN: Douglas, Jr., June 29, 1946;
Irina, Oct. 30, 1948; Michael, Feb. 3, 1952.
occuPATION: President, Bahamas Tractors & Equipment, Ltd. (heavy equipment
dealers for Bahama Isles); vice-president, West India Lines, Inc. (ship
owners and operators).
MEMBER OF: India House, New York; Coral Reef Yacht Club, Miami; Benedicts,
Miami, Harvard Varsity Club, Cambridge; Owl Club, Cambridge; Hasty
Pudding, Cambridge; Loyal Legion, Boston; Mayflower Descendants.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a long period of time to condense into
sufficiently few words to allow those interested in perusing activi-
ties of all classmates to digest. Nine hundred and fifty 1938 gradu-
ates times twenty-five years is 23,750 years worth of reading! So,
as briefly as possible:

It was not many months after graduation that I joined my two
brothers in forming a solar evaporated salt producing company at
Great Inagua Island in the Bahamas. When it started we were the

[ 440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

only industry on the island, and because of this lack of services we
soon found ourselves involved in operating a commissary for the
dual purpose of supplying the population with food and clothing
as well as allowing the parent company to purchase equipment at
dealer prices. Shipping was the next problem; no vessels called at
the island to deliver freight, so a modest ship operation followed.
Finally, to cover the salt market and dispose of the prime product a
sales organization was founded in New York. During this period I
saw considerable travel back and forth, but base was always Inagua.

Each of the foregoing had no sooner commenced to develop than

the War was upon us. The Government commandeered our steamer
that exported the salt and no others were available for similar rea-
sons, so a brief effort was made to build a plant to extract magnesium,
a priority item, from seawater. Various reasons stopped this short of
completion, so I entered the Navy, spent some weeks in Washington
becoming a photographic interpretation “expert” and was sent to
the Pacific to follow the profession on the Lexington and Jater
with ComPhibsPac.

During my last weeks in Washington, Irina Cantacuzene, whom
I had been courting between her O.S.S. activities, and I felt then
was as good a time as any to be married. Resultantly, I combined
Navy orders with a wedding trip, paused in Chicago long enough
for the ceremony to take place at her home and we went to the
West Coast.

Discharge from the Navy and re-entry into civilian life left
Irina and myself some choices, but we elected to continue with
Inagua, which we did up to 1956. In 1954 the salt firm merged with
Morton Salt Company, which proved to be a happy marriage since
they required increased production and we, increased sales. (I trust
all you readers are using the blue package with the little girl and
“When it rains, it pours!)

Through these years all the Caribbean became a burgeoning
area. Industry of every nature moved into many of the islands with
tourism taking the lead. This meant much to be sold and shipped in
the line of heavy equipment and other commodities. To enter some
of these fields we split from Inagua all but salt, which was Morton's
sole interest, and established equipment dealerships in Nassau and
Haiti and based our shipping company in Miami under a partner who
had joined my brothers and me some years previously.

1956 was a particularly interesting year for me. The first part
I spent in New Zealand and Australia surveying the solar evaporated

C44t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

salt industry for Morton, the middle part touring Europe with Irina,
and in the last we decided to join the shipping operation, which had
grown considerably. Miami has been our home since.

In retrospect Inagua was a most unusual place, by stateside
standards life was a pioneering type for the relatively small group
of Americans who were the only non-natives. Self-sufficiency was
always required in work and recreation, both of which, for the most
part, were outdoors in a healthy climate. This applied to children
as well as parents, and families were together as a unit more than is
possible in the more “civilized” life of commutation for the husband,
car pooling for the wife and absence from home for the children.
Visitors were fewer in number than we would have wished, but
those that did appear were almost to a man extremely interesting in
some field. Distance in this case tended to replace the wind in the
process of winnowing.

Our present shipping firm is unique and because of this holds for
me great interest. Our specialization is in handling large, heavy
equipment and plant components that individually weigh up to 300
tons with lengths reaching the 200 foot range. Railroad locomotives,
oil drilling rigs, refinery cracking towers, boilers, all destined for
foreign lands, have required trips to survey feasibility and methods
of discharge at terminal points. The latter have included the Straits
of Magellan (some people thought I had a certain amount of sanity
until they learned I went swimming in them), Central America and
three thousand miles up the Amazon. Always, these trips are re-
warding in the vast gamut of places seen and people met.

To end on a good word for Harvard, I must say in truth, it was
here I learned the invaluable ability to be observant when traveling
and to realize that all peoples have some things new, different and
better that can be adapted to our way of life.

[ 442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARTIN SYDNEY ERLANGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Sunset Rd., Rye, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: N. Erlanger, Blumgart & Co., Inc. 181 Madison Ave, New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, Fieldston, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Beth Amy Posner, March 30, 1941. CHILDREN: Steven Martin, Dec. 22,
1942; Barbara Jean, Dec. 18, 1944, Thomas Nathan, Aug. 18, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, treasurer and director, N. Erlanger, Blumgart &
Co., Inc., textile converting business,

A CONFRONTATION with oneself after twenty-five years may
not seem to be as formidable as one with Cuban or Soviet leaders
(cheers for another Harvardian who shall be nameless), and yet it
has its own peculiar hazards. The review of such a period is a one-
sided outlook on history, an individual participation in depression,
war, boom, and peace, a recounting of the more personal construc-
tion of a lifetime.

Our Tenth Anniversary Album recounted the prewar and war-
time phases of our epoch. There is no need to repeat it here. Suf-
fice it to say that I was in the Navy for five years, was sunk once,
and was released at the end of 1945 as a licutenant commander,
safe and more or less sound. I have completed twenty vears in the
Reserve since that time and have left it as a commander.

The years since 1945 have been years of growth, My family has
grown to five in all, with Steve now completing his junior year
(premed) at Johns Hopkins. Barbie graduates from high school
this year, and as a matter of fact, this composition bas been delaved
due to weekends spent in New England and Pennsylvania, visiaing
prospective moulders of her furure. Tom, the youngest member of

[ 443]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

our brood, is a sturdy lad of eleven, now readying for junior high
school. Beth, who has wived and mothered for twenty-one un-
believingly quick-passing years, has been the cornerstone of this
period. Where my life the first ten years centered around the war,
the vagaries of which were controlling, the past fifteen years were
based around the family, with Beth providing inspiration and motiva-
tion for us all.

It has been a fascinating time, and retrospectively thinking of the
usual trials of infrequent sickness and injury, of the celebrations of
triumphs, large and small, of invigorating ski trips every winter
(with Tom never having enough), of stimulating evenings at con-
certs, lectures, theatre or with friends, of vacations abroad and state-
side, I cannot help but wonder both at all of the events which have
taken place and at the speed of the happenings.

The business in which my weekdays are occupied has also grown
in balance, with ups and downs of varying degrees. Thankfully, in
this day of ingenious inventiveness, clothing is still a necessity, and
that commodity still requires fabric. How long this situation will
remain we don’t dare guess, but we still hope to have a function to
perform for a few years to come. Actually our firm celebrated its
own seventy-fifth anniversary in 1952.

A review of this kind seems to be incomplete without one’s ap-
praisal of Harvard’s meaning to us as individuals twenty-five years
later. Perhaps this indicates the growth of us as human beings. I
don’t clearly remember how sure and certain J felt about everything
and everyone in 1938, but I am so very conscious today of having
much greater appreciation of other people’s ideas, principles and
philosophies than in my youth. A large part of this I credit to
Harvard, for her devotion to learning, to probing for new truths,
to constant reprobing of old truths, for her philosophy of never
standing still, I think only maturity can leaven one’s youthful
blind assurance without sacrificing one’s personal ideals. I believe
that Harvard education inculcates this concept, the creation of the

capacity for understanding with compassion. The seed is planted at

college; perhaps even the embryo has formed. It takes only time
and care to bring it out of ourselves,

[ 444 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT GILPIN ERVIN, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1745 Glencoe St., Denver 20, Colo.

HAROLD WATSON ESTEY

 

HOME AvprEss: Red Coach Lane, Locust, N.J.
OFFICE ADpREss: Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, N_J.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.B.A., 1943.
MarRiED: Shirley A. Williams, Oct. 18, 1947.

occuPATION: Marketing manager, medicinal chemicals, Merck Chemical Div
sion,

MEMBER OF: Beacon Hill Country Club; Monmouth Players, Harvard Club of
New York.

AFTER graduating from college, TE spent three years with the Shell
Oil Company doing merchandising work (filling gas tanks) and

C 445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

sales promotion work (“lube” jobs). This fascinating work took
place in Boston and in New Jersey. Then, by chance, Harvard
Business School beckoned. Then I studied the fine art of business
practices et al, and while doing so participated in R.O.T.C. In
March, 1943, I gratefully accepted my Master’s degree in the et al.
department. The Army evidently had heard of my fame in the et
al. department, so I therefore spent some years with the First Army
in Europe and I have a few medals to boot, which I care not to dis-
close here!

When I returned from the European fracas, I joined my uncle’s
firm. This business was pharmaceuticals and I have been associated
with this kind of endeavor ever since.

During this period I met and married a blonde named Shirley Anne
Williams. We changed her name to Shirley Estey on October 18,
1947. For about two years we lived on Beacon Hill, Louisburg
Square, and then moved to New York City. We lived in New York
for almost ten years, from which I commuted daily to my position
with Merck & Company, Rahway. My position with Merck is
presently marketing manager of medicinal products. Although it
takes a great deal of day-in-day-out work, I enjoy carrying out all
the things I was supposed to learn at Business School.

During our life in New York City my wife became accountant
executive and the vice-president of one of New York’s larger ad-
vertising agencies. Shortly after obtaining these heights we moved
to the “trees” as she calls it— but our home — near the ocean in
New Jersey — fits our requirements well.

We usually head off to a point in the West Indies for a winter
vacation, although the past spring we journeyed to Europe — spend-
ing almost four weeks roaming four countries.

At home we belong to a country club, swim club and a theatrical
club. My major interest is golfing after trying to keep up the
grounds and gardening attempt. This briefly covers the twenty-five
years of post-college life. Anything else is subject to being banned
in Boston.

[ 446 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ELMER AMBROSE EVANS

 

HOME ApprREss: 16 Mt. Hood Terr., Melrose, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Malden High School, Salem Street, Malden, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1938; A.M. IN TEACHING,
1946.

MaRRIED: Clara Ethel White, Aug. 18, 1940. cHmpreN: Ethel Belle, July 9, 1941,
Elmer Alan, April 6, 1943.

OccUPATION: Teacher, Malden High School.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Massachusetts Schoolmasters Club.

When I was but a child of three

I heard it on my mother’s knee.

I heard the oft-told tale again

When I was but a lad of ten.

I heard this tale afresh once more,

A callow youth of twenty-four:

“To a Harvard man (his brain no matter)
A sinecure on a silver platter.”

The hungry thirties rolled away,

The booming forties held their sway.

I married a girl called Ethel White,

Dame Fortune smiled on my future bright.
I sired two children, Belle and Al;

But that silver plate was my madrigal.

I toiled in a smithy’s din and clatter

And saw in the fire that silver platter.

I swapped the sledge for a draftsman’s pen
But all I drew was that plate again.

( 447 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

I journeyed west, a dispenser of knowledge;
(The fact is, I got rich brats into college).
That platter was still my Holy Grail

Which I pursued o’er hill and dale.

Me and Sir Launfal had a vision bright;

I almost touched it, but never quite.

The fitful fifties have come and gone,

And I must admit as time goes on

The truth is (and this is most unvarnished)

That silver platter is very tarnished.

The years roll by full five and score,

The sixties have come with the space age roar.
My friends remark (I hope in fun)

“How come you're not in Washington?”

But enough of this idle persiflage.
Dig out the platter, the old mirage.
But this is a warning — don’t tarry too late
Evans is coming, so hide the plate.
Epilogue:
Ere ye this masterpiece asperse
Recall *tis verbata, not for verse.

+ WILLIAM ALEXANDER EVANS, JR.

 

: Nov. 19, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: William Alexander

Z_Laura Robinson.
=4RED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

—8 IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Althea Pardee, May 12, 1939, Hewlett, Long Island, N.Y.

pieD: Aug. 31, 1939, near Woodside, Calif.
WILLIAM ALEXANDER EVANS, JR., played on the Lowell
House squash team while at college and was manager of the Uni-
versity squash team. After college he was employed in the Sunday
magazine department of the San Francisco Chronicle. He was killed
in an automobile accident and was survived by his wife.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Reservoir Lane, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The First National Bank of Boston, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938(39).

marriep: Nancy V. Chapman, Aug. 7, 1943. CHILDREN: John Estabrook, July 16,
1946; Robert Chapman, May 16, 1949; Sarah Virginia, April 14, 1955.

occupation: Assistant vice-president, The First National Bank of Boston, officer-
in-charge, Berkeley Street Branch, 210 Berkeley Street, Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and chairman, Finance Committee, Elizabeth
Peabody House Association, 1958-62; vice-president and secretary, English-
Speaking Union, Boston Branch, 1956-62; trustee and secretary, Chestnut
Hill School, since 1962; finance chairman, Boy Scouts of America, Brook-
line, Mass., 1959-60; incorporator, Brookline Savings Bank, 1951-62; director,
Back Bay Association, since 1962; chairman, Industrial Division, United
Community Fund, Brookline, Mass., 1951.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

HAVING decided on banking as a career, I joined a suburban Boston
bank immediately on graduation and continued there until late 1940,
when, feeling the draft closing in on me, I signed up for the Navy
V-7 program, which gave a commission in three months. This was

[ 449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

good, as I at long last proved to my father that I could be a good
student, graduating number ten in a class of 1500, and also I escaped
a dull job. In March, 1941, I was commissioned ensign, USNR, and
joined Motor Torpedo Boat Squadron One, which went to Pearl
Harbor in September that year. One highlight of my life was as-
suming the morning watch at 0750 on December 7, 1941, and, with
a cup of coffee in my hand, observing (and ducking under strafing
attacks) as the first Japanese planes made their runs on the ships in
the harbor. My World War II career continued in P.T.’s — the
Battle of Midway, a winter in the Aleutians, back to Newport in
1943, Where Nancy and I, newly married, had a wonderful eight
months, while I was assigned as engineering and experimental officer
for all P.T.’s. Then back to the South and Southwest Pacific as
squadron and area commander for a year and a half; good, exciting
duty all the way. At war’s end I returned to the suburban bank and,
after having had command of one hundred officers and 1000 men,
was relegated to the position of assistant clerk to a lady bookkeeper.
Luckily things did improve thereafter to a point where in a period
of five years I had gained officer status, and ran my own department.

During this period I had maintained my Naval Reserve status, by

serving aS commanding officer of two different reserve divisions in
Lawrence and Lowell (the extra money was needed), and, as a re-
sult, was recalled by the Navy in 1952, being assigned as Foreign
Aid-Foreign Liaison Officer for the Bureau of Ordnance, Wash-
ington, D.C., with the rank of commander, USNR. This job was
really fun; Nancy and I rented a house in Georgetown, were on
every embassy party list, as 1 was handing out the munitions to the
foreigners, and met many wonderful, lasting friends. This work also
entailed some traveling, in particular a month-long visit to Yugo-
slavia in 1953, as head of the first naval mission to rebuild their fleet;
there I worked with a magnificent group of dedicated men — more
interested in the sea than in Communism.

In 1954 I returned to Brookline, job hunting — at first with the
firm conviction of never being a banker again; then, The First
National Bank of Boston suggested that I work for them, and I have
been happy ever since. I was first with the consumer credit depart-
ment, and had the responsibility of setting up and developing a
really new type of loan service, originated by The First and now
copied by some 250 banks throughout the country. Now, for the
past three years, I have been in charge of our largest branch opera-
tion — in the Back Bay area of Boston —a stimulating, challenging

[ 450 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

job. In 1959 I attended the Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers
University.

As for home life — our two older children, Jay sixteen and Robert
thirteen, are at boarding school, South Kent and St. Paul’s respec-
tively, Sarah, aged seven, is at home, thoroughly spoiled by her
father. We have two horses which hibernate in Brookline during the
winter, and enjoy Rowley, Massachusetts, with us in the summer,
where we ride, boat, fish and swim. Cats, dogs, birds and fish in abun-
dance, and do-it-yourself projects are a must to offset the pressure of
banking. Nan’s and my escape is annual vacations to the Bahamas for
fishing and skin-diving. Nan being a southerner, it was much easier
to take up skin-diving than persuade her to be a skier.

WALTER ERNEST FAITHORN, JR.

   

HOME apprEss: Whitehall Road, St. Margaret's, Annapolis, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stewart-Warner Corp., 1217 F St, N.W., Washington 4, D.C

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MmarrigED: Eleanor Rand, Feb. 22, 1941 (divorced 1958); Mary Valentine Scort,
July 28, 1958. cuitpreN: Eleanor Perry, May 9, 1943; Elizabeth Dixon, Jan.
25, 1947; Charles Wallace, April 10, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary — Washington manager, Stewart-Warner Cor-
poration; management of the corporation's government business and affairs.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Arthur Dixon Transfer Company of Chicago, since 1940;
president, St. Margaret’s Community Association, 1949, since 1955; district
director, Adlai Stevenson for President, 1952; director, Revel Athletic
Association, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C, Racquet Club of Chicago.

FOR the past several weeks I have burned between the two fires

[450]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

it — at least with me, I hope they as well as the reader will not be
offended by these personal comments, but mindful of the increasin
rate of divorce in our society and the debris it creates, I should like
to observe that, in my opinion, the greatest pain and sorrow of a
divorce is that feeling of personal failure (and often guilt) which
every sensitive member of the family feels regardless of age, status,
or degree of actual responsibility. This, it seems to me, is the reason
why divorce is so difficult for children.

My second wife, Valentine, was also divorced from her first
husband. We have this experience in common, and it would be an
understatement to add that we are very grateful to and for each
other, and we are very happy. This second marriage has greatly en-
larged my family. Her two children, a boy, Bruce, fourteen, and a
daughter, Mary, nine, are my stepchildren, and we have a two-
year-old son, Charlie, whom everyone from all corners of our family
loves, dotes on, delights in, and spoils.

My social, political, and economic convictions (also Valentine’s)
are liberal, most often best represented by the recent-past and pres-
ent leaders of the Democratic Party; and I try to practise my con-
victions constructively in community affairs. The results vary.

As regards pursuits in leisure time, we live near Annapolis, Mary-
land, in the woods on a tidal creek of the Chesapeake Bay. The up-
keep, the improvements, and the refinements of this place are one of
our principal physical hobbies. We also have the opportunity for
a good deal of sailing and general messing around with boats.

When we get away from all this—and the arrangements for
proper sitters and their indoctrination for understanding the psychic
and physical needs of the children, the management of food supplies,
the systems and operations of freezers, dryers, washers, etc., are often
so exhausting as to convert a previously planned vacation of fancy-
free travel and sightseeing into an absolutely necessary rest cure —
we usually try to make the west coast. When there, we divide our
time between the deserts of California and Nevada and the beautiful
city of San Francisco. Trips to New York City ballets, operas, con-

certs, theatres, and restaurants are a very satisfying second choice,

I am grateful for my college years and for the demands and stand-
ards of Harvard for many reasons; chief among them are my con-
tinuing interests in music and reading. I wish I had gone on to grad-
uate school and a profession; 1 hope my son Charlie will.

Facing the fact that two Harvard men whom I much admire,
L. Bernstein and J. F. Kennedy, graduated in classes younger than

[454 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ours, I confess to some feelings akin to chagrin, but I am also grateful
to Harvard for what she may have done to develop and sharpen
their respective great talents and capacities.

*r HORACE RAPHAEL FALK

 

BORN: Jan. 8, 1916, Leominster, Mass. PARENTS: Morris Falk, Bessie Horowitz.
PREPARED AT: Leominster High School, Leominster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: $.B., cum laude, 1938.

piED: Killed in flight, Aug. 29, 1945, over Japan.

HORACE RAPHAEL FALK was associated with a manufacturing
company in Fitchburg, Massachusetts, before entering the Army.
He was commissioned in September, 1941, trained at Fort Lee, Vir-
ginia, and assigned to the New Orleans Port of Embarkation. Later
he transferred to the Army Air Forces and was sent to kelly Field,
Texas, and commissioned as first lieutenant. In January, 1943, he
entered Aerial Navigation School in Hondo, Texas, and later became
an instructor with the 80th Bombardier Training Group. In Febru-
ary, 1945, he was assigned to Davis Monthan Field, Tucson, Arizona,
for transfer to the Pacific theatre. He was promoted to captain in
August, 1944. Attached to the 73d Bomb Wing based on Saipan,
he navigated many missions. On August 29, 1945, two weeks after
the Japanese surrender, he was on a mercy flight to Japan, carrying
relief supplies to American prisoners of war, when his plane crashed.
He was survived by his parents.

[455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EDWARD INDERRIEDEN FARLEY

 

HOME AppRESS: 1141 N. Green Bay Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 700, 401 N. Wabash Ave., Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Jane Thomson, Jan. 27, 1945. CHILDREN: Jane, Feb. 19, 1946; Edward
Inderrieden, Jr., Jan. 31, 1949; Alexander T., Sept. 3, 1952.

OccuPATION: Publishing; vice-president and director, Field Enterprises, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.; Fay School, South-
boro, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Various societies.
PUBLICATIONS: PT Patrol.

I MOVED to Chicago from New York in September, 1961, to work
for Field Enterprises, Inc. It was a big decision but one that has
meant most interesting work and pleasant living for all five Farleys
in Lake Forest.

My work, financial and administrative in nature, exposes me to
the many interesting sides of journalism and educational publishing.
Added to this is the satisfaction of a close association with an old
friend and classmate who has given generously of ability and self
to achieve high standards in both fields.

Prior to moving here I worked in New York at insurance and
finance and before that spent five years in the Navy, an account of
which is contained in PT Patrol, now a paperback, written by me,
published by Popular Library and something you should read.

Our kids are growing up much too fast. Jane, Jr, sixteen, is a
delightful enigma, Ed, thirteen, is at Fay and a good tennis opponent

or partner and crew member; Alexander, ten, is a great little guy
and so, we have decided to keep all of them.

[ 456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For three or four weeks each summer we all go to Jones Point,
a family place near Waldoboro, Maine. There we enjoy enormously
the pine forests, the islands and bays of Muscongus and cruising
in the Flying Passage. All that passes too swiftly each summer.

Naturally, the most important single concern in this twenty-five
years has been the wars hot and cold. We must roll back the Com-
munist tide successfully and peacefully, if possible. The price of
preserving freedom grows with each passing year and the danger of
losing it increases also. To the accomplishment of this goal each of

us should hope to make a substantial contribution in whatever way
we can.

LEONARD FARMER

 

MAILING ApprEss: Appletree House, P.O. Box 212, East Canaan, Conn.

[457]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DON WAYNE FAWCETT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Wamesit Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., C7 laude, 1938; M.D., 1942.

MARRIED: Dorothy Marie Secrest, July 19, 1941. CHILDREN: Robert Secrest,

Oct. 15, 1942; Mary Elaine, July 20, 1946; Donna Louise, Jan. 4, 1950;
Joseph Carlos, Oct. 31, 1957.

occupation: Physician and medical educator, Hersey Professor of Anatomy
and chairman, Dept. of Anatomy, Harvard Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: Surgical intern, Massachusetts General Hospital, 1942-43, research
fellow, Harvard Medical School, 1946; instructor, 1946-48, associate in
anatomy, 1948-51, assistant professor, 1951-55, professor of anatomy, 1955-
59, Cornell Medical College; curator, Warren Anatomical Museum, since
1961; James Stillman Professor of Comparative Anatomy, since 1962;
member, board of editors, American Journal of Anatomy, since 1957,
Journal of Cell Biology, since 1959; vice-president, American Association
of Anatomists, 1958-59, Tissue Culture Association, 1954-55; president,
American College for Cell Biology, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Anatomists; Histochemical Society;

American Society of Mammalogists, American Society for Cell Biology;
American Society of Zoologists, Electron Microscope Society of America;
Harvey Society; Canadian Association of Anatomists (honorary member),
Anatomical Society of Mexico (honorary member); American Academy
of Arts and Sciences (fellow); Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York.

PUBLICATIONS: About seventy-five publications in various medical and biological
journals; co-author of Textbook of Histology.

AFTER graduation I went on to Harvard Medical School. Emerg-
ing four years later with the M.D. degree, I was allowed to serve a
year’s surgical internship before being called into active duty in the
medical corps. Iwo and a half years as a battalion surgeon in the
Furopean Theatre gave me time to reconsider my career objectives

[458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and to discover that the practice of medicine interested me less than
research and teaching. After the war, therefore, I returned to the
Medical School as a research fellow and gradually worked up the
academic ladder to assistant professorship, while pursuing a research
career in microscopic and comparative anatomy.

With the development of the electron microscope, I became fasci-
nated with its application to study of the structural organization of
cells and tissues. After a brief period as a visiting investigator in this
field at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, 1 was invited
to Cornell Medical College in New York as professor of anatomy
and chairman of the Department. We lived in Pelham and enjoyed
four very pleasant years there, but the prospect of commuting on the
New Haven for another twenty years was not a happy one, and
when the opportunity came to return to Harvard, we were sur-
prised and greatly pleased. Here, each fall, I have the privilege of
teaching the most stimulating and responsive medical students in the
country, and have excellent facilities for pursuing my research. I
still have no sense of accomplishment in carrying out my adminis-
trative duties, and I regret that these occupy an increasing propor-
tion of my time. I continue to get my greatest satisfaction from ex-
ploring the new world of biological structure, which the electron
microscope has opened up.

The family has grown to four which range in age from four to
twenty. Dorothy and I, therefore, have to deal concurrently with
all the problems that beset the young from kindergarten to college.
I think that we made fewer mistakes with the upbringing and edu-
cation of each succeeding child, and with the accumulated ex-
perience of four we could probably do a reasonably good job with

a fifth, but then neither of us could face all those P. EA. and scout
meetings again.

[ 459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT WHITTEMORE FAWCETT

RE ms,
ee
og agp

 

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Oakland St., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Robert Fawcett & Son Co., Inc., 360 Portland St., Cambridge
41, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Patricia Lee Redman, Aug. 23, 1941. CHILDREN: Robert Redman, Sept.
13, 1942; Michael St. Croix, Sept. 13, 1945; Courtney Whittemore, Feb. 13,

1948.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Robert Fawcett & Son Company, Inc.,
retail fuel company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of the board, Better Home Heat Council, Inc.; prest-
dent, Independent Oil Men’s Association, New England Fuel Institute,
Cambridge Rotary, chairman, Advisory Committee, Cambridge Salvation
Army; trustee, Lesley College.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

UPON graduation from Harvard, I entered the family fuel busi-
ness and have spent my entire business career in the development of
this business. We have branches throughout metropolitan Boston
and as far north as Methuen, Massachusetts, and as far west as Ayer,
Massachusetts.

During this time I have been actively engaged in tennis, boating
and skiing. I have a farm in Williamsville, Vermont; a house in
Duxbury, Massachusetts, and a winter residence in Lexington,
Massachusetts. My life has been pretty much devoted to the de-
velopment of my business and the enjoyment of my family. We
have three children all of whom are ardent tennis players and skiers.
My elder boy, Bob, is entering the freshman class at the University
of North Carolina this year; my second son, Michael, is a junior at

[ 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tabor Academy; and my daughter is a senior in the Lexington Junior
High School.

DAVID EDWARD FELLER

    

HOME ADDRESS: 7106 Laverock Lane, Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE appress: Feller, Bredhoff & Anker, 1001 Connecticut Ave, N.W., Wash-
ington 6, D.C.

PREPARED AT: William Penn High School, Harrisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., #iagna cum laude, 1938; 1L.B., magna
cum laude, 1941.

mMarriED: Gilda Halpern, June 29, 1947, CHILDREN: Fred, Feb. 13, 1949; Daniel,
Oct. 19, 1950; Joseph, Aug. 9, 1953; Jonathan, April 18, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer in law and economics, University of Chicago, 1941-423
associate general counsel, United Steelworkers of America, 1949-60; Con-
gress of Industrial Relations, 1949-55, and Industrial Union Department,
AFL-CIO, 1955-60; director, NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund,
Inc.; secretary, American Travel Association.

MEMBER OF: Various legal bars and bar associations; National Capital Demo-
cratic Club.

AS a result of an extremely unlikely series of coincidences I find
myself, twenty-five years after graduation, very happily engaged
in doing pretty much the kind of work I wanted to do when I
entered college. I say “coincidences” advisedly. I have never been
able to explain satisfactorily to fledgeling lawyers, who as a matter
of conviction want to represent unions, how one goes about getting
into this business. My only answer has been the very unsatisfactory
one of recounting how I became a labor lawyer.

I went to college a “liberal” with idealistic (and not very well
formulated) notions about working for a cause while making a

[461]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Lee Pressman — who wouldn’t see me when I was job hunting in
1941 —had been fired by Philip Murray. His successor, an un-
known named Arthur Goldberg, had hired Harris and was looking
for another lawyer. He wanted a man who was competent to
handle appellate briefing, who had some knowledge of the Supreme
Court, and who wasn’t a Communist. For some reason, Harris
thought I would do and recommended me. I have been forever
grateful.

The story of the next eleven years is not my story at all, but
Goldberg’s. The relationship between Phil Murray and his lawyer
was an unusual one for the labor movement. Murray gave respon-
sibilities to his lawyer which went far beyond the law. At the same
time, he respected his lawyer’s independence. And Goldberg was a
man who would accept responsibility but insist on independence.
And so, working for and with Goldberg, we were not only attorneys
but counsellors for the part of the labor movement we served.

For the Steelworkers there was not only litigation and advice but
active participation in collective bargaining and internal union affairs.
For the C.I.O. we were given a broad responsibility in implementing
its constitutional purpose to “extend our democratic institutions and
civil rights and liberties, and thus to perpetuate the cherished tradi-
tions of our democracy.” This meant everything from filing briefs
against school segregation and the excesses of the McCarthy period
to preparing the cases for the expulsion of the Communist unions
from the C.I.O. and working in the organization of the new unions
created to replace them.

In 1953 we moved out of the C.I.O. offices into our own space
and made ourselves available to other clients, while continuing the
same kind of relationship with the C.I.O. and the Steelworkers. In
1955 there was the merger with the A.F.L. and then, in 1957, a new
set of responsibilities in connection with the Ethical Practices Com-
mittee and the expulsion of the Teamsters. In 1959 there was the
great steel strike and its hectic litigation.

After the 1960 election, Goldberg left to become Secretary of
Labor and I, with my partners, took over the general counselship
of the Steelworkers and the Industrial Union Department of the
AFL-CIO. We have kept the same shop open doing pretty much
the same business. We have, in the past year, contributed to the
achievement of some innovations in collective bargaining, and we
have maintained our foothold as appellate specialists in the field of
labor litigation.

[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It has been a good life. I’m not rich but I haven’t wanted. Ive
been doing work I| enjoy in support of things I believe in, and I’ve
been paid for it.

My only real complaint is a concomitant of my good fortune.
Work has been too attractive. My wife —a Radcliffe contemporary
of my years at the law school whom I met in Washington after the
war — deserves, although she probably would not tolerate, a hus-
band whose principal interest in life is making her happy. My four
exuberant, noisy, assertive (and wonderful) sons sometimes need
a father who is around the house considerably more often. And my
own cultural life has been far more limited than I should have liked.
But these things, being known, will I hope be rectified.

My vision of the future comprehends no conquest of new worlds.
I have, I am afraid, lost some but not all of my capacity to respond
to causes. But I have gained in return an insight into the importance
of not being so earnest. I may even —if steel negotiations are over,
the AFL-CIO Executive Council is not meeting, ‘and we don’t have
any cases being heard — be able to make the Reunion.

ARTHUR RODNEY FERRERA

 

HOME apprEss; 16 Bowman St., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: James Ferrera & Sons, Inc., 426 E. First St., South Boston 27,
Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938,

MarriED; Mildred G. Rugg, Sept. 9, 1944. chitpren: Kenneth Grant, Dec. t,
1945; James Howard, June 24, 1958.

OccUPATION: President, James Ferrera & Sons, Inc, food distributor.

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICES HELD: President, First United Super Market Service; vice-president, New
England Wholesale Food Distributors Association; director, J. F. Realty

Company, Nazareth Food Association of Massachusetts; incorporator,
Home for Italian Children,

MEMBER OF: Psychological Warfare Flight, 9228th Air Reserve Squadron.

AT first, the prospect of reviewing twenty-five years was not very
appealing, for, like Satchel Paige, I dislike looking back. Once
started, however, it turned out to be a relatively uncomplicated task.

My first few years were spent working as little as possible. Just
enough, perhaps, to support an automobile and a healthy appetite
for golf and tennis. It was during one of several visits to a resort in
the New Hampshire hills that I met the lovely girl who was to give
purpose and direction to my life. Our ensuing courtship was
interrupted briefly by a call from the Air Force. But, in the fall of
1944, during a short leave, we managed to be married and spent the
next few years happy but unsettled. In the spring of 1950, we found
the home we had yearned for in the countryside of Lexington.

From this semi-rural vantage point, I drive by the Square at least
twice daily and manage to visit Widener at least as often as during
my undergraduate days.

Although my training was in philology, my vocation has always
been business. The challenges of food distribution, in particular,
have interested me, and I’ve spent all the postwar years building a
modern food distributing organization. The emphasis is primarily on
offering service and assistance to independent operators rather than
on selling product. At this stage of development, I’m happy to say
that the results have been promising. Our company and many others
like it throughout the nation have helped raise food wholesaling
from the primitive stages of the ’30’s and early ’40’s to the respected
position it holds today as the most dynamic component of the na-
tion’s largest industry.

Although the demands on my time have been generally excessive,
there are compensations. Opportunity for travel is one. Recently a
business trip took me to Europe. When my mission was completed,
I indulged myself to a full week’s sojourn in my beloved Florence.

Since then, I’ve seen the River Arno and the Ponte Vecchio many
times.

The combination of late office hours, professional committees
and Air Reserve commitments has begun to restrict participation
in civic affairs, although I am still on the rosters of several voters’
groups. Mildred is the family representative for P.T.A. and benefit

[ 466 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

drives. Our proudest possessions are our two sons. Healthy and
well-adjusted, they’ve given us nothing but pleasure since they
were born. Ken hopes to enter Harvard this year. Our tastes are
relatively conservative; our religion is Roman Catholic and as a
rule we vote Republican. We are keenly aware of and con-
cerned with foreign affairs, supporting policies that contain Com-
munism and assist man’s desires for freedom.

I can’t determine how much I owe Harvard. It may suffice to
state that it has been a major factor in my life since I was eighteen
and that my debt keeps increasing.

LEWIS WILLIAM FIELD

 

LAST KNOWN AppREsS: 420 Lexington Ave., Room 844, New York 17, N.Y. (Lost.)

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MARSHALL FIELD, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 2430 Lakeview Ave., Chicago 14, Ill.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Field Enterprises, Inc., 401 N. Wabash Ave., Chicago 11, Ill.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938; LLB. (Univ,
of Virginia), 1941.

MARRIED: Joanne Bass, June 20, 1938 (divorced 1947); Katherine Woodruff,
May 12, 1950. CHILDREN: Marshall, 3d, May 13, 1941; Joanne, Nov. 1, 1942;
Frederick Woodruff, June 1, 1952; Katherine Woodruff, Aug. 11, 1954;
Barbara Woodruff, Oct. 1, 1957.

HARVARD SON: Marshall Field, 3d, 63.

occuPATION: Publisher; president, Field Enterprises, Inc.; president and pub-
lisher, Chirago Sun-Times, president, publisher and editor, Chicago Daily
News.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Field Foundation, Inc.; director,
Marshall Field & Company, First National Bank of Chicago; trustee, Art
Institute of Chicago, Chicago Natural History Museum, Presbyterian-St.
Luke’s Hospital, University of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: American, Illinois and Chicago Bar Associations, Chicago Press
Club; Sigma Delta Club; Chicago: The Casino, Chicago Club, Commercial
Club of Chicago, Harvard Club of Chicago, Mid-America Club, Old Elm
Club, Onwentsia, Racquet Club of Chicago; New York: Harvard Club of
New York, Racquet and Tennis Club of New York, River Club of New
York, Brook Club; Boston: Fly Club; Washington, D.C.: Burning Tree,
Metropolitan Club, University Club; Florida: Jupiter Island Club, Seminole
Club, Cultural and other: Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, Chicago
Historical Society, Navy League of the United States, Orchestral Associa-

tion, Ravinia Festival Association.
ANYONE who recalls our sessions on the top floor at 59 Plimpton
Street will remember my preoccupation with government, law,
politics and economics (as well as other things). So it was fairly
natural that I should go on to a law degree from the University of

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Virginia and to an appointment as a law clerk in the Circuit Court
of Appeals.

Shortly after I took the job, however, it began to look as though
the country were headed for serious trouble, and I volunteered and
went through the Navy’s V-—7 process. That resulted after Pearl
Harbor in a long two years on the Enterprise in the Pacific where
my duty worked out to be one of the clay pigeons for Kamikazes
determined to score a flat top.

The war made a lot of things look different. My basic interests
were unchanged, but it seemed to me that I could bring whatever
interest I had in government and politics to bear better through
journalism and mass media than through the law. My father in
1941 had launched a morning daily called The Chicago Sun to try
to challenge the monopoly position, both as to circulation and
opinion, held by The Chicago Tribune in Chicago, By 1946 the
competition was so fierce that I couldn’t resist joining in.

Knowing little about the practical production and distribution of
a newspaper, I decided to learn as much as I could as fast as I could,
and especially remember trying to get printer’s ink out of my hair
and the swearing and cuffing of the newspaper truck driver whose
tailgate I rode. So far as I could tell he didn’t know — or care —
that he was educating the publisher’s son.

Meanwhile we had acquired the Chicago Titmes, and a year or so
Jater merged it with The Sun to produce a newspaper in tabloid
size called the Chicago Sun-Times. By 1950 I had acquired enough
confidence in my own grasp of the business, and our board of direc-
tors apparently had acquired enough in me, to let me take on the
duties of editor and publisher of the Sun-Times. If three years from
truck to front office seems like a short time, I cheerfully ‘admit that
the distance between the tailgate and driver’s seat is shorter for the
one who owns the truck.

By 1953 we had outgrown the Chicago Times plant — The Sun
never had a plant of its own —and I had reached what was for me
an important decision. Having knocked about the world a good
deal, I came to realize that Chicago and the midwest were where I
wanted to live and cast my lot. It was where my great-grandfather
got his start almost exactly a century before, and to live and work
here seemed highly appropriate to me. My wife, Katherine Wood-
ruff Field, is a native of Joliet and Chicago and she agrees heartily

with the decision.

At this point I had to make a tough economic judgment. The un-

[ 469 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

GEORGE EDWARD FILION

 

HOME ADpRESS: 9 Saltonstall Pkwy., Salem, Mass.

oFFICcE aADpRESS: Phillips School, 86 Essex St., Salem, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Salem Classical and High School, Salem, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., ™lagna cum laude, 1938; A.M. IN
TEACHING, 1940.

UN MARRIED.

occupation: Grammar school principal.

WINSLOW BOARDMAN FISHER

 

mas: May 25, 1916, Winthrop, Mass. parents: Fred Winslow Fisher, Elinor
Young,

rurvansn at: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass,

SAMO IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938.

tien: April 17, 1938, Winthrop, Mass.

WINSLOW BOARDMAN FISHER was in his senior year at
college with our class when he died. Ele was survived by his parents.

[472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN THOMAS FITZPATRICK

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1621 Ridgeview Rd., Charleston, W. Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Union Carbide Chemicals Co., South Charleston, W. Va.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Salt Lake City, Utah.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938; s.M. (Univ. of
Illinois), 1939; PH.D. (ibid.), 1941.

MARRIED: Margaret Elizabeth Hammons, Nov. 20, 1954. CHILDREN: John Francis,
Feb. 4, 1956; Mary Elizabeth, Oct. 10, 1957.

occuPATION: Research associate — organic chemicals, Union Carbide Chemicals
Company.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I did graduate work at Illinois in chem-
istry. I then went to work for General Aniline, but quickly decided
I didn’t want to be a dye chemist and switched to Union Carbide,
where I’ve been ever since.

My work has been on catalysts, aromatic chemicals and most
recently on agricultural chemicals; most of my last few years have
been spent in trying to shepherd a new insecticide (called sevin, for
obscure reasons) into commercial production, Though this identi-
fies me closely in Miss Carson’s mind with the Borgias, it seems to
me to be a good thing to do.

[473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

LAURENCE SMITH FLAHERTY

 

HOME ApbrEss: 44 Common St., Waltham, Mass.

OFFICE AporFss: 411 Main St., Waltham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1947.

Maraiep: Miriam Flynn, Feb. 19, 1949.

occupation: Lawyer.

MemsBER oF: Lowell Harvard Club; Waltham-Watertown-Weston-Newton
Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association, Phi Alpha Delta Law
Frarernity; American Judicature Society; Long Meadow Golf Club (di-
rector),

NEARLY twenty-five years ago, I can recall quite clearly the
parade of the Classes to the Stadium for the Yale game. Since then,
even in non-reunion years, I have often managed to find the time to
observe this solemn procession. Once again Miriam and I (un-
fortunatcly we have no children to join us) are looking forward to
participating in this well-organized mob scene — at least we hope to
if the Class manages to tear itself away from the luncheon table in
time.

But Lam getting away from the point that I wanted to make. The
one major impression that I have gained from these reunions is that
the twenty-five-year grads always appear so fat and bald and old.
It made me proud that our class through the years never exhibited
these tendencies. In all modesty, while I frankly admit that I am
entircly unfit for military service, I consider mysclf an otherwise
sound physical specimen. I certainly am not . Well, let’s just
sav T still have my hair.

Law school, naval duty, a position as an attorney in the Antitrust
Division of the Department of Justice and nine years of private

[ 474 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

practice as a partner in the law firm of Flynn & Flynn, together
with thirteen years of a very happy marriage to the former Miriam
Flynn of Waltham, have helped the years slip by in their ever-
increasing tempo.

While many events seem or seemed of great significance and im-
portance to me, none are of sufficient newsworthiness or interest to
bore you with in this Report. As a matter of fact, it is only at our
reunions when I hear world traveling classmates planning a meeting
in Italy, or perhaps in Turkey, and financiers financing and business-
men businessing that I realize how terribly drab my existence must
or should have been. Yet it has been for me neither drab nor boring.
On each such occasion I return to my varied law practice and
pleasant home life with a greater feeling of satisfaction and content-
ment. See you at the Twenty-fifth.

ARCHIBALD McGHEE FOSTER

   

4

|

 

HOME ApbREsSS: 925 Park Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ted Bates & Co.,, Inc., 666 Fifth Ave, New York 19, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MARRIED: Joan Brentano Bersbach, Sept. 23. 1938 cuen: Archibald MeGhee,
Jr July 24, 1944.

occuPATION: Senior vice-president, director, member exccutive committee, Ted
Bates & Company, advertising agency; group head responuble for agency
Service to certain advertisers, agency ofhcer responsible for all agency re-
search activities (consumer, market, statistical, psychological, media).

MEMBeR oF: Brook Club, New York City, Greek Club, Locuse Vallev, NLY.,
Meadowbrook Club, Brookville, N.Y. Lyford Cay Club, Nassau, Bahamas,
Bald Peak Colony Club, Melvin Village. NUL

[475]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN LANGDON FOSTER

 

HOME aporess: Hardie Yacht Basin, Miami 35, Fla.

PREPARED at: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTion: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Senior copywriter, Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborne, 1946-52;

copy group head, McCann-Erickson, Inc., 1952-55.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Marshall Chess Club, New York

City; Island Cruising Club, Salcombe (Devon); National Rifle Association.

WRITING this sort of thing makes you look back. And time is
surely a phantom of a figment, for a quarter century is no time at all.
With utmost vividness I again drift down the Charles in a “narrow,”
gunwales awash with late spring sun. Or chatter with old friends in
the Leverett House Common Room — most of them keen, or some
preposterous, but all, in their varying ways, lovable. Or even stare
again at a returned blue book and wonder why it displays a large
C+ (inscribed in a bold, free hand) when I have patently written a
B exam. Well, there was the Harvard me. Since then there have
been three others.

The Military me. Four years in the Air Force (1942-1946) with
overseas duty on Guam. Dogface to First Looey. In retrospect the
high spots were as instructor in armament where J learned the joys
of (a) performing before a really captive audience and (b) devising
ways to make Icarning fun and therefore faster. The other high spot
came later in the information and education programs where I
actually evolved into a public speaker, Ilow I enjoyed it! Un-
doubtedly there was a “ham” in me, clamoring for release. It had
its day, a good one, and I haven't spoken since.

[ 478 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The Business me. Agency copywriting from 1940 to 1955, with
time out for the war. Luckily I was most concerned with the auto
industry; it was something you could get your teeth into. Even
lived two years in Detroit. Made startling discovery — there are
no problems, there are only people. I found ad-making tremendous-
ly interesting with only two drawbacks. First, as you progress your
time becomes less and less your own. Second, as you rise (I refer to
“raises”) your money becomes less and less your own. This due to
a certain interested Bureau headquarters in Washington.

The Current me. In 1956 I revolutionized my life by chucking al]
the foregoing. Literally, I bought a boat and sailed away. And
that’s how you'll find me now, a “river rat” in Miami, afloat these
past eight years. Frequent trips north up the Inland Waterway for
the summer. Small boating it from Cutler, Maine, to Key West.
Jaunts to the Bahamas. Perhaps somehow tied in with all this is a
fairly recent conversion from paganism to Christianity (Anglican)
which I consider the most important event in my career thus far.
Still single, my approach to domesticity might strike one as leisurely.
It may come to pass, or it may not. I’ve concerned myself with

tomorrows aplenty and might never have realized the wonders of
the present moment, too many of us have never really learned to
value today. I become increasingly aware that eternity itself is but
a stupendous and everlasting now.

VOLNEY WILLIAM FOSTER

 

HOME appress; 335 Green Bay Rd, Lake Forest, Ill
oFFice Avpress: William Blair & Co. 135 S. LaSalle Se., Chicayo, UL,
PREPARED AT: St, Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

[479]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

marritp: Fllen Adair Orr, June 23, 1942. CHILpREN: David Volney, Aug. 30,
1946; Ellen Adair, Jr, June 21, 1949; Sally Orr, June 9, 1951.

occupation: Investment banking, representative, William Blair & Company.

orrices HELD: President, Lake Forest Sports Shop, Inc., since 1946; vestryman,
Church of the Holy Spirit, 1956-69; president, board of trustees, Lake
Forest Country Day School, 1960-62; trustee, Chicago Commons Associa-
tion, 1958-61.

MEMBER OF: Onwentsia Club, Lake Forest; Shoreacres, Lake Bluff, Ill.; Uni-
versity Club of Chicago; Harvard Business School Club of Chicago; Har-
vard Club of Chicago; various business organizations.

NOW, twenty-five years later, it seems time has gone by much faster
in the last fifteen years than the first ten. Is this because my life is
settled? The present is so much like the recent past that once it has
gone, the years become indistinguishable.

I was so very fortunate to persuade my wife to say “yes” — time
was running out in 1942, and we had a war wedding that still holds
the record for least time together, anyway from what I have heard.
She has been my mainstay — first in raising my three children so far
as we have gone, and second in running a family business (my
family), which can only be conducted by females.

I have been a cost accountant, a factory manager, then a sales-
man and “expert” on business systems. The last ten years have been
spent in investment banking. The work can be fascinating and it can
be frustrating. Also sometimes one can very occasionally be restive,
hearing the stories of others, and working to finance their progress
——and wondering: “Could I have taken the risks this man took?”

My three children have been a source of some concern and con-
siderable satisfaction. What parent wouldn't say that? I have en-
joyed the way they each in his own way discover father isn’t the
greatest. I can’t keep up with the mind of the eldest, capable of
Stendhal and Proust; or ski down the hills with the youngest without
falling down; or remember important, sentimental, personal things

like my middle one does.

Community or charitable affairs just naturally seem to take a
night or two a weck, and with the family business on the side, there
often scems to be not enough time for many of the things we thought
of doing, but I am realist enough to know these may be the best
years. To paraphrase the mode] summary I could not emulate: “Like
the dry leaves, the happy days speed by faster.”

I have been back to Harvard only twice in ten years, and look
forward hugely to our meeting in June. It has been a great pleasure

[ 480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to see a number of old classmates move to our town and find them

as delightful as ever, and also to make several friends among class-
mates I didn’t know well in Cambridge.

DAVID ROBERT FOULKES

    
 
 

sremeamanegecsmmncaamyetin Monte 4 Smt

“aR RED TEES PRLS

HOME ApprEss: 29 Atlantic St., Winthrop 52, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1948.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Winthrop Republican Town Committee.

MEMBER OF: Republican Club of Massachusetts; Boston Young Men’s Christian
Association; Massachusetts and Federal bars.

A GENERATION, minus eight, has jetted (I live under a mile from
Logan jetport) by, but I have no events to report. It is easy here
to keep abreast of the specifics in the great growth of Harvard
and I have wondered at its capacity for continuous movement toward
great targets over the years. It leaves one aghast at its splendid deeds
greatly done and disjunctively at the accords reached with its local
critics with a fastidious measure of substance dispensed.

A winter or two ago, a senior, advanced sufficiently so that his
image on Commencement Day could reasonably be projected, visited
me on a matter. He must have had the proper bulges on his person-
ality and interest profile to vie successfully for freshman status, but
he worried about the same worries which disturbed those in his
place in the less benign decade of the thirties. Maturation is a slow
process and in June, when we of 1938 commingle with those of 1963,
a second look may be necessary to separate us.

[481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

I see one or two of us who have remained on the local scene
John Conley who reads the local weekly rebutted from afar wit

devastating exegesis my mild attempts to expound a wise polit
course.

JOHN JAQUITH FOX

a Os
w, ‘s :
™* 7 ee
Reh s

‘
A

 

 

|
|

        

 

“gn is eninge MN Te

MAILING ADDRESS: P.O. Box 849, Bradenton, Fla. (Lost.)

M. BERNARD FOX

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 440 N. Kenter Ave., Los Angeles 49, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

marxiep; Lucy Linder Pope, Oct. 24, 1941. CHILDREN: David Pope, July 21, 19423
Richard Wightman, Nov. 27, 1945,

[ 482 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPaTION: Producer-director, television and motion pictures; president, Ben
Fox Productions, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Executive director, United Nations Association of New England,
1947-49; executive director, Programming & Production, Dumont Tele-
vision Network, 1949-52; between 1948 and 1950: moderator-president,
Brookline Forum, Inc., Brookline Town Meeting Member, trustee, Rivers
School, chairman of scholarship committee, U.S. Figure Skating Associa-
tion; director, International Students Association, Foreign Policy Associa-
tion, Robert Gould Shaw House, Brookline Citizens Committee, National
Conference of Christians and Jews (New England Region), Wellesley
Summer Institute, chairman, Brentwood Parents Scouting Committee, 1956,
1957; currently, co-chairman with Lucy Fox, American Field Service Inter-
national Scholarship Committee for West Los Angeles.

MEMBER OF: Screen Producers Guild, Screen Directors Guild; Academy of
Television Arts and Sciences; Boston Skating Club; Harvard Club of New
York; Riviera Country Club; Bel-Air Bay Club.

ASSETS: Twenty-one-year marriage with Classmate Ralph Pope’s
sister, Lucy; two boys at Cal (Berkeley) and Stanford; a few hun-
dred TV shows; assignments over half the world; California home,
studio, and “20,000 books”; mineral and crystal collection; a grow-
ing understanding of why God created us into this world instead
of directly into heaven!

LIABILITIES: The belief that “Money isn’t everything”; my life-
long temptation of being fascinated by too many things; the govern-
ment’s failure to see the importance of a more favorable tax struc-
ture for Harvard graduates — in the creative arts.

Like most of you, I don’t feel twenty-five years older! Prob-
ably because of what is both the prime asset of a Harvard education
and the second major cause of happiness in the world today. Most
men seem to rush through life without ever discovering their talents
— but Harvard men enjoy the opportunity to do better.

From those first autumn days in the Yard, alert and sensitive minds
like Dean Hanford and Dr. Gordon Allport urged us to expose our-
selves to several fields of thought and practice (it ought to start
earlier in high school!). Perhaps they didn’t intend as varied a
progressive dinner as some of us consumed: pre-med biology, Eng-
lish, geology, The Old Howard, comparative religion, economics,
philosophy, The “Great Champagne Deluge” of Boston Debs; Fine
Arts, Naval Science, U.S. Figure Skating Championships (with An-
thropology Professor Tozzer’s wonderful daughter, Joan), French,

abnormal psychology with Dr. Henry Murray, etc... . But how
else was I ever to decide between medicine and law!

So what’s my record of implementing the Allport-Hanford talents
[ 483 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CHARLES WILLIAM FOY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1553 Mariposa St., Richmond, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Leamington Hotel, Oakland, Calif.
PREPARED AT: University High School, Oakland, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of California, Berkeley), 1940,
MarRIED: Emilie Landefeld, Dec. 14, 1946. CHILDREN: Kathryn, Nov. 3, 1947;

Deborah, Oct. 4, 1950; Timothy, July 26, 1955; Cynthia, Jan. 19, 1957;
Daniel, Jan. 4, 1962.
occuPaTIon: Certified public accountant; hotel auditor.

AFTER freshman year at Harvard worked in various clerical jobs
around San Francisco Bay area in order to earn money to return to
college. Entered University of California at Berkeley in January,
1938, graduated in May, 1940, with an A.B. degree. Major (field of
concentration to you), economics. Attended Boalt School of Law,
University of California at Berkeley, for one year — not noticeably
successfully. Worked as auditor for Navy Department on con-
struction projects for Pacific Naval Bases. Was working on these
contracts — which included one for Pearl Harbor — on December 7,
1941. In Army for over three years as a Signal Corps cryptographer;
most service in England as a member of 8th Air Force.

After discharge worked for a short time for the Veterans Ad-
ministration, where I met my wife. Immediately after marriage,
and since my wife was gainfully employed, resigned from V.A. and
in short time went to work for the then newly formed Trans-Ara-
bian Pipe Line Company, as an accountant. Left Trans-Arabian
during Israel-Arab crisis of 1948. After various jobs as accountant
et al. with likewise various companies decided to enter public
accounting.

Pursuant to this aim attended the Extension Division of the Uni-

[ 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

versity of California, taking various professional accounting courses,
since I had had only elementary accounting while in college. Ob-
tained C.P.A. license in March, 1958, after passing examination in
1957, in first sitting. Since 1953 I have been mainly in public ac-
counting and have tried diligently, if not successfully, to establish
own practice in that field. .

Politically, I am a Democrat with a growing concern over what
seems to me to be a gradual erosion of individual rights and liberties,
granted in the Constitution, by both major parties. My wife and I
are also deeply aware of the hazards of raising children in this era,
and the apparent breakdown of home and parental authority. It
seems to us that many children are being asked to grow up too soon.
I feel that these problems pose a greater danger to our so-called
“American Way of Life” than that of atomic war.

JOSEPH FRANKLIN

    

HOME aAppRESS: 289 Clinton Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 510 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREES: A.B. 1938(39); M.P.H. (Mass. Inst. of
Technology), 1942; M.p. (Boston Univ.), 1950.

MARRIED: Edith H. Goldsmith, Dec. 25, 1941, CHiLDREN: Stephen David, Sept. 2,
1944; Russell Mark, March 7, 1947; Constance Beth, Feb. 8, 1951; Linda
Gail, May 14, 1952.

HARVARD SON: Stephen David Franklin, ’65.

OCCUPATION: Physician (internist).

OFFICES HELD: Member of staff, Boston City Hospital, Massachusetts Memorial
Hospitals, Beth Israel Hospital, Jewish Memorial Hospital, Faulkner Hos-

pital; member of faculty (Dept. of Medicine), Boston University School of
Medicine.

[ 487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Norfolk District Medical Society; Alpha Omega Alpha; American Board of
Internal Medicine (certified).

THE twenty-five years between the above photos have been a
period of passage through many worlds and many lives. Like any
earth-launched vehicle in space travel, the outer shell bears the
stigmata of sundry encounters and the contents have been subjected
to stresses and strains that have shaken them up considerably. My
blast-off was a feeble “poop” that kept me wobbling around the
University for an extra year trying to get oriented on a course.
Enough thrust was finally generated so that with the addition of
fuel from M.LT. in the form of graduate work in health education
and public health it appeared that the bird would fly.

It did. With the addition of an auxiliary guidance system, Edith
H. Goldsmith (Radcliffe ’40) in December of 1941, and acceleration
from passage through four years in the Field Artillery where service
on the instructing staff of the Field Artillery School under one of
my former ROTC instructors — Colonel Bixby — was followed by
service overseas in Italy as adjutant to another former ROTC in-
structor — Colonel Stancisko — and the birth at Fort Sill of my son
Stephen, by the time the active military service and I had parted
company, this vehicle had both direction and thrust.

Three months after separation from the Army, I was in the toils
of first-year medical school chores, I enjoyed it and did well, being
elected as a junior to Alpha Omega Alpha, the honor medical soci-
ety, and in 1950 receiving the Massachusetts Medical Society Award
as “outstanding student exemplifying the qualities of a good phy-
sician.” To show that not all that span was dedicated to career, our
second son, Russell was born in 1947. Graduation in 1950 was fol-
lowed by two years of training in medicine at Boston City Hospital
and two years more at the Boston VA Hospital. The arrivals of our
daughters, Constance and Linda, in 1951 and 1952, completed our
family and an unusual poker hand, two pair to make a full house.

I have been in practice in Boston since 1954 and received the
official seal as a board certified specialist in internal medicine in 1958.

I was in orbit and have been going around in the dizzy circles of
practising medicine, clinical teaching, and the other activities of
houscholder, husband and parent. We are members of the Temple
Sinai Congregation, have a beach place at Allerton, and between
small boat fishing and beach activitics in the summer and “house-
holding.” bridge, friends and practice all year, feel quite fortunate.

[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

To write this without pointing out my greatest hobby and satis-
faction would be a serious omission. I selected this area in which to
practice because I liked it, liked the people, the old friends, the
facilities and the opportunities it offered that major source of my
pleasure, my children. They are in excellent schools, meeting good
folk, enjoying growing up and in so doing making me happy. It
may not be heady, exotic, or fashionable, but it suits me perfectly.
A.O.K.

DEAN FRASER

   

HOME apprEss: 310 Gilbert Ave., Matlock Heights, Bloomington, Ind.

OFFICE apprEss: Bacteriology Dept., Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; s.M. (Univ. of Illinois), 1939;
PH.D. (ibid.), 1941.

MarrieD: Dorothy Keppel, July, 1939 (divorced 1953); Kathryn Linde, April,
1954. CHILDREN: John Derek, June 30, 1944; John Lowell, Jan. 23, 1945;
Barbara Dallas, March 17, 1948.

occupation: Professor of virology, Indiana University.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; Musicians’ Union; Society of Ameri-
can Microbiologists; Koln Bachverein, American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; Alpha Chi Sigma Fraternity, New York Academy
of Sciences; American Institute of Biological Sciences; Kegel Klub Platsch-
Dropp (K6éln), Indiana Academy of Sciences; Society of the Sigma Ni.

PUBLICATIONS: Forty articles, including: “Composition of an Abnormal Protein
Present in Tobacco Plants Infected with Tobacco Mosaic Virus,” Philip
Newmark and Dean Fraser, Journal of the American Chemical Society,
1956; “Reproduction of Bacteriophage T3 in Protoplasts of Escherichia
coli, Strain B,” H. R. Mahler and Dean Fraser, Biochim, Biophys, Acta,
1956; “The Infection of Sub-ccllular Escherichia coli, Strain B, with a DNA
Preparation from T2 Bacteriophage,” Dean Fraser, Henry R. Mahler, Aus-

[ 489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

hearsal that I realized [ did not know what key tuba music is written
in and discovered to my horror that it is in concert. I had been using
French horn fingering. I have, as a result, become so adept at trans-
posing that my chief difficulty now is that I do it without thinking
and then occasionally do it again consciously, with curious results.
The upshot of all of this, however, was membership in the Musicians’
Union and a contract to play Dixieland Jazz for a year in an all white
band performing one night a week in an all negro night club. This
switcheroo proved entertaining; everyone had a wonderful time, and
my addiction to Dixie became permanent. My only problem, in fact,
is that here, as with sacred music, I became an eclectic who admires,
really, only about five bands, starting with King Oliber and running
through Lu Watters to Turk Murphy. In the meantime I have really
given up singing, although I did join the K6ln Bachverein last year,
while on sabbatical, because my voice has not improved with the
years, and while high and loud, is at the best objectionable to a point
that I found it increasingly difficult to accommodate myself, far less
to impose on others.

In the meantime, I have accumulated the usual assortment of ob-
ligations, frailties, crotchets, and convictions. These include two
wives (one at a time); three children, none of whom seems likely to
make it to Harvard for both financial and academic reasons; several
dogs, of whom the current incumbent, Sincerity, is the least dis-
tinguished genetically and the most successful generally; five or six
life insurance policies; a bum knee; a good deal of overweight; and a
jaundiced viewpoint on a number of important subjects. I have
bought and sold several houses, here and there; built one and rebuilt
two, personally, just to prove to myself that a Harvard man can do
anything. I have raised goats, rabbits, chickens, a skunk, three snakes,
white mice, an opossum, guinea pigs, and two of my three children.
With varying degress of success. I really like research, though I am
not convinced that I am very good at it, have strong convictions on
teaching, though I change them periodically, and like the academic
life except that I hate, detest, despise, and abominate examinations
and procrastinate in every possible way when confronted with the

grading of them. Which is exactly why this communication is as

long as it is and no longer. My conscience has finally gotten the upper
hand.

[ 494 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

_ GILBERT FRAUNHAR

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 31 Meeker Rd., Westport, Conn.

+ SAMUEL MAX FREEDMAN, JR.

 

BoRN: Nov. 22, 1917, Dallas, Texas. parENTS: Samuel Max Freedman, Theresa
Baerwald.

PREPARED AT: North Dallas High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

DIED: Sept. 17, 1935, Washington, Mo.

SAMUEL MAX FREEDMAN, JR,, died as the result of an acci-
dent while on his way back to Cambridge for our sophomore year.

[ 495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT WADE FREEMAN

 

HOME aporess: Jackson, N.H.

preparepD at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934, 1935-1938, 1939-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1938(40),

Marrirp: Nancy Parks, Oct. 19, 1946. CHILDREN: Ward Parks, Aug. 26, 1948;
Tamsin, Sept. 22, 1950; Mardi, Jan. 28, 1952.

JAMES MOTT FRENCH

 

MAILING apoerss: 936 Lake Shore Rd., Grosse Pointe Shores, Mich.

[ 496 ]

salad be Mla ll

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JEFFREY EASTMAN FULLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 144-25 Charter Rd., Jamaica 35, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Reply-O-Letter Co., 1860 Broadway, New York 23, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., 77agna cum laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Joyce Christine Malm, Nov. 21, 1951. CHILDREN: Anne Francesca, Oct.
28, 1952; Nicholas Henry, June 1, 1954; Cordelia Judith, Oct. 14, 1960.
OCCUPATION: Manager, fund-raising department, Reply-O-Letter Company, di-

rect mail advertising firm.

OFFICES HELD: Appointed to Queens County Council, New York State Com-
mission for Human Rights, in 1959, still serve; vestryman, Grace Episcopal
Church, Jamaica, since 1961; program chairman, later membership chair-
man, The Dissenters, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union; United World Federalists; Ameri-
cans for Democratic Action; Congress of Racial Equality, National Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Colored People.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Civil Liberties, monthly publication of the American
Civil Liberties Union, since 1951.

THE year 1963 finds me happily married to a Scandinavian girl from
Brooklyn who got her A.B. at the University of Wisconsin — and
the father of two beautiful red-headed daughters and one handsome
son. We live in Parkway Village, a garden apartment community
built in 1946-47 for the United Nations; even today one third of its
600—-0dd families are connected with the ULN,, and over half our
neighbors are non-Americans. Among our good friends we number
Indians, Chinese, Japanese, Africans, even Britons — and at times the
Village reminds me of the pleasanter aspects of life in the Army
during and after World War IT which took me to Africa, the Middle
Fast, England and behind what soon became the Fron Curtain, (Cur-

[497]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

rently I chair a tenants’ committee attempting to turn Parkway Vil-
lage into a cooperative.)

Weekdays I commute to Manhattan where I work as manager of
the fund-raising department of a direct mail advertising firm. The
charities and non-profit organizations for which our copy and art
departments create mail campaigns under my supervision have in-
cluded the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness, Cancer
Care, the Fathers of St. Edmund (a Catholic missionary order operat-
ing in the South), the United Presbyterian Church, the Jewish Theo-
logical Seminary of America, Fordham University, the Christian
Herald’s Bowery Mission, Radio Free Europe, the NAACP Legal
Defense Fund, Americans for Democratic Action, the Congress of
Racial Equality, the United World Federalists and the American Civil
Liberties Union.

For the ACLU — on whose national staff I served from 1948 to
1959 —I continue to edit its periodical, Civil Liberties, which now
goes Out to 65,000 members each month. (When I joined the Union’s
membership department fifteen years ago enrollment was 7,000;
when I resigned four years ago as assistant director in charge of mem-
bership and fund-raising it had grown to 48,000.) Keeping its still-
expanding membership informed of the ACLU’s victories and de-
feats through the pages of Civil Liberties does much to satisfy a life-
long addiction to printer’s ink.

The purpose of the ACLU, which it translates into action in the
courts, in legislatures, and in the forum of public opinion, is to de-
fend, maintain and extend for everyone the principles of the Bill of
Rights — freedom of speech, press, assembly and religion; due pro-
cess of law and fair trial; and equality. They are principles to which
Harvard itself pays more than minimum heed and to which many
distinguished Harvard graduates have devoted much of their energies.
Foremost among these is Roger N. Baldwin, ’04, who founded the
Union in 1917 and is still active on its behalf; Baldwin has influenced
my thinking and my life work more than any other man I have ever
known.

My daughter Anne’s announced desire a few years ago to attend
Sunday School led me to investigate a number of nearby churches. I
settled on Grace Episcopal in Jamaica, which was founded in 1702
and is now a pioneer among “inner city” integrated churches: half its
parishioners are Negroes. While I may interpret the Anglican liturgy
rather freely, I have Icft behind the agnosticism of undergraduate
days to the extent of being elected to the vestry and serving as head

[ 498 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the Men’s Club. To me there seems no contradiction between an
active interest in religion and the defense of dissent implicit in the
creed of the ACLU; indeed, in the circles 1 have generally movd in,
to be a churchgoer — let alone a vestryman— is to be a non-con-
formist.

In accepting election as secretary general of the United Nations
Jast fall, U Thant said: “We live in an imperfect world, and have to
accept imperfect solutions, which become more acceptable as we
learn to live with them and as time passes by.” As I enter my 47th
year, this statement seems to sum up my cautiously optimistic ap-
proach to world problems, big and small.

We have learned to live with the Cold War, the hydrogen bomb,
the population explosion — and with the tensions and frustrations of
daily life. Man will not destroy himself, I believe. And our children,
and our children’s children, will continue to find imperfect solutions
to their problems. But life will go on.

THOMAS FULLER

    

HOME ADDRESS: Quarters F, Boston Naval Shipyard, Boston 29, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Naval Shipyard, Boston 29, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., C1770 laude, 1938; M.B.A, magna Curt
laude, 1948.

MarRiED: Grace Fontaine, Nov. 22, 194. CHILDREN: Joan Channing, Dec. 1,

1942; Berkeley Fontaine, Aug. 17, 1947.

occupaTION: Captain, Supply Corps, U.S, Navy; currently, supply officer, Bos-
ton Naval Shipyard.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Audubon Sociery of Washington,
D.C., 1956-57; vestryman, Christ Church, Cambridge, Mass. 1962.

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Audubon Society; Stage Harbor Yacht Club, Chat-
ham, Mass.

IN 1938, the Navy commissioned me an ensign in the Supply Corps,
and I have been on active duty ever since. My present job is supply
officer, Boston Naval Shipyard. In between, I have served in two
ships, the USS West Virgima and the USS Midway, and on the
staff of Commander Service Squadron Eight (oilers and reefers).
My shore duty has been in Norfolk, San Francisco, Washington,
Harrisburg and Boston — mostly in purchasing and supply admin-
istration.

We are enjoying having plenty of room, for once, in our old
quarters in the shipyard. The basement is full of half-finished furni-
ture refinishing projects, with space left over for Berk’s HO layout.
Joan is a junior at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, and
Berkeley is a sophomore at Brookline High.

Whenever the noises and smog of the shipyard get to be too
much to bear, we escape to the Audubon sanctuary at Topsfield.
In summer, when we can get more time, we take our tent and camp
further away. Last winter we began skiing, new for Grace and
Berk, and had great fun. Grace’s indoor hobby is duplicate bridge,
which she enjoys once a week in Boston in the winter.

About four years ago, I began to think seriously about changing
my vocation to the ministry. Everything now seems to be all set.
I have asked the Navy to put me on the retired list in September,
1963, and the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge has ad-
mitted me to the class beginning then.

[ s00 ]

eects nee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VERNE ROLAND FULMER

 

HOME appreEss: 26 Barberry Rd., West Islip, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan American Airways, New York International Airport, Ja-
maica 20, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Marie Egan, Oct. 1, 1939. CHILDREN: Verne, June 14, 1940 (died Noy.
8, 1959); Gretchen, Nov. 30, 1943.

occuPATION: Flight control supervisor —New York, International Air Trans-
portation,

“EHEU fugaces, Postume, Postume, labuntur anni.” When I first
read this in some Latin class, I never really thought that ’'d make a
twenty-fifth anniversary; and I’m still not convinced that it’s not
a dream. I have been employed by only one company, in basically
the same type of job, for the last twenty-four years. It’s work I have
enjoyed and still find satisfying, although the earlier years seem more
exciting now — probably because the first fourteen were all abroad
in South America and Europe, while the last ten have been in New
York, a place I detest on principle. Speaking of principles, I think
I still have some; although I’m sure that I have lost all convictions
by now.

I have been happily married for over twenty-three years and find
that I grow more and more dependent on my wife as time passes.
I lost my only son in an automobile accident, and my only daughter
is already a sophomore at the College of Notre Dame of Maryland
in Baltimore. I still find conversation (preferably accompanied by
alcohol) the greatest of pleasures. My only real hobby is gardening,
which was inevitable since I ama product of a rural society. I still
enjoy music, reading and day-dreaming, ] spend too much time

[ 501 ]

_ | |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

contemplating the gradual but obvious decay of my still living
cells — but I hope with a healthy interest.

HERBERT LAWRENCE FURSE

‘aa sas
Sos. .

RO

wa

S

   

HOME AppRESS: 59 Mill Creek Drive, Youngstown, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co., Youngstown, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MarriED: Mary Louise Long, Nov. 15, 1941. CHILDREN: Herbert Lawrence, Jr.,
Sept. 15, 1943; William James, Oct. 30, 1946; Raymond Walter, March 25,
1948; Mary Kay, Oct. 22, 1952; Charlotte Rachel, April 27, 1955; Louisa
May, Feb. 27, 1958; Daniel Neely, Feb. 14, 1960.

occupation: Assistant manager of line pipe sales.

AFTER graduation I joined the sales trainee program of the Youngs-
town Sheet & Tube Company and several years thereafter married an
Ohio girl. After Pearl Harbor I went into the Navy and spent three
years here and there on minesweepers. In early 1946 I returned to the
Youngstown Sheet & Tube Company and was sent to St. Louis as a
salesman, and ultimately, the district sales manager. We spent thir-
teen years in that delightful city with our little family ever on the in-
crease. I was transferred back to the home office in Youngstown, and
this marks my fourth year here.

[ 502 ]

bss aa ss tad lll anal

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS JOHN GAFFEY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 80 Longview, Daly City, Calif.

MARIO CURRY GALASSI

 

HOME ADDRESS: 507 Everett St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Aetna Life Insurance Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Faith Harter, July 18, 1947. CHILDREN: Priscilla Harter, Sept. 14, 19§23
Nicholas Mario, Oct. 16, 1956.

OccUPATION: Insurance; commander, U.S. Navy (Retired).

OFFICES HELD: U.S. Assistant Naval Attaché (resident at Istanbul, Turkey),
1952-54; commanding officer, USS Dashiell (DD 659), 1954-56; sub-chief,
Navy Section, U.S, Milicary Assistance and Advisory Group, Embassy of
the U.S. of America, Lisbon, Portugal, 1959-62.

MEMBER OF: Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, New York
City (associate).

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ON July 1, I retired from the Navy after twenty-one years of
service, and I am now associated with the Boston office of Aetna
Life Insurance Company.

Always eager to travel, my life in the Navy provided the oppor-
tunity to visit areas of the world which otherwise I would never
have seen. During World War II, I first served aboard a light
cruiser, USS Milwaukee (CL5) in the Caribbean and South Atlantic.
Next followed duty in the Pacific Ocean areas aboard the aircraft
carriers Bunker Hill (CV 17) and Bennington (CV 20).

I married Faith Harter, Radcliffe, 39, and we lived in Newport,
Rhode Island, while I was executive officer of the USS Warrington
(DD 843). In 1950 we left New England for Washington, where
naval intelligence training and study of the Turkish language quali-
fied me for eventual assignment as an assistant naval attaché resident
in Istanbul, Turkey. Priscilla was born there, and we spent two and
a half years in that interesting land as diplomats and watch-dogs on
the Bosphorus.

Upon return to the United States, I commanded the destroyer
USS Dashiell (DD 659) and spent another six months in European
waters with the U.S. Sixth Fleet. Extensive training with anti-sub-
marine forces of the Atlantic Fleet followed this wonderful sight-
seeing cruise. In 1956, my ship visited Cuba at Guantanamo Bay,
Santiago (and the Bacardi rum factory), and finally Havana. I re-
call that to me Cuba, even then, seemed ripe for revolution because
of the poverty, but there was no apparent ill-feeling toward Ameri-
cans.

Our son Nicholas was born in 1956. We bought a house in Sum-
ner, Maryland, and enjoyed three happy years of family life while
I commuted to the Pentagon and the Intelligence Productive Di-
vision of ONI.

When the opportunity for an assignment in Portugal with the
USS. Military Assistance and Advisory Group presented itself, late in
1959, I accepted the offer with alacrity, having since 1954 held a
warm spot in my heart for Lisbon, the very first port to which I
had taken my ship, the Dashiell. We all packed up for a two-and-a-
half-year rich experience of working in Lisbon and living in lovely
Estoril. My office was in the former German Embassy where Ger-
man Ambassador Von Papen had directed the efforts of German
intelligence during World War II.

President Eisenhower visited Lisbon in May, 1960, directly after
the disastrous summit conference in Paris. He was greeted by three

[ 504 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

quarters of the city’s population of one million, all carrying Ameri-
can flags. It was then that United States prestige in Portugal reached
its pinnacle. Unfortunately, after the ignoble Santa Maria incident
and the vote in the United Nations against our ally, the very next
year, American prestige fell to an all-time low. To the politician,
Portugal is perhaps unimportant. But the realistic observer sees that
the strategic significance of her vast overseas territorial spread can-
not be overlooked if the Western way of life and the civilization
whose torch Portugal was among the first to carry are to be safe-
guarded properly and permanently.

Great strides are already underway in the Iberian Peninsula to
rectify the economic problems which exist, but century-old condi-
tions cannot be changed over night. Portugal and Spain both merit
a warmer understanding on the part of their friends with respect to
these efforts to improve the lot of the average citizen.

ROBERT ISAAC GALE, eS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 403 S. Center St., Mentor, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Mid-West Forge Co., 17301 St. Clair Ave., Cleveland 10, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, South Euclid, Ohio; University School, Cleve-
land, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
MaRRIED: Frances White, Sept. 21, 1940. CHILDREN: Miriam Norton, Aug. |

1941; Robert Isaac, 3d, Feb. 28, 1944; Frederick Keeler, July 28, 1950.
occupaTion: President, Mid-West Forge Company.

LOOKING back to our year of graduation, the foremost memory
which keeps returning is the thought: “Is it possible we'll all live
long enough to be old enough to return to a Twenty-fifth Re-

[ 505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

union?” Irresistibly the time has come closer and closer and sud-
denly here we are.

After graduation I quickly took off for California where I hoped
to get into ranching and spend the rest of my life. After a few
months trying to work this out the inevitable conclusion became a
certainty that I should return to Cleveland and enter the steel forging
Dusiness.

The year 1940 started a rush of marriages which fortunately over-
whelmed me too, in the person of Fannie White, despite serious ob-
structions by her brother, Colonel White (obviously a Yale man).

The next years were busy with war production, baby production
and an occasional trip here and there. Regularly interspersed in these
trips has always been one to visit our great friend and classmate,
Tom Geraghty, and his family in Chicago.

This year finds us with one less income tax deduction and a
twenty-one-year-old daughter, a senior in high school at Worcester
Academy and a seventh-grader still home in Cleveland at Hawken
School. Business is a little tougher than when I started; I feel a little
older (physically — not mentally), it’s still fun to shoot ducks and
the world’s pretty right with all the Gales.

RICHARD HALL GANNON

   

HOME Appress: 56 Eaton Sq., London, $.W. 1, England.

OFFICE ADpREss: Kaiser Aluminium Co., Ltd., 10-11 Babmaes St., London, S.W. 1,
England.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Aberdeen, S. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: 8.B., 1938,

[ 506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Shirley Hastings, Oct. 5, 1946 (died May, 1949); Sally Bokum, July
14, 1951 (divorced 1961). CHILDREN: Deborah Lee, Oct. 1, 1947; Richard
Bokum and Pamela Mather (twins), Sept. 10, 1955.

occuPaTIoNn: Director, Kaiser Aluminium Company, Ltd. (wholly-owned sub-
sidiary of Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation).

OFFICES HELD: Assistant district manager, Washington, D.C., 1949-52, district
sales manager, Southern California, 1952-57, regional sales manager, Western
States, 1957-60, general sales manager, Western Sales Districts, 1961-62,

Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation, head offices in Oakland, Cali-
fornia,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of London; Jonathan Club, Los Angeles; American
Society in London; The American Club, London.

IN reflecting on the past twenty-five years, as most of us have been
doing (aided, abetted and “prodded” by Messrs. Davis and Wight), I
recall rather vividly my impressions (as a “jaded” senior) of the
twenty-five-year class cavorting about the Yard during our Com-
mencement exercises. At that time I thought they looked rather old
and slightly decrepit. Strange how one’s perspective changes when
cast in the same role twenty-five years later! While I don’t feel too
old or too decrepit (I say to myself), I can say with a certain amount
of conviction that, like a lot of us, I have certainly packed a lot of
living into the past twenty-five years!

In retrospect they somehow appear to fall into a series of “chap-
ters.”

First, there were those years immediately following graduation
when those of us who went to work (involuntarily) rather than
continue on in Graduate School came up against the cold realities of
life circa 1938. Jobs in Boston (or anywhere) were extremely scarce
and difficult to get, paid little or nothing and offered little in return.

Then came Washington, D.C., just before the war and a very
rewarding stint of experience in the government with the National
Defense Advisory Commission, the Office of Production Manage-
ment, and then the War Production Board. This was a fascinaung
experience for those of us in Washington in those years just prior to
and during the early part of the war, participating in our country’s
rapidly evolving mobilization effort.

The war, of course, changed everything for everybody. There
followed four years in the Navy — first in the Bureau of Ships in
Washington and then service both in the Atlantic and the Pacific on
all kinds of ships — doing all kinds of jobs. And then, with the war
over, we were suddenly (it seems) eight years out of Harvard and

faced with the prospect of getting started once again,

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Fortunately for me I came with the Kaiser organization in the role
of a salesman with Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation. In
those days (1946) it was an infant company just getting started in the

rimary ‘aluminum business. I married my first wife and headed west
to Los Angeles! Following her death in 1949, I was transferred to
our Washington, D.C, office as manager of our sales office during
the Korean war. I remarried in 1951 and then in 1952 transferred
back to the West Coast as our Southern California district sales
manager, followed subsequently by western regional sales manager,
and then as general sales manager of the western sales districts cover-
ing an area from Arizona to Florida.

In the past few years our company has become extremely involved
in various international operations around the world. I was in the
process of being transferred to our Oakland headquarters last spring
when I was suddenly transferred to London as director of our English
sales subsidiary company, Kaiser Aluminium Company, Ltd. And
so has ensued an entirely new “chapter” in my life.

I now find myself at the present time, like a lot of other Americans,
trying to adapt myself to doing business in Europe. This involves
more than the usual amount of frustrations, but somehow it is a
fascinating and challenging experience. I do a great deal of travel-
ing all over Europe and Africa — literally from Helsinki, Finland, to
Capetown, South Africa, I find it extremely stimulating to come in
contact with people of literally every nationality, not only Europeans
but also many of the people of the newly burgeoning African coun-
tries. I seem to have a lot of company in other Harvard men, as in
my travels I encounter them all over England and the Continent.

Despite all of the many problems of living and working in these
times, I find it extremely interesting to be alive and to be a part of
the many events that are moving so fantastically fast in this world of
ours.

I don’t have any great words of wisdom to pass down and certainly
nothing as “cogent” to say as the sample “lives” enclosed with the
original request for our biographies.

I still enjoy life to the hilt and plan on continuing to do so. I have
always been extremely thankful for my Harvard background as I
have found it has given me a wealth of experience. I guess basically
I believe in that old German motto: “We get too soon old and too
Jate smart.”

[ 508 }

be cael sth dl ibd id dl alee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID GANSON

 

MAILING ADbRESS: N, Main Street, Petersham, Mass.

JOHN HAYS GARDINER

 

HOME AppREss: Salem Road, R.F.D. Topsfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Real Estate Investment Trust of America, 294 Washington Sc.
Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE! A.B, 19338,

MARRIED: Camilla Warren, Oct. 16, 1943. CHILDREN: lan Hays, Sept. 13, 1946;
Arthur Denny, 2d, June 8, 1948,

OCCUPATION: Trustee, assistant secretary and vice-president, Real Fstate Invest-
ment Trust of America; partner, Theopold, Gardiner, Fifield & Bourncuf.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk of corporation and trustee, Boston Home, Ine. since 19473
member of corporation, Boston Lying-In Hospital, since 1954; trustee,
David Sears Real Estate Trust, since rgge, Groton School, since 1y6o, In-
dustrial School for Crippled Children, since 1954, Massachusetts Foundacen,

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

since 1949, Massachusetts Savings Bank, since 1948; president, Groton
School Alumni Association, since 1960; member of corporation and trustee,
Museum of Science, since 1959; vice-president and member, board of gover-
nors, National Association of Real Estate Investment Funds, since 1960; di-
rector, New England Merchants National Bank of Boston, since 1953;
trustee, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, since 1951; trustee, vice-president
and assistant actuary, Real Estate Investment Trust of America, since 1951;
trustee, Washington Building Trust, since 1961; director, 1955-58, 1959-62,
Greater Boston Real Estate Board; vestryman, St. John’s Church, Beverly
Farms, 1954-59; chairman, Advanced Gifts, United Fund of Boston, 1960;
trustee, Brookwood School, 1958-60; director, United Community Services,
since 1961; director and member, executive committee, Committee for the
Central Business District of Boston, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt Club; Union Boat Club; India Wharf
Rats; Manchester Yacht Club; Downtown Club; Miles River Associates,
Jones Pond Club; Varsity Club; American Society of Real Estate Coun-
selors.

pusLicaTions: “Real Estate Investment Trusts: Origins and Prospects,” in
Trusts and Estates Magazine, 1961.

THIS is the occasion when one reports on what he has acquired in
twenty-five years, and publicly ascribes to hard work and a keen
intelligence what he privately acknowledges is due to good luck and
a strong constitution. Along with a standard twenty pounds I have
acquired during these years:

A family consisting of a wife, two sons, three dogs and numerous
other animals piled into a small farm. Most of the animals are useless,
the land is so rocky, swampy and watery as to be unarable, so it really
is more of a private zoo than a farm. It is better that way because if
it was really productive I would feel obliged to work hard at it over
weekends. It provides occupational exercise at times of the year
when we can’t sail, ski, shoot, fish or travel. (Not being noted for
my abilities on the tennis court or golf course, nevertheless I some-
times accompany my family in those pursuits. )

A job that I enjoy. Although I have been in the same organiza-
tion for twenty-four years (except for five years in the Navy, 1940-
45), I have had the satisfaction of participating in constant change
and growth and, for the last twelve years, being my own boss to the
extent that a partnership permits. My years until 1950 might be
termed apprentice; from 1950 to 1956 they were largely spent merg-
ing and consolidating various entities; from 1956 to 1960 my main
occupation was “influencing legislation” in Washington with respect
to real estate trusts, which happily was climaxed by the enactment of
the Real Fstate Investment Trust Act of 1960. In the last two years

[ 510]

“a tn sea.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

we have been taking full advantage of the opportunities thus opened.

A stream of community responsibilities. Not wishing to serve in
government I ease my social conscience by getting involved in al-
together too many community activities. I have discovered that
each and every one of them comes down eventually to one basic task,
namely that of separating people from their money. But the satis-
faction of participating in growth and change and the friendships
made in the process make it all worth the effort.

A little understanding. With all my getting, I have tried to get
some understanding of the purpose and the end of life. It is slippery
business, of course, for whenever I have thought I had caught some-
thing substantial, like mercury, it has slipped between my fingers.

My thirst for possessions has been somewhat assuaged, my desire
for leisure time becomes sharper each year that I again postpone that
long vacation. I have learned to limit my worrying to matters over
which I can exercise some measure of control. My political convic-
tions cause me to constantly support losers, however, and that causes
me some Worry.

I’ve now had three cocktails and lunch. While mixing the cock-
tails I asked my wife to read this, complaining all the while that this
is the most difficult writing assignment I’ve ever had. She suggests
that I add that occasionally I am testy and feel sorry for myself.
(Now that I’ve had cocktails my cold feels better.) She also says

that while I demanded silence in the house as I composed this, she
was listening to the radio through an earphone and heard that there
is a football team in Michigan that hasn’t won a game in nine years.

Now I feel wonderful!

[str]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

1 FELLOWES DAVIS GARDNER

Ryne a ee

   

BORN: Feb. 15, 1916, Milton, Mass. parents: James Edwin Gardner, ’08, Susan
Davis.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B., 1941.

marrigD: Harriet Boynton Wells, Nov. 30, 1946, New York, N.Y. critp: Helen
Penn.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Edwin Gardner, Jr., 736.

piED: Jan. 4, 1956, New York, N.Y.

AFTER law school Gardner joined the Marine Corps, took flight
training and was commissioned as lieutenant in June, 1942. He went
to New Caledonia and served at Guadalcanal, in a night-fighter
squadron at Guam, and for six months in Okinawa and China. He
was engaged in the practice of law in New York City since 1946. He
was survived by his wife and child.

[512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RUSSELL NERN GARLAND

Oe

  

HOME apprEss: 949 Hyde Ave., Pomona, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Glendora High School, Glendora, Calif.

prePARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1951.

MARRIED: Kimiko Nishikawa, Aug. 28, 1958. cHmLpREN: Jane Marie Elizabeth,
Nov. 6, 1959; Paul Terence, Dec. 11, 1961.

occuPaATION: Teacher of languages.

AFTER college I worked in a paper-box factory for three and a half
years; first as a laborer, then as a machine attendant, and later as a
production clerk. Meanwhile, since I was usually on the night shift,
I enjoyed substituting in the daytime as a teacher in my old high
school. The Navy claimed my time for almost four years in such
places as: New York; Jamaica, B.W.L; Cuba; and Bethesda, Mary-
land. I was a pharmacist’s mate, liked the work, and felt very useful
most of the time.

Back to the home area again, I initiated a Master’s program at Bos-
ton University so as to get the degree mainly by summer study.
There came jobs in teaching English at Fort Kent, Maine, at New
Hampton, New Hampshire, and at Stockbridge, Massachusetts.
Sometimes the work was very hard (correcting papers, for example,
in the wee hours of the morning, with my mittens on, in a cold, cold
room), but the places themselves were beautiful. At the end of five
summers the work at Boston University was done.

I decided to go to Europe in the summer that Queen Elizabeth was
making her coronation visits to Scotland and Wales. As it happened,
I did get in on some of these festivities, but, of course, a tardy old soul
like me naturally missed the main event. Ah, but I was thrilled by

[513 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

the castles, the flags, the bunting, the marching, the costumes, the
music, and the dancing! I was a lone traveler, but not a lonesome
one.

Upon returning home I found no well-paying teaching job in
New England, so I toted mail as a substitute mail-carrier in the sub-
urbs of Boston for a few months and did a little work on the side as
an orderly in a hospital near home. Some friends had invited me to
California, and I was saving money for the trip. I went.

Within a few days of my arrival here I was happily secure in a
pleasant teaching position at Redwood High School, Visalia. Two
years later I came to the Los Angeles area, to West Covina and to
Glendora High School. While here I met and married Kim. We
honeymooned all along the California coast from San Diego to San
Francisco and back to Long Beach. The year before last we had a
wonderful trip to Japan with our daughter Jane to see her grand-
mother. I studied, saw, and read much about the country.

Right now I am studying Russian and passing on what I learn to
my students. My reading is mainly of newspapers and magazines.
My religious affiliation is Baptist, although lately I have been sneak-
ing off to a nearby Episcopal church. In politics I register as an In-
dependent. In professional movements I am primarily interested in
equitable retirement laws, especially for teachers.

JOHN JOSEPH GARLICK

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1305 Long Beach Rd., Rockville Centre, N.Y.

orFice appress: United Air Lines, Inc., New York International Airport,
Jamaica 30, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Norwood High School, Norwood, Mass,

L514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).
MARRIED: Ruth E. Lynch, Oct. 2, 1943.
occupation: Aviation, assistant regional manager, United Air Lines, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: President, Denver Management Club, 1950, United Investment

Club, 1960-61; marshal, Emulation Lodge, 1961; director, Colorado Inter-
national, Inc., since 1960.

MEMBER OF: National Defense Transportation Association; Industrial Manage-

ment Society; Harvard Club of Long Island; Aviation Club, Emulation
Lodge No. 154, AF. & A.M.

IN the past twenty-five years, I have lived as far as 2,000 miles from
Cambridge. Now I suddenly find myself only 200 miles from Har-
vard. I have almost come full circle. Movement has been the
predominant characteristic of my life.

It is rewarding to be living back east once again. I do not know
how long I will be permitted to pause here. Whenever job or oppor-
tunity requires me to leave, I shall be packed and ready to go.

I am working hard. The years have increased my pace. The past
twenty-five years have been wonderful, thrilling years in which I
have been privileged to live. I still have the innocence to believe that
the most rewarding years lie ahead.

Ruth and I are looking forward to renewing old acquaintances in
Cambridge in June. We are so close to New York City we hope that
classmates will call us whenever they come to New York.

CARL JOHN GAROFANO

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 140 Pratt St., Mansfield, Mass,

[515 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JAMES FRANCIS GARRETT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Tremont St., Garden City, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Hearst Advertising Service, Inc., 410 Park Ave. New York,
NY.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

marrieD: Dorothy A. Andrews, April 29, 1942. cHiLpREN: James L., Jan. 24,
1943; John A., Feb. 10, 1945; Robert C., 1949; Richard C., 1955.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and eastern sales manager, Hearst Advertising
Service, Inc.

+ JOSEPH LOUIS EMILE PAUL GAUTHIER

 

Roan: Sept. 10, 1916, North Chelmsford, Mass. parents: George Gauthier,
Marie Bedard.

parparen at: Chelmsford High School, Chelmsford, Mass.

[ 516 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938; A.M. 19473
PH.D., 1950.

piep: April 24, 1961, Milwaukee, Wis.

WHILE at college Gauthier was a resident of Dunster House and a
member of the Freshman Dramatic Club, Cercle Frangais, Spanish
Club, Student Union and Detur. After graduation he taught at
Chelmsford High School until 1941 when he went to Worcester
Academy as instructor in French and Spanish. During World War
II he served four years in the Navy and continued active in the
USNR, as a lieutenant commander. After the war he entered the
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences to work for his Ph.D. While
at Harvard he held a teaching fellowship in French and Spanish, was
a resident tutor in Dunster House and in 1950 was appointed an in-
structor in Romance languages. Since 1952 he had been associate
professor of modern languages at Marquette University where he
taught French and Russian, was moderator of Le Cercle Francais and
organist and assistant director of a Gregorian chant choir. He had
published articles and reviews in the language magazines and was an

guag
expert on the novels of Emile Zola. He was survived by his parents.

JOHN GAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: Tuxedo Park, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: F, Eberstadt & Co., 65 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.

PREPARED AT; St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE! A.B. 1938,

MarrieD: Cynthia Tuckerman, March 30, 1943. Cuitpres: Phyllis, Sept. 28) toga.
John, Jr, May 14, 1947; Christopher, Nov. t, 190.

OCCUPATION: Securities sales; castern representative, F. Eberstadt & Company.
MEMBER OF: Tuxedo Club.

C517]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

SUMMARIZING my report for our Tenth Reunion Book: From
1938 to 1941, L worked for the Central Hanover Bank and Trust Com-
pany. Spent over five years in the Navy during World War II at
the end of which I was released to inactive duty as a lieutenant com-
mander. Married in 1943, my wife and I have a daughter and two
sons, aged eighteen, fifteen and twelve, respectively.

After twelve years in the textile business, I joined F. Eberstadt &
Company, New York investment banking firm and manager of
Chemical Fund, Inc., for which I am eastern sales representative.
Extensive travels from Washington, D.C., through New England
have made me many new friends.

My chief concern in life revolves around my family, although
business travels regrettably absent me from home more than I like
and prevent activity in community affairs. Paying tuition bills with
after-tax dollars is a mountainous task, but know of no better way
to spend money.

My political views remain conservative. Our country’s roller-
coaster descent down the path to socialism under a government con-
trolled by power-greedy Democrats sickens me. It is sad to witness
the failure of most of our citizens to recognize their loss of liberty to
big government, crooked unions and other pseudo-agents of “pie-in-
the-sky” living for all. Our world give-away program to ungrateful
nations, including many behind “the pink curtain,” is shameful. The
fiscal irresponsibility of our government at home is equally detestable
and may be disastrous.

While a believer in racial and religious tolerance, I do not see why
individuals cannot practice privately their own views in such mat-
ters without criticism by our government and the press. On the edu-
cational level, it is my sincere hope that our great universities stress
the cultivation of leadership as well as academic achievement. Win-
ston Churchill, with a reportedly inferior I.Q., illustrates my point.

Getting back to the lighter side of life, I still enjoy good health,

plenty of exercise, some salt water life — though not enough — and
good eating. Despite the latter still weigh the same as I did in college.
The blessings of life 1 owe primarily to a devoted wife who is loyal,
hard-working and a perfect mother to my family. After twenty-five
years out of college and married for twenty years of this period one
can’t ask for much else.

[ 518 ]

Jalili tegen aneceedbm ta eeiiaitabania aia iataaltidtatiia th eas lle aa adataleatinaen

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ CHARLES LESHER GEER

 

BORN: Nov. 7, 1914, Del Mar, Calif. parents: Garrow Throop Geer, Marion
Firth.

PREPARED AT: St, George’s School, Newport, R.L.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Garrow Throop Geer, Jr., ’37

piED: Nov. 17, 1944, in the Southwest Pacific area.

AFTER college Geer spent a short time in the brokerage business and
with the Singer Sewing Machine Company, before joining the Phelps
Dodge Copper Corporation. He became a junior executive of the
company and remained with them for three years. In July, 1942, he
enlisted in the Army and in November, 1943, embarked for Guadal-
canal. He died in the line of duty on Bougainville, New Georgia. He
was survived by his parents and his brother.

[519]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ALAN STEARN GEISMER

 

HOME AppREss: 14620 Shaker Blvd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 800 National City-E. Sixth Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MarRIED: Barbara Peck, Aug. 2, 1942. CHILDREN: Alan Stearn, Jr., June 23,
1948; Martha England, July 5, 1950; Mollie Rose, July 31, 1953.

occupation: General practice of law; partner, Hahn, Loeser, Freedheim, Dean
& Wellman.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Education, Shaker Heights, since 1957; trustee,
since 1948, secretary, since 1957, Musical Arts Association (operating
Cleveland Orchestra); past president, Bellefaire (treatment center for
emotionally disturbed children), 1954-58; past director, 1954-62, past
secretary, 1957-62, Child Welfare League of America, Inc.; past trustee
and member, executive committee, Jewish Community Federation of
Cleveland, 1955-61; trustee, Welfare Federation of Cleveland, since 1961;
trustee, since 1957, vice-president, since 1962, Cleveland Guidance Center;
past member, executive committee, Cleveland Bar Association; past vice-
president, 1959-60, president, 1960-61, Harvard Club of Cleveland.

MEMBER OF: Rowfant Club; Oakwood Country Club; City Club; Cleveland
Wine and Food Society.

{ 520 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

"rk EUGENE HOWARD GEORGE

 

BoRN: Aug. 4, 1915, Boston, Mass. parents: Elijah Howard George, Eugenia
Plumly.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.

MARRIED: Divorced.

prep: Dec. 16, 1959, San Francisco, Calif,

EUGENE HOWARD GEORGE spent three years with our Class
and was a member of the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770 and the
Iroquois Club. After college he attended the Boeing School of Aero-
nautics and then became associated with the United Air Lines. Dur-
ing World War II he served four and a half years as a lieutenant in
the Navy. After the war he returned to United Air Lines in San
Francisco and was later transferred to New York and then to London
where he was acting director for the company for seven years. At
the time of our last Report he was a broker in San Francisco.

[520 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

THOMAS FRANCIS GER

AGHTY, JR.

    

Soe oe ong

      

ea ORR get Ne tetany conte: Reames ecco
. a. "
f a
Wes
Se

 

HOME ADDRESS: 344 Palos Rd., Glencoe, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wilson & Mcllvaine, 120 W. Adams St., Chicago 3, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Iil.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Cum? laude, 1938; J.v. (Northwestern
Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Katherine Barkhausen, May 26, 1943. CHILDREN: Thomas Francis, 3d,
March 17, 1944; Helen Strong, Aug. 3, 1945; Robert Clarke, Dec. 4, 1948;
Miriam Noyes, Sept. 25, 1952; Peter Hopkins, Oct. 15, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Francis Geraghty, 3d, 66.

occuPaTIoN: Attorney — partner.

oFFices HELD: Director and officer, North Shore Country Day School, director,
Glencoe Community Chest.

MEMBER OF: University Club; American, Illinois and Chicago Bar Associations,
Law Club of Chicago; Legal Club of Chicago.

IF I do not write this today, it will, I am told, never be published.
Procrastination has obviously been one of my best cultivated habits
over the past twenty-five years. In this case, it has had its rewards in
penny postal cards urging me to mend my ways, but now I find
myself faced with the choice of writing this story before leaving on
a skiing trip or being forever a complete blank in the record.

Twenty-five years have produced one wife, five children — three
boys and two girls — service in the Navy, a suburban home, and a
law practice. Our eldest son is now a freshman at Harvard and our
youngest child is in second grade. Only fifty-three parent-teacher
meetings until we graduate.

The years since graduation have been happy, busy years. What
else is there to say? So off to the hill and pardon the procrastina-
tion, It would have been easy to write this essay sooner.

[ 522]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOE WARREN GERRITY, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: Turner Lane, Loudonville, Albany, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fuller Road, Albany 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Phyllis Richard, Feb. 15, 1941. CHILDREN: Richard, Dec. 23, 19425
Joseph, 3d, July 26, 1945; Robert, Dec. 13, 1946; Daniel, Nov. 21, 1948;
Nancy, Oct. 30, 1951; Cynthia and Susan (twins), Dec. 26, 1961.

occuPATION: President, wholesale lumber company.

DIRECTLY after the war I moved to Albany, New York, for what
I felt would be a very short time. After sixteen years we are still
in the same house, running the same lumber yard, with the only
significant change being in size of my family — seven children, in-
cluding twin girls born Jast Christmas.

My interests other than a hospital with which I am associated have
been confined to raising and racing horses. This is a very long-range

program and I am just now beginning to see some success in this
field.

[ 523 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RALPH COLIN GETSINGER

poo

4. %
Rae

   
  

 

b |

HOME ADDRESS: 505 Bryn Mawr Rd., Birmingham, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1417 Fisher Bldg., Detroit 2, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Cranbrook School, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Margrit Bruggmann, July 17, 1942. CHILDREN: Joan Carol, Feb, 2,
1944; Pierce Thomas, Sept. 6, 1945; John Walter, Feb. 26, 1951.

occupaTIon: Manufacturers’ representative (partner).

OFFICES HELD: President, Cranbrook Alumni Association, 1946-48; member,
board of directors, 1948-57, secretary, 1951-56, Cranbrook School; chair-
man, Schools Committee, 1947-56, director, 1946-58, 1960-62, president,
1956-58, Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan; Detroit Athletic Club,
Orchard Lake Country Club; the Recess; Pere Marquette Rod and Gun
Club.

ONE of my most distinct recollections of the emotions and activities
of Commencement 1938 is the condescending sympathy with which
I watched the Class of 1913, the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class, march
on Class Day. In some remote vista of time, I thought, we too
shall be returning for the Twenty-fifth. Looking forward, twenty-
five years seemed a near eternity; in retrospect it has passed all too
quickly.

In the fall of 1938 I enrolled at the University of Michigan Law
School and within a few weeks decided to abandon books for
activity. I left Ann Arbor to join Time, Inc. in New York, as an
office boy. A brief stint of copy-running preceded a successful try-
out as a foreign news writer on Time. The fact that I, who had
never crossed the Atlantic, was interpreting the 1939 crisis for the
magazine’s readers appeared to trouble the editor as little as it did
me. In those days, Time was written by young men and women and
the informal atmosphere resembled that of the Lampoon.

[524]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During the spring of senior year, Professor Payson Wild had
suggested that | take the Foreign Service examinations. Before en-
rolling at Michigan Law School I had spent three days filling blue
books. I passed the written examinations as well as the oral examina-
tion given some months later.

Farly in August, 1939, I received from Washington my appoint-
ment as Vice-Consul in Hamburg and a ticket on the next sailing of
the Manhattan. The attraction of being in Europe, particularly
Germany, during the war which I was certain was only a few weeks
away, was irresistible.

I arrived in Germany on September 1, 1939, and spent two fas-
cinating years in Hamburg. My duties were light and my Consul
General was indulgent. I had opportunities for study, to know
Germans of all types from future members of the 1944 Resistance
to Nazi fanatics, and to travel widely in Germany and to Italy,
Sweden and Russia. In June, 1941, I was accused of espionage by
the Nazi authorities and expelled to Switzerland.

Except for three months in the winter of 1941-42, I spent the
rest of the war assigned to the American Legation in Berne, possibly
the most interesting and certainly the pleasantest wartime diplomatic
post in Europe. My work involved intelligence assignments and
“economic warfare.”

Shortly after my arrival in Switzerland in 1941, I met a charming
blond young lady, Margrit Bruggmann of Olten. Appropriately,
we met while climbing a mountain. We were married in Berne and
our eldest child, Joan, was born in Switzerland.

After the war I resigned from the Foreign Service to return to
journalism as a correspondent and a writer for Time. After two
years of fun as a reporter, I came to the conclusion that success in
journalism depends upon either superb talent or extraordinary luck.
I reluctantly concluded I did not have the former and could not
count on the latter. Accordingly, I abandoned the pencil and ty pe-
writer to enter a long-established family business which specializes
in the sale of production materials, parts and assemblies to the auto-
mobile industry.

] have found our sales work stimulating and demanding. The
Detroit automotive manufacturers’ agents call themselves “pedlars.”
However, there is more to it than opening a bag of wares. Our
principal preoccupation is to anticipate what ty pes of materials and
manufacturing facilities will be required in future model years (we
are now planning for 1965 and 1966) and to assist the companics We

[525 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

represent to prepare for future demand by developing products
which will meet the advance requirements of the automotive stylists
and engineers.

Margrit and I and our three children live in suburban Birming-
ham. We have had the good fortune to enjoy together a wide range
of activities, tennis, trout-fishing and hunting in the Michigan woods,
skiing, chess, reading and travel. Margrit and I have returned almost
annually to the Alps to ski in Switzerland, France and Austria.
Three hospital sojourns and assorted casts have not impaired my
enthusiasm. This interest has developed into an extracurricular
business, an enterprise called “Alps Unlimited” which plans and
sells ski tours to the Alps. Last Christmas we had the fun of intro-
ducing our kids to the Alps and showing them around Paris.

I have participated to a minor extent in community activities and
politics. My most rewarding activity has been as a member (includ-
ing eight years as chairman) of the Schools Committee of the Har-
vard Club of Eastern Michigan. I am happy to have played a part in
helping to direct several score splendid young men to the matchless
opportunity at Cambridge. I have unbounded confidence in the
ability and will of the younger generation to master the problems
of our time.

The next twenty-five years? I look forward to seeing our chlidren
mature. Each year we have more in common. I hope that in com-
ing years my business and family responsibilities will be less press-
ing and that I may in greater measure through service repay in small
part the debt I owe for the opportunities and happiness I have en-
joyed.

[ 526 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RALPH HAILER GIBBON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 866 Sedgewick Rd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Squire, Sanders & Dempsey, 1857 Union Commerce Bldg.
Cleveland 14, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Olney High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938; 11.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Harriet J. Hazen, Aug. 26, 1939. cHiLpren: Peter Hazen, March 11,
1942; John Hailer, Nov. 22, 1943; Frederick Brewster, Jan. 1, 1945; Thomas
Ralph, July 9, 1948, Christopher Locke, Oct. 9, 1950; Daniel Joyce, Aug. 17,
1952.

HARVARD SON: Peter Hazen Gibbon, ’64.

OccUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Squire, Sanders & Dempsey, municipal law and
finance.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Skating Club; Union Club; ABA; Ohio Bar; Cleveland
and Cuyahoga Bar Associations; City Club; Mid-Day Club.

MARRIED Harriet before returning to Cambridge for the Law
School and Peter was born before Pearl Harbor. Spent two years as
a communications officer on a DE (Hunter-hiller Group) | in Atlantic
and Pacific and then settled down to the practice of law in Cleveland.
Developed an interest in municipal law which has been maintained
to date.

The development and demands of six sons preoceupy and satisfy
us and there has been some time for travel and sports. In re-
ligion we have moved to the left (Unitarians) and in politics, al-
though still Republicans, we regretfully recognize the necessity of
larger units of government at the local and international levels and
consequent shrinking of those areas in which it can be truthf ully said
that we are free.

[ 527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HARRY EDGAR GIBBY, JR.

 
  

HOME ADDRESS: 161 Clyde St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mechanics Iron Foundry Co., 47 Kemble St., Boston 19, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Treasurer, Mechanics Iron Foundry Company, Puritan Iron
Works, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Engineers Club; Blue Room Club, St. John’s Lodge;
American Foundrymen’s Association, New England Purchasing Agents
Association, New England Foundrymen’s Association.

++ LUKE MORAN GIBSON

Ree Bee

 

o. a
: * Bis. j
Baad !
~".

Born: Aug. 31, 1912, Burnley, England. parents: John and Delia (Melia)
Gibson.
paeparep aT: Y.M.C.A. High School, New York, N.Y.

{528 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1938(39).

MaRRIED: Annette Purcell, June 6, 1942. cHmpREN: John Gerard, Sept. 12,
1947; Valerie Ann, Feb. 19, 1952.

piep: Feb. 9, 1963, Jackson Heights, N.Y.
wipow: Mrs, Luke M. Gibson, 34-10 o4th St., Jackson Heights 72, N.Y.

IN November, 1962, Gibson sent in the following story for our
Report. The Secretary is printing it instead of a formal obituary.

‘What began as an assist in the Department of Special Education
in the New York Public School System five years ago has become my
life’s work. I found use, finally, for a teaching degree obtained at
Teachers College, Columbia University, ages ago prior to military
service.

“I am a classroom teacher and have taught at all levels. My initial
assignment in the city system was in a problem neighborhood with
problem boys. Since then I have taught with undiminished faith in a
variety of situations, working chiefly with emotionally disturbed
youngsters and children with retarded mental development.

“I gave up my general insurance agency two years ago but re-
tain active interest in life insurance sales. I am thus rewarded in
hand as well as in the spirit.

“I have two children, John Gerard, fifteen, and Valerie Ann, ten.
We lost our beloved Luke, Jr., one year ago in a fatal accident.

“Life has not been all sorrow by any means. In addition to the
warm friendships developed in business, Annette and I find our
private lives considerably brightened by many of the cheerful
people from the theatrical world. Annette is a mainstay in her
brother Gerard’s TV Production and Entertainment business.

“My point of view towards politics and life is moderate to right.
Browning’s optimism still touches me. I have just recently been
fitted for my first pair of reading glasses but am not otherwise physi-
cally impaired. My spare time pursuit remains, as always, the writing

of verse. It is principally for children. I hope soon to be able to
present you with a collection.

“Te is a genuine pleasure at this anniv ersary time to greet you,

classmates mine, To all of you everywhere and all belonging to you
— my warmest felicitations.”

[529]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
SANFORD ROBINSON GIFFORD, JR.

ee te 1 OMSET ERS sete meee
; ‘ :
€ # :
2 s 4
- *

  

HOME AbprEss: 1 Hillside Pl., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 721 Huntington Ave., Boston 15,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.p. (Northwestern Univ.),
1942.

MARRIED: Ingrid Barany, Dec. 31, 1942. CHILDREN: Paul, Nov. 1, 1949; Ralph,
May 22, 1951.

occUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant in psychiatry, Robert Breck Brigham Hospital,
since 1950; senior associate in psychiatry, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital,
since 1958; member of faculty, Boston Psychoanalytic Institute, since
1958; assistant clinical professor of psychiatry, Harvard Medical School,
since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Psychoanalytic Asso-
ciation, American Civil Liberties Union; Physicians for Social Responsi-
bilicy (a medical group concerned with the prevention of nuclear war).

PUBLICATIONS: Various publications in professional journals, such as “Sleep,
Time and the Early Ego,” in the 1960 Journal of the American Psycho-
analytic Association; article: “Death and Forever: Some Fears of War and
Peace,” Atlantic Monthly, March, 1962.

THERE is very little to add since the Eighteenth Class Report, ex-
cept some enjoyable trips to Europe with my wife and two boys,
now eleven and fourteen. I am still teaching psychiatry at Harvard
Medical School, working at the Peter Bent Brigham on research that
combines psychiatry, medicine, biochemistry and even child de-
velopment, and practising psychoanalysis part-time. To review very
briefly, I have been doing this more or less since 1946, after medical
school in Chicago, internship and part of a residency in San Fran-

[ 530 ]

A. akdlalaaleeetROR A eineiadt Reet a ttl ae ian ae

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cisco and three years as an Army psychiatrist in Australia, New
Guinea and the Philippines.

Having lived in Cambridge for over fifteen years, there is a certain
implausibility about a reunion, after seeing the reunions of others
each June and feeling somewhat detached, like an inhabitant and not
a visitor. Perhaps I am too fond of this pleasant ambiguity, this inter-
mingling of past and present, of buildings, streets, events and sensa-
tions, some that still stand and others that exist “in memory only.”
Perhaps I am afraid to jar this pearly-gray, opalescent suspension of
past and present (the color of Cambridge clapboards on a wet No-
vember day), to precipitate these separate elements out of solution
by examining reality too closely. I enjoy the ambience of Cam-
bridge as it is and my recollections of my friends, living and dead,
as they were, and I am content to leave the mixture undisturbed.
Driving up Plympton Street past Adams House, for example, I
sometimes wonder if the portrait of John Reed is still on the stair-
well or whether the blue Moorish dome has been repainted; I have
never stopped to look, but “now as at all times I see them in the
mind’s eye.”

Since this is a time for paying our respects to the University, for
plummy truisms and heavy varnishes of middle-aged nostalgia, let
me confess my satisfaction with the relative durability of under-
graduate education. I regret not having been forced to take History
I, but I feel grateful for what I could learn from Charles Kuhn,
Wilhelm Koehler, Robert Hillyer and Benjamin Rowland. (By the
Fiftieth Reunion | hope to have learned something about European
history from 1789 to 1871, how to play the flute and how to speak
colloquial Italian.) I am also grateful to my friends, many of whom
were in other classes before and after, for the experiences we shared,
for the books we read and argued about, and for the passionate feel-
ings of enthusiasm and despair that crystallized around the Spanish
Civil War. Without these political experiences we would be even
less well prepared for the complex events of the present. Instead of
quoting, “Bliss was it in that dawn,” etc., I shall conclude with an
earlier Harvard poet who made sense in the thirties and seems apro-
pos today:

squads right impatiently replicd
two billion public lice inside one
pair of trousers (which had died)

[531]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CHARLES EDWARD GILLILAND, JR.

ett SENET <TR ORR RA " Seperstery AOS mgs ag EM oa ean og
8 . ss 4

es

     
  

     

ee re en

HOME AppRESS: 46 Paper Mill Lane, Newton Square, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of Business and Public Administration, Temple Univer-
sity, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, Ladue, Miss.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.S.B.A. (Washington Univ.),
1947; PHD. (ibid.), 1956.

MARRIED: Flora Reller Smith, June 12, 1948. caitpReN: Thomas Lee, May 12,
1952; Susan Virginia, March 13, 1960.

occupation: Dean, School of Business and Public Administration, Temple Uni-
versity.

OFFICES HELD: Acting chairman, Dept. of Economics, Arizona State University,
1960; chief of party, Washington University ICA-sponsored education for
business project in Seoul, Korea, 1958-60; dean, School of Business Ad-
ministration, University of Kansas City, Mo., 1954-58; assistant to dean,
School of Business and Public Administration, Washington University,
1948-54; executive secretary, American Association of College Schools of
Business, 1949-53; secretary-treasurer, Council for Professional Education
for Business, 1955-58; vice-chairman, Central States Region, National
Council for the Development of Small Business Management Training,
1957-58.

MEMBER OF: Americans for the Competitive Enterprise Systems; American
Economic Association, American Finance Association, Beta Gamma Sigma;
ARTUS; Omicron Delta Gamma; Beta Alpha Psi; Aronomink Golf Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a relatively short accounting period. Lo-
cation-wise, I passed the time as follows;

In alphabetical order years — months
1. Akron, Ohio 3
2. Charlotte, North Carolina 3
3. Dover, Delaware
4. Great Bend, Kansas 3

[ 532 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Kansas City, Missouri 4

Karachi, India (now Pakistan) 2

Melbourne & Perth, Australia

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 2

9- Phoenix, Arizona .

10. Riverside, California

11. St. Louis, Missouri 8
12. San Antonio, Texas

13. Seoul, Korea 1
total 24 years o months

ow Ay

ap oo WN anon

J have the feeling that the above accounting would not satisfy the
exacting standard of Accounting 1 in Harvard College, but I assure
you that the discrepancy arises through rounding, time en route, and
other unimportant trivia.

Occupation-wise, the period breaks conveniently into three cate-

ories as follows:

In chronological order
I. Business—3 years
II. Military—4 years
III. Education—17 years

total 24 years (again the error arises through rounding, etc.)

The location factor may be correlated with the occupation factor
as follows:

I-I 5-111 Q-Iil 13-1101
2-1 6-11 10-11

3-11 7-11 1-111

4-11 8-111 12-11

To mention briefly the occupation categories — the “business”
category was in association with the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Com-
pany. The ° military” Was in association with the U.S. Anny Air
Corps and the “education” portion in association with W ashington
University, St. Louis, the University of Kansas City, Arizona State
University and currently Temple University, Philadelphia.

This about accounts for everything except certain lasting associa-
tions:

A. A wife from category 11-111 above, specifically the Se. Louts
School of Fine Arts, Washington University.

B. A son from category 11-111 above,

C. A daughter from category 9-118 above.

[533]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

D. Miscellaneous, including (uncategorized)
1. Two dogs
2. Three hard-shelled snapping turtles
3. Mortgage
I hope this accounting adequately serves the need for which it was
prepared. Twenty-five years is a relatively short accounting period.

WILLIAM HENRY GILPATRIC

 

HOME aApprEss: 10 Oakland St., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 17 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1936. DEGREE: D.M.D., 1940.

MarRiIED: Jane Hathaway, Dec. 25, 1941. CHILDREN: William Henry, 3d, May 3,
1945; Peter Dwight, May 15, 1946; Jill Anne, June 13, 1952; Jean Hatha-
way, Aug. 13, 1960.

occuPATION; Dentist, general practice.

oFFices HELD: Grand Master, Delta Sigma Delta Fraternity, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Dental Alumni Association;
Harvard Odontological Society; American Academy of Dental Science;
American Dental Association; Massachusetts Dental Association; Metro-
politan Dental Association; Belmont Hill School Alumni Association.

AFTER two years of pre-dental school studies at Harvard, I trans-
ferred to Harvard Dental School and received a D.M.D. degree in
1940. After a few short months of practice in Boston I went on
active duty with the 180th Field Artillery, 26th Division, as a first
lieutenant, Dental Corps, in January, 1941. Married Jane Hathaway
of Lexington, December 25, 1941, and was shipped out to Australia

as part of Task Force 6814, January, 1942. From there we went
to New Caledonia to form the Americal Division. Combat at

[ $34]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Guadalcanal, relieving the Marines there. Then to Figi and New
Hebrides with combat again at Bougainville, this time with the 37th
Division, 121st Infantry, which was much too close to the front
lines. Survived that for four months and was then rotated back to
the U.S., after twenty-eight months overseas. 1 was stationed at
Lovell General Hospital, Fort Devens, for a pleasant year and a
half, where our first child, William, 3d, was born May 3, 1945. I
was finally released after five years of Army service and resumed
private practice in Boston.

We lived in Hingham for a year and then bought the house we
still live in at Lexington, Massachusetts. Peter Dwight arrived May
15,1946. Jill Anne, on Friday, June 13, 1952, and as an afterthought,
Jean Hathaway, on August 13, 1960 —all sponsored by Richardson
House.

It hardly seems possible that twenty -five years have slipped by,
except when I look at my elder boy who tops me by six inches.
Both boys, aged sixteen and seventeen, are at Belmont Hill, so this
year we start looking for colleges which feel they would be accepr-
able — not at all like the old days.

I feel that my biggest break of these twenty-five years was meet-
ing and marrying Jane, resulting in a very pleasant life and four
delightful children.

CHARLES MOUL GITT

    

HOME ADpRESS: 932 S. Beaver St., York, Pa,

OFFICE ADbRESS: 31 FE. King Se., York, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGRER: A.A, 193%,

[535]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

marrigp: LaVerne Garland, July 7, 1945. CHILDREN: Cynthia Elizabeth, Nov.
14, 1946; Peggy Ann, Oct. 18, 1949; Stephen W., April 25, 1954.

occupation: President and executive editor, The Gazette and Daily, daily
(except Sunday) newspaper.

MEMBER OF: Lancaster Country Club, Lancaster, Pa.

ABOUT the time the diplomas were being handed out at Com-
mencement of the Class of ’38, I joined the staff of the newspaper
owned by my father, The Gazette and Daily, as assistant editor.
From that position I moved to managing editor and then president
and finally president and executive editor. Thus, I shall be celebrat-
ing twenty-five years in the newspaper business as the Class of ’38
celebrates its I'wenty-fifth Anniversary.

For twenty-five years we have devoted our efforts and talents to
trying to publish an honest, independent and objective newspaper
that tells the truth no matter where the chips may fall. The result
may well be that we have the most controversial newspaper in the
United States. Along the way, we have won six awards for typog-
raphy and one of our reporters has copped the Heywood Broun
Award for public service reporting. Five times we have taken the
F. W. Ayer Award for being the best looking tabloid in the United
States and one time we took the Ayer Cup which is awarded to the
best made-up newspaper in the country, regardless of size or form
of makeup. As for our attempt to print the news regardless of the
consequences, we have few trophies to boast of, but we have earned
a national reputation for our independence and refusal to panic into
conformity. We differ with much of the newspaper industry in
that we publish for the sake of keeping our readers fully informed
on what is going on about them, not to make the cash register ring.
It has been no easy job.

In 1949 another member of the Class of ’38, James Higgins, joined
the staff of The Gazette and Daily and has been helping in the
endeavor to publish an honest-to-goodness newspaper second to
none, as assistant editor.

My family consists of a wife, two daughters and one son.

[ 536]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM TRIMBLE GLENDINNING

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3046 Scarborough Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1235 W. Sixth St., Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Nancy Wilson, Sept. 22, 1939. CHILDREN: William A., Nov. 28, 1941;
Sara T., April 7, 1943; Ralph W., April 22, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, White Tool & Supply Company.

MEMBER OF: Country Club, Pepper Pike, Ohio; Vineyard Haven Yachr Club,
Martha’s Vineyard, Mass.

*k DAVID STRANSKY GLUECK

 

porn: Feb. 25, 1916, Baltimore, Md. parents: Bernard David Glueck, Josephine
Stransky.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, NH

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1035, 1936-1939. DEGRER: A.B, cts laude, 1948(59).
pieD: May 24, 1941, Lynchburg, Va.

[537]

Vt

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DAVID STRANSKY GLUECK was a member of the Harvard
varsity football team in 1939. He was also active in wrestling and
boxing while at college. After college he spent a year as a reporter
and writing sport stories for the Boston American. In June, 1940, he
enlisted in the Army Air Corps, completed his pilot’s training and
was designated an instructor. He was killed in an auto accident. He
was survived by his parents.

+ LINCOLN GODFREY, JR.

SR SRE IN, “8
"

  

BorN: Dec. 17, 1915, Merion, Pa. parents: Lincoln Godfrey, Mary Rodman.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarRieD: Patricia Geyelin, Sept. 1, 1945, Devon, Pa. CHILDREN: Sandra R,, Dec.
24, 1946; Lincoln, 3d, Jan. 25, 1947; Margaret R., July 5, 1949.

pigp: Dec. 18, 1958, Philadelphia, Pa.

wivow: Mrs. Lincoln Godfrey, Jr., 122 Valley Rd., Ardmore, Pa.

AFTER graduation Godfrey attended the University of Pennsyl-
vania Medical School. He engaged in the practice and teaching of
medicine, was an associate in medicine at the University of Pennsy]-
vania Medical School and held staff appointments at the University
and Presbyterian Hospitals. At the time of his death he was research
director of the National Council on Alcoholism.

[ 538 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PRENTISS GODFREY

   

AS RO ILT TLL ETRE SOX BA ATE LLANE ELLY AIELLO LOOM

ve A et
Boy,

HOME AppREss: 10 W. Broadway, Bangor, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 6 State St., Bangor, Maine.
PREPARED AT: Wassokeag School, Dexter, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; LLB. (Univ. of Michigan),
1941.

MARRIED: Frances Edwards, Aug. 19, 1944. CHILDREN: Ann Frances, April 4,
1946; John Edwards, June 9, 1948, David Pierce, Feb. 8, 1951; Alice, Feb.
1, 1953; Donald, May 9, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Lincoln Trust Company, Lincoln, Maine; trustee,
Brewer Savings Bank, Brewer, Maine.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Eastern Maine; Afaine Scate Bar Association;
Penobscot County Bar Association.

ALMOST twenty-five years have elapsed since graduation in 1938
and the time has certainly sped by during those interv ening years!
Much has happened, almost all of it good, and I shall try to summa-
rize it here.

In the fall of 1938 I entered the University of Michigan Law
School at Ann Arbor, Michigan, and spent the next three years
studying law and graduated in June, 1941. I took the State of Maine
bar exams in August, 1941, passed the exams successfully and com-
menced practising law on my own in my home town of Bangor,
Maine, I had scarcely got underway w hen, as we all remember,
Pearl Harbor was bombed on December seventh. I continued
practising law for the winter of 1942 and then took a position as
a civilian pilot for the Army’s glider training program, My friends
will remember that I held a pilot's license and flew during college
days and belonged to the Elarvard Flying Club, I was at Mobile,
Alabama, with the 18th Army Airc Force Glider Detachment.

[539]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Principally, the job consisted of towing gliders in pairs so that the
glider students could learn to fly gliders. The pilots would change
from time to time and act as instructors in the gliders, so I had the
experience of flying gliders behind the tow plane as well as towing
gliders. Looking back on my experiences at Mobile I can still say
there was much excitement and many thrills even in retrospect
from twenty years. The time, for example, on a night tow when
the glider refused to release and we had to ride down behind the
tow plane and try to land in the dark still attached to the plane;
the time heavy winds aloft held us back so that we almost couldn’t
reach the landing area and would have landed in the woods in the
dead of night; all these and other experiences come to mind when |
sit down and think back.

I was at Mobile nearly a year when the glider program was
terminated, the Army having trained enough glider pilots to meet
its needs. I then applied for and received a commission in the Navy
and was sent to Dallas, Texas, for training to become a primary
flight instructor. After Dallas I went to New Orleans, Louisiana,
for further instruction and then was sent to Olathe, Kansas, as a
flight instructor. At Olathe my career was curtailed as I failed to
pass the flight physical mainly because I could not make 20/20 in
my vision, so although they kept me on until the training program
was terminated, my flying consisted mostly of test hopping planes
coming out of the overhaul shop, flying various local missions
incident to the flight training program, but not actually instructing.
Most of my Navy career was at Olathe, Kansas, which is approxi-
mately in the geographical center of the country and about as far
from the ocean as one can get. So I really feel my Navy career
was unspectacular although here also I have much to remember.

After the war ended I again entered the practice of law on my
own and have practised continuously here in Bangor, Maine, ever
since, At the start my practice was quite varied and I have had
experience in and about all phases of the law, but as time went on
my practice developed into certain lines that now take all my

time. I am attorney for one of our savings banks and do all the
legal work connected with the bank’s loans including all title
opinions and mortgages. I also do this work for some of the other
banks, although not as the only attorney for the other banks. I am

a director of the Lincoln Trust Company in Lincoln, Maine, and a

trustce of the Brewer Savings Bank in Brewer, Maine. In addition

to my bank work I do a great deal of probate work and think it

[ 540 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

safe to say that my legal specialty is probate work. I engage in
practically no litigation and have not done so for several years and

feel that the type of work in which I am engaged is much more
satisfactory. I have made acquaintances with many fine people
and feel happy that they place their trust and confidence in me with
their affairs, That is certainly a source of great satisfaction. It
makes for a very pleasant existence to work along the way I do and
it seems to me, looking back again, that I have had more satisfac-
tion out of life by having my own business and building my own
clientele than there would be from anything else I could have done.
As I look back I have no complaints to make about life since our
graduation in 1938.

Looking ahead, I plan to practise law for a few more years and
then to take some time off, which I have not done so far, for trips
with my good wife who has worked hard in bringing up our five
children and deserves time off more than I. But it won't be long
before all of our children are grown up; my eldest boy is at Middle-
sex School, Concord, Massachusetts; my elder daughter will soon be
in college. So although I am out of college only twenty-five years,
and have enjoyed those twenty-five years, I feel justified in looking
ahead toward even finer times to come, places to visit, and things
to see, and to all my former classmates I extend my very best wishes.

MILTON GOLD

 

HOME abpress: 138-35 68th Drive, Flushing 67, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: Handy Folding Pail Co, Inc, 104 Spring Se, New York t2,
N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Westfield High School, Westtichd, Mass,

[ s4t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

mMarRIED: Tillie Libbin, Feb. 14, 1942. CHILDREN: Mary Roy, June 15, 1944;
Myron Elliot, Sept. 29, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President and sales manager, Handy Folding Pail Company, Inc.,
manufacturers of nesting self-service shopping baskets.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant scoutmaster, Committee Chairman, Merit Badge Coun-
selor, Boy Scouts of America, 1955-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Long Island; Zionist Organization of America;
Men’s Club— Jewish Center of Kew Gardens Hills; Young Working-
men’s Sick and Benevolent Society; Karts and Riders Technical Society.

HAL GOLDEN

 

HOME AppRESS: 1711 Kings Way, Los Angeles 69, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: 651 N, La Cienega Blvd., Los Angeles 69, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-10938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

Marriep: Arletta Margaret Gunn, Sept. 12, 1956. cHiLp: Robin Waite, 1941
(by wife’s previous marriage).

OCCUPATION: Picture frame designer, manufacturer, importer of pictures, prints,
etc.

AFTER nearly four years of service and about twenty different kinds
of jobs, I settled into my own business of custom picture framing,
which includes the largest stock of prints in the West and necessi-
tates buying trips to Europe every other year. We live in a house on
the mountainside overlooking Los Angeles and enjoy a quiet country
life in the heart of this beautiful city. Seven years ago I met and
married a lovely girl from Edinburgh who brought me a son and
some delightful (but all-too-few) in-laws. We spend most of our

time reading, gardening and traveling — just lucky, well aware of it,
and very grateful.

[ 542 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tapeeorcetigi

HENRY SHIPPEN GOODHUE

     

  

HOME AppRESS: 90 Dover Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Welch & Forbes, 73 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; LLB., 1941.

MarRrIED: Lydia Russell Davis, May 29, 1943. cHtLpreN: Edmund Munroe,
March 2, 1945; Lawrence Cushing, 2d, Jan. 12, 1947; Henry Shippen, Jr.,
Aug. 10, 1950.

occuPaTION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Evening Division, Boston University; Trustee, North
Bennet Street Industrial School, since 1950, Wellesley Public Library,
1952-58; treasurer, Boston Council for International Visitors, Inc., since
1961; member of corporation, Boston Museum of Science, since 1958, Rivers
Country Day School, since 1960, Protestant Episcopal Church, Diocese of
Massachusetts, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Club; Chetolah Yacht Club.

FIVE years of naval service, from a V-7 type apprentice seaman
to a just-under-the-wire lieutenant commander, USNR, followed
immediately upon graduation from the Harvard Law School. I can
still taste destroyer wardroom coffee with canned milk, but have
fortunately forgotten early morning sunrises by the simple expedient
of keeping the shades down. A year of shore duty at the Naval War
College in Newport, both as student and teacher, gave the whole
family ample time to master the peacetime custom of the exchange
of “calling cards” on Sunday, plus first class opportunity to become
acquainted with such civilian niceties as gas rationing and food
books.

In 1946, not wishing to break too abruptly with the immediate
past, I joined a law firm in New York City that specialized in
marine affairs. So— with a wife whom I had seen all too infre-

[ 543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

quently during our married years, and a son of nine months whose
acquaintance I had just made, we went apartment hunting. We
finally persuaded a departing tenant to sublet to us, rather than to
nine other applicants, simply because we agreed to buy his furniture
at a higher price than the other victims. A view of the East River,
and two tennis courts, all contributed to a very pleasant two years.

It was the knock of opportunity that ended the East River inter-
lude. I moved to Boston in 1948 to work with Francis C. Welch
and F. Murray Forbes, Jr. Under their guidance the office has
expanded to include six principals, collectively known as Welch
& Forbes. We are professional trustees responsible for the man-
agement and investment of family fortunes, substantial and modest
alike. We specialize in personal service, attention to all aspects of
family property, and the art, or science, of “estate planning” —
which is simply the modern and more sophisticated way of describ-
ing what our forebears called “estate preservation.” Although the
post-Sputnik generation may discover another word for it, the
end result will surely be the same.

What have we done of interest other than the pursuit of the
career and the raising of three boys? It’s hard to say — although
we know that we have not been idle. In a neighborhood discussion
group for over ten years we have brushed up on philosophy, litera-
ture and comparative religion. We have also shared an enthusiasm
for politics in general, and for the Democratic party in particular.
We enjoy the theatre and consequently take full advantage of
Boston’s privileged status as a “try-out’’ city.

Like most other suburbanites I have waged an uneasy truce with
crabgrass, commuting and conformity. Vis-a-vis the first I must
confess that I gave up long ago —I just look the other way and
take comfort from the fact that it’s green, at least until August. As
to commuting, I know that I can hold out just as long as the Boston
and Albany Railroad, even if they never air-condition, or clean,
the cars. And as for conformity, I’m still an eccentric, having
organized Volunteers for Stevenson and persisted in riding a
bicycle to the railroad station daily, winter and summer. I have
discovered, however, that such behavior can be forgiven, as I was
elected a Town Library trustee — twice!

I look back with particular satisfaction to several years of service
on the executive committee of the Massachusetts Chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union, particularly during the period
of McCarthyism — a time when our membership grew rapidly.

[ 544]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During various summer vacations the whole family has managed
to visit the Continent (ever read Europe on Five Dollars a Day?) or
go camping (with station wagon cum tents-cum Coleman, north,
south and west of Dedham). We have discovered that we like to get
close to nature, but only in small doses, accompanied by as many
comforts of home as possible. While in Europe we became particu-
larly enamored of Greece, and are now looking forward to a leisure-
ly future during which we hope to study modern Greek; then our
next continental visit will be to a remote Mediterranean isle, where
despite the oily cuisine we can, aided by a Greek retsina wine, catch
a few glimpses of a remote past and simple beauty.

Right now, however, we are all working hard to prepare for each
and every one of you the best Twenty-fifth Reunion ever provided
at Harvard. This has happily involved renewing acquaintances with
classmates, near and far, and also involved sampling the food and
liquor (free!) of ’36 and ’37 during their respective Twenty-fifths.
Asa result of my scholarly research, I can assure you that you will
never forget your T-wenty-fifth!

4: THEODORE JOSEPH GOODMAN

 

BORN: June 28, 1916, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Goodman, Rose Golden.
PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1935.

pep: Aug. 17, 1935, Beverly, Mass.

THEODORE JOSEPH GOODMAN was an honor student at
Harvard, a member of the business board of the Red Bovk and active
in athletics. Ele died of injurics received in an automobile accident.

[ 545 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

NORTON GOODWIN

 

HOME appress: 9401 Main St., Damascus, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 824 Connecticut Ave., Washington 6, D.C,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Attorney; partner, Goodwin, Rosenbaum, Meacham & White.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Independent Tracking Coordination Program, Society
of Photographic Scientists and Engineers; member, board of directors,
Society of Photographic Scientists and Engineers; vice-president and past
president, Washington Chapter, Society of Photographic Scientists and
Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Rotary International, Damascus, Md.

PusLications: “Simplified Satellite Prediction for Modified Orbital Elements”
(Satellite Report No. 7), January, 1959, published by the National Academy
of Sciences-National Research Council; written in cooperation with Leon-
ard N. Cormier and Reginald K. Squires, “Field Reduction of Optical
Fixes,” Photographie Science and Engineering, 1962; various bulletins on
satellite tracking.

GRADUATE of Advance Flying School, Columbus, Mississippi,
Class of 1942; combat pilot (B-25), North Africa and Italy; still
flying airplanes for business and pleasure. In the practice of law
specialized in federal tax matters. Since International Geophysical
Year have been engaged in coordinating independent tracking ac-
tivities under grant from the National Academy of Sciences and, more
recently, by National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Prime
objective in this area is to improve the communication of data from
the prime computing centers to independent tracking organizations
and vice versa.

Favorite occupations: fox hunting and training hunters (I prefer

[ 546 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the horse part of hunting to the dog part), rebuilding automobiles

and airplane engines, scientific photography, designing and trying to

put into operation automatic, self-perpetuating, no-care annual
ardens.

My brother’s family and I live together in Damascus, Maryland,
and spend summers at Mackinac Island, Michigan. In addition to
numerous horses, dogs, cats, three small children and two oversized
houses are involved. Helping maintain order in this community is
not exactly an occupation; it is a career to which I am deeply de-
voted. A skill to which I immediately aspire is that of horseshoeing
(with a view to helping the budget).

Community activities include: Vestry, Chapel Committee, choir
and lay reader, St. Ann’s Episcopal Chapel, Damascus, Maryland,
past president, Damascus Rotary Club, Civil Air Patrol.

STEPHEN GOODYEAR

    

MAILING ADDRESS: 11 FE. 68th St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.p. (Columbia Univ.), 1943-

MARRIED.
OCCUPATION: Physician: specializing in psychiatry.

A LITTLE over a year ago, I married for the third time. There are
four children by my second marriage, ages nine to seventeen, all of
whom I find variously splendid, puzzling, inimitable. I have been

specializing in psychiatry for eighteen years.

These statements indicate, at least to me, that my interests, pre-
occupations, delights, despairs, and hopes have had to do with people
(including myself) — personally and professionally. For obvious

[ 547 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

reasons then, this volume is not an appropriate forum for a true and
complete account of my past twenty-five years, so I’ll conclude with
a few bare facts.

After graduation and a year at Law School, I returned to Harvard
for premedical courses, and took medical training at Columbia. In
1954, while in the Army, I began working in psychiatry. I followed
that with three years of training at the Payne Whitney Psychiatric
Clinic of the New York Hospital, where I am on the staff and do
part-time teaching as a faculty member of Cornell Medical School.
I live and practise in New York City.

As for my classmates, I wish I hadn’t lost touch with so many, and
there are many others I wish I could know — perhaps on both scores
it’s not too late.

ALVIN JEROME GORDON

MAILING AbprEss: Gateway Products, Inc., 1859 Powell St., San Francisco, Calif.

BENJAMIN GORDON

    

HOME ADDRESS: 324 Capitol View Drive, McLean, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 474, Old Senate Office Bldg., Washington, D.C.

PREPARED: AT: Roxbury Memorial High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935, 1941-1943. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1938(43);
A.M. (Univ. of Chicago), 1951.

Marien: Dorothy Kazer, 1949. cHitprEN: Judith Wilma, July 10, 1951; Ellis
David, July 25, 1953; William James, Dee. 5, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Staff economist, U.S. Senate Sclect Committee on Small Business.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association,

[ 548 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PuBLicaTIONS: Many government reports and hearings, have participated in
Senate Committee investigations, in patent policies of the Federal Govern-
ment, in Space Communications and other antitrust and monopoly problems.

MY three years of Japanese at Boylston Hall turned out to be more
useful to me than I had originally expected. For, when we entered
the war, I found myself in a very scarce category of those people
who could read, write and, to some degree, speak Japanese. In May,

1943, I was drafted and sent to the Army Japanese Language School

at the University of Michigan, followed by Infantry basic training,
OCS, and then finally a trip to the Pacific area, entering Japan with
the first troops as a counter-intelligence officer.

My return to the United States at the end of 1946 was followed
by a year at the Littauer School concentrating in economics and
government administration and public policy; a two-year job with a
motion picture company as a statistician; marriage in 1949, and two
years at the University of Chicago as a Ph.D. candidate in economics.

With the invasion of South Korea by the North Koreans and
Chinese, I was recalled to active duty in March, 1951, after having
taken my preliminary exams, but without having had the chance to
start a dissertation. Subsequent attempts even to start one have ended
in failure. After reporting for active duty and then wandering from
one army camp to another, I was finally transferred to the Central
Intelligence Agency, where I remained as a civilian economist for five
years following my release from active duty at the end of 1952. In
March, 1958, I moved up to Capitol Hill to become the staff econo-
mist for the Senate Small Business Committee.

My hobbies are still tennis and chess, both of which I play as poorly
today as I did twenty-five years ago, perhaps worse. I enjoy them,
nevertheless.

Suburban living is coming to an end for me. For seven years I
lived an ordinary suburban life—in a contemporary home about
eleven miles from the White House, spending too large a part of my
leisure time cutting grass and raking leaves. I am now in the process
of building a town-house right in the city with practically no land
around it.

For five years or so, several of us ’38ers in the Washington area —
Bill Welch, Colin Campbell, Dave Coffin and I — used to get to-
gether perhaps every two or three weeks for lunch. Tom Judge,
Dave Putnam, Ed Davis joined us on occasion. During the past couple
of years, unfortunately, the group has disintegrated because of move-
ments out of the area, lethargy, and other reasons. Dave Coffin and

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

I, after having patched up our T/O with members of other classes,
are trying to carry on, but not too successfully.
Viewed retrospectively, it becomes clear that none of my carefully
lanned career objectives has been achieved. These were knocked
into a cocked hat by the Great Depression, World War II, and its
anticlimax, Korea. Nonetheless, on Capitol Hill I enjoy a comforting

— though possibly an illusory — sense of contributing to the long-
term interest of the public.

EDWARD JOSEPH GORDON

   

&
;
£
:
%
i
¥
¢
Ee
®
r
ike.

HOME apprEss: 456 Quinnipiac Ave., North Haven, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Hall of Graduate Studies, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1938(q0); A.M., 1942.

Maraigp: Patricia Dearborn Jencks, May 8, 1943. CHILDREN: Ann Dexter, May
24, 1944; Peter Lane, Oct. 1, 1946; Sarah Herbert, Feb. 16, 1950, David
Jewell, Sept. 20, 1952.

occupation: Associate professor of English and director, Office of Teacher
Training, Yale University.

Member OF: Franklin Inn, Philadelphia.

publications: Essays on Teaching English, co-author; editor of texts for high
school students; articles in professional journals,

AFTER leaving Harvard 1 became a secondary schoolteacher in
various schools: East Greenwich (R.I.) High, Westminster School
(Conn.), Newton (Mass.) High and Germantown Friends School in
Philadelphia. In the last school I stayed for ten pleasant years. This
last 1 combined with summer teaching at the Harvard Graduate
School of Education and eight years of commuting, during the aca-

[ 550 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

demic year, to Yale — offering in both places courses in the teaching
of English.

Three years ago I was appointed as associate professor of English
at Yale where much of my work is in administering their Master of
Arts in Teaching Program. I do manage to teach one undergraduate
English course a year.

My life has been busy but enjoyable.

ROBERT WILLARD GORDON

wo _

      

a 3 ,
- - : #
a j

sk

a /

6.
Beiiesue pat at iy

HOME appREsS: 301 S. Tenth Ave., Hollywood, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Bank of Hollywood, Tyler Street, Hollywood, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MarRIED: June Elaine Mailman, June 17, 1945. CHILDREN: Spencer Bruce, Jan. 9,
1948; Jonathan Richard, Sept. 7, 1950; Jill Mia, Sept. 27, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Director and vice-president, The Bank of Hollywood,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and vice-president, Jewish Welfare Federation of Holly-
wood, since 1954; mayor, City of Miramar, 1955-59; trustee and president,
Temple Beth El, since 1955, South Broward Free Loan Sociery, since 1960,
director, American Savings & Loan Association of Miami Beach, elected
1962; director, Broward County Chapter, American Red Cross, 1962-45,
member, Planning and Zoning Board, City of Hollywood, 1963-65.

MEMBER OF: American Bankers Association; American Institute of Banking,
Harvard Club of Broward County; Harvard Club of Miami, Unired
States Savings & Loan League.

PUBLICATIONS: Major network radio scripts, 1939-42, including Columbia Work-
shop and “Lest We Forget"; “Antidote for the Alcutians” Sururday
Evening Post, June, 1945.

THE ebb and flow of twenty-five years (cbbing hair and flowing
waistlines) have softly eroded a quarter-century from the span

[550]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WILLIAM ALONZO GOSLINE, III

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3358 Emekona Pl., Honolulu 14, Hawaii.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Hawaii, Honolulu 14, Hawaii.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; PH.D. (Stanford Univ.), 1941.

marrigD: Alice Brockway Rundle, May 8, 1943. CHILDREN: William George,
Aug. 17, 1946, Ann Rundle, Aug. 22, 1949.

occuPATION: Professor of zoology, University of Hawaii.

OFFICES HELD: Divisional editor, Copeia (scientific journal), 1955-57; president,
American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Some eight scientific societies,

PUBLICATIONS: Handbook of Hawaiian Fishes (with V. E. Brock); forty scien-
tific papers.

WHILE my wife has been successfully raising two children and
keeping family affairs in general on an even keel, I have devoted the
major portion of my existence to teaching and research. These
interests have led in my case to a preoccupation with people as in-
dividuals rather than as members of a social, economic or political
system. A research man, if he is to accomplish anything, must think
about things in a somewhat different way than those who have pre-
ceded him, and a teacher, if an old-fashioned view is still admissible,
is one who tries to develop independence of thinking in his students.
I would be the last to belittle the value of such activities in the
modern world: nevertheless, they make soporific autobiographical
material and will not be pursued further. Suffice it to add that the
rewards attained from teaching and research are pretty much in-
tangible, but perhaps no less satisfactory for that.

[554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ISRAEL JEROME GRAFF

 

HOME ApprESS: 161 Anita St., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pittsburgh Barrel & Drum Co., 200 S. 21st St., Pittsburgh 3, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Triadelphia High School, Wheeling, W. Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938(39); LL.B. 1941.

MARRIED: Rhoda Dubin, June 7, 1950. CHILDREN: Michael S., July 6, 1951; Daniel
M., Dec. 9, 1952; Constance Beth, Sept. 9, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Steel drum reconditioning; partner-sales, Pittsburgh Barrel &
Drum Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1955-56, director, 1957-61, National Barrel & Drum
Association; president, Wheeling (W. Va.) Zionist Organization, 1947-48,
Wheeling Lodge, B’nai B'rith, 1949, captain, West Virginia National Guard,
1949—51; member, Budget Committee, Wheeling Community Chest, 1950,
president, Wheeling Opera Workshop, 1949.

MEMBER OF: West Virginia Bar Association, Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh;
Pittsburgh Little League.

THREE years at law schoo! taught me something about hard work.
I loved the classroom disputations, especially in Professor Gardner’s
Contracts. My vice was the Ames Competition, which took all kinds
of time without helping my grades. I argued for the Morgan-James
club; we got to the semi-finals.

There followed four army years, ending up out of character as a
paratroop engineer platoon leader. I remember one session at Manila,
flat on my belly, defusing airplane bombs used as mines. Also helped
blow up several enemy-filled caves on southern Luzon. And I doubt
if thousands of us would be here today were it not for the atomic
bomb. On the brighter side was a lazy three-month freighter voyage
home around the world, on full jump pay of course.

After a few profitable months in war surplus (blitz cans), I opened
my own law office in my home town, Wheeling, West Virginia.

[555]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Most of the blitz can profits went into outfitting the plush kind of
office a Harvard man should have. The business that came in, how-
ever, was the kind that took a hundred dollars worth of work to earn
a ten-dollar fee. I had one murder case (no fee); my client was lucky
— he got life. I also got into YMCA membership drives, comic book
cleanups, etc., etc., and was an active Zionist at the time Israel got
its freedom.

In 1950 I married Rhoda Dubin of Cleveland. My wife is very
warm-hearted and loves people, qualities I am a little short on. We
have two husky boys, eleven and ten, and a sweet daughter of
seven. We have a close, affectionate Jewish family life, and I have
become a tolerable mambo dancer, handyman, storyteller, Little
League manager, and bowler.

In 1951 I gave up the law and moved to Pittsburgh. Since then I
have been in the family business of reconditioning steel drums. My
brother David and I operate a plant with about forty employees,
and do daily battle with “The Squeeze.” There are plenty of days
when we feel all squeezed out, but there are also many satisfactions —
of useful work performed, courtesy given and received, and satisfied
customers. Also the feeling that of the various roles in the fight for
freedom, that of today’s businessman may be as vital as any.

My personal college prophet was French professor J. J. Penny.
During lunch at Adams House in ’36, he wondered aloud if I would
ever amount to much. He concluded in the negative, and said Pd
wind up just a “kind gentleman.” It sounded pretty thin at the time,
but it sounds better now, and I'll be glad to settle for that as my epi-
taph if I can make it. Seems to take a lot of doing.

[ 556 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN MacDOUGALL GRAHAM

0 SRS pCR

Riera apae

   

HOME ApprEss: 6 E, Scott St., Chicago 10, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Latin School of Chicago, 59 E. Scott St., Chicago 10, Ill.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1941.
MARRIED: Barbara Putnam, June, 1939 (divorced 1947); Janet Welldon, July 4,

1947. CHILDREN: Katharine, Dec. 8, 1941; Gerrit, Nov. 27, 1948; Samuel
Welldon, Feb, 23, 1952.

occuPATION: Education, headmaster, The Latin School of Chicago.
MEMBER OF: Arts Club of Chicago; Saddle & Cycle Club.
PuBLicaTIONs: “The Cult of Facilosis,” The Clearing House, April, 1959.

THIS account of your life since graduation . . . should reflect
yourself and your points of view.” I wonder . . . does this admoni-
tion refer to the self I wanted to be, or the self I should be, or the self
other people imagine I am, or the self I am? And which of the selves
are those points of view supposed to reflect? —The temptation to pur-
sue this line of thought is, fortunately, not irresistible.

Every three or four months, when I was at boarding school, we
had a Sunday sermon the gist of which was that we were expected to
amount to something. The keynote was a line from Matthew Arnold
in which the disheartening announcement was made that “most men
eddy about.” I have forgotten the rest of the words but the message
was that the poor blighters never amounted to anything. I am sorry
to say that despite this awful and practically incessant warning, |
eddied.

The story of the eddying years may be quickly told; law school (a
happy grind, and I mean that); six months in the bullpen of a Wall
Street firm (the partners wanted to know how something could be
done, not why it couldn’t); the Navy (nearly four years, spent en-

[557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

coding and decoding messages and studying the native customs at 90
Church Street in Brazil, and at an agreeable recreation center in
North Carolina, officially classified by the Navy as Lighter-than-Air
Naval Air Station); three years as a civil servant in Washington, in
the Navy Department (in the office of the General Counsel, working
on airframe contracts in Buaer; in the Office of Naval Research: this
was instructive, for I traveled (or eddied) about the country at the
taxpayer's expense, met some celebrated people, and discovered that
government workers, while assuredly no more perfect than their
fellows in other lines of work, are not notably less so); three years in
the law department of the Port of New York Authority (it is now
fashionable to malign this and other Authorities as overweening, but
I wonder myself whether private enterprise would, or could, have
built the Lincoln Tunnel, or the Massachusetts Turnpike, or the New
York Throughway).

Eleven years ago this fall a former teacher and friend became a
headmaster and took the risk that I might be able to teach history in
his school. Since then, when asked why the change from law to
school teaching, the best answer I have been able to think of has
been (with not a fig for GBS) that I wanted to and was lucky
enough to be able to. It had been coming on for a long time, born
of the troublesome discovery that the connection was not always as
clear as I had assumed it to be between certain propositions about the
American way of life which I had been taught to accept as revealed
truths, and the facts as they begin to appear from observation and
study. It seemed to me important that other people should discover
this, especially the young, while there was still time; that they should
learn the value of questioning.

In September, 1960, I became headmaster of The Latin School of
Chicago, a coeducational, college preparatory, independent day
school having an enrollment this year of 490 in grades K-12 (as we
say in the trade), located on the near north side of Chicago. There’s
a lot to be said for headmastering as long as you do not question cer-
tain revealed truths, the most important of which are that it is an im-
perfect world, and that all of us, starting with the parents and ending
with the headmaster, are imperfect.

[558 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN MAURICE GRANDFIELD

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 44 Atherton Rd., Brookline 46, Mass. (Lost.)

RICHARD McCURDY GRANDIN

Mey

    

HOME ApprEss: Apt. 24H, 10 Emerson Pl. Boston 14, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED; Eustacia Purves, March 16, 1946 (divorced 1962). cHiLpREN: Mary
Temple, Aug. 29, 1947; Isabel Porter, May 13, 1949; Richard McCurdy,
Jr.. Nov. 9, 1953; Katharine P., June 8, 1955.

OccUPATION: Real estate — self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Member, YMCA Camping Board, since 1955, Hale Reservation,
since 1958, Dedham Council, Greater Boston Community Fund, tys0-54,
Dedham Finance Committee, 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: Greater Boston Real Estate Board, since 1955; Dedham Country
and Polo Club; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OVER the past ten years I have devoted much of my spare time to
reading in a number of related fields in an effort to find out some-
thing about what makes the world move forward and what might
be done to make it move forward with less friction. I have en-
countered so many conflicting problems of race, creed and culture,
presented by a wide variety of authors, that it is impossible even on
paper to work something out that has any promise. Even so I do not
fee] the time has been wasted and have taken notes on all the books
that seemed significant to me. I am aware that much of the world
including our own section of it is still guided by emotional factors,
myth and mysticism. I do not expect what follows to be popular nor
pretend to be equal to present adequately in abbreviated form or
otherwise the substance of a few conclusions — but here goes:

Religion world-wide is the surest way to the heart of a people.
Basic to all religions, as they have developed, is the problem of con-
quering death. Psychiatry and philosophy both confirm this con-
clusion and go on to say that everyone hates the pain of a new idea.
This emotional need for eternal life would seem to be basic in most
men and every religion has been forced to fit it in even though the
founders of some of the religions, Buddha, Confucius and Christ,
left this point open. Even the founder of psychiatry and his running
mate, Jung, admit this basic need in man but neither one of them
personally believed in after-life. Professor Demos is quoted as
follows, “Faith rests on no proof whatsoever.”

Let us assume for a moment that there is no after-life and that
this belief is an emotional value that defies reason. What could be
gained from altering our religions, along with more comparative
religious study, as that death was faced up to? No one can be sure
of the consequences. In any case the risks to date have always
seemed too great and we have continued along the path set for us
by Pythagoras, Zoroaster, Paul and their followers. This course has
served humanity well despite the thousands of twists and subdivi-
sions every religion has taken over the years, but might not a new
course serve humanity better today? This does not mean giving up
the good of all religions, or that such changes can come over night,

but might it not be better to start downgrading these emotional
values in favor of the truth, based on reason?

The churches will have to lead the way but do not do so for fear
that religion will lose its message. This is leading from weakness.
If we are to have an ethical world, our ethics will have to be rooted
in the here and now, not in life after death, or our existing system of

[ 560 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rewards and punishment, or the paradoxes of faith. This will mean
major changes and facing up to new views. The world has sur-
vived Copernicus, Kepler, Descartes, Newton and others. Once we
got over the shock of facing death, might this not give all religions
new energies for a new advance, particularly as religion is in decline?
The trouble is no one wants to attack the problem directly as it
would mean such an overhaul in our theologies, thinking and teach-
ings. However, I feel the risk is worth it and offers us our one best
hope of using our thinking powers to deal with a world beset with
frictions, which the conflicting world religions tend to foster in a
shrinking world. As one author put it, “To be a follower of Christ
does not relieve us of the duty to think, and the United States should
try to lead the way.” Although no admirer of Communism, I note
that Communism has not thus far found it necessary to include the
hereafter in its system.

Hope based on intelligent action is the least which the spirit of
religion should strive to bring about in all men, rather than to sup-
press this spirit by an outdated system of mythical rewards and
punishments. Ethics must be rooted in the relations of man to man,
not in abstractions. To root your one source of bringing about a
peaceful world in abstractions is to doom the hope of ever bringing
peace and good will on earth. This also defies wisdom.

MORRIS MARK GRANT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1732 P. St., N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

[ 561]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FREDERIC CHARLES GRAY

 

MAILING apprEss: P.O, Box 527, Pateete, Tahiti, French Oceania.

HORACE GRAY, JR.

ea

i

 

8 A ET TN

    
 

Suaun aun UWS aiiaerneante eda

HOME Appress: 1680 E, Valley Rd., Santa Barbara, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif., Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1941.

MaRRiED: Gina Squires, 1950. CHILDREN: Hod, Sept. 21, 1942 (by previous
marriage); Charles C., Nov. 21, 1944 (stepson); Katharine, May 25, 195%
Susan W., March 23, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Montecito Rotary Club; Santa Barbara Yacht Club.

[ 562 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT LAMB GRAYCE

    

HOME AppREsS: 141 Main St., Rockport, Mass.
OFFICE ADDREsS: Southern Arizona School, Tucson, Ariz. a

PREPARED AT: Rockport High School, Rockport, Mass.,; Dean Academy, Frank-
lin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1938.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: School teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Staff lecturer, Massachusetts Audubon Society, 1957.

MEMBER OF: American Ornithologists’ Union; Urban Ornithological Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Birds of the MacMillan Labrador Expedition — 1946,” “Summer
Sea Birds on Georges Bank,” Bulletin of M.AS.

TWO fields, somewhat related, have taken up most of my time:
conservation and education.

The fifteen years spent helping to build up a state conservation
society were poor preparation for my present occupation teaching
modern foreign languages with their emphasis on the audio-lingual.
In retrospect my only happy recollections in life are the field trips
taken: trips to the Arctic, Europe, Canada, Mexico and the West
Indies.

I still get real pleasure seeing new fauna in their habitats and
haven’t lost my zest and curiosity for the strange and different. Right
now I’m waiting for my free weekend from school to visit Organ
Pipe National Monument to see two new cactus species and get a

possible chance for the thick-billed parrot in the nearby mountains.
I've enjoyed ocean birds the most.

[ 563 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FRANK EUGENE GREENE, JR.

2 See gee cee reremaiine

   
 

   

iia isa ican ahern st sath yal

HOME AppREss: 165 Maynard Rd., Sudbury, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Manatee County High School, Bradenton, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School), 1942.

MARRIED: Lois Elizabeth Neupert, Oct. 26, 1942. CHILDREN: Judith Hollis,
April 10, 1945; Mary Neupert, June 18, 1948; Elizabeth Anne, May 4, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Ministry; assistant chaplain, Boston State Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: President, South Shore Ministers’ Association, 1958; member of
board, New Hampshire Music Festival.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy; Quincy Symphony Orchestra.

MY first twenty-five years present a deceptively neat picture of grad-
ual, consistent development in a conventional profession: the semi-
nary training, the curacy at Trinity, the little church of my own in
Saugus, the spell of trying tougher work in Dorchester, and finally,
the twelve full years as leader of a strong, varied parish in Quincy.
And now, to complete the pattern, I should be settling down into the
mental and spiritual deadness of the harvest years, or becoming a
likely candidate for the next opening in the episcopate.

But look at what has happened: here I am, starting all over again,
as if all this rich experience has added up to nothing at all. I suppose
that my individualism goes so deep that I have never really been
able to sell myself the Institutional Church and all the “cares and
pleasures of this life” which go with it. At forty-five I am still un-
satisfied in my capacity for devotion. I scem to be really interested
in only one thing; to communicate God’s love to those who most
need it, or if that sounds too pompous, Ict’s just say that I am in-
terested in individuals and their problems.

That’s why I am now preparing to move to a house of my own in

[ 564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Sudbury, where my family can enjoy privacy and independence. I
am taking clinical training at Boston State Hospital to qualify my-
self for chaplaincy work. (The ministry has become highly special-
ized since we were at school!) I am a bit uncertain about the next
step, whether I shall concentrate on general hospital work, or on
work at mental, psychiatric, or correctional institutions. I am even
thinking of helping to develop a kind of “store-front” church in
the slums. In any case, the general area is clear enough.

Meanwhile, I am planning to live from hand to mouth, working
as part-time assistant here and there, till I accumulate enough aca-
demic credits for a job in the new field. I love to conduct services
and to preach sermons. I also enjoy calling and counseling. But I
hope never again to attend meetings of any sort, or to raise money, or
direct activities, or to have to conform to anybody’s image of the

man of God except my own — which image, happily, continues to
gain in clarity and depth.

WILLIAM ROBERT CARL GREENE

 

LAST KNOWN abpreEss: Route 1, Box 476, Ashland, Oregon. (Lost.)

( 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

* GERALD HINSDALE GREGG

:
:
w
8
a

 

BORN: Sept. 3, 1961, Pittsfield, Mass. parents: James E. Gregg, '97, Mary Hins-
dale.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

DIED: June 15, 1941, Washington, D.C.

AFTER leaving college, Gregg spent two and a half years as a farm
hand and then sought an additional year of education at the Uni-
versity of Connecticut and New York State College of Agriculture.
He spent three summers doing volunteer work, in Labrador with the
Grenfell Mission and in West Virginia and Mississippi under the
American Friends Service Committee.

He was drowned while canoeing on the Potomac River at Wash-
ington, D.C.

[ 566 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD LOUNSBERRY GREGG

FO TEN TR TSC MR TIN pe ary nny
a 4

    

HOME AppREss: 647 Concord Ave., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Kate Roseburgh Miller, Jan. 31, 1942. CHILDREN: Katherine Geddes,
June 4, 1944; Sara Roseburgh, Sept. 18, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

SINCE June, 1938, my life has been one mainly following the realm
of education. The following June, I received a Master of Arts
degree in history at Boston University where I had an intensive year
of study under Professor Warren Ault, in English history.

That fall, I luckily got a job teaching in a small school in Daytona
Beach, Florida — the Graham-Eckes School. ‘This appeared to be my
morea, as the Greeks would say, for I soon found my way into the
teaching world permanently and also found a wife. While finishing
my second year of teaching at Daytona Beach, I met Kate R. Miller
who had also joined the staff, and after a short period (summer) of
pursuing Kate, became engaged in the fall of 1941, with plans for a
wedding in June, 1942. I had shifted my teaching activities to the
North by now (two years in Florida made for a fine start) and was
employed by Rober Fenn to teach fifth, sixth and seventh grades
some English and history in Concord, Massachusetts.

The war suddenly descended on us and so our wedding was moved
up to January and Kate and I were married on the 31st of January
in “The Little Church Around the Corner” in New York City.
Classmates and good friends, Dickie Davis and Ed Porter, were on
hand.

That fall I joined the teaching staff of Belmont Hill School where

[ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

I have been happily involved in helping many young fellows become
young men for the past twenty years. I had resigned my teaching
duties at Fenn School, being most certain that I would shortly be
serving the country in the war emergency. However, the summer
had sped by and no call had appeared in either the Navy or Army
service, so I had begun job hunting once again and through great
chance met Mr. C. F. Hamilton, newly appointed head of Belmont
Hill who was searching far and wide for a teaching force to assume
the maintenance of Belmont Hill boys.

I spent many good years assisting Mr. E. D. Dinsmore in the
lower school teaching fifth, sixth and seventh grades history and
English and football, soccer or the sport of the season. Also, I con-
tinued an interest of mine — sailing — by helping to run the Inter-
scholastic Yacht Racing Association, of which Belmont Hill has
been a member and active participant for over twenty-five years.
The school has succeeded in winning the trophy three times and
keeps hopeful of fourth time coming up.

Very recently the school dropped its lower school and I have
graduated with some of my ex-lower schoolers by moving up from
the seventh to the eighth and ninth grades to instill some Latin,
Greek and Roman history, as well as medieval ideas. In the midst of
this I enjoyed a sabbatical for a half-year, traveling in Europe with
my family, centering my interests on places studied — especially
Greece, where we lived for two very happy months a year ago.

As I conclude this brief account I now know what it is like to be
a parent of a college student, as Kathy is now at Bennington College
and Sally is following her sister’s footsteps at Buckingham School in
Cambridge. My wife Kate is now busily learning to help remedial
readers. It is a full and rewarding life.

[ 568 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD REDFIELD GRIFFIN

   

ORO LI ASHE FES

HOME ADDRESS: 52 Willow St., Belmont 78, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Biological Laboratories, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., Magma cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1940;
PH.D., 1942.

MarriED: Ruth M. Castle, Sept. 6. 1941. CHILDREN: Nancy J., May 2, 1943; Janet
R., Feb, 26, 1945; John H. and Margaret L. (twins), June 18, 1948.

occupation: Professor of zoology, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: National Academy of Sciences; American Society of Zoologists,
American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Physiological Society.

pusLications: Listening in the Dark, Yale University Press, 1958, Echoes of
Bats and Men, Doubleday, New York, 1959; Animal Structure and Fune-
tion, New York, Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1962; papers in scientitic
journals,

TO many classmates it must seem that people like me never did
move on from college. After two years as a regular graduate student
and laboratory section man in biology I was fortunate enough to be-
come a junior fellow and drink many an evening of the heady wine
of talk with Lowell, Henderson, and, bv far the best of all. the con-
sidered reflections of Whitehead. Even during the war vears it seemed
reasonable to linger on in Cambridge, working on such questions
as why earphones designed for telegraphy in 1918 were less than ideal
in 1942 for radio communication from noisy tanks and airplanes, or
how to design electrically-heated clothing to keep someone's fingers
nimble over Germany w ‘ithout at the same time roasting the seat of
his pants. Oh yes, there was also that utterly vital project insisted on
from Washington wherein we tested (with proper statistical con-
trols), in varying degrees of cold, the relative speed of anbuttoning

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

and buttoning three types of trouser buttons installed on four alter-
nate fabrics, with and without gloves.

In 1946 I began teaching at Cornell, and learned much more than
the students while reconstructing a rundown rooming house and
watching active children gradually displace the student roomers.
Cornell was so good to me that it was not even an easy decision in
1953 to return to attempt teaching a 2oth century version of zoology
back behind the old familiar rhinos off Divinity Avenue. Harvard
students have taught me even more than their Cornell predecessors,
and now I find myself beginning a three-year sentence as chairman
of the Biology Department, in partial recompense for all the interest
and excitement that have come my way in twenty-five years as a
biologist.

My particular kind of biology combines physiology with natural
history, and has centered around questions of animal orientation. As
a graduate student I took up following homing birds from a light
airplane to see where they really went in the course of finding
their way home from distant and unfamiliar release points. I went
on with this sort of thing in 1947 and 1948, following gannets over
Maine and New Brunswick and trying without much success to do
the same with swans in arctic Alaska. But the kinds of birds big
enough to be followed from airplanes turned out not to be the best
navigators, so I returned to an old favorite problem, the sonar sys-
tems of bats. This subject has provided the most respectable set of
excuses for combining physical measurements with studies of ani-
mal behavior, neurophysiology, and occasional field trips to such
places as Panama and Trinidad to study cave-dwelling birds or bats
that make a living catching fish.

The puzzles and surprises of science are as nothing compared to
those of trying to keep pace with a devoted and also professionally
busy wife, who, as a teacher, does her best to keep Radcliffe and
other such institutions well-populated with charming and sharply
inquisitive young ladies. To say nothing of four youngsters who are
now no longer children. One is even a Radcliffe sophomore, who
fortunately has sense enough to stay well away from biology.

An agnostic liberalism seems to have worn pretty well, all things
considered; and observation of more dramatic dogmas in action
leave me without any strong urge to espouse or berate, together
with a rather surprised feeling that on balance and despite abundant
opportunities for spectacular disasters, our society has not done too
badly after all.

[ 570 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WENDELL FRANCIS GRIMES

Preece mn een ae

   

ceo PRESSES RAR MERE

HOME AppREss: 36 Jerusalem Rd., Cohasset, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston College Law School, Brighton 35, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941.

MaRRIED: Elaine Hall, Aug. 29, 1944. cHILpREN: Stewart Hall, May 19, 1947;
Martha Jean, Dec. 12, 1949; Michael Hall, Oct. 27, 1951; Peter Wendell,
June 5, 1956.

occupation: Professor of law, Boston College Law School.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association, Old Colony Harvard Club.

puBLicaTions: “Civil Procedure, Annual Survey of Massachusetts Law,” 1955,
1956, 19573 1958, 19595 1960, 1961.

AFTER leaving the Yard in June of 1938, I spent the next three
years at or in Langdell Hall. In June of 1941, I became associated
with a law firm in Boston whose principal activity was representing
defendants in motor vehicle accident cases. Thereafter, for about a
year and one-half I roved about New England restricting or attempt-
ing to restrict O.P.A. violators. Then I took the grand tour, financed
by Uncle Sam, through the South Pacific as a member of the Marine
Corps. The views of the islands therein were interesting though at
times temporarily obstructed by prior occupiers. My tour ended in
China and then back to civilian life. My time since then has been
spent as a teacher of law with some cases interwoven. I find teach-
ing to be very interesting; a new crop to be tended each September.

Hobby-wise I have played golf, the score going up each year. We
teachers are lucky. Each year, we are faced with new faces, new
ideas and new viewpoints. Such seems to keep alive and constantly
refresh those we had twenty-five years ago,

[571]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

BRUCE GRISWOLD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 23683 Duffield Rd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Calfee, Fogg, McChord & Halter, 1717 Union Commerce Bldg.,
Cleveland 14, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1938; LL.B. (West-
ern Reserve Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED; Sally Kenny, Dec. 26, 1942. CHILDREN: Janet Ellen, April 25, 1944;
James Bradford, June 20, 1946; John Alan, Nov. 30, 1948; Thomas Bruce,
April 22, 1953.

occupation: Lawyer; parmer, Calfee, Fogg, McChord & Halter, engaged in
general practice of law.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Cleveland, 1962-63; member, board
of governors, Western Reserve Law School Alumni Association, several
years; president, 1958, member, executive committee, 1958-61, University
School Alumni Association; trustee, Legal Aid Society, since 1960, presi-
dent, 1954-55, member, executive committee, 1954-58, Republic Club,
Shaker Heights, Ohio; chairman, Ethics Committee, 1953-54, member,
Institute Committee, 1958-61, Cleveland Bar Association; trustee, Family
Service Association, since 1961; several offices, including chairman, Cub
Scout Pack and various positions in Boy Scout Troop, Boy Scouts of
America.

MEMBER OF: American, Ohio and Cleveland Bar Associations; Cleveland Tax
Practitioners Association, United Appeal, Lawyers’ Team; Harvard Club
of Cleveland, Union Club and Mid-Day Club, Cleveland; Court of Nisi
Prius (organization of Cleveland lawyers); St. Paul’s Episcopal Church,
Cleveland Heights; Mercer School Great Books Group, Shaker Heights.

PUBLICATIONS: Several law review articles on Federal Tax problems and partici-
pated as a lecturer in numerous tax and estate planning seminars.

MY first job after leaving Harvard was with the General Electric
Company in Bridgeport, Connecticut. 1 was enrolled in its business
training program, working during the day and studying accounting

L572 ]

_____|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and other business subjects at night as part of this apprenticeship. At
this time the greatest opportunity for a man in the business training
program lay in becoming a traveling auditor in various places around
the world, reviewing books and accounts on behalf of General
Flectric. This program required constant changes in residence and
did not appeal to me.

In the summer of 1939, I left General Electric to go with the War-
ner & Swasey Company in Cleveland, Ohio, and worked as a special
apprentice in its sales training program.

In 1940 I suffered an attack of infantile paralysis which incapaci-
tated me for about a year. As the result of polio I was severely handi-
capped in my locomotion and still require the aid of a cane in walk-
ing. The residual effects of the illness also put some limitation on my
ability to serve in certain occupations and precluded my serving in
the armed forces.

In September, 1941, I was offered a position as a mathematics in-
structor at University School where I had been an undergraduate.
This was a most welcome opportunity since I had often thought I
would enjoy teaching and this type of work minimized the physical
problems for me in returning to an active, professional life. Teaching
was a most rewarding experience. The contacts with the students
were stimulating and I still number among my close friends many
boys whom I taught.

While teaching at University School I met a teacher, Sally Kenny,
at a neighboring girls’ private school, Hathaway-Brown. The court-
ship and marriage created a great deal of interest among the students
of the respective schools. Many of my students have since married
her students and we feel that this is in keeping with an excellent tra-
dition.

Our first child, Janet, was born while I was still teaching. Her
arrival was heralded in the University School News with a cartoon
showing the nurse displaying a small bundle to a proud father and
the baby in the bundle was spouting the quadratic formula. She is
now a college freshman, studying art at the University of Michigan
(her mother’s Alma Mater), and I miss the advice she gave me in our
“Father-Daughter Talks.”

While still teaching, I determined to study law and enrolled at the
Law School at Western Reserve University.

Our second child, Jim, was born in the summer of 1946. Jim loves

to play basketball, drive cars, earn money and kid father — like all
boys! "

[573]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

it would have been without the stimulus and background I received.
Some understanding of the world and its past history gives us per-
spective and added strength to grapple with the realities and problems
in an ever-changing world where enemies threaten western civiliza-
tion and our survival as never before.

SIDNEY LEON GRODBERG

Me < SENSE IS TES PTET PRETEEN SHAE

   

HOME AbDDRESS: 4o Orchard Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Marshall Paper Tube Co., Randolph, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1938.

MarriEp: Charlotte Goldforb, June 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Marshall Barry, June 4,
1944, Elayne Miriam, April 12, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer and general manager, Marshall Paper Tube Company,
manufacturer of paper tubes, cans and specialties.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, Temple Ohabei Shalom, Brookline,
Mass., B.B.N. Jewish Community Center, Boston, New England Jewish

Music Forum, Boston.

MY family is now quite grown up. Marshall is a freshman at Boston
University and Elayne is a sophomore at Girls’ Latin School. Con-
sequently my wife has more time to devote to her work as a choral
conductor for various charitable organizations.

After a previous association in the paper tube business, I decided
in 1948 to establish a factory of my own. Fourteen years later my
work is still very time-consuming, but there are many compensa-
tions. Operating as Marshall Paper Tube Company of Randolph,
Massachusetts, I enjoy most of those aspects relating to the creation
and development of new methods, products and materials. A back-

[ 576 ]

vtecnat te

_——4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ground in mechanical engineering would have been helpful, but I
have never regretted my choice of economics as a field of concentra-
tion.

My outside activities have been concerned primarily with Com-
munity Centre and Temple affiliations. For the last several years
I have become a steady badminton player and I hope to continue as
one as my physical qualifications will permit.

My years at Harvard have instilled in me a liberal philosophy
coward life with particular reference to democratic government and
human values. I have always felt richer as a person for having been
exposed to this thinking during my undergraduate years and shall

always be in debt to my college for having made my life more ade-
quate and meaningful.

JEROME GROSSMAN

 

HOME ADDREsS: 115 Dorset Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Envelope Co., 655 Adiantic Ave., Boston 11, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marrieD: Roslyn Gruber, June 7, 1942. CHILDREN: Daniel Jefferson, April 13,
1943; Marilyn Jean, May 7, 1946; Richard Adam, Feb. 3, 1948.

OccUPATION: President, Massachusetts Envelope Company, manufacturers and
distributors of all kinds of envelopes and drinking cups.

OFFICES HELD: President, Warren Junior High School P.T.A., 1956-57; vice-
president 1958-60, president, 1960-62, Newton Council of Parent Teacher
Associations; director, Newton Fair Housing Committee, 1959-61, Newton
Civic Association, since 1960; delegate, Democratic State Convention, 1962,
president, Hull Little League, 1952-57; vice-president, Waban Baseball
Associates, 1960-62; vice-president, Newton South Little League, 1958-60;
commissioner, Newton South Minor Baseball League, since 1935; chair-

[577]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

man, executive committee, Greater Boston Committee for a Sane Nuclear
Policy, 1959-60; Boston regional coordinator, Turn Toward Peace, 1961-62;
campaign manager for independent candidate for U.S. Senate from Massa-
chusetts, Professor H. Stuart Hughes, 1962; president, Waban Baseball
Associates, 1963; chairman, executive committee for 1963, Massachusetts
Political Action for Peace (PAX).

MEMBER OF: Newton Squash and Tennis Club; Lakewood Tennis Club; Everett
C. Benton Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

   

BGR bt fshtatag SIRE SAC ae 3 Sp Se

 

HOME AppREss: 545 Hemlock Way, Juneau, Alaska.

OFFICE appress: Alaska Coastal-Ellis Airlines, 2 Marine Way, Juneau, Alaska.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Elizabeth Ingalls, Aug. 21, 1940 (divorced 1961). CHILDREN: Clark
Sanders, March 28, 1943; Bradford Ingalls and Winthrop Huntington
(twins), April 3, 1948.

occupation: Airline executive, vice-president, Operations, Alaska Coastal-
Ellis Airlines.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, State Board of Education, since 1958; president,
Juneau-Douglas School Board, 1959, 1960, 1962; director, Alaska Air
Transport, Inc., 1953-62, Mineral Research, Inc., 1952-58, Duncan Canal
Rod & Gun Club, since 1950, commander, Taku Post, V.F.W., 1947.

A QUARTER of a century always sounds like a long time to me
until I try to give an accounting of myself since graduation. Then
nostalgically 1 recall my cap and gown era with a seems-like-only-
yesterday vividness and the subsequent story of my life unfolds
swiftly in a kaleidoscopic blur. Through the retrospective mists
many pleasant, warm reminiscences of the intervening years present
themselves, but in recounting the story of my life over this span I

[ 578 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

feel somehow that I must find some thread or theme which gives
cohesion and continuity to my existence. If there is such an underly-
ing motif, it could be summed up in the word “transportation.”
However, the pattern of life in this generation seldom follows a
smooth unbroken line but more often is broken into fragments or
periods. My life follows what I suspect is a common pattern and
like a three-act play naturally divides itself into three distinct periods,
to wit: Prewar, War and Postwar.

My prewar period can best be described as one of wanderlust.
Immediately following graduation I embarked on a three-month
motoring trip through Europe. Following this a couple of years
were spent with Grace Steamship Lines, mostly as a member of the
purser’s staff on “Santa” Ships plying between New York and South
America. Next came a year or so “pursering” aboard the 5.5.
Lurline of Matson Line shuttling between California and Hawaii.
At this point war clouds were gathering and I forsook the sea lest I
spend the inevitable war in convoy duty aboard a troop transport.

My war service really started with my decision to be a pilot.
However, at this stage the Air Corps was not open to married men
and so I joined the Civilian Pilot Training Program, first as a stu-
dent and later as an instructor. After we entered the war I had no
difficulty signing up for cadet training in the Army Aur Corps and,
eighteen months later, 1 was an airplane commander and _ pilot
of a B—-24 Liberator bomber with the Fighth Air Force in England.
On my eleventh combat mission over Germany flak and fighters
knocked out my two right engines and I had to force-land in Sweden
where I was interned for ten months. The balance of the war I
spent fighting the battle of Santa Monica, California, as a flying
safety officer at an Air Corps Redistribution Center.

After V—J Day I began the postwar portion of my life by coming
to Alaska and taking a job as a seaplane pilot with a small “Bush”
airline operating out of Juneau. Today, sixteen years later, my
career in aviation finds me the vice-president, Operations, of Alaska
Coastal-Ellis Airlines. This imposing-sounding airplane is the re-
sult of two amphibious airlines having recently merged into one.

With an assorted fleet of twenty-five aircraft consisting mostly of
twin engine Super Catalina (souped-up PBY) and Grumman Goose
Amphibians, we operate numerous daily schedules throughout south-
eastern Alaska and parts of British Columbia. Because the communi-
ties we serve have no interconnecting roads or railroads and boat
service is virtually nonexistent, our airline at present provides prac-

[579 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

tically the only transportation link throughout this area. The scarcity
of airfields in southeastern Alaska (only five) coupled with the fact
that all communities in this area are located on some body of water,
means that our amphibians are able to land at the very doorstep of
the 135 various towns, fishing villages, logging camps, canneries,
tourist lodges, and other points we serve. It is a unique operation
that is more than just transportation; it is, figuratively speaking, a
wav of life. I have enjoyed growing up with this airline, watching
it develop from a small “Bush” operation to a sizable local service
scheduled airline now employing over 300 people and which last
year carried more passengers than all the other intra-Alaskan carriers
combined.

My extracurricular activities are mainly in the educational field.
I am currently serving as president of the Juneau School Board and
as vice-president of the Alaska State Board of Education. The pay
is meager (nil) but the rewards (soul-satisfying) are large. I have
finally + come to realize that public education is really a big business
and that although the cost of a good educational system is enormous,
the penalties for an inferior one are equally staggering. Another
thing I have discovered about education is that there is never a lack
of “expert” advice. Every man, woman, and child has opinions re-
garding schools and generally they are most freely given.

Recreational activities in Alaska are numerous and diverse. Hunt-
ing, fishing and skiing in their respective seasons are our family
choices for sport. We are fortunate that opportunities to enjoy these
sports are readily available. For example, my eldest son, Clark, be-
fore returning to college (University of Oregon) this fall, shot four
deer (individual limit) within walking distance of our house which
is within the Juneau city limits.

Juneau, the capital of Alaska, is a fascinating and stimulating
place to live, work and play. Juneau is a sophisticated, cosmopolitan
small town (population approximately 12,000), historically a gold
mining community but now a rapidly growing modern government
town. It has also been described variously as an artist colony, sports-
man’s paradise, fisherman’s harbor, airline beehive, scenic wonder-
land, tourist mecca, writer’s haven, political and social pivot of the
4gth State.

The people of Alaska, too, are stimulating. One of their out-
standing characteristics is that they take their politics seriously.
Perhaps because we are a newborn state and therefore appreciate
the measure of self-government so long denied us, Alaskans almost

[ 580 ]

Se

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

without exception have a fierce and determined desire to be knowl-
edgeable in state and local affairs and vote intelligently on them.
The average Alaskan not only can tell you who represents him in
both Congress and the State legislature, but generally is personally
acquainted with at least one or more of his elected representatives.
Another prime quality of Alaskans is their pioneering spirit. Because
most of the people here migrated to Alaska rather than being born
here, you find a cross section of the population made up of types who
pulled up roots elsewhere to win fame and fortune in America’s
“Last Frontier.” Strange as it may seem, Harvard alumni in Alaska
are scarce articles (at last count there were only 26) and classmates
are nonexistent. I am eternally hopeful that some of my former
confreres will at least vacation in, if not migrate to, the Great State
of Alaska. If I sound enthusiastic about Alaska, it is only because |
am.

I plan to marry Oline Sather on March 23, 1963, here in Juneau.

GAVIN HADDEN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 333 Buena Vista Rd., Bridgeport 4, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Socony Mobil Oil Co. 150 FB. gzd St, New York, N.Y,
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

marrieD: Caryl J, Wohlgemuth, Oct. 9, 1953. chiunreN: Susan Gay, March

23, 1945; Gavin, 3d, Oct. 28, 1936; Linda, Feb. 22, 1949; Peter Jonathan,
March 20, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Data-processing coordinator, Mobile Petroleum Company, Ine.

THE past twenty-five } years have seen many changes 1 in our family,
Presently, we are six. The elder daughter, Susan, is a freshman at

Mount Holyoke. Gavin, 3d, is a junior at Andrew Warde Ehyh
[58r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

School (Fairfield) and a two-letter man: football and track. Linda
is a freshman in the same high school and really enjoying it. The
baby, Peter, is not yet a year old, and showing great promise. Caryl
is a typical exurbia wife, serving twenty-four hours a day as house-
keeper, chauffeur, accountant, arbitrator and in many other execu-
tive positions.

We have lived the past fifteen years in the Bridgeport area, first
in Trumbull and presently in Fairfield. Previous to this, we spent
brief periods in Columbus, Ohio, Falls Church, Virginia, and Dover,
Massachusetts.

I spent five years in the Army, eight years with the IBM Corpora-
tion and six years with Burndy Corporation in Norwalk, Connecti-
cut, in the field of data-processing. I have been with the Socony
Mobil Oil Company in New York, for the past five years, as a com-
puter analyst in the corporate systems department. My assignments
in this capacity have taken me to Dallas, Milwaukee and Los Angeles
for several months at a time, installing computers. Presently, I am
data-processing coordinator for the Mobil Petroleum Company, a
wholly-owned affiliate of Socony Mobil. I expect to spend several
months each year in South Africa, Australia and Japan, with side
trips to the adjacent areas. My duties will be primarily those of con-
sultant on machine accounting and computers to the local accounting
centers.

AUGUST HENRY HAFFENREFFER, JR.

ET I IL NT

  

  

3

sei SAG ANNALER EEE

HOME Appress: 19 Radcliffe Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Haffenreffer & Co., 30 Germania St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
parrareD AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

[ 582 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marrieD: Marion Wilson Gibby, Nov. 8, 1941, cHiLpREN: Mark Edgar, Jan.
21, 1951; Joan Gibby, Aug. 25, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Brewing.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Country Club.

AFTER graduation from Harvard I spent one year at engineering
school and one year at brewing school. I have been associated with
the brewing industry ever since and am now brewmaster at Haffen-
reffer & Company, Boston.

My wife Marion was concert mistress at Wellesley College and
her music has afforded her a great deal of pleasure and ability to
teach violin. My two children, Mark and Joan, have bright red hair
which they came by naturally from both redhaired parents. We
have all enjoyed life a great deal, camping in the summer and re-
educating ourselves with the children as they grow up.

JOHN GARDINER HAINES

 

HOME AppRESS: 98 Lyman St., Waltham 54, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Product development engineer, retired.
MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers.

FOR two years I have classified myself as retired, but this is only
technically correct. The fact is that I am working harder, sleeping
less, and nurturing brighter hopes for the furure than I ever did
when I was working for a living or when I was in school.

In 1948, at the time of our Decennial Report, I was working for

[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PETER POWERS HALE

    

HOME AbpRESS: 1238 Scard Rd., Wallingford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 282 York St., New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; B. ARCH, 1942.

MARRIED: Barbara Prentiss Jones, March 2, 1945. CHILDREN: Samuel Fraray and

Simon Carter (twins), August, 1950; Thomas Loveland, September, 1955.
occupation: Architect — Town Planner; own office.

OFFICES HELD: Founder and chairman, Planning and Zoning Commission, Wal-
lingford, 1949-60; founder, secretary and chairman Regional Planning
Agency of South Central Connecticut, since 1950; secretary, Trafic and
Parking Committee, New Haven Chamber of Commerce, 1946-49; presi-
dent, Institute of Traffic Engineers, New England Section, 1946-49, 1952-54.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Planners, Institute of Traffic Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous publications in “Learned Journals” concerning
architecture, planning and traffic, awards for best residential designs in
region; various buildings “published” in national professional and consumer
magazines and regional newspapers.

1942-43 Stone and Webster (Boston Office) — received Army ci-
tation for work on Manhattan Project.

1943-44 Turner Construction Company building war plants.

1944-46 Director of New Haven City Plan Department.

1946-61 Founder and vice-president of Technical Planning Asso-
ciates — New Haven.

1946-49 Secretary of Traffic and Parking Committee, New Haven
Chamber of Commerce.

1948-52 Partner of architectural firm of Mowbray, Jones & Hale —
New Haven.

1949-60 Founder and chairman, Planning and Zone Commission
— Wallingford.

[ 586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1949-59 Research associate, Yale University, lecturing in graduate
school on traffic and planning.

1950-58 Founder and Secretary of Regional Planning Agency of
South Central Connecticut.

1951-56 Organizer and President of Builders Group, Inc.

1952—present Conducting own office for practice of architecture,

1952-54 President, New England Chapter, Institute of Traffic En-
gineers.

1953-55 Director of Connecticut Federation of Planning and Zon-
ing Agencies.

1954-56 Advancement Rating Examiner for Connecticut State
Highway Dept.

1960-present Chairman, Regional Planning Agency of South Cen-
tral Connecticut.

1961—present Small Structures Corporation.

1962—present Founder and principal of consultant services.

In spite of all this activity, the mortgage is not paid off and we are
not sure how to finance a family of five for a week in Cambridge
next spring. It is not true that fondness for your profession makes
up for lack of compensation — it is simply that one’s profession be-
comes so engrossing there is no time to worry about compensation.

Now it is too late to change, so I expect to carry on with architec-
ture, planning, and poking at the fringes of politics in the hope that

soon the boys will be working and sending home a few dollars a
week to close the gap.

[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CHARLES VINCENT HALEY

SN

  
 

  
  

MAILING ADDRESS: 65 Prospect St., East Braintree, Mass.

ARTHU

Sonat SR ROE

R HARMON HALL

ea

FON

Gennes ie aR CC

HOME ApprEss: 11 Leslie Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: C. & H. Co., 242 Mystic Ave., Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Janet Elizabeth Mackay, May 24, 1940. CHILDREN: Roxanne, Dec. 5,
1943; Margot Linda, April 4, 1945; Jacqueline Butler, May 6, 1949; Eliza-
beth Anne, April 8, 1954.

OCCUPATION: President, C. & H. Company, industrial real estate development
and investment.

oFFices HELD: Director, C. E. Hall & Sons, Inc., 1948-55; president, Medford
Terminal Inc., since 1947; director, 1950-55, treasurer, 1954-55, Mystic
River Realty Company, treasurer, Lakeside Park Realty Company, 1950-55;
trustee, Hallbro Realty Trust, 1948-51, Metropolitan Properties Trust,

[ 588 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since 1955; ensign to lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval Reserve, 1941-46.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Real Estate Boards; International Real

Estate Federation; Naval Order of the U.S.; Sons of the American Revolu-
non; Harvard Club of Boston; Wildcat Mountain Ski Club.

TWO things stand out in my mind in the period between gradua-
tion and the war. One was that I received a raise to $35.00 a week
and the other that Janet and I were married. My employment dur-
ing that time varied in nature but was not very memorable,

In February, 1941, I joined the local Defense Force School at
Boston, having received my commission in 1938. In the event of
hostilities we were to be assigned to small craft for coastal mine-

sweeping or inshore patrol. Upon graduating I was ordered to duty
on a freighter.

Life aboard the USS Alchiba was not, however, dull. I was an
assistant deck division officer when the first Navy ship to be lost to
enemy action (the war had not officially commenced) was torpe-
doed off our port bow near Iceland. I had become gunnery officer and
had my second stripe by the time the cruiser Astoria rolled over and
sank while torpedoed with a cargo of aviation gas and ammunition,
ran up on a sand bar off Lunga Point and burned for almost two
weeks. We had just got the fire extinguished when I received new
orders in time to celebrate Christmas 1942, twice, while crossing the
date line on my way to the USS Gillespie. She was a new destroyer
aboard which I served as communication officer and later as first
lieutenant. We had escort and submarine hunting duties in the
Atlantic. Life was now more formal and our daily program more
predictable.

The USS Jordan was a new destroyer escort and I was her first
lieutenant. The night before we were to depart for shakedown in
Bermuda in a howling blizzard, I found myself also her navigator.
This was early January, 1943. We had various anti-submarine du-
ties in the Atlantic but at the end of May I became lieutenant com-
mander and was given command of LSM Group 15.

We commissioned on the east coast and went through two hur-
ricanes before we reached the Panama Canal on the way to the
Pacific. There hurricanes are called typhoons and we went through
five of them. After we made the assault on Okinawa in April, 1945;
I became type commander in Ryukyus and we operated in the
vicinity until almost Christmas. We hauled down the burgee in

San Diego in February, 1946, and shortly thereafter I was released to
inactive duty.

[ 589 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

After I returned to Boston I became associated with the C. & H.
Company which built commercial and industrial buildings for lease.
My duties in the postwar bedlam changed hourly. I was chauffeur,
messenger boy, expediter, building foreman, promiser, apologizer
and, on one occasion, signed something as vice-president. With the
passing years the pace settled down somewhat in the company, but
I am still chauffeur, messenger boy, etc. However, now I sit in the
front office and most of the time sign things as president.

As I sit here taking inventory and look back on my prospects as
a depression graduate, I must say that I should have no complaints.
I have my own business, wherein I take orders from everybody. I
have a wife with an indestructible sense of humor; four baffling
daughters with all the shifting and contradictory attributes of their
sex and ages—eight to nineteen; my own home in Winchester,
built just the way I wanted it; a summer place in New Hampshire,
early Charles Addams, considered by children to be haunted; two cars,
one by bankrupt Borgward for which replacement parts have to
be stolen but perhaps the only convertible in the Americas, two and

a half television sets and fifteen radios, the radios all in good work-
ing order. They work especially well together, at different stations
with the volume on full.

I travel whenever I can, especially to Austria. Therefore, I have
taken up German again and am now able to carry a perfectly under-
standable discussion in what might be fairly termed broken-German.
Skiing is certainly my only claim to sport and this brings me back to
Austria again. I enjoy designing of all kinds and am sort of a frus-
trated architect. Sometimes I am able to sneak some of this into new
construction for the company.

Life in all its facets I find endlessly beguiling and the only things
I can quickly think of which never would be missed are baseball and
chamber music.

[ 590 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GARRISON KENT HALL

   

ANE NL RRNA Ry aU RBRCR TT ON Uae Hay fn

HOME appress: First Cliff, Scituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: G. K. Hall & Co., 97 Oliver St., Boston 10, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Scituate High School, Scituate, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MARRIED: Sylvia Russell Fletcher, Oct. 31, 1942. CHILDREN: Deborah Macy,
July 18, 1944; Fletcher Garrison, Jan. 4, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Publisher.

PUBLICATIONS: Patent No. 2,805,084, Sept. 3, 1957, a flexible index strip designed
to replace linotype in producing telephone directories, No. 3,068,747, Dec.
18, 1962, a microfilm reader for directories.

AFTER six years with CIT Corporation in New York and an ac-
counting firm in Boston, in 1942 I started a microfilm business that
has gradually evolved into a publishing enterprise specializing in
small editions of library catalogs and indexes. The staff is efficient,
congenial and musical. We just bought a brand-new (seven-foot)
Steinway grand piano for coffee breaks, lunch time and the cock-
tail hour. In an effort to cut down the overhead, I married my
first employee. But she resigned a few years later and the over-
head has been going up ever since. For example, our daughter is
a freshman at Wheaton this year.

I believe in restrained motherhood, aptitude testing, educational

movies, and sailing. I am an inactive, convinced, Protestant Re-
publican.

[591 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

GEORGE DUDLEY HALL, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 4361 S.W. rath St., Miami qq, Fla.

OFFICE AppRESS: Guaranty Life Insurance Co., 1655 N.W. 34th St., hum
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1036.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Insur ance and real estate.

WARREN CHESTER HALL

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1275 Indian Hill, Claremont, Calif.

[ 592 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE FREDERICK HALLA

  
  

 

HOME AbpRESS: 15 Lakewood PL., Troy, N.Y. (permanent); Alacam Sokagi 21/3,
Orta Ayranci, Cankaya, Ankara, Turkey (current).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Comptroller, Joint U.S. Military Mission for Assistance to
Turkey, APO 254, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934—1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

marrigD: Mary Philbrick Neill (Radcliffe 39), June 14, 1941. CHILDREN: Neill
Rickerson, Dec. 5, 1954; Lydia Anne, Feb. 14, 1957.

occupation: Commander, Supply Corps, U.S. Navy; comptroller JUSMMAT;,
comptroller adviser to the Ministry of National Defense.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Ankara (Turkey) Kindergarten Association, since 1962.
MEMBER OF: U.S. Naval Institute, National Geographic Society.

AS comptroller, JUSMMAT, I am responsible for coordination and
preparation of U.S. Military Assistance Plans and Programs for
Turkey, and serve as principal fiscal and economic adviser to the
Chief of the Military Mission.

As a student, how little did I know...

That I would spend twenty-one of these twenty-five years in
naval uniform;

That I would return to Harvard, not once, but twice — to Navy
Supply Corps School (1942) and to Army-Navy War Adjustment
School (1944);

That I would visit, in wartime, such strange places, with such
strange names — that I had never heard of —as Vila, Efate, Espiritu
Santo, New Georgia, Rendova, Bougainville, Green Island and
Rabaul;

That I would spend two years (1944-46) on Madison Avenue,
[ 593 ]

we

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

with a reserved parking space across from the Biltmore Hotel, and
four more years in Washington (1946-50), searching out and sell-
ing navy surplus property from two World Wars— ships and
shoes and sealing wax (and carrier pigeons) —and later be re-
sponsible for redistribution of excess property among all the armed
services;

That I would be a member of the staff of the Commander,
Amphibious Force, Atlantic, 1950-52, and appear in the movie,
“Frogmen”;

That I would be a student at the U.S. Naval War College, New-
port (1952-53), and later return as a member of the staff (1955-61);

That I would return to the Norfolk, Virginia, area, to the US.
Naval Shipyard, first as outfitting officer for ships ranging from
the smallest to the then-biggest (USS Forrestal) —and then as
planning superintendent for the supply department there (1953-56);

That I would be assigned as supply officer, USS Mercury (AKS
20), in charge of a floating supply depot that serviced the Atlantic
Fleet from Guantanamo Bay to the Arctic Circle, and the Sixth
Fleet from one end to the other (1956-58);

That, as a member of the staff of Commander, Service Force,
Sixth Fleet, I would be responsible for all emergency requirements
(stores and repairs) for the Sixth Fleet;

That, while en route to and serving with the Sixth Fleet, I would
see, and learn to know, better than many U.S. cities, such ports as
Cadiz, Gibraltar, Valencia, Palma, Barcelona, Naples and Athens —
to omit many smaller ones — and see Sidi Mohammed Ben Youssef
(later Mohammed V), when French and Spanish Morocco were
joined as an independent kingdom — and meet King Paul of Greece
—and many others;

That I would be in the “front lines” during Suez and the Lebanon
landings — and others that I have forgotten;

That I would return, for the third time, to Newport, Rhode
Island, as a member of the staff of the Naval War College, teaching
“Mobile Logistic Support” (1958-61),

That I would be ordered to duty in Turkey, as comptroller of
the U.S. Military Mission for Assistance to Turkey (since 1961),
where I would become deeply involved in the financial and eco-
nomic affairs of a friendly government, at a level far above that to
which I could aspire in my own government,

That I would participate in discussions, at the highest military
level, with the Chief of the Armed Forces of the Government, and

[ 594 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the current “strong man” of a country that is most important to
NATO,

And, finally, that twenty-five years later, I am writing this, look-
ing out over the city that was designated by Atatiirk as the capital
of the new Turkish Republic, forty years ago.

The obvious question, of course, is “Where do we go from here?”
For the time being, this is at the discretion of the detail officer,
Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, Navy Department, but I hope
that I will get an interesting job, in an interesting place, as always.

JAMES ANDREW HAMILL

   

HOME appRESS: 825 Delaware Ave., Bethlehem, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bethlehem Steel Co., Bethlehem, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

MarriED: Annette C, Maynard, Aug. 27, 1949. CHILDREN: James Andrew, Jr.
April 5, 1951; Robert Edward, April 22, 1954.

occupation: Assistant general auditor—systems and procedures, Bethlehem
Steel Company.

CERTIFICATE in production engineering, Northeastern Univer-
sity, 1942.

[595 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

** RALPH HAMILL

 

BORN: July 9, 1915, Winnetka, Ill. pareNts: Ralph C. Hamill, Margaret Hunt.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Janet Brown, May 22, 1943. CHILD: Janet, Feb. 22, 1944.

pieD: Aug. 15, 1943, Kiska, Alaska.

AFTER college Hamill spent a year with the Pittsburgh Plate Glass
Company and then entered Yale Law School. In July, 1941, he
volunteered for the Army, was sent to OCS and commissioned as
a second lieutenant. He was later promoted to first lieutenant and
received mountain training with the ski troops in Colorado. He was
killed in night action while attacking a machine gun nest following
landings on Kiska, Alaska. He was survived by his wife and
daughter.

[ 596 ]

————.

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ CHARLES AUGUSTUS HAMILTON, JR.

Be Piolo papas te i i aaa “
fe , Y

«

| _

o-

Lo GRAN RUEBEN

   
 

BORN: July 11, 1914, Worcester, Mass. parents: Charles Augustus Hamilton,
’99, Alice Ward.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937-
prep: Aug. 14, 1962, Worcester, Mass.

AFTER college Hamilton did free-lance newspaper work for
Boston and Worcester newspapers and then became associated with
the Worcester Telegram, as feature writer and reporter. During
World War II he served with the g6th Infantry which took part in
the initial landings at Leyte in the Philippines. After the war he re-

turned to the Worcester Telegram. At the me of our last Report
he was doing free-lance writing.

[ 597 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WALTER PRESTON HAMILTON

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 41 Bowdoin St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BRUCE HAMLIN

 

HOME aApprEss: 19 Laurel Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bruce Hamlin’s Inc., 42 Atlantic Ave., Marblehead, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939.

MarRIED: Sonya Borenstein, March 7, 1948. CHILDREN: Ross Jay, May 16, 1951,
Mark L., Oct. 20, 1955; David Gerald, July 5, 1960.

occuPATION: Bruce Hamlin’s Shoes Inc., president and treasurer, and United

States Shoe Corporation, shoe manufacturers, representing in New York
and New England.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and fund chairman, 1947-50, Greater Lynn Com-
munity Chest; vice-president and fund chairman, 1946-49, Greater Lynn
Red Cross; member, board of managers, Lynn Hospital, since 1952.

[ 598 |

—

ae Mipdatitlt Stabe ctant Gee  athee Lot

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER oF: University Club, Boston; Kernwood Country Club, Salem, Massa-
chusetts.

THEN to now is in fits and starts; vivid and hazy, times of glory and
remorse. Soon after Cambridge the world’s affairs became a per-
sonal matter, so I joined the Navy for the next seven years, At the
last | commanded a Pacific destroyer for two years.

From beribboned to bereft in ’46 was — what do we call it now? —
a traumatic experience. Ultimately I found a job requiring shirt and
tie, and entered the business world. Since shoes had been the busi-
ness of my deceased father, and I was too old to be original, what
else? Shoes. It could just as well have been anything else.

Two years after the Navy and four years before economics dic-
tated, | married. My wife graced the faculty of New York Uni-
versity before marriage, and of Radcliffe after. We now preside
together over our own boys’ school — three young sons. I do mean
young — eleven, seven and two, Do we have an award to the Dad
with the youngest? I nominate me.

The world has been very kind. I have been spectator to its
miseries, and participated in its joys. The one regret is that I have
taken much from life, but contributed little. Unless, as Sonya points
out, is it not enough to serve one’s country, rear a good family, carve
a small local eminence, and try to be aware? Perhaps it is— not
great, but enough.

In the meantime, while trying to probe the real, significant, deep
and basic values of life, I travel the globe, ski with foolish fervor and

golf with eternal hope. I haven’t discovered much, but have loved
looking.

[ 599 ]

/

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

* LEONARD HAMMER

 

BorN: April 19, 1916, Brooklyn, N.Y. PARENTS: Samuel Hammer, Bella Fried-
man.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.

MARRIED: Ella Dorf, Alexandria, Egypt.

DIED: Sept. 15, 1943, in Egyptian Sudan.

AFTER a short time as an announcer for a radio station in New
York City, Hammer became associated with Johnson, Drake &
Piper Construction Company who were building a series of bases
in Eritrea which were to be used as a central supply depot for
Allied Forces in the Middle East. When the U.S. entered the war
he requested duty overseas with the company and in March, 1942,
embarked for Eritrea. When the War Department cancelled the
company’s contract he joined the U.S. Engineers. He was asso-
ciate administrative assistant of the U.S. Army and head of Italian
personnel, in charge of Italian prisoners of war, and America’s
representative in Eritrea. He was on an extended tour of all bases
in the Middle East when he was killed in a plane crash. He was
survived by his wife.

[ 600 |

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM WAINWRIGHT HANCOCK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1511 34th St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the General Counsel of the Air Force, Washington
25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Lacon High School, Lacon, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cuz laude, 1938; A.M. 1940; LLB.,
1949.

occupation: Lawyer; assistant general counsel, Department of the Air Force.

 

HOME aAppreEss: Route 22, Long Grove, Ill.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Lake Shore National Bank, 605 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago 11,
Il

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum latede, 1938; PH.D. 1949;
jp. (Univ. of Chicago), 1943.

[ 601 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

‘cia Bolling, June 13, 1942. CHILDREN: Dj

cagriep: Patricia Bo 1942 iana 8.

ee Chats Ford, 4th, Jan. 30) 19473 Judith, Jan. 28, 1948, Jonathan 17
”

’ 1944.

¥

1938 ryer-banker; vice-president, trust offi re iu
occupation: Lawy National Bank cer and mana

Department, Lake Shore National Bank. Br, Thy

. hicago Bar Associations: C;

maer oF: American and C gc ons; City Clu} .

ME University Club of Chicago; Chiff Dwellers, Lake Zurich Gols oy Chicagy,
{iscellaneous articles and reviews in Journg ub,

l of Appl
an Relations, American Anthropologist: occasineet 4 Anthro,
in

PUBLICATIONS: N
pology, Hut
Chicago Bar Record.

ALBERT HARKNESS, JR.

   

HOME ApprEss: 48 Athinon Rd., Challandhri, Athens, Greece.
OFFICE AppREss: American Embassy, Athens, Greece.
PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, PH.D. (Brown Univ.), 1949: |
Marrigp: Mary LeGrand Howell, Sept. 14, 1940, CHILDREN: Albert, 3d, Apu
25, 1942; Frances, April 16, 1945; Judith, April 4, r9st-
HARVARD SON; Albert Harkness, 3d, °63. {
OccUPATION: Foreign Service of the US. Information Agency; Counselor
Embassy for Public Affairs, Athens, Greece.
MEMBER oF: Society of Cincinnati.
PUBLICATIONS: Historical Sketch of American Culture (originally in
now in ten other languages), with Pedro Grases; Manuel Garcia
y la Independencia de Hispanoamerica; Antologia de la Prosa Norte
cana; articles and book reviews in historical publications.

T's lucky in a way that it took me so long to decide what t0 “

with my first twenty-five years out of college, because the caree .
finally slid into didn’t exist in 1938. Peddling United States prop .
ganda abroad in times of peace (?) is still a new idea to Amer
and as far as one can make out from the emissions of the Cong

| 602 J

Spanish,
de sem
ameri-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“onal Appropriations Committee (please capitalize with
ad the Press, not a very popular one. However, despite
4 constituency and despite frequent and shattering reor;
we are still in business. We have been called too soft-s
have been called too hard-sell. Along with the rest of tI
service, we have been called lots Worse things than that.
been in State and out. Your guess is as good as mine as to

shall be next year. .

It has been exciting to have been intimately involved in
gratively new experiment in the conduct of foreign affai
ing been the first director of our Chilean cultural institute, <
Nelson Rockefeller’s early effort for good-neighborliness,
comparatively experienced hand in “cultural relations” whe
Sam started his information program on a world-wide scal
late forties. _In 1949 I was sent to Costa Rica as public affairs
where I was in charge of both the cultural and information pe
(press, radio, motion pictures, etc.) of the United States Infor
Service. Our setup in that heavenly little country was a tr
and after two years I transferred to Venezuela where I heade
the cultural side under a more senior officer who ran the whole
operation. In less than three years I moved again, this time bz
Chile as public affairs officer. To me, Chile is one of the most sa
ing countries in the world to live and work in and I felt partic
qualified because of my many years dealing with Laun Ameri:
general and Chile in particular. We settled in and bought a h
with the prospect of a long tour. Wiser foreign service types st
their heads. Sure enough, in exactly two years we were rudely
rooted and sent to Washington where I was assigned as a studen
the National War College for a year.

Despite the strain of trying to live in Washington on a Forel
Service salary, we found our four years at the center of pow
Profitable and stimulating. The children flourished in good schoc
and T finally left adolescence behind when I first had to testify b
(re Congressional committees. As director of the Informatio
‘8Ncy’s cultural programs (books, libraries, cultural centers, ex
gtess heed had to deal not only with the bureaucracy and Con-
: ought we all sorts of private groups as well. Religious groups
our ibrarien we were down-playing their parucu lar persuasion

6 » Art critics claimed we were either too conservative OF

ox modern in our selections of paintings (for the Moscow Fair, for
Pe). The publishing industry said, out of one side of its mouth,

[ 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

that we were running them unfair competition, and, out of the other,
that they wanted more of our business. The librarians complained
that we didn’t have enough trained librarians on our staff but politely
declined to work for the money we had to offer, while the profes-
sional pedagogues wanted more educators and fewer Ph.D.’s as
cultural attachés.

Our present tour in Athens is a delightful respite from the hectic
days of Washington and we are counting the hours before we re-
turn to the old haunts of Latin America. Although we find that
Greek is a language we learn much more slowly than we forget our
Spanish, we are just about well enough dug in now so that we see
the signs of transfer on the wall.

Perhaps more than in most careers, a Foreign Service family shares
the joys and burdens of the job, and is responsible for success or
failure. Your wife must learn to keep house in many different en-
vironments, speak several languages, be kindly mother to the wives
of junior officers and aide to the Ambassador’s wife. While she is
nimbly juggling these tasks, she must watch the adjustment of her
young from childhood to adolescence and beyond in Chile, Costa
Rica, Greece and who knows where beyond. But they all seem to
thrive on this erratic existence and even threaten to become wander-
lovers like their parents. Pancha (nee Frances) is a freshman at
Pembroke and Judith, our benjamin, is still with us. Our eldest, Tito
(nee Albert), is a senior at Harvard, with three years in the Marine
Corps awaiting him. If all goes well, we can celebrate his graduation
and my Twenty-fifth together.

[ 604 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN CHEESMAN HARKNESS

      

N oe
ax: fll.

 

HOME AppRESS: 34 Moon Hill Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Architects Collaborative, 63 Brattle St. Cambridge 38,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., ct7 laude, 1938; B.ARCH. and MARCH.
1941.

MaRRIED: Sarah Pillsbury, June 14, 1941. CHILDREN: Sara, Sept. 19, 1942; Joan,
June 9, 1945; Nell, May 23, 1947; Timothy, June 19, 1951; Alice, March 13,
1953; Frederick and John Pillsbury (twins), May 4, 1955.

occupaTion: Architect; partner in The Architects Collaborative.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Lexington Committee, American Field Service; director,
Massachusetts State Association of Architects, since 1958; director, presi-
dent, 1960-61, Harvard Graduate School of Design Alumni; chairman —
Architecture, Boston Arts Festival, 1961; director, Harvard Alumm Asso-
ciation, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Architectural League of New York; Boston Society of Architects.

AFTER looking over the notes I sent in for the Class’s Eighteenth
Anniversary Report, it seems to me that there have been no very
great changes in my life in the last seven years. I am still living in
the same house in Lexington; still commuting to Cambridge every
day to work with the same firm of architects, “The Architects Col-
laborative,” and returning in the evening to the same size family. I
guess things are the same, only more so.

The children have increased in size and activity over the years in
some sort of geometric proportion, However, some of this activity
has begun to burst the bounds of our own house; the eldest is now a
junior at Pembroke, and the next two find more and more areas of
activity outside of the home. I guess we reached the peak four years

[ 605 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

seovsten,i8 gadinon to our own seven children, we had ane
srutent from Argentina Wing with us, She was in thi conte
dhe Americal Field Service program and attending the Levin On
High School as a membet of its senor class, Our eldest W a
gyme in the olor class at Lexington; and every school da at

apex raced out the door to catch the school bus, coats Papnin ‘ "

vind, \qoking (as out youngest commented Philosophical ') “iL
aceat big hit ds” Iisa common mistake to judge a country by th
qoquaintance, put if Dora Castro Castro, our exchange §

: tudent, '
smdicay t be a very lively pl. 8
any indicatyon, Argentina mus y Avely place, In fluent bye
rather imperfect English, she could out-talk anybody in the house
Our contact with AS. started with my participation in its am.
Yulance service in World War Il, first in Africa and then in Ital

However, even if we had not had this contact, 1 think we would
probably have been mterested in its exchange student program. After

whe departure of Dora, our eldest, Sara, left for Sweden on the so-

called “School Program.” She lived with a Swedish family and be-

came sufficiently fluent to take the first half of her senior year in the

\ocal Swedish high school, returning in February to finish with her

Class at Lexington, Incidentally, this experience provided some first-

hand Judgment in the much discussed comparison between United

States public schools and their European counterparts, and it is my

feeling that we stacked up favorably in many respects.

‘Last summer, our second daughter, Joan, was chosen to represent

er school, “The Cambridge School in Weston)’ on the AS.

“Summer Program,” and was one of four students from the United

States to go to Egypt. In a sense, this completed a cycle, as my first

‘port of call with the AF S. was Egypt, where we had a brief train-

ing period before going out to the desert. 1 gather that, although

i some ways life is pleasanter than during the war years, the climate

is as hot as ever. Joon was often interviewed by the radio and

newspapers, who tried to ask her tricky questions such as “Would

you marry an Egyptian?” which she answered, I think fairly enough
saying that she had not met an American whom she wanted to marry
nt
\ feel fortunate in having had over these years a fairly continuovt
contact with Harvard. After graduating from the College: T sper!
tree years in the Graduate School of Design; and after the Tout
returned as a member of the faculty, on which I served for jeer
years. Wt was to a large extent this contact with Professor W? e
Gropius, then the chairman of the Department of Architects

[ 606 ]

25TH ANNIVERSAF

was responsible for my part in

y,borative | in which both my wife
o contact has continued largely thr
_ wlatly of the School of Design, for
tic entative on the Directors of Alumr

Our office has also designed several builc
a the remodelling of many of the fres?
poviston Hall. Currently, I am involved 1
he new University Museum, to be used
aboratores and the new University Printing
. which I am involved include work for th
Hospical Children’s Hospital, the Boston Sa.
Company; also several public schools, mostly
jbo one in Mount Kisco, New York, and one
Chicago. The office is also doing several Agen
Development jobs in Africa for the U.S. gover
taken me over to Europe and Africa briefly.

Allin all, life has been busy. Let us hope that th
years will provide as much interest — and peace.

at

ALBERT MASON HARLOW, JR.

 

cone ADDRESS: Cedar Lane, New Canaan, Conn.
rece spoeess: Reuben H, Donnelley Corp., 466 Lexington Ave, New

mee
ee aT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.
MARR, IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.
Aug Hazel Hotchkiss Wightman, March 28, 1942. CHILDREN: Harel Le
950 5, 1946; Albert Mason, 3d, April 20, 19-485 Peter Wightman, Aug.
z,

[ 607 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occuPaTION: Publishing; assistant publisher, Averican Journal of Medicine and
five other medical magazines of the Dun & Bradstreet Group.

OFFICES HELD: Prep school English teacher, 1938-41, 1946-47; education specialisr,
Navy Dept. 1947-48; research associate, Brookings Institution, 1948-51;
division manager, McGraw-Hill, 1951-54; account work, vice-president
and general manager, pharmaceutical advertising agencies, 1954-57, 1959-52;
director, Institute of Student Opinion, Scholastic Magazines Inc., 1957-59;
ensign-commander, USNR, 1938-45 (retired 1953); vice-president,
New Canaan Harvard Club, 1958-60; member, Board of Religious Educa-
tion, 1956-59, lay reader, 1961-62, New Canaan Congregational Church;
secretary, New Canaan Board of Education, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: New Canaan Harvard Club; Town Players; Field Club, US.
Naval Institute, New York Pharmaceutical Advertising Club; Association
of Medical and Allied Publications.

puslications: Major Problems of United States Foreign Policy, winner of
Wilkie Memorial Award for best publication in 1949 in international re-
lations (co-author); “The Armed Forces—Shield of the Republic,”
Scholastic Magazines; articles of general interest on U.S. Naval Institute
Proceedings.

WISER men than you and I have long been alleging that no one
knows nearly so much as the fresh-caught ensign or the newly-
starred rear admiral. Now I realize who knows the least: the Har-
vard graduate confronted with the Twenty-fifth Reunion demand
for his contribution to a volume like this.

The vital statistics are always dispensed with early in these essays:
address, job, wife, kids, affirmations and achievements. Entertain-
ing though these may be (“So at last he has made president — profes-
sor — publisher — or poorhouse, has he?”), I imagine most of us
are more interested in the deeper currents of our classmate’s life
(“I know what he has done, but what does he think?’’).

Here, then, with proper apologies to the “stages of man” lines
from Shakespere (only a student of Kitty’s would persist in that
spelling) are some of the thoughts I have been aware of, as sum-
marized in our four Reports to date.

Appreciation —In our Triennial I mentioned with enthusiasm
my activities as a school teacher and Naval Reserve officer ... 4
nice, short, restrained report.

Amazement —1 was simply astounded, for our Decennial, that
ten years had slipped by so quickly. They saw me desert teaching
and enter publishing, as well as regret the onset of old age. At
that time, Gentlemen, you and I had just turned thirty!

Assurance — Despite Dick Davis’ warning that all of us were
too complacent for our own good, the copy I submitted for our

[ 608 ]

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Eighteenth Anniversary Report was the epitome of self-satisfac-
tion. The longest contribution in the book (I was in advertising at
the time, and the offer of all that free space was just too much to
resist), it bragged ad nauseam about my boss, my job, my other
boss, my kids, my new house and my extracurricular activities.

Still satisfied with these fractions of a man’s being, I wish now
I had manifested at least some uncertainty. For during the last six
or seven years much of my former conviction has been slowly
sinking into doubt.

Apprehension — Now, in late 1962, ’m just not so sure. In
politics we see the same old differences between the candidate’s
promise and the winner’s fulfillment, between performance in office
and carping after it. In business, the sharp dichotomy between
public relations handouts on the national interest and conference-
room conniving for greater personal and corporate power. In the
economy, the constant struggle between corporations’ legitimate
profits and government’s persecution of bigness and influence, of
success itself.

In society we deplore the commuter’s refusing Red Cross solicita-
tion at his office (“I don’t live in the city, you know’) and also his
simultaneous rejection of local civic participation (“I just don’t
have the time —travel a great deal”). In religion we rejoice in
increased church membership, but wonder how many of the new-
comers have chosen monthly or annual attendance only as less
troublesome than tranquilizers.

In education the very people who last year opposed the much-
needed new junior high building now agitate for ballet in the
fourth grade. In the home, in their relations with their children,
Dad and Mom still vacillate between buddy and boss. And on the
international scene our country has the gall, despite the sorry state of
our own civil rights, to castigate South Africa, in the General
Assembly, for apartheid!

Possibly our Yale contemporaries can reconcile these inconsist-
encies in our culture; probably Dartmouth men don’t care. This
particular Harvard man, however, is concerned indeed.

Aspiration — In spite of these and other incongruities, Fam hope-
ful that somehow the future may demonstrate a bit more the value
of the eternal constants — love, for example, and faith, and honor.

But of one of my current beliefs I have no doubt whatsoever.
Oliver Wendell Holmes phrased it long ago, and for years it has

[ 609 ]

Sree ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
been hanging in my office, in large bold type with a chaste dark
frame: Se

“I think that, as life is action and passion, it is required of a man
that he should share the action and passion of his time at peril
of being judged not to have lived.”

EDWARD DIMOND HARRIGAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 705 18th St., N.W., Suite 800, Washington 6, D.C.

OFFICE ADpRESs: The Capitol House, Suite 107, 305 C St., N.E., Washington 2,
D.C.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Northwestern Univ.),
1949.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

AM presently serving as treasurer of the International Advisory
Service, Inc., an embryonic “think” factory dealing with the prob-
lem of under-developed countries.

[ 610 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

4TERBERT HENRY HARRINGTON

 

- P.O. Box 317, Burlington, Vt.

CHARLES MEANS HARRIS

 

s: 142 Foote Rd., South Glastonbury, Conn.

[ 611 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

TDWARD GEORGE HARRIS

 

pena eesd Tse iad AY PEL kate Tae 8

WOME ADRESS: 4243 Spruce St. Philadelphia 4, Pa.
OFFICE ApoRESS: 4205 Spruce St., Philadelphia 4, Pa.
peepanen at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS TN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: AB, cum laude, 1938; Bo. (Episcopal
Theological School), 1941; s1.m. (Union Theological Seminary), i942;
po. (Univ, of Pennsylvania), 1961.

manaien: Shirley Lucille Barlow, June 21, 1941. CHILDREN: David Barlow, March

2A, 1944, Jennifer Dennert, Dec. 8, 1949, Geoffrey Pollitt, Sept. 29, 1956.
occupation: Clergyman, dean and professor, The Divinity School of the
Protestant Episcopal Church in Philadelphia.

o¥Ficks HELD: Examining chaplain, Diocese of Massachusetts, 1948-50; presi-

dent, Corporation for Christian Work in Educational Institutions, Diocese

of Pennsylvania, 1956-58, member, Philadelphia Commission on Alcohol-

ism, since 1956; member, executive committee, Health and Welfare
Council, West Area of the Philadelphia District, since 1961.

MEMBER oF: Alpha Epsilon Delta; Alpha Phi Omega; Harvard Club of

Philadelphia, Faculty Club, University of Pennsylvania.

Pusucarions: Published articles: “The Physician, the Clergyman and the
Patient in Verminal Wines,” Penn. Medical Journal, June, 19515 “Blood
‘Yransfusion and Jehovah's Witnesses,” Surgery, Gynecology and Obstet-

rics, April, 1959. Published lectures: “The Valley of Decision,” 1955

“Mission to Mankind.” 1957, “God and Our Daily Work,” 19583 “Ethics
in Ferment,” igsg, “Doubt and Faith, A Study in Existentialism, 19605
“Whe Urgency of Ethics,” 1961, Book: Prayers for a University, Unuw.
of Peansylvania Press, 1964,

AVYER Harvard | journeyed down Brattle Street to the Episcopal
Theological School in order to study theology and prepare for the
Ministry of the Episcopal Church. In the fall of 1941, | moved °
Union Theological Seminary in New York City for two more year
of graduate study in theology, but now with a wife to support me.

L612]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RE

j also served as assistant minister at the CI
. New York. Thence, into the Army fro.
m ropeal Theatre, first as chaplain of the 1
" Jater as chaplain of Chanor Base Headqu:
came rector of St. Mark’s Church, Sout,
from 1946 tO 1950. During this time I was alsc
studies at St. Mark’s School and did some teacl
in Cambridge. In 1950 we were invited to Philac
versity Of Pennsylvania, and I became unive
Boardman Lecturer in Christian Ethics along w
duties in religion. Parish work had been fine but ¢
runities at the university were exactly to my interes
in every way. ‘Then in July, 1961, I became dear
School of the Protestant Episcopal Church in Philae
ate school of theology which prepares men for the

Episcopal Church.

Since 1952 we have spent our summers in Burkehave.
shire, where I am rector of St. James’ Summer Ch
Sunapee. Here we reach the peak of our family livir
the things for which there never seems to be time du
of the year, although efforts in mountain climbing and
are rapidly becoming more modest. In the summer of
selected to be a member of a team of educators to make a
visit to Israel in order to become acquainted with the €
and religious situation there. Our elder son David grad
June from the Episcopal Academy and is now a freshm.
University of Pennsylvania. Jennifer is an eighth-grade
Baldwin School in Bryn Mawr and Geoffrey is in the kind.
at the Episcopal Academy. My wife is responsible for those «
ful contributions which enable us to be a happy family and
Possessed of a merry irreverence which keeps me from bec
Hous. We are currently catering to a collie pup who, in hor
whenllite and missile age, rejoices in the name of “Tickety .

Ich, being roughly translated from the British, means
‘ystems go,”

Y major interests have developed into teaching, wriung, +
theola 800d deal of administrative work as well. I believe ¢
x Heical education and the preparation in highest qualicy of me
the Ch Ministry form the most important task within the inner life c
embarke, ch, The seminary for which I am responsible is currentls

td upon an ambitious development program (is there @

[ 613]

and
] be

now

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

school which is not so engaged?) and those of my more successful
classmates who wish to devote a few millions to theological educa-

tion will find a warm reception here.

GEORGE CHRISTE HARRIS

 

HOME appress: 808 W. zqth St., Wilmington 2, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hercules Powder Co., Wilmington 99, Del.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1940; PHD.
1942.

MarrieD: Luise Despina Peratsakis, Dec. 25, 1942. CHILDREN: George Christe,
Jr., Sept. 29, 1947; C. James, 2d, July 31, 1951.

occupation: Research chemist, Hercules Powder Company, chemical manu-
facturers.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Hellenic University Club, Phila-
delphia.

PuBLIcATIONs: A number of patents on the characterization and utilization of
rosin, starch and cellulose. . A number of papers on composition of rosin,
printed in the Journal of the American Chemical Society, Encyclopedia

Britannica, Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology and books edited by a
number of authors.

I HAVE led rather a peaceful and complaisant life as indicated
by a twenty-year marriage to one woman and one employer. I
came to Wilmington, Delaware, with the Hercules Powder Com-
pany at about the time Columbus discovered America, October 12,
1942, and married Luise twenty-four months later. Two sons were
born as a result of this latter union; it can be said that they neither
added to nor detracted from the marriage.

We have lived in Wilmington for twenty years. Business has

[ 614 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

taken me to most corners of the country. Most vacations have been
spent in New England lately, more especially at Cape Cod. There
are many places the family have not seen, but they do not care as long
as they can spend their free time at Cape Cod — personally
I can’t see it!

Politics, like poker, has not been a source of income over the
years. I have the unfortunate distinction of never having voted for a
winner (presidential elections). I still cannot understand how the
people missed both Willkie and Stevenson.

Religion “grabs” me in just about the same way. I started with
a strong faith (Greek Orthodox) and came to a less demanding
one (Protestant Episcopal). Christianity has yet to make its sweep-
ing impression when one considers that it has been subscribed to
by only one-fourth of the world population.

I have engaged in a number of ventures (business) over the
years, none of which has become a howling success. The trouble
with the whole idea now is I can’t stop trying.

KENNETH EYRE HARRISON

 

HOME AppREss: 100 Easton Rd., Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Teleregister Corp., 445 Fairfield Ave., Stamford, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MARRIED: Janet W. Simpson, 1941. CHILDREN: K. Wilcox, July 19, 19433 Janet
Eyre, March 18, 1947; Stephen A,, Feb. 9, 1951.

occupation: Training supervisor, Field Operations Dept., Teleregister Corpora-
tion, responsible for content, method and caliber of technical training for

personnel to maintain special purpose data processors — including recruit-
ment of personnel and development of instructors.

[ 615 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICES HELD: Consulting editor, “Training Tables,” column in National Fore-
men’s Institute publication, For Line & Staff Supervisors; vice-president and
program chairman, Bridgeport Training Council; vice-chairman, board of
deacons, Greens Farms Congregational Church.

MEMBER OF: Bridgeport Training Council, American Society of Training Di-
rectors; Society for the Advancement of Management.

MAURICE EDWARD HARRISON, JR.

    
 
    

HOME ADDRESS: 429 N. Mansfield Ave., Los Angeles 36, Calif.
OFFICE appRESS: Union Oil Co., 461 S. Boylston St., Los Angeles, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.

MARRIED: Mary Crane, Oct. 7, 1943. CHILDREN: Anne Welsh, Oct. 7, 1944;
Mary Crane, July 9, 1946; Deborah Catherine, March 19, 1948, Maurice
Edward, 3d, March 3, 1950; Robert Lewis, May 3, 1952; Thomas Crane,
Aug. 28, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Commercial salesman, Union Oil Company of California.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California.

SINCE leaving Harvard in 1937, I have acquired a wife, six chil-
dren, a case of skin cancer (one of the advantages of living in
Southern California not normally discussed by the Chamber of
Commerce) and a dog named “Ralph.”

Vocationally —For three years after leaving Cambridge, I en-
gaged in the insurance business in San Francisco. Thinking that
aviation was a more romantic calling, I transferred to Pratt-Whit-
ney Aircraft in East Hartford, Connecticut, and spent the war
years as a service representative attached to Army fields in Kansas
and Oklahoma. For one who liked an occasional drink, it was ironi-

cal to live in the two dry states—-I had to develop a taste for
3-2 beer.

[ 616 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After the war, I returned to California to take a position as a
commercial salesman for the Union Oil Company. During the
past sixteen years, I have checked into a great number of business
opportunities, but I seem to stay with my occupation, attracted
perhaps with the constant changes in the petroleum industry, its
many challenges, and the opportunities to visit with other members
of the Class of ’38, such as Paul Clark, Jim Monroe and Dan Martin.

My children are a great source of satisfaction to me, although the
annual night in a sleeping bag with the Cub Scouts is my idea of
nothing at all. However, the fishing trips, the visits to the rifle
range and the current attempt to master the surf board are all
fun with the children. Recently, I have started taking flying lessons
which I enjoy very much.

My religion — Roman Catholicism — has been a great comfort
through the years, especially in times of trouble as when my father
and two of my sisters died.

I am grateful for having attended Harvard, and [ still follow its
football fortunes in the Sunday papers.

“ARNOLD HARTMANN, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 Kardon Rd., Hyde Park 36, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; aM. (Columbia
* Univ.), 1948.

occuPATION: Musicologist (teaching, research); musician (piano).
OFFICES HELD: President, Fox Meadow Corporation, 1957-62.

MEMBER OF: American Musicological Society, American Guild of Organists
(Associate 1945-61); Camera Club of Boston; Y.M.C.U,

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

puBLications: Article: “Battista Guarini and JJ Pastor Fido,’ The Musical
Quarterly, XXXIX, July, 1953; review of Jenkins, “Fancies and Ayres”
(Wellesley: 1950), Journal of Am, Musicological Soc., Fall 1951; program
notes for current season’s concerts by Camerata-group of Boston Museum
of Fine Arts,

HAVING failed after repeated efforts to endow with a semblance
of dignity the chronicle of a protracted adolescence, I find it
expedient to draw a veil over the subject.

ERNE

ST DOWNING HASELTINE, JR.

SHEE eee ee ee

     

     

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Southwood Drive, Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFicE ADDREss: Mutual Benefit Life, 481 N. First St., San Jose 12, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Shirley E, Powers, 1939 (divorced 1955); Jessie Waugh, 1955. CHIL-
DREN: Gregory Allen, 1946 (stepson); Nancy Emerson, 1948; Laurie Adams,
1955; Susan Bartlett, 1957.

occuPATION: General Agent, Mutual Benefit Life of New Jersey, and Haseltine
& Associates, employee benefit planning firm.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rotary Club, Haverhill, Mass., 1953-54; president, San
Francisco Chapter, Chartered Life Underwriters, 1959-60; trustee, Brad-
ford Junior College, Bradford, Mass., 1954-56; president, Junior Chamber of
Commerce, Haverhill, Mass., 1946-47.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Palo Alto, San Francisco Chapter of Chartered
Life Underwriters; Rotary Club of San Jose; Saggahew Lodge, AF. &
A.M.; Pentucket Chapter, R.A.M.; Haverhill Commandery, K.T.; Aleppo
Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on life insurance and taxation in the life in-
surance trade journals.

FROM one Bay Area to another (Massachusetts to San Francisco)
is a long jump, but one that is being made by increasing numbers

[ 618 ]

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Harvard men. There are many similarities between the economic
and academic climates of Cambridge and Palo Alto. The remark-
able differences are in temperature and precipitation; and these
differences make the San Francisco Bay Area a delightful place in
which to live and to raise children.

My eldest daughter, Nancy, still lives in Massachusetts with my
first wife, and is a good student (Whittier School, Haverhill) and
a good camper (Camp Winnemont). My stepson Greg, at seven-
teen, has already shown great promise in photography, creative
writing and horsemanship (after the Fessenden School he attended
Thacher School in Ojai, California), and now appears to be headed
for a career in photography. The two smaller girls, Laurie and
Susan, have each had a turn as Queen of the May at the Harker
School in Palo Alto, and are lively and rewarding companions.

Not unlike the smoker who believes it easy to stop smoking, be-
cause he has done it so many times, I know it’s easy to start in the
life insurance business. . . . I have done it four times! In June of
1938, I joined the Northwestern Mutual. I rejoined them in 1946,
upon being released to inactive duty after four-plus years in anti-
submarine warfare and motor torpedo boats. In 1955 I started again
when I moved to California to open a new district agency for the
Northwestern Mutual, knowing no one here, save a few Californians
I had met at Million Dollar Round Table meetings.

Mutual Benefit of New Jersey appointed me general agent of a
“scratch” general agency at San Jose, California, in the fall of
1960. Since that time I have experienced a soap-operatic series of
near-catastrophes among family members and my office personnel,
escaping unscathed myself, except for predictable secondary ef-
fects. These near-catastrophes have included: neck injuries sus-
tained playing polo, a concussion following a fall on a polished
marble floor, whiplash injuries inflicted on the occupant of a
parked vehicle, heart attacks (two), third-degree burns, a cashier
(fortunately, bonded) who disappeared, and a chronic condition
of voting for the losing political candidates on the national and state
levels. Unlike the bleak outlook for my favorite candidates outside
the local scene, I have never found that I voted for as many winners
as I have in the somewhat unique political atmosphere of Palo Alto.

The general agency, which has been built with agonizing slow-
ness on a “financial clinic” approach, is beginning to gather mo-
mentum. Hopefully, time, which in twenty-five years has made
minimum changes in the amount of my hair and in the amount of

[ 619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

my weight, although redistributing the latter, will permit me to
enjoy the calm after the storms of the last few years. Hopefully,
too, I will have more time to spend in the field of gerontology, a
field in which I have had an occupational interest, further stimulated
by my wife’s activities with the Peninsula Volunteers, a group
whose efforts with and for Senior Citizens has gained national rec-
ognition. Stated another way, I would like to progress from my
humble position as a “nose-ringer” (husband of a volunteer), and
make some worthwhile contributions to the recorded knowledge
in this field.

RALPH TURNER HASKELL

 

HOME aAppREss: 2 Crescent Rd., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Waltham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREE: S.B. IN B.A. (Boston Univ.), 1938.

marriep: Caroline McKnight, Aug. 17, 1940. CHILDREN: Ralph Turner, Jr.
(Chip), May 23, 1947; Lindsey, July 18, 1991.

OCCUPATION: Electronic magnetic components marketing supervisor.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1957, chairman, 1958, 1959, 1962, Concord School
Committee; member, Concord-Carlisle Regional School Committee, since
1957, chairman, 1958-61; president, Concord Little League, 1956-58, mem-
ber, Republican Town Committee, since 1960; president, MPTD Manage-
ment Association, Inc., since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon— Beta Upsilon Chapter; Corinthian Lodge,
AF. & A.M.; Concord Country Club.

IT would be a wonderful thing if all of us could write this account
in the style of the “Sample Lives” sent to us with the Class Life
dossier. Unfortunately, at least in my case, they serve mainly to

[ 620 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

develop, to some degree, a kind of “What the hell have I been
doing all these years?” complex. With no talent for the glamour
occupations and absolutely no desire to be permanently located in
far-away places (this includes any area south of Washington, D.C,
or farther west than Chicago, Illinois), I have found happiness and
contentment in being a stodgy New Englander in what I consider
to be one of the nicest towns on the face of the earth.

My employment is not romantic in nature. Since 1941 I have
worked for the Raytheon Company in one capacity or another.
4 reference to my occupational title will alert you to the exact
nature of my work. I sell things. Among all the presidents and
vice-presidents that I know will be found in this Class Report, my
most probable distinction will be one of anonymity for it is my
belief that the president of my company does not even realize that
I work there.

There is no glamour in my war record either. I] served three
years as an enlisted man, during which time I never left the conti-
nental United States, except for short hauls, and ended my term
of service as the Post Sergeant Major of Camp Forrest, ‘Tennessee
(an area that some of you may recall with varying degrees of
enthusiasm). I am the possessor of an honorable discharge and the
usual assortment of medals; so, while I did nothing to add to Har-
vard’s laurels at least I left no blots upon her escutcheon.

Since my discharge from the Armed Forces I have lived in Con-
cord, Massachusetts, where I have found great satisfaction in serv-
ing my fellow townsmen in various official capacities. I have ac-
quired a wonderful wife, two normal, healthy children and various
and sundry household pets. We manage to take summer and winter
vacations and do not find ourselves in debt.

I can only conclude that while my life has, as yet, been com-
paratively unspectacular it has, from my viewpoint, been most
pleasant and rewarding. If I can say the same thing twenty-five
years from today I will consider myself to have been most fortunate.

[ 621 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

THOMAS NEWLIN HASTINGS

 

HOME AppRESS: 1370 Old Mill Rd., San Marino 9, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1136 W. Sixth St., Los Angeles 17, Calif.

PREPARED AT: [hacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Adams Caldwell, M.p., Jan. 6, 1944, Titusville, Pa. CHILDREN:
Anne Elizabeth, Nov. 13, 1946; Hill, 2d, May 20, 1948; Kathryn Hadley,
May 17, 1950; Thomas Newlin, Jr., May 6, 1952.

occupaTION: Physician; general and pediatric surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in surgery, UCLA Medical School, 1951~58, USC
Medical School, since 1958; hospital staffs — attending surgeon, Hospital
of the Good Samaritan, Children’s Hospital, Los Angeles County General
Hospital, Hollywood Presbyterian Hospital, Good Hope Clinic, Wadsworth
— Veterans Administration, elder, Immanuel Presbyterian Church, Los
Angeles, 1948-54; officer, Big Brothers of Greater Los Angeles.

MEMBER OF: California and Los Angeles County Medical Associations; Los
Angeles Surgical Society; Los Angeles Academy of Medicine; Medical
Symposium Society; Southern California Society of Gastroenterology,
Pacific Coast Surgical Society; American College of Surgeons; American
Medical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in surgical fields in medical journal publica-
tions including: “Subtotal Gastric Resection,” AMA Archives of Surgery,
1958; “Perforated Peptic Ulcer,” Western Journal of Surgery, Obstetrics &
Gynecology, 1957; “Malignant Tumors in Children,” Surgery, 1960; “Post-
gastrectomy Dumping Syndrome,” Surgery, Gynecology & Obstetrics,
1960; “Unusual Lesions of the Reproductive Tract in Infants & Children,”
American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology, 1961; “Retroperitoneal
Tumors in Infants and Children,” Archives of Surgery, 1961; “Perforated
Peptic Ulcer,” American Journal of Surgery, 1961; textbook chapter on
retroperitoneal tumors in pediatric surgery, 1962.

AS I finished four good years at Harvard with aspirations in
[ 622 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

medicine, a sage counsellor told me a professional life could be

divided in three equal parts. The first, the period of preparation,

didn’t seem too long. Five informative years at the College of

Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, were followed by

a year of internship at the Los Angeles County General Hospital.

Then there were two years of marking time medically where re-

wards were difficult to measure as Tank Battalion Surgeon in the

8th Armored Division, where I toured Europe, early across the

Rhine, acquired a lead pellet in my leg, joined an amphibian tank
group for Japan and delightedly ended up in pathology in Cali-
fornia. The beginning of these two years was superb with mar-
riage to Betsy Caldwell of Titusville, Pennsylvania, and of New
York City, where I met her in medical school, and where she was
Resident in Medicine at Bellevue Hospital while I was away. The
last of the two years picked up where we started, and with en-
thusiasm we plunged into surgical residency and development of a
family. During my five and a half years of General Surgery at
the Veterans Administration in Los Angeles, the new medical school
of the University of California at Los Angeles was established, and
this met my desires to continue some academic pursuits along with
private practice. As my first life’s period ended, I had been pro-
vided with my wonderful wife, two daughters and two sons.

At age thirty-six, I began the second period, which is the one
to develop in my profession and in my non-professional pursuits
for a full life. Life in medicine is rich, not monetarily, but pro-
fessionally with clinical research in gastroenterology at the Veterans
Administration, teaching and working at the Children’s Hospital,
at a charitable clinic, and on a University of Southern California
Surgical Service at the Los Angeles County General Hospital.
Participation in surgical societies is stimulating and provides some
outlet for publications in General Surgery.

Life with my family proves increasingly richer with challenges
and joys of preparing our four children for their future contribu-
tions. With the vital partnership with Betsy who continues with
her medicine and effectively develops our family foundations, we
are happy indeed. Other important aspects of life also have been
rewarding with my being active in Big Brothers of Greater Los
Angeles, and with all the family participating in church life, and
other community activities including Y.M.C.A. and Scouts. My
enjoyment continues in sports— tennis, skiing, fishing, camping
and daily swimming, and fortunately everything is increasing ex-

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

cept my proficiency. Amateur handicrafts in our family workshop
fill additional needs.

So now at my Harvard Twenty-fifth, I fortunately find my
practising life’s period only 30% spent. I look forward to my
Fiftieth Harvard reunion when, aged seventy-two, I will enter the
third period for a measure of rest and retirement.

FRANK W. HATFIELD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 52 E. Abington Ave., Philadelphia 18, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co., 530 Walnut St., Philadelphia
5, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

Marrizp: Ann Emlen Shipley, Feb. 15, 1947. cup: Andrew Lyon, Aug. 21,
1962.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; assistant counsel, Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company.
MEMBER OF: American, Pennsylvania and Philadelphia Bar Associations; Asso-
ciation of Life Insurance Counsel; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

I REMEMBER as a child how my father, an Episcopal clergyman,
used to deplore his lack of sanctions to enforce a terrific drive to
do good. His frustrations prompted my becoming a Harvard
lawyer, the profession of statesmen, so that I would not lack the
power. Fortunately, experiences during World War II years taught
me the lesson required of our age: Caesar has the power but can
do no good; good comes only through God who uses no compul-
sions and needs no man’s help. But I had prepared to be a politician,
not an evangelist. And there have been no votes anywhere today
to be obtained from a platform grounded on the principle that

[ 624 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

government can do no good, that its only proper function is nega-
tive: to do as little as possible and then only what is absolutely
necessary.

So we have spent the weeks cultivating our garden — Anne now
at home with the baby and I at the office overlooking Independence
Hall. On vacations and weekends, we ski, bird, fly fish for trout,
hike in the mountains and hunt for grouse. I would wish for each
of you the thrill of raising a wild rainbow from the bottom of
a rippling pool on a nearly blind strike while fishing a nymph
upstream.

Throughout it all there remains an abiding faith in Harvard, in
its values such as the “freedom, patience, skepticism” my memory
associates with Mr. Lowell, and in the way of its men in tackling
whatever they touch with imagination and thoroughness.

HUBERT HOWARD HAUCK

 

HOME ADDRESS: Longmeadow Road, Cumberland Foreside, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Portland, 400 Congress St., Portland,
Maine,

PREPARED AT: Easton High School, Easton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Eleanor Elaine Letson, June 1, 1940, CHILDREN: Thomas Andrew,
March 9, 1941; Bruce Arthur, March 30, 1943; John Allen, March 31,
1946.

occupaATION: President, First National Bank of Portland.

OFFICES HELD: Corporator, Portland Savings Bank; director, Central Maine
Power Company, since 1961, Coca-Cola Bottling Plants, Inc., since 1962,
Maine Bonding and Casualty Company, since 1962, Associated Industries of
Maine, since 1961, Northeast Research Foundation, since 1960, University
of Maine Foundation, since 1959, University of Maine Development Coun-

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

cil, since 1960; director, treasurer, 1961-63, Greater Portland Chamber of
Commerce; director, 1948-54, president, 1952-53, YMCA; director, 1947-58,
president, 1957-59, Community Chest, director, 1955-58, president, 1957-
58, Greater Portland United Fund; director, since 1957, president, 1958-
59, Greater Portland Area Development Council; director, president,
1961-63, National Bank Division, Maine Bankers Association; trustee,
Maine Medical Center, since 1959, Westbrook Junior College, since
1956, Williams College School of Banking, 1958-60; campaign chairman,
Community Chest, 1953; chairman, Portland District B.T.A., 1949-51;
member, 1946-51, chairman, 1950-51, Falmouth School Board; member,
Portland Planning Board, 1955-59; senior deacon and chairman, Church
Committee, State Street Congregational Church.

MEMBER OF: Cumberland Club; Portland Club; Portland Country Club; Har-
vard Club of Maine (president, 1953); 32d Degree Mason; Ancient Land-
mark Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Kora Shrine.

I CAN still recall the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class parading at Class
Day in 1938 —now we have arrived and I don’t feel that old (all
of the time), but the twenty-five years have elapsed.

I had planned to work for a year after graduation and return to
law school, but it never came to pass as I secured a position in Port-
land in the advertising department of the Gannett Publishing Com-
pany, met a young lady in 1938, married her in 1940, and have
lived happily ever since (except for service in the U.S. Navy during
World War II). After three years in advertising I shifted to manu-
facturing and held various positions with Maine Marine Products,
Inc., eventually becoming treasurer and secretary of the corpora-
tion. In 1956 I resigned from Maine Marine and entered the bank-
ing field as a vice-president with the First National Bank of Port-
land and was elected president in 1960. These last few years in
banking have been hectic ones to be sure, but rewarding, most
interesting and enjoyable.

Apart from business and my family, my time has been devoted to
civic and church affairs. I have served as a board member and officer
of several charitable, educational and church organizations.

Kitty and I are fortunate enough to have three boys who keep us
on our toes —and me in fairly good physical condition since they
are all good athletes. My athletic endeavors have been limited to
tennis and golf for five years but the tennis has been reasonably
competitive as Tom and Bruce have both teamed with me in the
National Father and Son tournaments. We have had some degree

of success — ranking in the first twenty nationally for five years
consecutively. Now that I have reached the ripe old age of forty-
five I am looking forward to senior competition.

[ 626 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The last two years have also been occupied in two other ways —
building a new home overlooking Casco Bay and paying prep
school and college tuition bills (three). Tom and Bruce are at the
University of Maine, while John is studying at Exeter, with the
hope of entering Harvard in 1964.

The years have passed rapidly and I look forward to our Twenty-
fifth in June — Castro and Khrushchev willing.

ALDEN MORGAN HAUPT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2221 I St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; PHD. (Columbia
Univ.), 1953.

MARRIED. CHILDREN: two SONS.

occupaTION: Army Intelligence.

MARRIED, two sons, aged fourteen and eleven. Six years as foreign
service officer. Ph.D. in Slavic philology, Columbia University,
1953-

[ 627 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ARTHUR HAYES HAUSSERMANN

SENOS SAN TEA

   

GPE GM TL ROR Te Lon tag 7 By yl

x 5
ke
&

HOME AppDRESS: 22 Allen Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B., I9qI.

marrieD: Virginia Ann Robinson, Aug. 2, 1941, CHILDREN: Anne Robinson, Oct.
19, 1943; Frances Robinson, Aug. 1, 1945; Mary Christian, Feb. 11, 1953.

occupation: Vice-president and general counsel, Vance, Sanders & Company,
Inc,; underwriter of investment company shares.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to president, Boston Fund, Inc., Canada General Fund,

Ltd., North American Fund of Canada; treasurer and clerk, Diversification
Fund, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Boston and Norfolk County Bar Associations,
Wellesley Country Club; Essex County Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER graduation I entered the Harvard Law School, from which
I received my LL.B. in 1941. I took my bar exam in Boston on
August 1, 1941, and got married the following day in Akron, Ohio.
I think my wife secretly resents the fact that I was able to pass my
bar exam on August ist.

After a few months of practice with the law firm of Hausser-
mann, Davison & Shattuck in Boston, I became a Special Agent in
the Federal Bureau of Investigation in January, 1942. The gunnery
instructor at Quantico Marine Base threw up his hands in horror
when he was supposed to teach not only a Harvard man, but a
left-handed one at that, to shoot. After almost shooting myself, I
managed to pass, They sent all northeners to the South and all
southerners to the North. I presume this was done so that the agents
would appear to be natives. Accordingly, I spent most of the four
years in the FBI in Alabama.

[ 628 ]

1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In January of 1946, I returned to practise law at Haussermann,
Davison & Shattuck, specializing in estate planning and corporate
law, especially with respect to the underwriting of corporate se-
curities. In September, 1952, I became associated with Vance
Sanders & Company, Inc., the largest underwriter through dealers
of investment company shares, distributing the shares of Massa-
chusetts Investors Trust, Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock
Fund, Boston Fund, Canada General Fund and Century Shares
Trust.

In September of 1958, at the request of Nikko Securities, one
of the largest Japanese securities dealers, 1 went to Japan to help
them set up their own investment trust for sale in Japan. Ginny
and I had a wonderful time in Japan, seeing the country and its
people as you could not if you were a mere traveler to that country.
Ginny and I have taken up golf, rather unsuccessfully but with
enthusiasm. Besides the normal parental and civic activities, we en-
joy traveling and have for the past few years visited a number of
countries in Europe. Since we have three daughters, it simplifies
the problem of worrying whether the children can follow in their
father’s footsteps. At least we do not think as of this writing
Harvard College is admitting women, although the Law School has
finally broken down.

GLENN ORR HAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 40 89th St., Brooklyn 9, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Marquardt & Co., 153 Spring St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; MBA, 1942.

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

marriED: Sarah Elizabeth Alcorn, Sept. 6, 1941 (divorced 1961); Kay Skylstad,
Aug. 11, 1962. CHILDREN: Glenn Orr, Jr., Oct. 11, 1942; Jonathan Marsden,
July 7, 1945; Andrew Crawford, Dec. 1, 1949, David Alcorn, Nov. 20, 1952.

HARVARD SON: Glenn Orr Hay, Jr., ’66,

OccUPATION: Sales, Marquardt & Company, fine paper merchants.

IF I were to accept Cellini’s dicta for writing an autobiography,
no matter how brief or for what purpose, I could not write one at
all. As it is, it is difficult. For our innermost thoughts are hard to
marshal on paper, and the events, which form the skeleton of our
life, are rarely interesting to others.

After nearly twenty years of marriage, most of them good and
happy years, years blessed with children, our life together fell apart.
Sally and I were divorced in 1961. So strange and sometimes sad is
life.

One of the lasting joys is Harvard. Our eldest son, Glenn, Jr.,
is a freshman — Class of 1966. A football player, center mostly,
he had the good fortune to play on this year’s undefeated freshman
team. The Yale game was a squeaker, but Harvard went all the
way. Johnny, now at Andover and a football player, too, hopes to
follow his brother. And so do the younger boys, Andy and Davey.

On August 11, 1962, I married Kay Skylstad of New York City
via Norway. While I am learning the various mysteries of the land
of the Midnight Sun, she is learning the equally mysterious things
that Harvard men think of their Alma Mater. We both have much
to learn.

For the last seventeen years, since my discharge from the Navy,
I have been in the fine paper business in one capacity or another.
Leaving New England meant leaving manufacturing and a comfort-
able inside job. Coming to New York meant sales — something I
always had a hankering for —and in the most competitive market
in the world. I have only been at it a few months, but already it
gives promise of being everything I had hoped for.

It is, 1 think, customary to comment on one’s physical condition
—or what the years have done to me. In my case the years have
been kind. Except for a general tendency to feel exhausted all the
time, I am in splendid shape and can hold my own with almost
anybody over seventy. Reading, chess and the joys generally
ascribed to Cape Cod remain my favorite pastimes. As do foot-
ball games at Cambridge and occasional weekends at Andover.

In writing this it seems that much has been left out. So be it. My

[ 630 ]

—— doen

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

inability to pen a brilliant “life” is matched only by my inability
to attract a Boswell to do it for me. But there is still time.

JOHN HAY

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Brewster, Mass,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N-H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marrigD: Kristi Putnam, Feb. 14, 1941. CHILDREN: Susan, Jan. 19, 1944; Kath-
erine, March 30, 1949; Rebecca, 1957 (died 1962); Charles Mark, May 13,
1959.

occupaTion: Author; president, Cape Cod Museum of Natural History,
Brewster, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Brewster Conservation Commission.

puBLicaTions: A Private History (poems), Duell, Sloan & Pearce, 1947; The
Run, Doubleday, 1959; Natzre’s Year, Doubleday, 1961, A Sense of Nature,
with Arline Strong, Doubleday, 1962.

AFTER graduation I was correspondent in Washington, D.C, for
the News & Courier, Charleston, South Carolina, in 1939 and 1940.
For several months previous to being drafted in the Army in March
of 1941, I studied writing with Conrad Aiken, in Brewster, Massa-
chusetts. During the war I spent eight months in the Eighth Infan-
try Division, Camp Jackson, South Carolina, After that I was one
of the editors of Yank, the Army weekly, for which I went to
Panama as editor of the Pan-American edition. I was also assistant
picture editor of Yank.

Following the war, my wife and our eldest daughter moved from
New York City to Cape Cod where we built a house on ten acres
of woodland overlooking Cape Cod Bay, and except for a trip to
England in the spring of 1962, and occasional excursions to such

[ 631 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

places as Texas, Mexico and the Gaspé Peninsula, we have been
there ever since.

I have spent my time in writing over the past fifteen years and
have found it just as hard a job as most other authors do — very
rewarding when it works, but very rough climbing to get there.
I have written a book of poetry, and some magazine articles, as well
as book reviews, but my primary interest, at the moment, is in the
natural world that we seem to find it our technological duty to
diminish or destroy. I have published three books, one to do with
the annual migration of alewives (fresh-water herring), one on the
seasons in this area, and a third, in collaboration with Arline Strong,
the photographer, on the experience of children in nature. I am
working on another book at the moment. It will have to do with
the Great Beach of Cape Cod.

I am also much involved with the Cape Cod Museum of Natural
History, an educational project to encourage adults and children
in understanding their natural environment. In an area which is
fast becoming too crowded for its own good, I am increasingly of
the conviction that this is about as important an institution as you
will find, and needs all the support it can get. The earth we live
on, its waters, the air we breathe, and all other lives that share this
planet with us, need the attention that we are now devoting to
cars, bombs, rockets and chemical sprays. Otherwise, in our kind
of abstracted ignorance, we may find ourselves beyond our base,
with nothing to go back to.

JOHN FORBES HAYDEN

 

HOME AppRESS: 215 Thompson Blvd., Watertown, N.Y,

[ 632 ]

ek

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: AFSCO Specialties, Inc., Watertown, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.

marrieD: Elizabeth Ann Yancey, April 10, 1948. CHILDREN: John Forbes, Jr.,
March 25, 1949; William Yancey, May 11, 1951; Elizabeth Faw, Sept. 1,
1954- .

occupaTION: Sales engineer for firm acting as manufacturers’ representative for
firms designing and manufacturing architectural specialties.

MEMBER OF: Black River Valley Club, Ives Hill Country Club, both in Water-
town, N.Y.

UPON leaving Harvard in 1937, I worked for two years in Buffalo,
New York, prior to attending Clarkson College of Technology in
Potsdam, New York, and a course in mechanical engineering.

World War II interfered with my studies, April, 1942, finding
me in the Army. Following the prescribed OCS tour, I received
a commission in the Corps of Engineers and eventually served with
the 77th Division in the invasions of Guam, Leyte and Okinawa.
Upon the surrender of Japan, I became a member of the occupation
force, initially being stationed in Kure, the former great naval base
near Hiroshima, and subsequently in Yokohama. Incidentally, it
was while stationed in the latter location that I met the girl who
was to eventually become my wife. The daughter of the com-
mander of one of the occupying regiments, Ann had accompanied
her mother to Japan, with the initial shipload of dependents, and
subsequently became associated with the military government pro-
ram.
5 Following my discharge from the Army, as a major in January,
1948, I went into business partnership with an old friend in this
northern New York area. Shortly thereafter, in April, I was
married in Virginia to the girl I met in Japan. Shortly thereafter,
we acquired the home in which we still reside and proceeded to
raise a family, two boys and a girl.

My life since has been relatively uneventful, and I cannot lay
claim to any earth-shaking achievements.

[ 633 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MALCOLM LLOYD HAYWARD

IAP NRRRCRER RONEN PE Ch REE ROE 1 eg
% 3
‘ ‘e

 

HOME ADDRESS: 560 Maplewood Rd., Wayne, Pa.

OFFICE appress: 111 N. goth St., Philadelphia 39, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1942.

MarrieD: Anne Lewis Grant, June 12, 1943. CHILDREN: Polly, Jan. 29, 1945;
Malcolm Lloyd, Jr., Aug. 30, 1946; Winslow, Feb. 23, 1953; Julia, 1959.

occuPATION: Psychiatrist and psychoanalyst.

OFFICES HELD: Staff psychiatrist, Pennsylvania Hospital, since 1948; assistant
professor, Graduate School, University of Pennsylvania, since 1948,
Hahnemann Medical College, since 1959; associate in psychiatry, University
of Pennsylvania Medical School, 1946-59; assisting visiting physician,
Philadelphia General Hospital, 1947-50; consultant, Eastern Pennsylvania
Psychiatric Institute, since 1961.

MEMBER oF: American Psychoanalytic Association; American Psychiatric Asso-
ciation; Pennsylvania and Philadelphia Psychiatric Societies; Philadelphia
Association for Psychvanalysis; American Medical Association; Pennsyl-
vania Medical Society; Philadelphia County Medical Society.

pusuications: “Problems in the Psychotherapy of Schizophrenia,” Peznsyl-
vania Medical Journal, April, 1956, “A Schizophrenic Patient Describes
the Action of Intensive Psychotherapy,” with J. E. Taylor, Psych.
Quarterly, April, 1956; Psychotherapy of Chronic Schizophrenic Patients,
Carl Whitaker, editor, Little, Brown & Company, Boston, 1958; “Schizo-
phrenia and the Double Bind,” Psych. Quarterly, January, 1960, “Psycho-
therapy Based on the Primary Process,” American Journal of Psycho-
therapy, July, 1961.

NOTHING much new to report. Have stuck to my desk and
ended up as a staff physician of the Pennsylvania Hospital, assistant
professor at Hahnemann Medical College and a member of the
American Psychiatric and Psychoanalytic Associations. Maybe,
someday, | can compete with Ben Casey.

[ 634 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Nancy continues to be remarkably patient and my four kids are
anything but dull. In varying degrees we like cruising, golf and
tennis. We also have five sheep, six hens, two dogs, one cat and one
parakeet, so there’s not much chance of anyone feeling lonely.

JOSEPH PETER HEALEY

Perse " aa - SE eR Ka HR
r * |
ne eg ty, :

t (. N
« SO Again :

Rw

{

AE ANOS TIE” 5 OE AONE SITE WS
y
gh
4
ae

    

HOME Appress: 14 Winchester Rd., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Edison Co., Executive Office, 182 Tremont St, Boston,
12, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1938; M.B.A. 19425
LL.B., cum laude, 1945.

marrigD: Irene Wilson, Oct. 31, 1943. CHILD: Peter Wilson, April 22, 1946.

occupation: Lawyer; vice-president, general counsel and director, Boston Fadi-
son Company.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in law, Boston College Law School, since toq>; executive
director, Massachusetts Special Commission on Taxation, 1949-54; Com-
missioner of Corporations and Taxation, Commonwealth of Massachu-
setts, 1957-58; director, Boston Mutual Life Insurance Company, since 1937.
Middlesex County National Bank, since 1960; trustee, Charlestown Savings
Bank, since 1960, University of Massachusetts, since 1959; member, Trust
Fund Commission, Town of Arlington, since 1959; director, Boston Munic-
ipal Research Bureau, since 1962; member of council, Administrative Con-
ference of the United States, since 1961; member, Massachusetts Council
on Crime & Delinquency, since 1942.

MEMBER OF; American and Boston Bar Associations; Algonquin Club; Frgincers

Club; National Lawyers Club; Winchester Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on tax and fiscal matters.

AS a sometime Harvard debater, it seemed appropriate for me to
move on to the Law School. But the law degree wasn't tu come

[ 535]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

until 1945 because of the happenings in Europe and the Far East.
The intervening years brought exposure to other disciplines in the
quartermaster program at the Business School and a stint in the
service trying to apply what we learned there.

There followed a clerkship in the Federal Court and more than
a decade of general practice in Boston — most of it as a member
of the firm of Hemenway & Barnes. This firm had seven members,
six Harvards and one Yale man, who was the senior lawyer in the
office. It is worthy of note that all of us agreed that this intruder
from New Haven was the best lawyer we had.

The theoretical side of the law was not to be neglected during
these years because of daily endeavors on behalf of clients. |
found teaching courses in the business and corporate law fields at

Boston College Law School stimulating and helpful. Somehow it
was easier to face judges in the courts after tilting in the classroom
with all those bright young legal minds.

The even tenor of life as a combination lawyer and law teacher
was interrupted in 1957. During this and the following year
I served as the Massachusetts Tax Commissioner, chasing evaders,
plugging revenue loopholes, and trying to apply the management
techniques long before learned at the B School. From this experi-
ence it was a short step to my present association in the electric
utility industry.

The biggest problem I have had so far is saying “no” to requests
to participate in governmental matters, particularly in the tax and
fiscal areas. These activities have ranged from the reorganization
of the Massachusetts Department of Corporations and Taxation in
the early fifties to my current project on the New Frontier as a
member of the Council of the Administrative Conference of the
United States.

My chief outside interest these days concerns the affairs of the
University of Massachusetts which is completing the transition from
a one-time agricultural college to a real state university. This has
come with the public realization in Massachusetts that there aren’t
enough Harvards to take care of all the youngsters of ability who
are entitled to quality higher education. The concern is to assure

in the face of the quantitative assault.

Exercise now is mostly golf in the good weather and curling in
the winter. We decided to buy a house on the edge of the Win-
chester Country Club to get in two or three holes in the evening
during the week. The more frequent play helps accuracy but not

[ 636 ]

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

distance. Each year I hit them just as hard but they don’t seem to
go as far.

Peter, our one and only, is in the incomparable Frank Boyden’s
hands at Deerfield. Irene and I have thus had an early sampling of
what it will be like when he leaves the nest for good.

To one living in the Boston area, Harvard is never far away in

time or space. She retains all of her old vitality and flexibility and
the other hallmarks of greatness.

WILLIAM EDWARD HEALEY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 7 Cleveland St., Amesbury, Mass.

RANDOLPH APPERSON HEARST

 

HOME AppREss: 233 W. Santa Inez Ave., Flillsborough, Calif.

[ 637 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1018 Hearst Bldg., Third & Market Streets, San Francisco 3,
Calif.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MARRIED: Catherine Campbell, January, 1938. CHILDREN: Catherine Millicent,
Oct, 29, 1939; Virginia Anne, Sept. 8, 1949; Patricia Campbell, Feb, 20,
1954; Anne Randolph, July 29, 1955; Victoria Veronica, Dec. 25, 1956.

occupation: President and chief executive officer, Hearst Consolidated Publi-
cations, Inc., newspaper publishing; trustee, William Randolph Hearst
Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Burlingame Country Club, California; Piedmont Driving Club,
Adlanta, Ga.; California Club and Los Angeles Country Club, Los Angeles,
Pacific Union Club, Press Club, Union League Club, all of San Francisco.

ELY GEORGE HELFANT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 283 St. Paul St., Brookline 46, Mass.

oFFIcE appress: U.S. Dept of Health, Education & Welfare, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~-1935.-

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

[ 638 |

weak

 Bbibieieintbawae, ini.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BERNARD ALVIN HELFAT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 240-16 Forest Drive, Douglaston 62, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Helfat & Helfat, 32 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.

prePARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941.

MARRIED: Lucile Podell, June 27, 1943. cHIZDREN: Jonathan Noel, Dec. 12,
1946; Mark Podell, Feb. 2, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner in firm, Helfat & Helfat.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Local School Board Districts 51 and 52, City of New
York, since 1962; president and director, Glen Oaks Civic Association,
1947-51; president, treasurer and director, Douglaston Civic Association,
since 1952; trustee, Temple Sholom of Bellerose, 1948-51; president and
trustee, Temple Emanuel of Great Neck, since 1953; director, Douglas-
ton Community Chest, since 1961, North Shore Friends of Opera, since
1961; director and officer of numerous political groups and privately held
business corporations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the City
of New York; New York County Lawyers Association; Queens County
Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional journals.

PROMPTED by the stern and repeated demands of our diligent
Class Secretary that I come across with a biographical sketch, the
reluctant decision emerges that a polished literary gem isn’t in the
cards. Bare chronology, spiced with obvious, if painfully learned,
conclusions, is all that can be managed in the time that can be
squeezed out of an overloaded, pre-election calendar.

Analysis reveals that the passage of time has created three lives
where once one grew; a professional career, a curtailed family and
social life, and a public life with assorted facets.

Of these three spheres, the professional activities are most easily

[ 639]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Demonstrating a total lack of good sense, I also serve as a director
of the local community chest, a director of a non-profit opera
association and as a participant in various, more transient, worth-
while causes to which I cannot say no.

If there is a moral to be drawn from this recapitulation of twenty-
five years, it must be that I wouldn’t have done all these little things
if I hadn’t enjoyed them in some fashion. This is one way to live
a life; I am not prepared to argue that it is the best way. Of one
thing I am sure, it cannot be done without a sympathetic wife.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Longmeadow Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Suburban Shoe Stores, Inc., 38 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
PREPARED AY: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

MarRiED: Charlotte Cooper, May 2, 1943 (died April 14, 1948); Joan Marshall
Gruen, Aug. 14, 1960. cHiLD: David Moses, Jr., Jan. 13, 1948.
occupaTION: President, Suburban Shoe Stores, Inc.

MEMBER OF: National Shoe Retailers’ Association; 210 Associates.

THE years between graduation and war service were spent work-
ing at a variety of jobs including traveling salesman, theatre man-
ager and research assistant at Polaroid. Sandwiched in was a year
of study at the Graduate School of Education, 1939-40, when I
suddenly realized I had been spending more money traveling than

I was earning selling, and thought that maybe education was the
field in which I belonged.

About the time I finally decided on a business career, four years
of army service interrupted. Home again in 1946, I entered the re-

[ 642 ]

ed

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tail shoe business and have been associated with it in one capacity
or another since.

My first marriage was ended in 1948 by the death of my wife,
the former Charlotte Cooper. I recently married Joan Marshall
Gruen, and am now sharing the pleasures and headaches of raising
one adolescent (How do you handle more?). The competition
sometimes gets fierce on the tennis court, but now that our son
has learned to run me a bit, I am learning to take a more philo-
sophical and sociable approach to the game. It makes losing a little
more comfortable. Anyhow, I am still holding my own at chess.

CARL CHRISTIAN CLAUS HENNINGS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Wilton, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: G. H. Bass & Co., Wilton, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Maine Central Institute, Pittsfield, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1938-1941. DEGREE: S.B., 1938(41).

MARRIED: Jean Florence Dehm, May 8, 1941, York, Maine. cHiLpREN: Carl Chris-
tian Claus, 4th, Nov. 28, 1943; Catherine Amanda, June 2, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Procedures analyst, G. H. Bass & Company, shoe and boot manu-
facturers.

OFFICES ‘HELD: First Selectman, Frankfort, Maine, 1947; publicity chairman, Asso-
ciate Activities of Elgin Regiment, St. Thomas, Ontario, 1959-60; member,
Research and Education Committee of Noma, London, Ontario, 1955-60.

MEMBER OF: Bangor Harvard Club, 1947-48; Harvard Club of Maine.

AFTER much travel and many endeavors, I am back nearly at my
starting point, having acquired the responsibilities of home and
family, a variety of experience, and possibly a little knowledge.
While yachts, private aircraft and grand turismo cars still elude

[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

me, the important goals of congenial work and relaxed leisure are
now achieved.

From our home (with its mountain view) to my work is a bare
two minutes’ walk; the lake and golf club are only slightly farther
away. Moreover, I can now refute the widespread belief that only
a commuter has time to read the morning paper.

Over seven years in Canada have possibly slowed adaptation to
our new life here in Wilton. But we are gradually entering into
the life and endeavors of our community and are convinced it is
where we belong.

ARTHUR WALLACE HEPNER

 

HOME AppRESS: 145 E. 35th St, New York 16, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 605 Third Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938, DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Louise Beka Doherty, March 15, 1942 (divorced 1947); Elizabeth
Jane Rosenheim, May 18, 1951. cHmLp: Thomas Stephen, Feb. 21, 1957.

OccuPATION: Editor, manuscript services, college textbook publishing.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Society of Nieman Fellows (former-
ly member of Junior Council); Museum of Art, New York City.

PUBLICATIONS: Magazine articles in Harper’s, The New Republic, The Reporter,
Nation’s Business; The Best of Emphasis (editor), Newman Press;
Memo to JFK from NBC News (editor), Putnam; Your Newspaper by
Nine Nieman Fellows (contributor), Macmillan; Great Songs Made
Simple, co-author, G. Schirmer.

TWENTY-FIVE years later find me almost back where I began,
waiting to confer with a professor. This time, however, instead of
soliciting his assistance for a thesis, it’s a matter of helping him to

[ 644 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

clarify his thoughts on paper. Since last September, after journey-
ing along the many paths of journalism, I’ve been occupying a
challenging berth at John Wiley & Sons Inc., the distinguished
publishers of college textbooks, professional and technical books.
This has brought me into direct association with many members of
the academic community in their role as writer. The exact assign-
ment has been to guide various Wiley authors, especially in the
behavioral and social sciences, to the best possible expressive style
in their books. I¢ has been an enjoyable year and | hope that its
satisfactions, not to mention the pleasant working environment,
continue unul retirement, I cite the pleasant surroundings as equal
to the professional satisfaction because they differ so much from
the years in journalism, most recently in the broadcast area, first
as a writer and then as a news executive at NBC. In contrast to the
incessant pressure, the tensions, and the highly competitive character
of broadcast journalism that intrude on professional duties, the life
in publishing, at least in textbook publishing, is relatively calm. A
man enjoys his colleagues as much as his work. And whereas the
excitement of fast-breaking news may be missing, the intimacy
with longer lasting ideas — ideas that often hie behind the news-
breaks — is more rewarding than chasing fires which can’t always
be doused.

What has been the shape of the intervening twenty-four years?
A crack at just about every form of journalism including a year off
(1945-46) for another period in the Yard as a Nieman Fellow. The
years from 1938 to 1947 were devoted mainly to newspapering and
magazine writing with an occasional detour into public relations.
From 1947 to 1962, the main accent was on radio, television, and
films, although magazine contributions continued and books came
to be born. The present job came about as a result of keeping a
finger in the academic pie, so to speak, by editing textbooks for
several publishers after hours. When the opportunity arose to do
by daylight what had been done on a “moonlighting” basis, I grasped
it, and, as I have indicated, happily so.

To be specific, I did all sorts of chores as a newspaperman for
several dailies and news services, chiefly The Si. Louis Post Dispatch
both at home and abroad. As a magazine writer, I have contributed
to Harper’s, The Reporter, The New Republic, The Nation’s Busi-
ness, Business Week, and Newsweek, plus having an occasional re-
print in Readers Digest and Magazine Digest, and a piece or more
in the Manchester Guardian, As a radio foreign correspondent, I

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

broadcast the news from London for CBS. As an editor or contribu-
tor to books, I have been responsible for one book on music pub-
lished many years ago, another on newspapering growing out of the
Nieman year, one on foreign policy by the NBC News staff, and
still another last fall of diverting essays growing out of news develop-
ments; in addition, I have edited several texts on a score of subjects
ranging from psychology, through education to personal finance
and atomic age physics. As a film writer, I wrote several docu-
mentaries on the geography of the world for Louis de Rochemont.
As a radio and television writer and producer, I participated in
documentaries on a host of news and public affairs subjects for
both CBS and NBC, including membership on the teams that
launched “Monitor” and “The Huntley-Brinkley Report.” For a
time I had the pleasure of proximity to academic life as producer
of the CBS program on great books, “Invitation to Learning.”

These many and diverse activities were accompanied by a reason-
able amount of traveling —to Latin America, Europe, the Carib-
bean, Alaska (before it achieved statehood), Canada, and through-
out almost all the continental United States.

As for personal life, there have been two marriages, the first
prompted by a Puerto Rican moon, the second by finding the
right partner for sharing a life. We have a young son who has
both the advantages and disadvantages of being an only child.
He’s enrolled at the Bank Street School for Children in New York,
and judging from his fantastic preoccupation with things mechani-
cal and mathematical will end up either at M.I.T. or Dannemora.

What has college contributed to all this? A sense of curiosity
about ideas and events, and a desire to relate the world of scholarship
to the world of everyday life. The interests in aesthetics and
music have continued. While on the Post-Dispatch and not travel-
ing out of St. Louis on assignments, I wrote some of the newspaper’s
music criticism. And during the Golden Anniversary season of
Carnegie Hall, I lent a hand to making that celebration a national
event. I still attend the Boston Symphony Orchestra’s concerts

religiously with Morris Lasker and our wives, though in New York,

not in Boston, and also at Tanglewood. For a time I was a member
of the junior council of the Museum of Modern Art, presided over
so ably by Donald Strauss’ wife. Politically, I am an independent,
though I vote almost invariably for Democrats. We prefer the

“urbs” to the suburbs, live within walking distance of my office

and of Grand Central Station, although we like to summer at Cape

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Cod or in the Berkshires, in either case in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts.

What have twenty-five years of peregrination taught? That the
values of ideas are more rewarding than material things, that a sense
of humor is a priceless asset, and that the ability to work at some-
thing one enjoys and which keeps one in a constant state of learning
is as good a formula as any for facing the vicissitudes of existence.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Cypress Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bestpak, Inc., Box 179, Natick, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MarRiED: Doris E. Dingman, Aug. 1, 1942, CHILDREN: Nancy Hunting, June 4,
1944; John Schuyler, Sept. 19, 1947; Robin E., April 22, 1950; James 5.
July 27, 1954; Andrew F., Sept. 6, 1955; Lynn D., Nov. 1, 1961.

occupation: President, Bestpak, Inc., manufacturers of paper and plastics pack-
aging material for bakery, biscuit and candy industries.

OFFICES HELD: President, Brown School PTA, Wellesley, Mass., 1959, 19603
co-chairman, Wellesley Youth Committee, 1961-62; scoutmaster, Troop 81,
BSA, 1951-55; member, Finance Committee, 1959-62, Pastoral Committee,
1962-63, Wellesley Village Church.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Bakery Engineers; Biscuit Bakers Instivute;
American Bakers Association; Lake Shore Club of Chicago; Wellesley
Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Four patents in packaging field involving package construction
and manufacturing methods.

THE years between graduation and the war led me back to my
origin at Southampton, Long Island, where I worked at hurricane
repair, construction jobs, selling jobs, along with several stints in

[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

the family hardware business. This unsettled period included fre-
quent trips to New York for interviews, and in early 1940 I joined
the Procter and Gamble Company as a soap salesman assigned to
Brooklyn. Once the dialect was mastered this was most agreeable.
The future on this corporate ladder looked slow and _ uncertain,
however, so with some night engineering courses under my belt, I
joined the Grumman Aircraft Company in early 1942.

None of Uncle Sam’s armed forces wanted any part of my 6-foot
8-inches, and my 4F classification stuck throughout the war, de-
spite call-ups every six months to see if my condition improved.
Following marriage in the summer of 1942 we moved to Bay Shore,
New York, bought a $30 car which seldom started, and a small
sloop which did and often on Great South Bay. The burst of
wartime expansion at Grumman was exciting, as was a year spent
on assignment to General Motors as consulting engineer.

Our first child, Nancy, arrived in 1944. At war’s end I joined
the Sherman Paper Company, Newton, Massachusetts, as salesman
in New York and New Jersey. The packaging field seemed ready
for vast expansion, with many opportunities for new materials and
applications. In early 1947 the Herricks, now including Number
One son, moved to Wellesley, Massachusetts, still with the Sherman
Company, where IJ acted as sales manager and in 1949 as vice presi-
dent. Along with industrial packaging we developed a nationwide
business in food packaging.

The year 1950 was a milestone for our family. Our second
daughter Robin was born. We were becoming happily enmeshed
with community and church activities. This year too I took a deep
plunge, resigned my job, and with a handful of excellent associates
formed a manufacturing company (Bestpak Inc.) to make and
sell packaging material.

The reasons for blinking at security in favor of debt and un-
certainty defy analysis. The urge to “go it alone” was probably
the key factor, with a bit of “ignorance is bliss.” In any case, the
successes of the new company slightly offset its failures. After
two major moves we built our new plant in Natick in 1957. Last
year we also started a subsidiary to manufacture and sell plastic
packaging mostly for the biscuit and candy industries. Here is a
ficld of many new materials and machines, with much excitement
and opportunity.

As our part in the population explosion, child No. Six arrived
in 1961, so we have the full range from cradle to college. In short,

[ 648 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

we are pleased at having become New Englanders. Although
largely preoccupied with raising our large family and nursing our
dual business, we have time on the local scene for school, church
and town affairs. For pleasure, the company of many friends is
high on the list, and we are looking forward to seeing many more
at the Twenty-fifth.

JOHN HOLLIS HEWITT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1371 Walnut St., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 26-327, Massachusetts Inst. of Technology, Cambridge
39, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; A.M. (Cornell Univ.), 1939;
B.L.s. (Syracuse Univ.), 1941.

MarRIED: Barbara Burleigh, April 11, 1942. CHILDREN: Nancy Burley, Dec. 17,
1943; John Denison, May 27, 1951.
occuPATION: Librarian.

OFFICES HELD: Advertising manager, Bulletin, 1959, 1963, employment chairman,

1953-55, Boston Chapter, Special Libraries Association, chairman, Boston
Document Room Librarians, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Special Libraries Association; Reserve Officers Association.

MY children have grown up too fast, and the years have slipped
quickly and quietly away. It is wonderful to see how completely
they are attacking the problems of these parlous days.

Barbara, my wife, has done much more than her share of arriving
at solutions, both big and small, to the perplexities of family life.

I have received a great deal of personal satisfaction by remaining

in academic surroundings helping graduate students ferret out
answers to their scientific research problems.

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WILLIAM GUTHRIE HEWITT

    

HOME ADDRESS: 5747 6oth Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Bunker Hill Co., 2700 16th Ave., S.W., Seattle 4, Wash.

TRANSFERRED FROM: The Principia College, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRRIED; Barbara McWayne, Aug. 27, 1940 (separated), CHILDREN: Judith Ann,
July 1, 1943; Virginia Susan, July 7, 1951.

occupation: General manager, Pacific Division, The Bunker Hull Company,
mining, smelting and fabrication of lead and zinc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, National Plant Food Institute, 1956-58: president, Cali-
fornia Fertilizer Association, 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Management Association,
Lead Industries Association, Overlake Golf and Country Club, Medina,
Wash.,; Olympic Club, San Francisco; Washington Athletic Club.

FOR a couple of years after leaving Cambridge I taught mathe-
matics and chemistry at a very small boys’ school in northern
Michigan. In spite of the excellent skiing and the winter ice-fishing
in that country, the winters were just too long and cold, so we made
the move to Honolulu in mid 1941. Our new home was finished
to our great satisfaction on December 6, 1941, but at eight o’clock
on the following day we watched with disbelief, awe and finally
terror as the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor and the other military
installations on Oahu. But we stuck it out all through the war and
in 1948 moved to San Francisco where I continued my career with
a large island chemical firm, having “graduated” by this time from
being a chemist to purchasing and traffic. Our household goods
were once again hoisted aboard a Matson ship in 1950 when we re-
turned to Hawaii to really settle down. Matson again lifted the
rapidly accumulating impedimenta in 1953 to return to California
where I headed up a mainland subsidiary of the Hawaiian firm.

[ 650 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1958 I joined The Bunker Hill Company as assistant to the
president, even though I had had no previous experience in the
mining and smelting of lead and zinc, the company’s basic business.
But I have learned and IJ have found, as has many another, that the
trickiest problems encountered in business are pretty much the same
regardless of the industry. In 1961 I was transferred back to my
childhood home, Seattle, where I have been in charge of the com-
pany’s west coast manufacturing and sales operations. I travel a
good deal but only rarely to the eastern seaboard and then usually
for a rushed few days in New York. One of the best periods of my
life was the twelve or thirteen weeks I spent on the other side of the
River at the Business School as a member of the 22nd AMP Session.
It was a delight to be around the Square again with the company
paying all the bills and no grades to worry about.

WILLIAM MAYNOC HEYWOOD, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 612 Main Rd., Tiverton, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ashworth Bros., Inc., 89 Globe Mills Ave., Fall River, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarriED: Margaret C. Fales, Aug. 16, 1941 (divorced 1962); Patricia Lee Valton,
March 6, 1962. CHILDREN: Ann Elizabeth (92. Lowell C. Norris, Aug. 9

1961); Jane Ashworth, April 25, 1947. GRANDCHILD: Kimberly Ann Norris,
March 11, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to president, Ashworth Bros., Inc. card clothing and

wire conveyor belt manufacturers; sales and service, production control,
cost and production analysis,

OFFICES HELD: Corporate, Fall River Savings Bank; lieutenant commander, USNR
(U.S. Navy 1940-46), now inactive.

[ 651 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles published in boating and yachting magazines
in U.S. Naval Instirute Proceedings, and several in textile trade jour
pamphlet (copyrighted), “Mind Your Compass,” a treatise on con
compensation for small boat owners.

MOST of time since June, 1938, with exception of six year:
U.S. Navy, spent with family firm, Ashworth Bros., in F all Ri
and Worcester, Massachusetts. Also spent total of five and a }
years aS a newspaper reporter for Providence Journal, Provider.
Rhode Island, and Fall River Herald-News. Active as a real est
broker and appraiser in Fall River area and New Haven, Conne
icut, area, for three years, 1949 through 1952.

Broadcast running account of America’s Cup Races in 1958, ov
500 Mutual Broadcasting stations. Same to passengers of an ¢
cursion spectator vessel for two races in 1962. Hobbies: sailin
cruising and skiing.

US. Navy, May, 1940, to June, 1946. Served on destroyer, bor
Atlantic and Pacific — patrol craft Atlantic Coast — head of Se:
manship Department, SCTC, Miami, Florida, two years — con
manded a fleet salvage tug and was O-in-C of Salvage and Rescu
Unit on several Philippine and Borneo Islands amphibious invasion
and wrote account of same in U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings.

PAUL MORGAN HICKOX

 

HOME apomess: Little Sewickley Creek Road, R.D. 1, Sewickley, Pa.

orrice. amness: Thrift Investment Corp., 2 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh 22, Pa.
paevanen ar: Ben Avon High School, Ben Avon, Pa.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: 8.B., 1938.

[ 652 ]

_ sistas snennnamneatanaeaattataansan siiamanpesinieapptuennennauesectacestiainaaaiaes

acbnooblih de Li

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Mary Elizabeth Weller, Aug. 9, 1940. cHiLpREN: Mary Elizabeth,
Sept. 20, 1942; Nancy Louise, Nov. 30, 1946.

occuPATION: Executive vice-president, Thrift Investment Corporation, finance
company.

orFIces HELD: Director, American Industrial Bankers Association, since 1960,
director 1952-61, president, 1961, Pennsylvania Consumer Finance Associa-

tion; director, since 1946, vice-president, 1962, Pennsylvania Industrial
Bankers Association,

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh, Duquesne Club; Alle-
gheny Country Club; Edgeworth Club, Harvard Club of Western Pennsyl-

vania.

NOTHING much has changed for me in the seven intervening
years since the last Class Report. I do notice a certain battle weari-
ness creeping up from time to time. No rational human being
could stand so many Democratic victories since the ’30’s without
showing some signs of frustration. .

At the time of the 18th Report, we were about to move into a
new house in Sewickley which was then nearing completion. Since
that time we have built a second house five miles from the first,
but in more rustic surroundings. My wife and I swear that “This
is it.” No more moves from here on out.

Life seems to have taken on a less exciting, more sobering as-
pect. I am impressed by many of the achievements of my more
prominent classmates, but not the least bit envious. I have the
feeling at age forty-six of entering the “back stretch” of my busi-
ness career and I face the remaining fifteen years or so of business

activity, barring an economic or military holocaust, with genuine
anticipation.

[ 653]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

SAMUEL TRAFFORD HICKS, JR.

SUR Ie AE + 208 Nae sy ema ea

    

pee
BR

he

e

p

S

:

i

SMART apy sijigies a

   

HOME apprEss: 7/11 Wentworth Rd., Walpole, N.H.
OFFICE appREss: Hicks Machine, Inc., Bellow Falls Road, Walpole, N.H.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marrigD: Frances Cutter, June 28, 1939 (died 1958); Shirley A. Morton, 1960.
CHILDREN: Samuel Trafford, Jr., Sept. 3, 1940; Sarah, July 11, 1942; Ran-
dall Perry April 5, 1945; Deborah, Jan. 22, 1947; Alan Reed and Philip
Taylor (twins), July 29, 1950; John M. Morton, April 3, 1946; Shirley
Ann Morton, Jan, 13, 1948; George A. Morton, April 19, 1954.

occupaTIoN: President, Hicks Machine, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Fire Commissioner, Walpole, N.H., since 1953; board member,
Walpole Savings Bank, former president, Hooper Golf Club, Walpole;
skating chairman, Walpole Recreational Association, since 1944; member,
Church Committee, Walpole Unitarian Church,

MEMBER OF: Hooper Golf Club; Harvard Varsity Club; Belmont Hill Alumni
Association; American Society of Tool and Mechanical Engineers, Wal-
pole Society for the Bringing to Justice of Horse Thieves and Pilferers
(life member).

PUBLICATIONS: Inventions: designer and builder of coordinator precision drill-
ing machine and Von Lackum scoliosis operating tables.

A FEW years ago, while browsing in my magazine pile, I found
a quotation (Dr. Albert Schweitzer’s I believe) which summarizes
my personal philosophy: “The secret of happiness is good health
and a bad memory.” I am fortunate on the health part, but have
had to cultivate that “bad” memory a bit to weather the shock of
losing a loved one a few years back.

Too fast do twenty-five years go by, and where do you start one
of these darn compositions anyway. I’m sorry now that I was one
of the chosen few who were permitted to omit old English A —I
could well use that training now! I guess Pll just start fast, skip

[ 654 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

along the high spots and say little about the first two years of teach-
ing at Salisbury School, Connecticut, except that it gave me a chance
to become very happily married to Francis Cutter, sister of Ned,
a hockey team friend. Somehow I arrived at Jones & Lamson
Machine Company, Springfield, Vermont, dropped the teaching
idea for good and started becoming a machine tool builder on a
train-while-you-earn basis. As a homemade engineer, I found myself
very happy in the industry and by observation, questions, patience,
more night studying per month than I did per year in college, I
managed to make a go of it. My approach to a new assignment,
usually one for which I was not technically qualified, was to barge
right ahead — and before the boss found out I didn’t know the job,
I did!

Meanwhile, the stork began zeroing in and the family space
requirements led us to a lovely old colonial house in the village of
Walpole, New Hampshire: here my roots really went down to
stay. World War II saw me in the Navy, late, after the war-fren-
zied machine tool program had faded to a let-up; my tour of duty
was Mactan Island, Philippines, where I helped run a quiet reserve
airstrip — with the main fighting far and safely to the north by
an ocean or two.

Back home after the war, I picked up the pieces of my old work
at Jones & Lamson but couldn’t see the right opening ahead and so
out I jumped to form my own machine shop business in Walpole.
A major move, a risky one, but in retrospect a happy one; the little
company hasn’t grown very fast but it is financially sound, beauti-
fully equipped and has much promise. Also, it affords a modest
living two miles from home and NO traffic lights! Product-wise we
seem to specialize in the “headache” sub-contract jobs that some
other shop wanted to get out of the way; also, we designed and
perfected a high precision coordinator drilling machine that has
found a steady market.

My home and family life since college has followed an up, down,
up pattern which has seemed like three separate chapters, from
as many different books. The first happy chapter lasted twenty
years and ended with the sudden death of my wife in 1958, leaving
six wonderful kids ranging from twin boys age eight to a stalwart
eldest boy of eighteen. The sad period which followed can best
be passed over without comment. The current happy chapter
began with a second marriage to a brave local girl, Shirly Morton,
a widow with three children who had lost her man in a tragedy

[ 655]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

only days apart from mine; I use the word “brave” with accuracy
because it takes a lot of spunk to tackle the problems of nine chil-
dren, six of whom aren’t your own! All eleven of us have started
a new life in a new location—a comfortable old country style
home in the southern part of town. In the few precious moments
of spare time I can steal from the household chores and the myriad
jitney duties I keep my hand in at tennis, ski a little, skate a lot,
paint a watercolor now and then and tinker in a too-extravagant
cellar workshop. Summer fun derives from camping trips, out-
board boating and trips to Drakes Island, Maine. Civic responsi-
bilities are confined primarily to the local volunteer fire department
— it entails a lot of hard work but has its rewards in the form of
very tangible results in building up a model rural department; my
secondary endeavours involve maintaining the local ice skating area
which operates all winter long at a budget cost of practically zero.

I never cease being thankful for the fortunes that led me to this
pleasant peaceful New Hampshire village. Perhaps it isn’t the best
way of summing up twenty-five years but I can’t think of a soul
whose position I envy, not a soul with whom Id trade places; it’s
a smug, complacent weakness [Pll admit, but I can’t describe it
otherwise.

If any friends feel the urge to see what I’m talking about, the
welcome mat is always out here in Walpole. There is always a
chance of food, lodging and sometimes even some spirits.

JAMES CASSELS HIGGINS

Le ent ee ESC |
sn we ae * or
ee ae CE HER Ta

   

nose, Appaess: 1g¢s0 Second Ave., York, Pa.
onpice apumess: The Gazerre and Daily, York, Pa,

[ 656 ]

aed | | a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; A.M. (Univ. of California at
Berkeley), 1957.

MARRIED: Catherine Fiske, Sept. 14, 1940. cHmprEN: Kate, Jan. 25, 1942; Sara

Michael, Jan. 7, 1945; Peter James, Aug. 2, 1950; John Fiske, Nov. 7, 1959.
OccUPATION: Newspaper editor.

OFFICES HELD: State Board, American Civil Liberties Union of Pennsylvania,
elected 1961; member, Advisory Committee on Public Assistance, Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania, appointed 1959, chairman, York County (Pa).

Board of Public Assistance, 1953-58, member, Governors’ Advisory Com-
mission on Education, 1955~56.

MEMBER OF: National Association for Advancement of Colored People; National
Conference of Editorial Writers.

puBLicaTions: Contributor to The Nation, New Republic, The Realist, Monthly

Review, The National Guardian, New Directions, Mademoiselle, Harpers
Bazaar.

I THINK that in the years since 1938 I have been mostly trying
to liberate myself from the attitudes and feelings handed down to
me by family and education and to identify myself with human
beings, organized and unorganized, whose behavior represents an
expansion of life’s possibilities. This behavior seems most significant
to me in various social and revolutionary movements and in the
work of independent artists. By social I mean such things as the
broad equal rights and the peace movements in the United States
and by revolutionary I mean such things as the Cuban Revolution.
As for independent artists, to name only a few, I am grateful for
the liberating influence of William Carlos Williams, Henry Miller,
Bert Brecht, Edward Albee and Miles Davis.

The periods which probably have meant most to my develop-
ment, whatever exactly that is, are the several years I spent as a
tin knocker (sheet metal worker) at a shipyard in Bath, Maine;
several subsequent years as an education director for the (then)
CIO Industrial Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers; and the
years 1949 to the present, when I have worked consecutively as
reporter, city editor and assistant editor of The Gazette and Duily,
a morning newspaper published in York, Pennsylvania. For descrip-
tive purposes I ought to say that The Gazette and Daily is interna-
tionally known as an independent and liberally inclined newspaper.

I would characterize myself as a sometimes diffident and some-
times neglectful husband and father whose marriage has survived
for reasons beyond my comprehension, except that there persists a
strong feeling between my wife and me. Families are a healthy
discipline. It seems very possible to me that without one I would

[657 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

have drifted into God knows what delinquencies. Even with one
I've not done too bad on that score. For example, I am now trying
to teach mysclf to play the guitar so that I can distract attention
from my singing of such songs as Woody Guthrie’s “This Land is
Your Land.” Secretly I plan to play and sing my own songs.

My best year was 1956 I guess, when during the summer Dr.
Gill Landis of Hanov er, Pennsylvania, and I won the York County
men’s doubles tennis championship and about the same time I re-
ccived a Ford Foundation grant to study for a year at the Uni-
versity of California at Berkeley graduate school. The family and
I had a great trip cross country and a great year in the San
Francisco Bay area, which is the place to live in the United States.
I keep thinking these days that I’d like to live a year or so in
Sweden or Ghana but I don’t know how to work it. As for tennis
current, the summer of 1962 I became Senior Men’s County
champion and intend to keep playing as long as Supreme Court
Justice Hugo Black and Alexander Meiklejohn or at least as long
as there is a world where tennis courts and human beings are per-
mitted to endure. Which is a way of saying that I consider my-
sclf to be a member of a dying culture but one which refuses
to die gracefully. (Why should it?) And a member, too, of a
culture that is struggling to be born and to have its right to existence
recognized. I would call this generally the culture of human co-
operation and I think that if it succeeds it will make the here and
now far more realizable for far more people than any of us can
imagine.

[ 658 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS PALMER HILL

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 447 Chestnut Hill Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.

JEROME HIMELHOCH

    

HOME AppbrREss: R.F.D., Plainfield, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goddard College, Plainfield, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Cranbrook School, Birmingham, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 7gna@ cum lade, 1938; AM. (Co-
lumbia Univ.), 1944; PH.D. (ibid.), 1952.

MmarRIED: Myra Samuels, Dec. 22, 1939. CHILDREN: Jean Frances, Jan. 7, 1932;
Katherine Ann, Jan. 18, 1951; Susan Gail, April 22, 1952.

occuPATION: Professor of sociology and director, Vermont Youth Study, God-
dard College.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Social Problems, 1953-58, institutional representative for
the Rhodes Scholarship, Brandeis University, 1953-59; member, board of
directors, Vermont Conference of Social Welfare, 1960-63; member,
Governor’s Committee on Children and Youth, since 1963.

[ 659 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

to the games theory strategists, like Herman Kahn, who I under-
stand have much influence on our military policy, I strongly rec.
ommend the writings of Charles Osgood, David Riesman, Erich
Fromm, and other writers associated with the Council for Cor-
respondence.

To return to more personal matters: I am beginning to feel the
ravages of age, but shall not worry too much so long as I can
still negotiate the intermediate-to-expert ski trails on Mt. Mansfield.
I have learned that some things in life, including my own galling
inadequacies, cannot be changed, but must be endured. Moreover,
it no longer seems terribly important what I do with my life. It is
comforting to know that I shall not, like some of our classmates,
have to carry the burdens of Men Who Make History. Accord-
ingly, I have been lowering my aspiration level for some time, but
have not yet been able to get it down to my achievement level.
All in all, I can say that, while my post-Harvard life hasn’t been as
good as my wildest hopes, neither has it been as bad as my darkest
fears.

P.S. Myra and I extend a warm welcome to all to visit us in our
ancient ramshackle farmhouse where you can retreat from the
tedious twentieth century.

PETER IRVING HIRSCH

 

Home appress: 644 W. 57th St., Kansas City 13, Mo.

OFFICE AnDRESS: 232 Nichols Rd., Kansas City 12, Mo.

puspaneo at: Southwest High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

seaman: Ruth Sue Powell, Dee. 6, 1939 (divorced 1947); Judy McCord Seel,

[ 662 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

April 25, 1962. CHILDREN: David Powell, Feb. 28, 1945; Charles Wesley Seel,
Feb. 19, 1946 (stepson); Sharon Reid Steel, June 29, 1949 (stepdaughter).
OCCUPATION: Owner, Bennett, Schneider Bookshop (retail books).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1961, president, 1962, Country Club Plaza Asso-
ciation, member, board of governors, American Royal Association, 1962-63,

trustee, 1956-62, assistant curator, Educational Films Division, 1962-63,
Kansas City Museum.

MEMBER OF: Friends of Art; Pioneer Gun Club.

PuBLicaATIONS: The Last Man in Paradise, Doubleday, 1961, ditto Michael Jo-
sephs, London, 1961; articles, short stories for Outdoor Life.

I WAS just celebrating my second wedding anniversary .. . De-
cember 7, 1941. Discharged from the Army, rank of captain, five
years later. Then divorced and left with custody of a small boy.
No educative processes prepare one for such contingencies. Son
David is now seventeen, preparing to go to college next year, and
has indicated that he would like to attend a small university in
New Haven, the name of which I have for the moment forgotten.

I have spent most of my vacation time in the past years big-game
hunting all over the world: Canada, Alaska, Africa and India.
However, two years ago an unfortunate encounter with a wounded
tiger in Central India terminated both the tiger’s existence and my
ability to pursue beasts of any and all descriptions up to the present
day. I suppose I should qualify that remark by stating that I re-
married in April of this year (1962).

I am now beginning a new phase of activity outside of trying
to sell books to an indifferent public. This latest venture is a series
of motion pictures made for the Kansas City Museum and will
endeavor to record the life and customs of the Indians of North
America: each film devoted to a different tribe. This project will
be undertaken with a friend of mine and should occupy us for the
next twenty years or so. It is being done not only for the Museum,
but in conjunction with the Intertribal Ceremonial Association of
Gallup, New Mexico.

Now that I am no longer playing with firearms, I have returned
to a study of Pre-Columbian Art and have managed to accumulate

a few pieces of fairly outstanding quality, although, at present, no
great threat to the Peabody Museum.

Religion? I have none. Ata time . . . no more wives than one.
Children? Three too many. Money . . . hardly any!

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EDGAR WALTER HIRSHBERG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3304 Nakora Drive, Tampa, Fla.

orFice appress: Div. of Languages & Literature, University of South Florida,
Tampa, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; Ba. (Univ. of
Cambridge), 1946; M.A. (ibid.), 1951; A.M. (Yale Univ.), 1948; pup. (ibid),
1951.

marrige: Ann Berry, April 28, 1947. CHILDREN: Carolyn, Oct. 28, 1948; Lucy,
June 15, 1955; Jane, Sept. 1, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of English, University of South Florida; book
review editor, Tampa Times.

OFFICES HELD: Past vice-president, North Carolina Conference, American Asso-
ciation of University Professors, executive secretary, Florida College Eng-
lish Association.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; College English
Association; South Atlantic Modern Language Association; Friends of the
Library of Hillsborough County.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles, including: “Three Approaches to Literature
in Freshman Composition,” paper read at South Atlantic Modern Language
Association meeting, 1955, abstract in South Atlantic Bulletin, January, 1958;
“George Henry Lewes and Victor Hugo's Reputation,” abstract in South
Atlantic Bulletin, January, 1958, “A Visit to Alma Mater,” College English
Association Critic, May, 1957; “A Glimpse of Paradise,” The Humanist, Jan.
Feb., 1958, reprinted in Journal of Business Education, December, 1960;
“The Night Before Christmas,” verse, Raleigh News & Observer, Decem-
ber, 1958, “Your Sport is Showing,” North Carolina English Teacher,
October, 1959. Editorial work: Book review editor, Greenville, N.C., Daily
Reflector, since 1954: numerous reviews and weekly column. Editor, Re-
ligion in the High School Curriculum, Greenville: East Carolina College,
1956, contributor: “Religion in High School Literature.” Book review
editor, Tampa, Fla., Times, since 1960; numerous reviews and weekly

[ 664 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

column. In progress: Reputation study of George Eliot, with particular

attention to Silas Marner and its reputation in America.
SINCE my 1948 life I have received a Ph.D. from Yale — which I
was then a candidate for — and have been engaged in the academic
life for which this degree is supposed to prepare you. I have had
teaching appointments at Indiana University, North Carolina State
College, Ohio University, East Carolina College and, since 1960,
the University of South Florida.

At the time I took my present job this was a new university with
great promise for the future. It still has great promise and I am
glad to be here, though the forces of bigotry and reaction, in the
form of State Legislative investigations and an arbitrary and inex-
perienced Board of Control, have dimmed the lustre of my initial
enthusiasm. But Harvard, I suppose, had the same trouble with
the Puritans and still has. Florida and the South are still pretty far
back in an appreciation of some cultural and academic values, and
those of us from the North who try to foster them labor under a
disadvantage. But there are many compensations — like the weather
—and a certain stimulus in knowing that there is so very much to
be done.

Politically, ’m what you might call a middle-of-the-road Liberal
—jin any event, a strong Roosevelt-Truman-Kennedy Democrat,
though I did slip back in 1944 and voted for Willkie, much to my
later shame. On the whole I am happy that Harvard has so much
to say about national affairs, and I think Our Man in Washington
is doing as good a job as can be done under extremely adverse con-
ditions, to say the least. I'm against atomic bomb testing in any
form, for integration, and a strong believer in academic freedom as
prescribed by the AAUP.

I’ve interested myself in a few local affairs, though teaching and
a little — not enough — writing and scholarship have kept me verv
busy. My wife takes care of our three little girls — who are getting
bigger — and I suppose we’re a more or less typical middle class
family, except that the books which line our walls are real instead
of painted on and we spend more money on records and liquor and
food than we do on clothes and clubs. I try to fight the good fight
for better schools, libraries and art museums in Tampa, but the
professionals, the people who actually govern, have so much more
time and energy than I have that the fight is never won, since all

of us on the “right” side are amateurs, and have been since Socrates
drank his poison.

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Though I haven’t kept in much contact with Harvard, and
haven't contributed nearly enough money to it, I’m truly gratefy]
for what it has done for me. In an intangible way, though, I think
that we who remain poor men because we love to teach do make a
contribution to Harvard because we try to carry its traditions of
excellence into our classrooms. In this indirect way Harvard's
reputation is enhanced, perhaps.

Because I don’t know what a latchstring is, I can’t say that it
is always out, but my family and I will welcome all Harvard
callers whenever they appear, especially in the winter when our
weather is lovely and Florida, despite its disadvantages, becomes
well worth living in.

ROBERT BURRELL HOLDEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Wentworth Rd., Melrose, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 8 Porter St., Melrose, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Stoncham High School, Stoneham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. Cu77 laude, 1938; A.M. 1939; MD»
1943.

magaitp: Marynoyes Kellogg, June 28, 1941. CHILDREN: Robert, Dec. 24, 19445
Marynoyes, April 6, 1947; Mark, Feb. 2, 1949; Jane, Oct, 22, 1951; Leslie
Ann, May 16, 1953.

occupation: Physician — internal medicine.

ovmices netp: Medical staff appointments: Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Massa-
chusetrs Soldicrs Home, Malden, Melrose-Wakeficld Hospital, New Eng-
land Sanitarium & Hospital, instructor in medicine, Harvard Medical
School.

ssesinea or: American and Massachusetts Medical Socicties; American Board
of Internal Medicine (certified); American Heart Association.

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific paper on Lipid disorders and Longevity in Hyper-
tension,

FOLLOWING graduation I remained in the Department of Biol-
ogy under Dr. Frederick Hisaw and received an 4.M., after which
I entered Harvard Medical School in the fall of 1939. I married
Marynoyes Kellogg in June, 1941. During the rest of Medical
School and through internship, Marynoyes worked as a chemist
in the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. After internship at this hos-
pital we went off on a military tour to Abilene and San Antonio,
Texas, and Springfield, Missouri. At this stage, Marynoyes went
home and I went overseas to France, Germany and Austria, cour-
tesy of the 71st Infantry Division. Shortly after returning home
in May, 1946, I returned to post-graduate training at the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital and Pratt Diagnostic Hospital, finally be-
ginning the private practice of medicine at the age of thirty-one
years. Since then there has been a great demand on time by the
practice. As Osler said, “Medicine is a jealous mistress.” Marynoyes
has been very much occupied with the care of our five children.
She has been active in the local medical society’s auxiliary and the
American Association of University Women. Some of our most
enjoyable family times have been spent in Florida in the winter
on brief vacations, and summers at the seashore at Ipswich. Our
eldest son, Bob, has begun freshman work at Tufts College, his
mother’s alma mater (Jackson). He is interested in biology. Per-
haps this indicates he will develop later an interest in one of the
broad fields of medicine. The younger children are all doing well.

[ 667 ]

LN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MATHIAS HOLLANDER, JR.

    

HOME Appress: Cleveland Lane, Kingston, N.J.

OFFICE Appress: Astro-Electronics Division, Radio Corp. of America, Princeton,
NJ.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Elsie J. Jahn, March, 1946. cHmprEN: David Peter, Aug. 27, 1947;
Michael Mathias, Oct. 10, 1948; Stephen Eric, Jan. 28, 1953; Louise Marie,
July 9, 1954.

OccUPATION: Space-system engineering, engineering supervisor — engineering
proposals.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; American Rocket Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Military Aviation,” New International Yearbook, Funk & Wag-
nalls; “Making the Mathematical Equation an Effective Communication
Tool,” 1958 LRE Wescon Convention Record; numerous technical articles
and documents.

AFTER graduation I aspired to be a newspaper writer, so my first
job of any consequence was as a teller with the First National Bank
of Union City, New Jersey. Because of family illness I returned
home within the year to take over management of the Hollander
Funeral Home in Framingham, Massachusetts. In 1943, because of
an inordinate sense of patriotism and a realization that I was not a par-
ticularly good funeral home manager, I enlisted in the U.S. Signal
Corps. I distinguished myself in the service by completing engi-
neering courses at the University of Maine, Fort Monmouth and
Camp Murphy and avoiding any hazardous or arduous duty.

After discharge in 1946, I married and became faced with the
problem of supporting a family. It seemed logical that I combine
my English education from Harvard with my engineering education
from the Army, so I became a technical writer with the Air Force

[ 668 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Civil Service at the Watson Laboratories in New Jersey. One year
later I became a test engineer and was sent to Gimli, Manitoba,
Canada, for a six-month tour of duty operating a Loran station. |
transferred back to my writing assignment after that pleasant inter-
jude. In 1949 I moved, as a technical writer, to the Johnsville Naval
Air Development Center in Pennsylvania. The three years I spent
there convinced me that I should try my wings in industry. I
have since worked as supervisor of technical publications (e.g.
Sidewinder, etc., documentation) for the Philco Research Division,
as supervisor of technical publications for the RCA BMEWS pro-
gram, and presently in charge of engineering proposals (e.g., Ranger,
TIROS, Apollo, etc.) for the RCA Astro-Electronics Division.

My hobbies are music, bowling and golf. Politically, 1 consider
myself to be an Independent Republican. My religious convictions
are probably a misnomer, since 1 have been Roman Catholic and
Baptist and am presently Presbyterian.

ALFRED RICHARD HOLOWENKO

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Mechanical Engincering Dept. Purdue University, Lafayette,
Ind.

[ 64g |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FRANKLIN PAUL HOLZMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 186 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

‘OFFICE ADDRESS: Copley Camera Shop, 543 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

occupaTion: Proprietor of camera and high-fidelity shop.

JAMES CLEVELAND HOPKINS, JR.

   

HOME Appress: § Hemlock Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Kilham, Hopkins, Greeley & Brodie, 9 Arlington St., Boston
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; B. ARCH., I94r.

Margit: Barbara Cassard Rowe, 1954.

occePaTION: Partner, Kilham, Hopkins, Grecley & Brodie, Architects.

[ 670 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Boston Society of Architects, 1952-60, Chairman, Ward

8, Cambridge Republican City Committee, 1958-60; design instructor,
Boston Architectural Center, 1954-58.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Boston Society of Architects;

St. Botolph Club; Massachusetts Building Congress, Harvard Musical
Association,

SHORTLY after leaving the Graduate School of Design, 1 began
work as a draftsman in my present firm. With the approaching war,
I transferred to M.I.1T. as a member of the National Defense Re-
search Council staff as a research assistant in the field of underwater
warfare. Without interruption the five years with this organization
were hectic, exciting, worrisome, lonely and varied. At different
umes I piloted all types of vessels over acoustic ranges; laid buoys
and cables; equipped and ran the experimental laboratory; attended
field trials of submarines, managed an explosive test plant; acted as
liaison between the laboratory and the CNO in Washington, and
finally ended up at the close of the war running acoustic field trials
for fifteen months at Fort Lauderdale.

Architectural practice began again and I became a partner in
1950. My practice is mostly in institutional and school work, both
public and private. These include the New England Conservatory
of Music, Milton Academy, Browne and Nichols, Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution, YWCA’s in Boston and Worcester in
recent months.

Working with committees, budgets, fund raising, designing and
building is a full-time and satisfying experience. My philosophy
of practice is to keep in personal touch with the work going on.
Fach year this becomes more and more difficult as our profession
grows in complexity.

I was fortunate enough to build a contemporary house in Cam-
bridge in a secluded spot where I have a greenhouse and garden
which is my new hobby. My wife and I travel a little and try to
keep up with the many local activities possible here, including a
little politics. It is exciting to live in this community and to be a
part of the awakening taking place in Boston.

[671]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DEWITT HORNOR

—

Sted ee a i ST es ae OCs tee « ws
: + : . . : Pots

     

HOME ADDRESS: 1220 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National City Bank, 55 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938: DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Innes Kane Drury, May 9, 1942 (divorced 1952); Edith Sterrett, Dec.
3, 1953- CHILDREN: Nicholas DeWitt, June 6, 1944 (died Jan. 12, 1952); John
West, Nov. 2, 1954; Gurdon Williams, May 24, 1959.

occuPATION: Banker; vice-president, Bond Division, First National City Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Spence-Chapin Adoption Service, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Municipal Bond Club of New York; Municipal Forum; The New
York Yacht Club; Union Club; The Economic Club.

DIRECTLY after graduation I took a short tour to Europe and
South America and then started to work in what is surely the world’s
finest first job — Macy’s toy department at Christmas. Next came
five years in the U.S. Army, which thoughtfully rounded out my
travels with a stint in the South Pacific and Japan. After the war
I settled down in Manhattan and went to work for The National
City Bank of New York, now First National City Bank. I can still
be found slaving cheerily in the magnificent old building at 55 Wall
Street where I first started, and I am still numbered among the
stubborn few who actually live in Manhattan.

Our apartment is artfully located right across the street from the
Squadron A Armory, where sometimes on a winter morning one
can find a polo pony to exercise —a real escape from city streets.
Horses don’t seem concerned about Khrushchev or worried about
what gocs on in Wall Strect, and we find riding a great restorer of
mind and body in a world that at times seems slightly insane.

[672 ]

ee

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACOB HOROWITZ

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3810 Bayou Blvd., Pensacola, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Cyanamid Co., Pace, Fla.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1939, 1946. DEGREE: S.B., ct laude, 1938(46).

MarRIED: Marjorie Long, Dec. 14, 1958. cHiLp: Philip Long, Aug. 23, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Senior consultant mathematician to marketing, development and
manufacturing departments, Fibers Division, American Cyanamid Com-

any.

oFFites HELD: Adjunct associate professor of industrial engineering, Columbia

University, 1954-61.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association for Advancement of Textile
Technology.

IN twenty-five years J have not lost my capacity for being in-
tmidated by a crowd of Harvard men.

[ 673]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
MARK SAYLES HOUGH
|

   

HOME AppREss: 138 Great Rd., Union Village, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Enterprise Dye Works, Inc., Woonsocket, R.I.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

marriep: Mary Elizabeth Baker, 2d, Feb. 16, 1942. CHILDREN: Jen Elizabeth,
Feb. 13, 1943; Ward Warren, Oct. 9, 1950.

occupaTion: Treasurer, Enterprise Dye Works, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1952, member, Investment Committee, Woonsocket
Institution for Savings; director, since 1946, secretary-treasurer, since 1954,
Woonsocket Association of Manufacturers, director, Woonsocket Chamber
of Commerce, 1953-61, Rhode Island Textile Association, 1956-58, Big
Brothers of Rhode Island, since 1960; commodore, Twenty Hundred Club

(Narragansett Bay Cruising), 1956-57; trustee, First Universalist Church of
Woonsocket, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Rhode Island Commandery of the Military Order of Foreign Wars;
Morning Star Lodge No. 13, F. & A.M.; Kiwanis International, Sakonnet
Yacht Club; Sakonnet Golf Club; Twenty Hundred Club; Rhode Island
Historical Society, Barrington Yacht Club; Off Soundings Club.

FOR twenty years of these twenty-five years, I have stuck pretty
close to the Rhode Island scene. Roger Williams’s “lively experi-
ment” continues to satisfy some of his descendants. The young man
did “go west” to prep school. The wartime seafarer coursed the far
Pacific. Except for a lifelong interest in sail boating, the lieutenant
commander, USNR then in effect “swallowed the anchor.”

The Hough family pursues its operation of Enterprise Dye
Works, Inc., a textile dyeing and finishing plant. The company
was recognized this year by our trade journal, America’s Textile
Reporter, as one of the firms in the industry active for over
seventy-five years. The business is in the struggling factory city of
Woonsocket; our home is nearby.

[ 674 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My immediate family resides in an eighteenth-century dwelling
situated on the Great Road (now RI. Route 146-A) in Union
Village, once a tavern town on the original Providence and Worces-
ter Way. The house has ten fireplaces. There is a large colonial
barn and miscellaneous outbuildings. For years, 1 have kept a flock
of backyard chickens for the sake of tradition and occasional com-
miseration.

Betty and I have two children. Jen is a sophomore at Hollins
College in Virginia, having ventured to cross “The Hudson River
Frontier” as her private school head master did declare such to
be. Following graduation from the Mary C. Wheeler School, Jen
was presented to Rhode Island society at the 1961 Debutante As-
sembly Ball. Ward is in the first form at Moses Brown School. Dur-
ing the summer of 1962, he attended Camp Timanous, Raymond,
Maine.

There was a time when the youngsters spent summers with us at
Sakonnet Point, another part of Rhode Island, home port to these
sailors. The boat is named Awashonks, in honor of a Wampanoag
squaw sachem of this area, including the off islands of Buzzards
Bay; truly, a marvelous nautical realm.

We take heart in the independent attitudes of our fellow Rhode
Islanders, which is their heritage and may well be represented by
the accession of our Republican governor— perhaps the only
one in all of Kennedyland (formerly New England!).

ARTHUR TOLMAN HOWARD

 

HOME AbpreEss: Beaver Pond Road, Lincoln, Mass.
OFFICE ADpRESS! A.T, Howard Co, 10 Blandford Rd, Boston 13, Mass,

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

prepareD AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Esther Thomson, Sept. 3, 1938. CHILDREN: James Mitchell, 2d, Sept.
23, 1939; David T., April 24, 1941.

HARVARD SON: James Mitchell, 2d, 62.

occuPaTion: President, A.T. Howard Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Concord Country Club; Kittansett Club.

MOST of my twenty-five years since graduation, with the excep-
tion of nearly three years in the Navy during the war, have been
spent in the printing and lithographing business, with various and
sundry side activities. I spent an arduous five years on the Planning
Board of Lincoln, headed up the Graphic Arts Institute of New
England for a term, and now am chairman of the House Committee
of the Harvard Club of Boston. This is a task which requires more
patience and tact than I perhaps can claim to possess. None the
less, the work has led to several very pleasant affiliations within the
University.

My elder son’s graduation from Harvard last year was cause for
jubilation, and the fact that my younger son is an undergraduate at
M.LT. is equally pleasing. Both of them have inherited from
their Mt. Holyoke mother a little extra brain power and talent —
which seem to be necessary for survival in the academic world.

Our travels are not as extensive and frequent as my wife would
like them to be. We have, however, made a brief tour of London
and Ireland, a couple of stays in Bermuda, have visited on several
occasions my roommate and his wife at Walnut Grove in West
Virginia, been to Florida twice, and have cruised along most of
the New England coast with another classmate and his wife for a
week each summer for twelve consecutive years. At least I can lay
a Bostonian claim to being slightly cosmopolitan.

[ 676 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LAWRENCE WHITNEY HOWLAND

 

HOME AppRESS: 3401 FE. Mercer St., Seattle 2, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Transport Division, Boeing Co., Box 707, Renton, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Los Alamos Ranch School, Otowi, N.Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; MB.A., Cum laude, 1940.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Skeel, July 29, 1941. cHmpren: Lawrence Whitney, Jr.
April 27, 1942; Timothy Skeel, March 14, 1944; Ralph Bishop, Sept. 30, 1950.

occupation: Manager of commercial contracts, Boeing Company, aircraft
manufacturing.

MEMBER OF: Seattle Tennis Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Sheep Dip, a novel,

AFTER leaving Harvard College I crossed the Charles River for
an M.B.A. In the summer of 1939 I came to Seattle for a job and
met Dorothy who was starting her junior year at Smith that fall.
We were married two years later and settled down in West Hart-
ford. I was with Hamilton Standard then and remained there
throughout the war. In 1945 I left Hamilton and with the first two
of our three boys we set forth for the Pacific Northwest where we
have lived ever since. I am truly a “native” now, as are many who
live in this area but grew up elsewhere. I have a wonderful wife
and three fine boys —two of them in college and doing very well.

I enjoy my work with the Boeing Company where I am actively
involved in our commercial jet aircraft program. This took Dorothy
and me to Portugal, Spain and France during the summer of 1961
and I hope more places equally exciting in “the near furure, My
work has introduced us to many interesting people from all parts
of the world, and we enjoy this.

We are both political independents, not always agreeing but
usually to be found in the liberal Republican or conservative Demo-

[ 677]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

cratic camps. We are interested collectors of northwest arts and
crafts. We have come to know several fine members of the Uni-
versity of Washington faculty. Like most who come to stay here,
I enjoy the many opportunities for outdoor recreation which this
country provides. I still ski in the winter, though less frequently
than once, and Dorothy and I both play tennis. I manage to fish
a bit each year — both fresh and salt water. Some things I want
to do before too long: see the world, live abroad for a time, learn
to speak another language, spoil a grandson, own a boat, work in
wrought iron.

EDWIN CHASE HOYT, JR.

   

HOME apprEss: 808 Lafayette, N.E., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Government, University of New Mexico, Albuquer-
que, N. Mex.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1938; LL.B.. 1942; PHD.
(Columbia Univ.), 1958.

marRiED: Mary P. Hazard, Aug, 1, 1953. CHILDREN: William Bushnell, Nov. 13,
1954; Maria Louisa, May 23, 1956; Emily Elizabeth, Aug. 1, 1958.

occupation: College professor, associate professor of government and chair-
man, Department of Government, University of New Mexico.

I WAS rather a rolling stone for the sixteen years, but have settled
into a congenial groove in the last nine.

After college I spent a memorable year in Europe, as a Fiske
Scholar at Trinity College, Cambridge, and in addition enjoying
skiing trips to Switzerland and Austria, exploring Ireland, spending
a summer in France, and observing the development of the Euro-

[ 678 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pean crisis. I then returned to Harvard Law School, which I now
recall as a rather hazy blur of hard work and preoccupation with
world events.

My four years in the Army were, on the whole, interesting and
enjoyable. Much of it was spent in backwater areas — in the Carib-
bean and at various training camps in the South and in Italy —
which provided extensive opportunities for reading and sightsee-
ing, interspersed with healthy exercise. I never reached the fighting
fronts, but immediately after the armistice in Europe was sent to
Austria as a legal military government officer. I served as a judge
and reviewing authority for military government courts and as a
staff officer at the American headquarters in Vienna, had some
interesting contacts with our assorted allies, traveled extensively in
Austria, and managed to break a leg skiing on the Dachstein glacier
(too late to receive a Purple Heart!).

Returning Stateside I was still undecided between a legal career
and some sort of work in international relations. I attended the
Russian Institute at Columbia University for a year and worked
briefly in the Russian research branch of the State Department, but
found that work (preparation of materials for the Voice of Amer-
ica) too propaganda-oriented. In 1947 I went to work for the Dis-
trict Attorney of New York County. That office is divided into
specialized compartments. I spent three years in the Appeals
Bureau, writing briefs and appearing occasionally to argue appeals
in the Appellate Division or the Court of Appeals, and then one
year in General Sessions (jury trials). I then went to work for a
New York law firm.

Belatedly, in 1954, I decided that corporate law practice was a
dead end for me, and returned to Columbia to get a Doctorate of
Philosophy and to go into teaching in international relations. |
only regret that it took me so long to make this obviously correct
decision. My years at Columbia were years of stimulation and
discovery. I had my first teaching opportunity there, then taught
for two years at Hamilton College, and spent one year at the Uni-
versity of Michigan Law School as a research fellow in interna-
tional law and foreign policy. Eventually I arrived in Albuquerque,
New Mexico, where I teach international relations and Soviet gov-
ernment, and am chairman of the Department of Government.

Along the way I have acquired a loyal and long-suffering wife,
and three very nice children. One of the major joys of living i in
this area is the wonderful unspoiled world of nature which is at

[ 679 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

our fingertips for hiking, exploring, skiing. (One of the sad thin
about the typical American is that he is road-bound. One of the
good things about the same gent is that he consequently leaves the
back country to the few who like to get away from civilization.)
We also have a cabin in Maine, within sight of salt water, and have
managed to spend a few weeks there each summer.

EDWARD BRIGGS HUBBARD

wo

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 115 Orchard Ave., Weston, 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Duralectra, Inc., 61 North Ave., Natick, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRiED: Elinor R. Bennett, Aug. 15, 1940. CHILDREN: Edward Briggs, Jr. Sept.

7, 1941; Goeffrey Bennett, Dec. 8, 1944; Gardiner Greene, June 27, 1947.
HARVARD SON: Edward Briggs Hubbard, Jr., ’64.

OCCUPATION: Sales; selling Sanford process hardcoating of aluminum to manu-
facturers of all kinds.

MEMBER OF: Badminton and Tennis Club, Boston.

IN an attempt to take an objective view of the past twenty-five
years, I find myself inevitably slipping into subjective thoughts
colored by emotion as long-unthought-of happenings pass in review.

This business of a Class Report is rather reminiscent of an oc-
casion in the past when the instructor might have said, “Write a
paper of about 1,000 words on the subject of yourself” — really a
dirty trick, but perhaps easier to do then than now.

In any event, the world of 1938 held much more promise for
me than the world of today, which is another way of saying that
I am perhaps more conscious today of opportunities lost than I was

[ 680 ]

‘25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in those days. “This is a dreary sort of outlook,” you may well say,
but I merely am trying to point out that unless we are vitally
aware of specific goals in life at an early age we stand a good
chance of having little of achievement to report as our experience
(and bodies) become more rounded in middle age.

Certainly success, in itself, is a relative sort of thing, and cannot
be measured by a mere financial yardstick. The “slings and arrows
of outrageous fortune” which we have overcome are more worthy
of our attention and in this connection perhaps the greatest is the
overcoming of SELF.

Once in a while I run into someone I have not seen since college
days. I may not recall the name, but I do remember the face —
even if there is less hair surmounting it. I re-introduce myself and
then comes the verbal reaction, wrung from him by being caught
off balance, in a moment of truth—“My, but you’ve grown
up!” No, I don’t take offense at this, because actually it is a compli-
ment and I prefer to believe it.

My wife Ellie and I have three boys, or, I should say, male off-
spring. Ned is twenty-one, Geoff eighteen, and Guy “going on
sixteen.” We have decided that we grow through our children.
This is a happy thought because it carries with it the aspect of
never-ending growth, a maturing process which in our advanced
years will be referred to as “mellowing.” So to refute an earlier
statement concerning the world of today I would say that it holds
much more promise than ever before, and this certainly includes
the atom as applied to the service of mankind.

From a purely narrative standpoint we have lived in Weston,
Pensacola, Toronto, Tryon, North Carolina, Cambridge, Indian-
apolis, and again in Weston—in that order. Pensacola through
Cambridge covers the war period, and although we prefer to
live in New England I no longer feel that we are as strictly provin-
cial as the popular picture held of New Englanders.

Business has been principally in sales, including prefabricated
housing, waxed paper converting, aluminum foil milk bottle clos-
ures and capping machinery, non-ferrous metals, real estate, mov-
able interior partitions and accoustical ceilings and finally hard-
coating of aluminum.

In retrospect one can’t help but wonder what the story would
be if I had started in a bank and stayed there, commuting by
B & A daily. Such not being the case, one can only conjecture —
which availeth nothing. Albeit, we have many blessings we can

[ 681 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

count including the fact that we are all together and in good
health, so when Reunion time rolls around, if you can’t remember
me from Adam’s off ox, don’t feel badly — I'll most likely be in the

same boat.

WILLIAM DUNHAM HUBBARD

 

MAILING ADDRESS; 90 Green St., Greenwood, Mass.

PAUL RONALD HUMEZ

 

HOME aAppress: 7 Eisenhower Ave., Natick, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Jarrell-Ash Co., Newtonville, Mass.
preparkp at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; a.m. (Boston Univ.), 19495
gp.M, (ibid.), 1951.

{ 682 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrigD: Roberta Berry, Oct. 5, 1943. CHILDREN: Martha, Jan. 12, 1945; Ellen,
May 8, 1947; Phyllis, Feb. 11, 1953.
OCCUPATION: Engineer.

MEMBER OF: Amateur Telescope Makers of Boston; Chorus Pro Musica of
Boston.

VERY briefly, my career to date has consisted of something over
six years in the Army of the United States, from 1941 to 1946, and
again in 1951 and 1952, with acquisition of degrees in physics and
education sandwiched in between, followed by four years of teach-
ing in secondary schools and six years of being gainfully employed
in science and industry. My hobbies are many and varied, the
principal ones being photography, do-it-yourselfing, and singing.
My family is decorative and usually fun.

Perhaps this is the time for an attempt to evaluate what my life
at Harvard has meant in subsequent years. So far as anyone can tell,
it has not advanced me in any material way. However, there is
no reason why it should have. Having taken literally some advice
spoken by, I believe, President Conant, I pursued a college career
devoted to subjects which interested me, with the idea that they
might continue to interest me, no matter what else happened. Most
of these subjects were completely impractical with the result that
I spent a couple of years groping around after graduation. In the
long run, though, that advice proved to have been sound, and its
results were even useful in odd ways. For example, my study of
Japanese in College meant that I spent a couple of happy, newly-
married years re-studying Japanese at a Military Intelligence School
during the war instead of splashing around on Italian beaches with
my former companions in the Field Artillery. It also meant that
when I was recalled to active military duty and sent to Korea, I
went as a language officer rather than as a Field Artillery Battery
Commander.

Probably the part of Harvard life that has meant most to me
since then was my association with the Glee Club and Choir under
Woody and Doc. From the experience in singing and the knowl-
edge of choral works acquired there, I developed the confidence and
desire to sing with choral groups wherever I have been for a
month or two. These groups have included a volunteer choir in
Korea, and a light opera company in the musical wilds of central
Florida, as well as more conventional choruses in other parts of
the country.

In short, if I could re-plan my career at Harvard in light of

[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

what I know today, I probably would not wish to change very
much.

+ JAMES PETER HUNSAKER

 

BoRN: Dec. 5, 1915, Brookline, Mass. parents: Jerome Clarke Hunsaker, Alice
Avery

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: s.M. (Mass. Inst. of Technology), 1940.

MARRIED: Frances Bowles Lowell, June 27, 1942, Barnstable, Mass, CHILDREN:
Daphne H., Feb. 23, 1944; James Peter, Jr., June 4, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jerome Clarke Hunsaker, Jr., ’38.

piep: Aug. 14, 1959, Burlington, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. James Peter Hunsaker, 179 Dudley Lane, Milton, Mass.

AFTER two years, Peter left Harvard and his twin brother, Jerry,
for M.1.T., where he received his s.8. and s.m. in mechanical engi-
neering. At Harvard he won his letter in lacrosse, played on the
Freshman B squad and Eliot House football teams and was a mem-
ber of the Fox Club and Harvard Mountaineering Club.

After M.I.T., Peter spent a year with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft
Corporation and three years with the American Bosch Corpora-
tion designing airplane engines. During World War II he served
at the U.S. Naval Engineering Experiment Station in Annapolis
and was ordered to inactive duty in 1946 with the rank of lieu-
tenant. After the war he became associated with the engineering
firm of Jackson & Moreland in Boston, and in 1955 joined Arthur
1. Little Company of Cambridge, where he was project director
and senior mechanical engineer at the time of his death. He was
killed in the explosion of a rocket fuel tank being tested under a
research contract.

[ 684 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JEROME CLARKE HUNSAKER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Weston Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Colonial Management Associates, Inc., 75 Federal St., Boston 10,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Blake, May 8, 1943. cHILDREN: Melanie Avery, April 1o,
1944; Jerome Clarke, 3d, Oct, 22, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Investment management; vice-president and director, Colonial
Management Associates, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Accountant, Arthur Anderson & Company, 1940-41; lieutenant
commander, Cost Inspection Corps, U.S. Navy, 1941-46, general partner,
1949-59, Colonial Management Associates, vice-president and director,
Colonial Management Associates, Inc., since 1959; vice-president and di-
rector, Colonial Growth & Energy Shares, since 1949, Colonial Distribu-
tors, Inc., since 1949; vice-president, The Colonial Fund, since 1949; di-
rector, Bird & Son, Inc, since 1951, Canadian Export Gas & Oil Ltd.,
1951-61, Springfield Gas Light Company, since 1951; Cascade Natural
Gas Corporation since 1955, Timberline Tube, Inc., since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Boston Security Analysts Society; Long Table Syndicate; City
Club Corporation (The Lunch Club); Harvard Club of New York;
Ausable Club; Weston Golf Club; Ski Club Hochgebirge.

NO one will be surprised to hear that twenty-five years have proved
again the adage, “Our old friends are our good friends.” Luckily we
live near Boston and frequently see old 1938 friends. Also, I clearly
observe that among reasonably able men, like our Classmates, the
prime factor determining the level of achievement in their careers
is luck or fate, rather than shrewd design.

In the Business School I correctly observed that public account-
ing is a highly paid field and one in which the competition is not
as tough as in many others. A year with Arthur Anderson &

[ 685 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Company in New York taught me that no field requiring intelli-
gence can be duller than auditing.

The next surprise was to find myself stationed in Boston for five
long years with the Navy Supply Corps Cost Inspection Service.
This experience with shipyards and machine shops in New England
naturally Ied me to seek a manufacturing career. But — invest-
ments turned out to be the field.

On January 2, 1946, I joined Colonial Management Associates
and have been there ever since. This ofice manages two mutual
funds. The Colonial Fund and Colonial Growth & Energy Shares,
and is investment adviser to a number of institutions and individuals.
My duties are primarily selection of stocks for purchase or sale by
our clients and secondarily administrative chores in the office and
supervision of our sales organization. The trouble with this kind
of work is not the hours and travel, but its all-absorbing nature.
It seems to envelop one’s mind and energy to the exclusion of all
else but physical recreation which, of course, is catnip to me.

Ever since our children could walk, skiing, mountains, golf,
tennis and chores have been our prime family activities. Betty and
I do observe though a slight decrease in our skills and an alarming
improvement in those of the children. Melanie is off at Sarah
Lawrence College and Jerome is at Lawrence Academy, Groton,
so this year, 1962, finds us starting off on our second honeymoon.

NORMAN EDWIN HUNT

 

Home AvpRESS: 146 S, Compo Rd., Westport, Conn.
osrice Abpress: 147 South Ave., New Canaan, Conn,
peeparsp at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; A.M. (Trinity Coll. Hartford),
¥1949-
marrRiED: Mary Lawrence Fletcher, June 22, 1940. cHmpren: Norman Ells-
worth, Sept. 25, 1941 (7. Ella Clifford, Oct. 22, 1960); Robin Wendell,
Nov. 13, 1942 (am, Wayne Allen Wheeler, July, 1961); George Lawrence,
Sept. 19, 1949; Carol Anne, Feb, 28, 1952, Dawn Elizabeth, Aug. 9, 1954;

Peter Webster, Dec. 21, 1957. GRANDCHILD: Christopher Clifford Hunt,
Aug. 11, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Principal, Saxe Junior High School, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to Superintendent of Schools, West Hartford, 1950-56,
director, Camp Segowa, Canaan, Conn., 1951; director, Comm. for
Friendly World Broadcasting (national), 1958-61, chairman, Salary Com-
mittee, West Hartford Education Association, 1954 55; chairman, New
Canaan Health Advisory Council; chairman, Fairfield County SANE, Inc.
1962; co-chairman, Peace Race Campaign (national), 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Phi Delta Kappa, Steering Committee,
Fairfield County Junior High School Principals’ Association, First Uni-
tarian Church of Fairfield County (former member, board of directors);
Professional Committee of Connecticut Association of Secondary Schools;
National Education Association; Connecticut Education Association; New

Canaan Education Association, World Affairs Center of Fairfield County
(member, board of directors).

pusLicaTions: Articles in Grade Teacher, Student Life, professional educa-
tional publications.

HAVE twenty-five years really gone by since Nat Benchley gave his
Class Day oration? I don’t like to admit it because in all those years
I have not yet written the book, nor taken the trip around the world,
nor done several other things which I had planned in my ivory tower
in Adams House. I have married a charming and creative Ww ellesley
girl, had six children by her, been awarded : a national prize, led the
Peace Race Campaign, and followed a career in education for
twenty-two of those years— none of which achievements I fore-
saw.

My profession, after two irritating years in business, began with
teaching English, psychology, speech and a number of minor sub-
jects at Hillyer College in Hartford for a year, followed by another
year on the faculty of Harrisburg Academy and Junior College.
With the war came a stint at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, in the un-
happy position of a non-engineer working with engineers. Then
from 1943 to 1950, I taught at Tabor Academy, a naval honor school
on Buzzards Bay in Massachusetts.

In 1950 I moved into public education in West Hartford, Con-
necticut. Life became at once more active, hectic and wonderful and
has remained so ever since. In 1951 I was fortunate to be chosen

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

runner-up in the Quiz Kids national Best Teacher contest. As a re-
sult, I found myself first on national television, then awarded a trip
by air to Peru and a chance to visit the ancient Inca sites and ruins
among the Andes.

During 1954-55, as chairman of our teachers salary committee, |
was caught in the middle of a tremendous local battle over taxes
and schools. While we lost the vote on the tax rate, the wonderful
people with whom we strove and the struggle itself, which was a
kind of victorious experience, I shall never forget.

In 1956 I came to New Canaan, as principal of the Saxe Junior
High School. The pupils, teachers, parents and superintendent have
combined to make this the happiest and most productive era of my
life thus far. Together we have moved forward along a number of
experimental paths: ability grouping, partnership teaching, merit
salary plan.

Increasingly, I have shared the concerns of most of us that tech-
nology and competing sovereign systems will eventually combine in
a nuclear holocaust, perhaps now sooner than we had thought even
a year ago. I am actively associated with peace groups, especially
in the promotion of Friendly World Broadcasting and Voice of Man
programs, to alert Americans to the dangers and to the need for
constructive citizen action. Last year I served as co-chairman of the
Peace Race Campaign, which together with the Methodist Church
was able to secure 90,000 signed declarations of support from all fifty
states for the President’s Peace Race goals for general and complete
disarmament under international inspection and the creation of world
law within the United Nations. These declarations were presented
at a ceremony at the White House on September 12, 1962, thus
bringing one more Harvard graduate into the administration fold —
if only for one day!

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT LOUIS HUNTER

    

HOME AppRESS: 24 Garden Rd., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Louis J. Hunter Associates, 75 Federal St. Boston 10, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MarRRIED: Barbara L. Bacigalupo, June 15, 1940. CHILDREN: Barbara Ann, Oct. 3,
1942 (m. James E. Burdick, Jr.. May 21, 1960); William Robert, Oct. 6,
1946. GRANDCHILD: William James Burdick, Sept. 3, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Trustee.

AFTER leaving Harvard I spent five years with Lybrand, Ross
Bros. & Montgomery taking part in audits and accounting work of
all sorts, not the least interesting being that of Harvard College and
the Harvard Athletic Association. I left that firm to enter the Army
Air Force, as a private, in June, 1943. Most of my time in this
country was spent at Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, until I went
overseas to the Pacific Air Command, first in Manila, then in
Tokyo. After leaving the service, I joined Louis J. Hunter Asso-
ciates, a firm which furnishes trustee services and financial advice
to individuals and corporations.

[ 6&9 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
DANIEL GEORGE HURD

 

HOME AppRESS: 78 Law St., Valley Stream, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 136 W. 46th St., New York 36, NY.

PREPARED AT: New Hampton School, New Hampton, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B. (New York Univ.), 1951.

marrieD: Arline May Hurteau, July 16, 1939. cHitp: Allan Lee, Sept. 21, 1942.
OCCUPATION: Music; arranger, composer, conductor, pianist, teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Executive director, Eastern Long Island Bowling Association,
1959-62; secretary, Argo Sunday Mixed League (bowling), since 1957.
MEMBER OF: Nu Sigma; Psi Chi; Holy Name Society (St. Boniface R. C.

Church, Elmont, N. Y.); American Guild of Authors and Composers,

American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP); Ameri-
can Federation of Musicians.

PUBLICATIONS: Song, “Lonely Days (And Nights More Lonely)”; piano solos:
“Spoofin,” “Speedy Gonzalez”; orchestrations: “Strange Mood,” “Rockir
and Ridin,” “Atmosphere”; recorded compositions: “Jumpin’ Jubilee,”

“Dreamy Afternoon,” “The Awakening of Pedro,” “Tell Her Again,”
“Alevai.”

MY life since 1938 has had one primary focus, music; one sec-
ondary, education, and, contemporaneous with but often eclipsed
by the above, one family. (I smile at the thought of what dif-
ferent things these words can mean — but for me. . .)
MUSIC — Mostly “Pop” and “Showbiz.” 1938-43 was the break-
in period — local bands (Lawrence, Massachusetts), name bands
(Red Nichols, Hal McIntyre, Jimmy Dorsey, etc.), as pianist and
arranger. 1943-45, in Coast Guard. After boot training was as-
signed to Curtis Bay, Maryland, Training Station dance band, as
arranger, Later conducted same band in States, on USS General
Hodges, and in Naples for Fighting Coast Guard Radio Broadcasts,
war and victory bond rallies, hospital and USO shows and dances.
1946-47, back with name bands. 1948-53, teaching piano, music

[ 690 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

theory and arranging at New Jersey Musical College (Jersey City)
and studying at New York University; finally, after twelve years of
marriage and nine of fatherhood, becoming a “Bachelor” in June,
1951. 1954-55, Continued teaching privately, plus free-lancing as
pianist and arranger, especially with Eddie Safranski on NBC's
morning show (radio) and Jonathan Winters show (TV). 1955-60,
rehearsal pianist and arranger of dance music for Perry Como show
and sundry summer replacements. 1961-63, still teaching anything
I know and tasting Broadway, latest assignment being “Nowhere
To Go But Up” (down in nine New York performances) and the
national (road) company of “How To Succeed In Business, ete.”

Ambition for the future—to record (and have recorded by
others) more of my compositions, also to perform them with
congenial cohorts for audiences who applaud wildly and scream
for more.

EDUCATION — Covered chronologically above.

FAMILY — One ever-loving, oh-so-patient wife, Arline, joined
in 1939, and one handsome, well-adjusted son, Allan, born in 1942.
Allan has about fifteen per cent of normal hearing — not enough
to interpret speech even with a powerful hearing aid. Bringing
him up with speech and lip-reading (no sign language) so he can
function effectively in a hearing world (which he does, working
now as a mechanic on automatic pin-setting machines) has been
our most challenging and rewarding experience.

Only diversion from the above — bowling, in which we all par-
ticipate. Wife and I are both league secretaries. For three years I
served as executive director of Eastern Long Island Bowling Asso-
ciation and certified city instructor of junior bowlers. Allan is

the best bowler. I keep complaining: “Like father, like son — when
do I get some of it?”

[ 691 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JAY HAROLD HURD

S

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 34% Orville St., Glens Falls, N.Y.

HAROLD HURST

 

HOME ADDRESS: 8 Devon Terr., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Goldberg & Hurst, 24 School St., Boston, Mass.; Hurst, Piz-
zclla & Goldberg, 24 School St., Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1938; M.B.A.
(Boston Univ.), 1947; Lu.B. (Northeastern Univ.), 1954.

Marrigp: Elsie M. Beresnack, Aug. 2, 1942. CHILDREN: Marsha Ann, June 20,
1945; Barbara, June 10, 1949; Robert Alan, Oct. 9, 1953.

Occupation: Certified public accountant, partner, Goldberg & Hurst, attorney-
at-law, partner, Hurst, Pizzella & Goldberg.

IT doesn’t seem that twenty-flve years have gone by. Perhaps the
reason for this is that a good many of those years were spent in

[ 692 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

doing things that, to me at least, were stimulating, sometimes ex-
citing, and often unrelated to the pursuit of making money and
achieving status.

During my senior year at college, I had written an honors thesis
on the interstate trucking industry. My first job was, not un-
naturally, with one of the carriers. However, instead of an interest
in rates and traffic problems, I found I was interested in trucks and
engines. This led to evening school courses in internal combustion
engines and becoming head of the repair shop where a Harvard
background was probably a liability, insofar as personnel relations
were concerned. The year 1940 came along and, faced with the
alternatives of staying put, going to a graduate engineering school,
or enlisting in the Army to “get the year over with,” I made the
most illogical choice and joined a cavalry unit a full year before
Pearl Harbor. That outfit became field artillery and I became
quite convinced the military and I could never get along together.
The “promised” one year gradually stretched into five. Despite
several more weak moments of volunteering, I stayed in the States
for most of the war as a quartermaster corps officer, wearing wings
assigned to the air corps for duty as a navigator-bombardier-radar
observer. I put in a lot of flying hours as an instructor and, look-
ing back, must have had luck with me much of the time.

The end of the war provided another crossroads. Perhaps by
this time I should have been expected to show a little more maturity.
By then we were a family of three. The accounting profession
seemed to me to provide the most expeditious way of making a
reasonable living. Truck engines seemed to be then a matter of
the past. I took a full-time position as an office manager (about
which I confess I knew very little), and again spent my nights in
school, accelerating the courses as much as possible. With a new
degree, I decided to try teaching and taught accounting for one

year at a business college. That required more patience than I
possessed and after one school year I became a special agent in the
intelligence division of the Internal Revenue Service, the arm of the
government that specialized in convicting notorious racketeers after
the F.B.I. had tried without success. The five years I spent as a
“T man” were, in fact, sometimes exciting but more often quite
unpleasant. Prosecuting people, when the only crime involved was
unpaid taxes, was not a task that I enjoyed.
When I left the Internal Revenue Service, about ten years ago,
I was both a C.P.A. and a lawyer, as a result of a few more eve-

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

nings in school. As a dual practitioner, my professional life is
haps not as routine as that of other accountants. An occasi
criminal tax fraud case provides further diversion. I have
regrets about being self-employed, rather than making a caree
the government or a large organization.

My wife and I have attempted to raise our three children 3
good suburban environment, with a few moves—all within
city of Newton. As the children have grown older, our partici
tion in community, civic, school and political affairs has decrea:
perceptibly. Politically, I find myself moving to the right, t
doubt that I shall ever be a convert to Republicanism. For a nu:
ber of years, except for a little skiing in the winter, our princi
avocation has been sailing, with occasional cruises in Cape Cc
waters. This is an area where I find some use for all the years }

training as a navigator and even, once in a while, for my nigl
school education in internal combustion engines,

JOSEPH JACOB HURWITZ

song oR

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1762 S.W. 19th Ave., Miami qs, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREES: B.j.ED. (Hebrew Teachers Coll.), 19425
s.B. In ED. (Boston Univ.), 1942; pH.p. (ibid.), 1953.
marriep: Bertha Schneider, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Faculty member, University of Miami.

IT is only by the difficult process of “telescoping history” that a
quarter of a century can be compressed within the limits of a
page or so. Perhaps the more immediate difficulty of summarizing
such a period in one’s life, however, is that person’s psychological

[ 694 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

reluctance to admit, both to himself and to the world at large, that
he is a quarter of a century older than he would like to be. There
are, on the other hand, two consolatory factors. The first one is
that since life is wisely said to begin at forty, a man of forty-six
may well regard himself as being in his prime. Secondly — and this
is directly in keeping with the purpose of the present publication —
I am, chronologically speaking, in the good company of all my
classmates of Harvard ’38.

Although my inner life has been active, and sometimes quite
tumultuous, the more external aspects of my career may seem —
at least to the casual observer — somewhat uneventful and quies-
cent. The outward facts assume the form of an academic biography.

After my undergraduate studies at Harvard, I earned a teacher’s
diploma at the Hebrew Teachers College of Boston in 1940, the
degree of Bachelor of Jewish Education at the same institution two
years later, and a Bachelor of Science in Education at the Boston
University School of Education, also in 1942. Always a lover of
Harvard, I did some advanced work at the Graduate School of
Education of Harvard University (1945-46). I then pursued doc-
toral studies at the Graduate School of Boston University, taking a
PH.D. in the field of Old Testament and related studies in 1953 under
Professor Elmer A. Leslie of Boston University and the late Profes-
sor Robert H. Pfeiffer of Harvard University. The ttle of my
Ph.D. dissertation is “The Jewish Influences on the Narratives of the
Koran.” During the summers of 1952 and 1953 I was a Visiting
Scholar at Columbia University in New York.

Although I am a native son of Boston, Massachusetts, I was easily
persuaded by other members of my family to move to Miami,
Florida, in 1947. Having had my fill of New England blizzards, I
took up residence in “the land of eternal spring,” as Ponce de Leon
eagerly calls this fair state. Since then I have had but little time
to bask in the warmth of the Florida sun. I trust that the Miami
Chamber of Commerce will forgive me.

Since 1953 I have been a faculty member at the University of
Miami, located in Coral Gables, Florida. I have been teaching the
Hebrew language and Humanities. I must hasten to add that the
fragrance of the Harvard grounds in the springtime has transferred
itself to my southern home, Owing to my temperament, I seem to
breathe more easily when I am on a college campus. Whenever |
revisit the scenes of my former years at Cambridge, 1 become filled
with nostalgic longings for the “good old days.”

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

In 1952, after thirty-six years of bachelorhood, I plunged into
the sea of matrimony, taking to wife one Bertha Schneider of New
York City. She too ‘has an academic background akin to mine. She
holds an A.B. from Hunter College, a Bachelor of Jewish Pedagogy
from the Teachers Institute of the Jewish Theological Seminary of
America in New York, and a Master of Science from the New York
School of Social Work of Columbia University. During the war
she served as an assistant field director of the American National
Red Cross, being stationed in Australia. She has had broad experi-
ence in child welfare. At the present time she is a casework con-
sultant at Family Service in Miami. We have no children.

As is to be expected, I belong to a number of societies asso-
ciated with my cultural and professional life. Among them are
the following: the American Friends of the Hebrew University (in
Jerusalem, Israel); the Modern Language Association; Pi Delta Phi
(the French honorary society); the National Society of Biblical
Exegesis; the American Association of University Professors; the
American Association of Professors of Hebrew; the National Asso-
ciation of Biblical Instructors; and the Hebrew Teachers Associa-
tion of Greater Miami.

Over the years I have been a teacher of college students, a
teacher of teachers, and a public lecturer both in Boston and Miami.
At the University of Miami I have served as a panel discussant in
the “Middle East Institute” and as supervisor and chairman of the
“Hebrew Session” of Language Week at this institution. I am a
co-author of a work entitled Lest We Forget, published in Boston
under the auspices of the Boston University Graduate School.
This publication was used in Massachusetts as a guide to high school

teachers of social studies, its purpose being to strengthen the
foundations of American social democracy in the area of interfaith
relations. I have also written a detailed analysis of the Jewish
and Christian commentaries on the Book of Genesis. This work
was also used by pedagogues in the Hebraic field.

As for my principal hobby, I can hardly imagine a greater
source of joy and serenity than the strains of classical music under
a star-laden Florida sky.

Such, briefly, is my story. I hope that it is of interest to some
individuals, in addition to my wife and mother.

To all my beloved Harvard comrades let me extend the wish that
we shall all get together again for our Fiftieth Reunion. Why not?

[ 696 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVEY HUSTON

   

HOME ADDRESS: 860 Mount Pleasant, Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co., 80 E. Jackson Blvd.
Chicago 4, Ill.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; LL.B., I94t.

MaRRIED: Ondré Noble, Feb. 3, 1945. cuitp: Ondré, April 27, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer in transportation, Northwestern University, 1953-56.

MEMBER OF: American and Chicago Bar Associations; Association of Inter-
state Commerce Commission Practitioners, Lexington Group of Railroad
Historians; C.1.C. Association, Chicago Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Thunder Lake Narrow Gauge, book (Award of Merit from
the State Historical Society of Wisconsin); “Review of Division Orders
in Cases Not Involving Issues of General Transportation Importance,”
I.C.C. Practitioners’ Journal, November, 1961.

TRYING to remember what I have been doing for the past quarter
century is not particularly easy, but to the best of my recollection,
the time has passed as follows:

From 1938 to 1941, I was a student at the Harvard Law School.
After receiving the LL.B. degree in June, 1941, I worked in the law
office of Robert F. Carney in Chicago.

I was in the Army from August, 1942, to January, 1946, serving
for almost the entire period as a special agent in the Counter In-
telligence Corps.

In 1946, a civilian again, I returned to the practice of law in
Chicago with the firm of Carney, Crowell & Leibman. Since Jan-
uary, 1947, I have been an attorney for the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Railway Company.

[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Recreation consists of golf, tennis, swimming and water skiing
(just enough of the last to maintain my self-esteem).

re
[
'

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1266 Lago Vista Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6753 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood 28, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Omaha Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.D., 1942.

Marriep: Bernice Hempel, June 6, 1942. CHILDREN: Charles George, 3d, Sept. 9,
1943; Peter Schuyler, July 21, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Orthopedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: President, Hollywood Academy of Medicine, 1961.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Academy of Ortho-

pedic Surgeons; Western Orthopedic Association; Aesculapian Club; Bel
Air Bay Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Many publications in subjects related to orthopedic surgery.

IN the absence of any career guidance by the College, which might
have altered parental influence, I entered the study of medicine,
graduating again from Harvard in 1942. Attracted by the technical
challenges of surgery, I commenced this training at the Boston City
Hospital where, with abundant adipose abdomens to practice upon,
I mastered the skill of shaving with a straight razor. My new spouse
avoided being lonesome providing secretarial assistance to Professor
Crane Brinton in his role of chairman of the Harvard History De-
partment and of the Society of Fellows.
The war partially fufilled medical missionary desires for, as a
volunteer with the Office of Strategic Services, my medical duties
were to care for native Kachin, Burmese and Chinese guerrilla troops.

[ 698 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Some of these operations, deep behind enemy lines in Burma and
China, required more effort for survival than for the care of sick
and wounded. Near Lashio, Burma, the ends of three fingers were
blown off. Later, parachuting into a battered battalion to treat the
wounded, I found my hands still capable of doing surgery, a greater
award than the Bronze Star which the government awarded me.

What’s life like twenty-five years later? Arising about six a.n.,
I start my day stropping a keen edge on my straight razor. In the
course of shaving, if I cut myself I know that the policies of our
government or state, the patient load, or tensions of life are getting
out of perspective, and readjustment is necessary. This morning
shave has probably saved many a patient a bumbling incision. After
morning surgery, office work and associated medical activities usually
keep me busy until nine or ten p.m. This pace is so demanding I
still maintain “training regulations” to condition myself physically
in the same manner I did in college for swimming.

We decided to bring the two boys up in the West, and with
Hollywood for my practice, Beverly Hills for our home, we be-
came involved in many public activities. Among these activities, I
have served as president of the Hollywood Academy of Medicine;
Bernice is presently a member of the Beverly Hills Board of Educa-
tion.

My basic principles have not changed: I am still against socialism,
still believe in “survival of the fittest,” and hold that no one individual
or group can decide who among us should be judged fit or unfit. I
am a strong supporter of the system of medicine which permits a
free choice of physician with reliance upon the physician’s integrity
and ethical principles to prevent exploitation of patients for personal
gain. Each year I find this task more difficult, as gradual re-education
of the public by other Harvard men as well as non-Harvard men
brings them to accept socialism and weights the scale of public opin-
ion against me. At times it appears futile to give sound advice to the
public, advice which is in their best interests, when it only serves to
alienate and upset them. Propaganda is gradually convincing them
that good medical care is a “right” rather than a privilege which must
be earned. In socialized medicine I see a great opportunity to con-
trol their habits such as use of tobacco and alcohol and even their
reproduction. Do they see the same opportunity?

For the next twenty-five years I hope to be able to continue to
pursue a vigorous, energetic opposition to any socialized system. |
only hope there will be opportunity to continue to enjoy the activi-

[ 599 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

tics of swimming, skiing and mountain climbing as well as the prac-
tice of medicine.

Charles, 3d, is now a sophomore at Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti-
tute, majoring in physics. Peter is a senior at the Cate School in
Carpenteria, California, where the headmaster is Francis Parkman,
Harvard Class of 1945. They anxiously await the opportunity to
meet daughters of Harvard men at our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

MYLES HENRY ILLINGWORTH

 

HOME AppRESS: 19 Maplewood Terr., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 281 State St., Springfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938(39); M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1943.

MarriED: Barbara Marie Harrington, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Physician-in-chief, chairman of Department of Medicine and
cardiologist, Wesson Memorial Hospital, Springfield, Mass.; consultant
in medicine, Westover Air Force Base, Chicopee, Mass.; chairman, board
of trustees, Springfield Municipal Hospital.

[ 700 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDMUND FRANCIS INGALLS

 

HOME AppRESS: 7 Ettl Lane, Glenville, Conn.

OFFICE ADDREss: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, 666 Fifth
Ave., New York, N. Y.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938, M.B.A., 1940; LLB.
(New York Univ.), 1952.

MARRIED: Loretta Kruszyna, July 4, 1952. cHitp: Edmund Francis, Jr. Dec. 9,
1956.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer-accountant; manager, Technical Information Service,
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants,

PUBLICATIONS: Two articles and several hundred brief items appearing in
“Current Accounting and Auditing Problems” column, Journal of Ac-
counting; author of multi-volume work dealing with practical accounting
and auditing questions to be published by American Institute of C.P.A.’s,
circa June, 1963 (title undetermined as yet).

HOW to recount one’s odyssey during the past twenty-five years
in twenty-five sentences? How capsulize the pleasures and the pains,
the quiet and not-so-quiet moments of high inspiration and enthu-
siasm, of desperation and doubt? How did I get from there to here?

To ask the question is redolent of a memorable Robert Frost
monologue at Adams House where the grand old poet compared
the configurations and convolutions of Everyman’s life to those of
a skater and thoughtfully and repetitively intoned the words, “The
figure that a man cuts!”

My career has not been of the swashbuckling variety; you know,
like diving for pearls in the Pacific. Possibly due to its logic: al appe: al,
I gravitated to accountancy while at the “B” school, and have
worked with this basic transactional language of business ever since.
After a few years with two Boston public accounting firms, a year

[zor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

as internal auditor at General Electric Company’s Lynn Riverworks
plant, a few years as financial analyst in government contract rene-
gotiation work at the Springfield Ordnance District, and a year in
the service as an enlisted man, I finally migrated to New York City
to take a position in the research division of the American Institute
of C.P.A.’s, where I have worked on professional technical problems
for seventeen years. A decade ago, I graduated from New York
University Law School, doing it the “hard way,” five nights a week
for four years; and subsequently became a member of the New York
bar. My work at the Institute has been stimulating and challenging
and has brought me into intimate contact with a relatively young
but nevertheless the fastest-growing profession in the United States.
Having written thousands of words on literally thousands of ac-
counting and auditing problems, much of it published in the profes-
sional journal, I have a sense of having made a creative, albeit quiet
and unheralded, contribution to the professional literature.

After thrashing about untethered for lo, too many years, my life
took on a new dimension and inspiration from the moment in 1952
when a lovely person and I stood in a Unitarian Church with heads
bowed to ponder a reading of the ineffable words “On Marriage,”
from the Gibran. For me, married life has been a touchstone to
more fundamental personal perspective; the grosser “conceits” have
melted away, the idealized images have been punctured, some of the
puerile values discarded — and at long last, something approaching
psychological maturity begins to emerge.

A catalyst, or better still, an overactive participant in all this, has
been Eddie, Jr., aged six. As amazing and exciting as is the unfolding
and growth of a child, is the realization not only that he learns from
you but also that you learn immensely from him — he gets you back
to fundamentals. For those who might be mildly interested, eleven
generations link Eddie, Jr., to his progenitors, Edmund and Francis,
who came to Salem colony from Lynn, England, founded the city of
Lynn, Massachusetts, in 1629, asked the Indians to “give them a little
skin,” and set up the first log cabin tannery in the United States.

Needful to say, I only hope he can realize his potential, whatever
his flashing brown eyes promise, and make some measurable contribu-
tion to the joy of his fellow-mankind.
My principal hobby these last few years has come to be, a Ja Can-
dide, mainly one of “cultivating my own garden.” Pedestrian as it

is, | am also fond of hiking through the woods of the Audubon
reservation in Greenwich.

[ 702 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Anent my “social, political, or religious convictions,” here I must
confess I am in some respects, so it seems, a “rebel without a cause,”
a man grown intolerant — yes, passionately intolerant of racial and
cultural prejudice, of Philistines who deliberately would practise
the deception of mobilizing our culture in the name of defending it,
and of hollow-men wherever they may be found who have allowed
themselves to lose the common touch, their earthiness.

Unitarianism and Humanism shape whatever insight or outlook I
may have. I believe the Cold War has produced cultural fission, has
frozen universal culture; now that the Cold War is having “hot
flashes,” I see only one way out: a stocktaking, a turn toward Peace
and resultant third-force political movement stemming from all
walks of life, a movement dedicated in its opposition to atomic
blackmail and bellicose confrontation which could become a positive
force dedicated to the affirmation of life. I would sum up my “so-
cial, political, or religious convictions” by citing a line from George
Bernard Shaw which has been my constant guideline: “He is a bar-
barian! He knows the customs of his tribe, and thinks they are the
laws of the universe!”

As for Harvard, I can only say my reminiscence is one of joy and
devotion. If one is allowed any sentimentality in the premises, the
outcropping of a furtive tear as the Harvard band strikes up “The

Crimson in ‘Triumph Flashing” is perhaps some living testimony
to this!

WILLIAM JIRAD INGRAHAM

~ OM QETES

  

“<
<

 

HOME apprEss: Milford Station, N. S., Canada,
OFFICE ADDREssS: Hants East Rural High School, N. S., Canada.

[ 793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marrieD: Thelma Ardith Lane, Jan. 4, 1952. CHILDREN: Janet Irene, Sept. 11,
1952; Susan Grace, Sept. 9, 1953; Jack Hollis, Aug. 16, 1954, Annie Fern,
Sept. 9, 1955; Alice Elaine, Jan. 20, 1957; Wendy Diane, Jan. 18, 1959,
Sheryl LeReine, June 12, 1960; Dana Mark, Dec, 18, 1961.

occupation: Teacher of physics and chemistry, Hants East Rural High School,

part-time beekeeper and gardener,

IN 1938 I was a Socialist, a Pacifist and a believer that the ideal life

was that of the farmer who grew most of his family’s needs. Half

a decade Jater I was serving in the Canadian Navy and arguing with
friends against Socialism. When the war was over I plunged into
the farming. By making some concessions to modern trends, |
attained a fair degree of success. But when I got married and the
expenses began going up while the prices I got for my produce
began going down, I made a strategic retreat to the classroom.

If I can find a way to make a comfortable living from plants
and animals, I'll go back to farming. If I can be convinced that
Socialism will work and that Pacifism can be practical, Vil go back
to them, too. Meantime, I have a big family to raise, and that’s a
mighty interesting job. ‘Teaching school gives me more time to
spend with them than would most other kinds of work.

GEORGE LEESER INNES

 

HOME appress: 7 Park Avenue Terr., Bronxville 8, N.Y,

OFFICE AbpRESS: Michigan Chemical Corp. 230 Park Ave. N
’ ew
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. York, NY,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938

[ 704 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRiED: Phyllis Howe Salman, April 17, 1954. cHiLpren: Deborah Fairbanks,

Feb. 3, 1957; Marcy Holbrook, March 14, 1959, Cynthia Howe, Dec. 27,
1961.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president — sales and development, Michigan Chemical
Corporation.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society: Commercial Chemical Develop-
ment Association; Salesman’s Association of the American Chemical In-
dustry; Harvard Club of New York; Bronxville Field Club.

ASIDE from shock at how quickly twenty-five years can pass, the
outstanding feature of my life in recent years seems to have been
movement — movement from job to job (so far always to better
ones), from winter home to summer home, and travel from place
to place. Currently, I commute from our home in Bronxville to
central Michigan headquarters on a bi-weekly schedule in the pur-
suit of my present position in charge of marketing for a small chemi-
cal company, and to my office in Manhattan, which I reach when in
town by joining the daily commuting throng on the New York
Central.

I moved to New York shortly after graduation, spent the war years
in chemical research (a minor heart ailment put me in 4-F), and
during the early postwar period gravitated from research to market
development, to sales, and to marketing, all in the chemical industry,
Business travel which has steadily increased over the years now occu-
pies half my time; in addition to extensive coverage of this country,
I have also made occasional trips to Europe, Mexico and Canada.

My time at home is substantially taken up by my family which, in
addition to my wife Phyllis, now consists of three small daughters.
Having started rather late on the business of raising a family, I find
that the supply of patience in these advanced years is soon used up
by a ten-month-old child. The time left over from these activities,
even with help, for theatre-going, party-giving, community affairs,
etc., is decidedly limited, but we try to make the most of it.

My loyalty to Harvard and my faith in it as an educational in-
stitution remain unswerving, and my only regret at having had a
Harvard education is that I was not able to partake of it more fully.

[ 705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

LEONARD NOYES INSLEE

    
     

   

o “yell, ‘ {’ " oN :
oY L NG
; a
#4 ye a |

  

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Mansion House, Kenwood, Oneida, N.Y.
PrePareD AT: Sherrill High School, Sherrill, N-Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: s.B. (Syracuse Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Josephine Reid Reuter, Oct. 5, 1945 (divorced 1948). cHiLD: Paulie
Margaret, Oct. 15, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Investment securities dealer.

OFFICES HELD: Past Master, Sherrill (N.Y.) Lodge 1073, F. & A.M., 1960; Past
Most Wise Master, Chapter of Rose Croix, Ancient Accepted Scottish
Rite, Utica, N.Y., 1958, 1959; past president, Masters and Wardens Coun-
cil, Oneida County, N.Y., 1959; past chairman, Tournament Committee,
Oneida Community Golf Club; past treasurer, Oneida Young Republicans
Club, 1952; president, Alumni Organization, Epsilon Phi Chapter, Syracuse
University, Alpha Tau Omega, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Ziyara Temple Shrine, Utica, N.Y.; Mohawk Valley Consistory
320; Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, Utica Commandery
No. 3 Knights Templar, Rotica Council Royal and Select Masters, Oneida
Chapter Royal Arch Masons, Sherrill Masonic Lodge, Tawanka Chapter
Order of the Eastern Star, Order of The Amaranth, Alpha Tau Omega

and Beta Gamma Sigma; Oneida Community Golf Club (past member),
Knights of Birmingham.

THE years since Harvard have rolled by all too swiftly. Exciting,
eventful times for most Americans this past quarter-century in
which we have been privileged to live. Great changes have been
wrought in many fields of human endeavor. Progress and achieve-
ment have been attained despite many obstacles. We should all be
proud of the vital part Elarvard men have had during this period
of time in making real history in Washington and throughout the
world, Our assertion of veritas has been of great help to overcome
false forcign idcologics, This alumnus has somehow been able to
sce the good and great strides which we have managed to achieve.

[ 706 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard itself has grown in size, stature and standards. A great reve-
lation confronts anyone returning to Cambridge after a twenty-
five-year span.

This member of our class has had little to do with shaping world
events but tries to be an informed and intelligent citizen. He has
made some progress in a business career and helped to contribute a
lovely, alert, and talented sixteen-year-old daughter to the world
population. Paulie is maintaining an “A” average now as a junior
in high school and plays several musical instruments— we wish
we could print her picture instead of ours, This alumnus’s activities
outside of business have centered around work in fraternal organiza-
tions which has proved to be interesting and rewarding.

As the specialist in Oneida Limited Stock and an independent
business man dealing in other investments there has been a little
more time to travel and an occasional visit to our college has been
very rewarding. One cannot help but be more than a little bit
elevated as a result of Harvard’s successes and because of our asso-
ciation with a university still in the forefront of education even
from a global standpoint. Just reading the Alumni News and
other Harvard publications is a source of genuine esteem to all of
us which should be modified by the humility required of real
leadership. Our hope continues to be that our alumni reflect in
their lives and actions the truths and ideals which Harvard teaches
and for which our Alma Mater has always stood. Let’s make our
Twenty-fifth Reunion at Cambridge in June of 1963 a rousing
success with a big turnout for the Class of 1938.

[ 707 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

NORMAN IZENSTATT

 

HOME aAppRESs: 28 Wedgwood Rd., Auburn, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Francine Shoe Co., Norway, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRRIED: Lydia F. Chase, July 7, 1946. caiLpren: Judith Ann, July 19, 1950;
David Bruce, Sept. 6, 1954.

OCCUPATION: President, Francine Shoe Company, shoe manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Stephens Memorial Hospital, Norway, Maine; director,
Congregation Beth Jacob, Lewiston, Maine; treasurer, 1954-56, director,
since 1956, Lewiston-Auburn Jewish Federation; director, 210 Associates,
New England Shoe & Leather Association; member of corporation, Cen-
tral Maine General Hospital, Lewiston, Maine; corporator, Norway
Savings Bank, Norway, Maine.

I AM still working in the family shoe business. According to Pro-
fessor Hansen of the Business School, this is not a business but a
“way of life.” Maine is turning out to be the perfect environment
for the conduct of this “way of life” and the raising of my family as
well. Whenever the need for a change of scene arises, Megalopolis
is close by, thanks to today’s airlines and turnpikes.

[ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES HIGGINSON JACKSON

 

HOME AbpRESS: 356 Walnut St., Brookline 46, Mass,

OFFICE ADRESS: 1101 Beacon St, Brookline 46, Mass,

PREPARED AT; St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. BEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.D., 1943.

MarriEp: Susan Gardner Miller, Sept. 7, 1946. CHILDREN: Susan G., Dec. 22, 1947;
Fdith A., Oct. 21, 1949; Elizabeth B. H., May 24, t951 (died April, 1958);
Dorothy F., April 11, 1954 (died April, 1958); James Edward, June 14,
1955; Margaret, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Senior associate in medicine, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital; phy-
sician, Free Hospital for Women, instructor in medicine, Harvard Medi-
cal School; consultant, Brookline Health Department; secretary, Harvard
Medical Alumni Association, 1955-63; director, New England Diabetes
Association; officer, Greater Boston Diabetes Association; pillar, First
Church in Boston.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Norfolk District Medical Society; Harvard Club of Boston; Skating Club
of Boston; New Bedford Yacht Club; American Diabetes Association;
Unired World Federalists; Brookline Medical Club; American Civil
Liberties Union; National Cathedral Association; National Council on
Alcoholism; American and Massachusetts Heart Associations; Bostonian
Society; Boston Medical Library.

SINCE graduation, I spent one year at the University of Chicago,
four years at Harvard Medical School, one year on the surgical
service at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, twenty-six months in
the Army of the U.S., with one year in the Marianas and Japan (no
combat). On return, I promptly got married, went back to the
Brigham Hospital and have been in the same rut ever since. After
nearly three years of further training on the Brigham medical service,
I have been engaged in the practice of internal medicine full time,

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

except for a little bit of teaching and some minor public health
organizational activities. I spend a lot of time consulting at the Free
Hospital for Women, which means considering women from eve
point of view, which the gynecologists don’t. This is generally
interesting and usually necessary.

I have spent a good deal of time working for Harvard Medical
School as a fund-raiser for my class and as a factotum in the alumni
organization. This has allowed me to get quite close to the great
pulsing heart of the whole medical school without requiring any
productivity. One meets a lot of people and this is the fun of that.

The First Church in Boston, Unitarian (now Unitarian-Univer-
salist), my wife and I support rather assiduously. We believe that
there probably is a place for religion in life just so long as you aren't
too definite about what you mean by religion. Considering that
essentially none of religion is provable on any acceptable basis, yet
there is a massive body of human experience tied up in religious
teaching and history which needs to be treasured and considered
by a religious scientific folk as well as by religionists. I hope that
the Unitarians can maintain an intellectual and an inspirational
position in the midst.

Politically, I am independent but tend to vote for the Democrats
in national elections and for Republicans in the great Common-
wealth of Massachusetts. Socially, I support all sorts of do-good
agencies but not the committee that worries about the world popu-
lation explosion nor the one that wants to keep Red China out of the
United Nations. (The former group should relax and let nature take
its course; the anti-China people should completely reverse them-
selves.) I regard hazards of radiation in the atmosphere as being
trivial, but am much more concerned about the extraordinarily ob-
vious hazard of alcohol with its trail of accidents, cirrhosis and
dementia. I still drink a bit. We worry about cars in my family, but
we drive everywhere — with seat belts.

With the various things recorded above, I have paid no attention
whatever to the Harvard Class of ’38. However, I am certainly
looking forward to seeing some old friends this spring, with a view
to getting out of the medical rut and back into the Class of ’38 a
little more in the future.

[710 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILTON DANIEL JACOBSON

Neeser rooms

      
  

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 3300 Faring Rd., Birmingham 13, Ala.

ALFRED JOHN JAKSTAS

Ret

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1287 Scott Ave., Winnetka, IIl.

OFFICE aDpREss: Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1939-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(40).

MARRIED: Valerie Jevaraus, Oct. 11, 1942. CHILDREN: Janet, Jan. 4, 1946; Julianne,
May 9, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Museum conservator.

MEMBER OF: International Institute for the Conservation of Artistic and His-
toric Objects; The Cliffdwellers.

FROM childhood my ambition had been to enter the field of medi-
cine, perhaps to become a great surgeon. However, President Co-

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

nant in his talk to the freshmen convinced me that a broad education

was also important, so I concentrated in fine arts. By the time I

was a senior my interest in the field was so great and circumstances

were such that, after talking to George Stout, I entered the field of

museum conservation. This was a new field which under his guid-

ance at the Fogg Museum was reaching professional status and doing

much to really preserve man’s great achievements. After my ap-

prenticeship, I became his assistant at the Isabella Stewart Gardner

Museum, and then conservator when he went to the service. As the

need for the care of their collections became evident, first Gordon
Smith at the Currier Gallery of Art retained me as a consultant in
conservation. Charles Morgan at Amherst College, then Charles
Cunningham at the Wadsworth Atheneum, and Gordon Washburn
at the Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art soon followed
in retaining me for the same purpose. Eventually, the Springfield
Museum of Fine Arts, the George Walter Vincent Smith Art Mu-
seum, Bowdoin College, Dartmouth College, Mount Holyoke Col-
lege, Smith College, and Williams College made use of my services.
To prepare some of his works for the opening of the remodelled
painting galleries at the Metropolitan Museum, Robert Lehman
retained my services through the museum.

This happy state of affairs continued till September, 1961, when
John Maxon, who had left Providence for the Chicago Art Institute,
asked me to take over the care of their great collection. The chal-
lenge was too great to refuse, so happy associations of twenty years
were broken and a new period began in the midwest. The challenge
was truly great but the opening of the new wing and rearranged
galleries of the Art Institute of Chicago showed it was also reward-
ing. Now we look forward to the further unfolding of the great
treasures in Chicago.

[72]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD TOPPING JAMES

   

HOME ADDRESS: 117 Watson Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radcliffe College, 10 Garden St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Hl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 7agna cum laude, 1938; A.M. 19413
PH.D., 1954.

MarRieD: Janet Wilson, May 12, 1945. CHILDREN: Edward Topping, Jr., Dec.
27, 1954; Lucy Wilson, Jan. 22, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Historical editor; editor, Notable American Women, 1607-195

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of history and government, Mills College,
1950-53; assistant and associate editor, Dictionary of American Biography,
1954-58.

PUBLICATIONS: Dictionary of American Biography, Vol. XXII (Supplement
Two), 1958 (associate editor).

MY life since 1938 has evolved unspectacularly. I left college
with no clear career plans. A year in a business job back home in
Chicago provided decompression from the rarefied atmosphere of
undergraduate Cambridge. By its end I had decided on a life of
scholarship. The long road to the Ph.D. was further extended by
four years of unmartial duty in the Navy. A fledgling historian,
I taught for three years at a girls’ college in California, then took a
job with the Dictionary of American. Biography and found my-
self a historical editor. When Supplement Two of the DAB wound
up (at Columbia), I was called back to Cambridge to edit a sort of
distaff DAB sponsored by Radcliffe: Notable American Women,
1607-1950. This work — still in process — will in due course issue
from the Harvard University Press in three volumes comprising
some 1500 sketches of women from Pocahontas to Edith Wharten
and Jean Harlow. Conceived as a contribution to scholarship as
well as a useful reference work, Notable American Wonren will,

[713]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

it is hoped, stimulate interest in a neglected aspect of American social
history. My wife, a fellow scholar since we met in the Graduate
School, is my chief editorial associate. When this project finishes,
a couple of years hence, I am booked to go back to the DAB as
editor. There thus seems to be a demand for my special qualifica-
tions, and I enjoy using them.

Most of the time goes into my work these days, in and out of
office hours. Off the job, I like being back in New England, where
I approve of the Yankee character and enjoy the countryside with
its visible evidence of the historic past. We return each summer,
however, to my native midwest, still preferring Lake Michigan
beaches to those of the Atlantic. We live in Belmont and are send-
ing our children to the new Friends School in Cambridge, our
late entry into parenthood leaves us still coping with car pools rather
than college admissions.

As for my ideas, I don’t think my outlook has changed basically
in twenty-five years. I certainly don’t look back on my under-
graduate liberalism as youthful folly. My isolationism of the
1930’s has long since seemed misguided. My attitude toward the
labor movement has changed, but then so has the labor movement.
I still regard the Roosevelt administration as one of fundamental
progress, and I find myself in basic agreement with Kennedy’s —
not only for its legislative goals but for the kind of dedicated
spirit infused into the administration, say, of conservation and
Indian affairs in a Democratic as against a Republican administra-
tion. On public issues I feel most deeply, perhaps, the need for
every individual to be judged in his own right and not as a mem-
ber of a particular race, religion, or nationality. I believe strongly
in equal rights for persons of equal attainment and abilities — in
northern suburbs as well as southern schools.

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ERNEST WILBUR JAMES, JR.

   

HOME AppREss: 120 Temple Terr., Clarksburg, W. Va.

oFFicE apprEss: The James & Law Co., 217 W. Main St., Clarksburg, W. Va.

PREPARED AT: Washington Irving High School, Clarksburg, W. Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of North Carolina).

MarRIED: Julia Anna Swiger, Dec. 26, 1943. CHILDREN: Carolyn Watson, Nov.
30, 1946; Julia Ann, Nov. 2, 1950.

OCCUPATION: President, The James & Law Company, booksellers and stationers,
wholesale and retail.

OFFICES HELD: Mayor of Clarksburg, W. Va., 1957-60 (two terms); president,
The James & Law Company, since 1941, Clarksburg Rotary Club, 1962-63,
director, Association for Industrial Development of Harrison County,
Clarksburg Trade Association, musical director and manager, Madrigal
Singers of Clarksburg, since 1945.

MEMBER OF: Central West Virginia Toastmasters Club; Hermon Lodge No. 6,
AF. & A.M.

DURING my first three college years, in spite of the gentle hints
from my music professors that perhaps some other field might be
better, I clung to the idea that somewhere in music there was a
place for me. In my senior year, however, I realized that much
of my joy for music would be lost in the drudgery of attempting
to make money with it.

My father was president of a good-sized book and office supply
store in my home town of Clarksburg, West Virginia, and he
seemed anxious for me to become part of it. My brother and sister
were already too involved in their scientific fields of physics and
medical technology to be interested in the mundane world of re-
tailing. And so, because I was needed at home, and because it was
the easiest thing for me to do, I became a business man.

I suppose many people would not care for the idea of being

[715 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

“buried” out somewhere in the backwoods — in a city in the hills
of central West Virginia. But, in these days, no one is very far
from the center of things and the size of your home community is
no longer a factor in the joy of living. Clarksburg is the central
city of about 30,000 people in a larger community of 50,000. It is
large enough to have many big town conveniences, and yet it is
too small for most big town problems . . . our people, who have a
greater than average income, are quite cosmopolitan. Clarksburg
people seem to get around. Both Stonewall Jackson and John W.
Davis, who ran for president against Calvin Coolidge, were born
within a few hundred yards of my home.

Only a few years after I went to work for my father, he died
suddenly and I found myself prematurely president of the company.
Our business employs about fifty people and for a while it was
hard work just to keep my head above water, but with the help
of more experienced officers and employees, I somehow managed.

Even while learning to be a businessman I never lost my enthusi-
asm for music. Soon after coming home from school I became a
charter member of a non-professional madrigal group made up of
a dozen young people. That was almost twenty-five years ago,
and although the personnel has changed slightly from year to year
and we have all grown older, we are still giving performances
regularly. Over the years we have even traveled considerably.
This group has given me the opportunity to compose for, to perform
in and to direct (for the past seventeen years) a high quality musi-
cal organization. It has been a most rewarding hobby. In 1943,
I married Julia Swiger, who was also a member of the Clarksburg
Madrigal Singers. We have two daughters: Carolyn, sixteen, and
Julia Ann, twelve. Now that the girls are older, Julia has gone
back to her first profession of teaching in an elementary school.

In 1957 my way of life took a sudden change. Because of a
defective charter, the government of the city of Clarksburg had
become rotten with corruption and its various departments had
become hopelessly inefficient. Our city had even become notorious
for its unsolved murders. In 1957, things became so bad that several
thousand citizens banded together and staged a political uprising.
Within a few months three elections were forced by public petition.
A new charter was adopted and a completely new city council
dedicated to good government was elected. I had been asked to
manage the campaign to put across the crucial charter ratification,
and when this was done overwhelmingly in April, I was persuaded

[716 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to run on the “Charter team” for council in June. On July ist the
council elected me to be mayor. This was truly a shock to me
because I had never had the slightest inclination to become a poli-
tician and, moreover, I had never made a public speech.

Clarksburg has a city manager form of government, so I did not
have to bother with administrative work, but there were so many
other things to be done that ninety per cent of my time was taken
by the city. In 1957, Clarksburg was the only city in the United
States which had no mayor, and as we had had none since 1921, I
had to break a new path. My four years in office were at times
enjoyable and at other times completely miserable. Two facts
soon became most obvious to me and still remain in my mind as
the distinguishing differences between political life and everyday
life. First, politics is made up of a parade of bright successes and
black defeats, and, second, nowhere, as in this political world of
contrasts, do you see so frequently and so vividly the courage of
some men and the “feet of clay” of others,

Looking back, my time in politics was satisfying because the
effort turned out to be a highly successful one. Our city was
changed radically and has since progressed steadily. In my earlier
years | had always considered politics as deadly dull, but to the
contrary, I found it over-stimulating, and last year I was happy to

return to the more undemanding and relaxing way of simple
family and business life.

SAUNDERS ELIOT JAMISON

AIO EAT a

    

HOME ADpREsS: 26 Webster Ave., Summit, N,J.

[717]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

orFice AppREss: Celanese Corp. of America, Central Research Laboratory,
Summit, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; PH.D. (Univ. of Southern
California), 1956.

marriep: Barbara Berch, March 31, 1944, Los Angeles, Calif. cympren:
Madelyn, Jan. 11, 1945; Andrew, Aug. 22, 1948.

occuPATIon: Chemist.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; American Chemical Society;
American Association for the Advancement of Science.

PuBLicaTions: Technical publications and patents in polymer and free radical

chemistry.

THE turmoil prevailing at and following the graduation of the
Class of ’38 made the world for a long time a difficult place in
which to display the learning gained in the four years of daily river
crossings. However, I did have occasion seven years later to take
some comfort in having been taught the meaning of words like
uranium and isotope when the onset of our atomic age cheated
me out of a trip to Japan (and possible prolonged my life a bit).

After thus being provided with release from the Army, I enjoyed
a few years of civilian life — California style — while the children
were learning to stand on their own feet. When they were both
enrolled in school, their father joined them, calling on the University
of Southern California to complete the making of a chemist, begun
so many years before. I was particularly fortunate to be able to do
my research under the effective guidance of Professor Ronald
Brown who had done his under Professor Bartlett. And I was again
favored with a highly instructive post-doctoral at Columbia under
Professor Cheves Walling, ’37.

We have remained in the East for the seven years since then, the
more readily to return a second collegiate generation to Harvard.
Mady is now firmly entrenched at Radcliffe, Class of 66, and Andy,
at fourteen, is already striving earnestly toward winning his place
in the Yard. Meanwhile I continue my daily pursuit of new syn-
thetic fibers with a deep sense of gratitude to Celanese for placing
their laboratory in Summit where my five-minute ride home gives
me an extra full hour of lawn-mowing, leaf-raking, weed-pulling,
or couch-sitting over my poor commuting neighbors.

[718 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ACT PRR

a

MANSON VAN BUREN JENNINGS

     

\

HOME aDpREss: Cosmos Hill Road, R.D. 4, Cortland, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State University College at Cortland, Cortland, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Mount Kisco High School, Mount Kisco, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1938, a.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1939; PH.D. Cibid.), 1949.

MARRIED: Deborah Hunt, Sept. 14, 1946. cHtLDREN: Susan Briggs, May 7, 1949;
David Tuthill, June 8, 1952.

occuPATION: Dean of the college, State University College at Cortland.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of history, Teachers College, Columbia University,
1959-61.

MEMBER OF: National Council for the Social Studies; American Historical
Association; American Academy of Political and Social Science; American
Association of University Professors; Rotary Club of Cortland.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional journals and yearbooks, plus my disserta-
tion; filmstrips prepared for Current Affairs Films.

TO the historian writing a history of the Class of 738, my life will
probably remain a statistic, a few holes punched in an IBM card, but
never so much as a paragraph or even a footnote in the completed
manuscript. For I can report no spectacular achievements, no signi-
ficant accomplishments. Yet, life has been good to me, and I can
reflect upon the past twenty-five years with a feeling of modest
satisfaction, a feeling that life has meaning and that life’s great ad-
venture has by no means passed me by.

As my father had done and his father before him, it had been my
hope in 1938 to teach for a few years and then become a school ad-
ministrator. So, after receiving an A.M. in 1939 from Teachers
College, Columbia University, I started teaching at the secondary
level and taking work toward a Ph.D., only to be interruped by four
and one-half years of army service, most of which was spent in

[719]

~nnsssssencsntsstestasstctaneetsnanenennmnnsstesatneennetbtaenetis |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FREDERICK WILLIAM JEROME

 

HOME AppREss: 40 Lamson Rd., Barrington, R.I.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Jane Hale, 1939. cHiLp: Nancy Jane, Oct. 5, 1940 (m.
Floyd Edsel Taylor, Dec. 22, 1962).

OCCUPATION: News director and announcer, Radio Station WKFD, R.I.

OFFICES HELD: Reporter, New York Daily News, 1938-40, Providence (R. I.)
Journal, 1940-43; U.S. Navy, 1943-46; newspaper and radio news, since
the war.

I WORKED as a reporter for the New York Daily News following
graduation and married the sister of Blan Hale, a friend at Harvard.
Our only child, a daughter, Nancy Jane, was born in rgq4o and |
shifted to the sports department of the Providence Journal in that
ear.

" Joined the Navy in 1943 as an armed guard officer and was
transferred to PT-boat service in the final year of the war. Re-
turned to staff reporting for the Providence Journal in 1946, pub-
lished the Bristol County News in my home community for a year
in 1948 and then shifted to radio news reporting in Fall River, New
Bedford, and Providence from 1949 to the present.

My political inclinations have favored the Republicans. Our
daughter graduated cus laude from Syracuse University in 1962
and has married a university associate, Floyd Edsel Taylor, and my
wife and I are settling back to an objective parenthood.

[722 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SHEPARD JEROME

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1320 E, Carre Drive, Mobile Ala.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 171 Louiselle St., Mobile, Ala.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.p. (Tulane Univ.), 1944.

MarRIED: Annelle Martha Woodall, Feb. 16, 1944. cHILDREN: Judy Jannelle,
Feb. 7, 1946; Jacqueline Joy, April 15, 1948.

occuPATION: Physician; urologist,

OFFICES HELD: Director, Mobile Lions Club; colonel, Medical Corps, USAR.

MEMBER OF: Ft. Benning Lodge No. 579, F. & A.M.; Columbus, Ga., Consistory,
Scottish Rite, Abba Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S.; Mobile Symphony Orchestra
(playing member); American Medical Association; American Board of
Urology (diplomate); American College of Surgeons (fellow).

TWENTY-FIVE years after graduation finds me in the deep south-
land, a transplanted Yankee, and enjoying every minute of it. Just
wish that I had experienced this leisurely southern life from my
childhood. This moment also finds me in the midst of world chaos,
with the destiny of our country in the hands of another Harvard
man.

After graduation, I went on active duty with the U.S. Army at
Ft. Ethan Allen, Vermont. My military ROTC training at Harvard
had prepared me with the necessary knowledge to compete with the
West Pointers who were in the majority then. Because I sull wanted
to become a “pill pusher,” I left the Army in September, 1939, and
enrolled at Tulane Medical School in New Orleans. It was not too
long before I lost the famous New England accent. The anatomy in-
structor loved to hear me pronounce “artery” and in no time flat I
was talking like a true southerner. As a matter of fact, most folks
believe that I am a native southerner.

[ 723]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Three days after I received my medical degree, I married Annelle
Woodall of Tallassee, Alabama, whom I had met while she was :
student nurse at Touro Infirmary from which she graduated in 194:
after receiving her S.B. at Judson College, Marion, Alabama.

My internship was spent at the U.S, Marine Hospital at San
Francisco, California. Uncle Sam called me at the completion of my
internship on January 1, 1945. When the war had been called to an
end in 1945, I had had so much army in my blood that I decided to
stay in the regular Army and make a career of it. I enjoyed my
service days, but in June, 1955, I decided that I had had enough and
so I resigned my regular commission.

Since I was already certified in urology, I came to Mobile, Ala-
bama, to begin my first try at civilian medicine. I have never re-
gretted the move, but as all physicians can tell you, the first two
years were nerve-wracking and I almost went back into the service
several times.

Along with growing in maturity, knowledge and wisdom, I also
grew in girth. At the beginning of this year, I weighed 192 pounds,
which was too much for my five feet, six inches, so I trimmed down
and now weigh 170 pounds, of which I am proud.

If I were to summarize what I have accomplished in twenty-five
years, I would state: a wife, two daughters, a medical degree, a boat,
two cars, a dog, a portfolio full of bills and a house which is mort-
gaged but will be all my own when I am seventy years old.

MILTON ALLEN JOHNSON

 

MAILING Appress: % J. M. Johnson, 3711 S.E. Carlton St., Portland, Oregon.

[ 724 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NORMAN WILLIAM JOHNSON

 

HOME AppREss: 6o1 E. Lincoln St., St. Joseph, Til.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 116 Tllini Hall, University of Illinois, Champaign, Ill.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Duluth, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1938; A.M. (State Univ.
of Iowa), 1941.

MARRIED: Ruth Mirtam Pitkanen, June 3, 1938. CHILDREN: Juliet Elin, May 15,
1942 (mm. William James McGrath, Aug. 19, 1961); Lewis Macleod, Nov.
20, 1945; Cecily Ruth, Aug. 28, 1948.

occuPaTION: Education; director, Allerton House; professor of adult educa-
tion and director of short courses and conferences, Division of University
Extension, University of Illinois.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Division of Conferences and Institutes and Auditing
Committee, National University Extension Association, 1959-60; lieutenant
commander, USNR-R, officer-in-charge of unit, 1953-56, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Central Illinois Society of the Archaeological
Institute of America; National University Extension Association, U.S.
Naval Reserve.

puBLICATIONS: Occasional notes and articles on continuation study in a pro-
fessional periodical.

IN snail’s progress home, after graduation, [ worked two years as
instructor in English at Kenyon College and as secretary of the
Kenyon Review; and then the Third Anniversary Report of the
Class caught me again a student, this time in the School of Letters
of the State University of Iowa, where in August, 1941, I received
a Master of Arts degree in English, I really don’t have much to
add to that Third Anniversary Report. The facts aren’t exciting;
and they are an insufficient vehicle for wit or wisdom. After Iowa
I taught English at North Dakota Agricultural College and at the
State College of Washington — but not until after the war, and

[725 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

of their chief works. This takes patience and a high frustration-
threshold. For one who came to college almost quite innocent of
languages, this also gives world enough and room for continuous
diversion. I'm not good at it, but it is a kind of fun and it’s good
as slow-down and circling in one’s headlong, linear flight through
life. If inefficiency can keep a man frantically busy throughout
the day to get done what there is to do, and yet serves to slow him
down, too, accelerator and brake in one, it surely must be life’s
most ingenious paradox.

+ PERRY HIGGINSON JOHNSON

 

BORN: Oct. 1, 1915, Cohasset, Mass. parents: Howard Ames Johnson, 711,
Katherine Higginson.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarrieD: Janet B. Pierce, April 19, 1941.

piepD: Killed im action, Feb. 1, 1943, in Pacific area.

PERRY HIGGINSON JOHNSON received his A.B. degree and
his commission as ensign in the USNR at the end of his senior year
at college. After graduation he worked for the Boston Bank Note
Company until August, 1941, when he was called to active duty
at the Naval Training School in Boston. He was successively
promoted to lieutenant (j.g.) and lieutenant, and served aboard
the USS Denebola and the USS DeHaven. On February 1, 1943,
the DeHaven was sunk by enemy air action and Perry was reported
missing in action. He received the American Defense Medal, Fleet
Clasp, the Asiatic-Pacific Area Campaign Medal and the Purple
Heart. He was survived by his wife.

[ 728 ]

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM HAY JOHNSON

 

HOME ADpREss: Benton Harbor, Mich, -

OFFICE ADDRESS: P. O. Box 374, Benton Harbor, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Wolcott High School, Wolcott, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, DEGREE: a.B. (Univ. of Michigan), 1939.

MARRIED: Esther Hull, Aug. 16, 1941. cHILpReN: William Hay, Jr. Feb. 15,
1944; Frank, Aug. 12, 1949.

occuPATION: Owner, Jaye Publishing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director of treatment, Jackson State Prison, 1949-55.

LEFT Harvard in 1936 at end of sophomore year due to lack of
money. Hitch-hiked and worked around the country for a year,
life guard, foundry, etc., entered University of Michigan, 1937,
and graduated in 1939. Worked at Jackson State Prison, 1939-42
and 1946-55, ending as Director of Treatment. Army, 1942-46.
Various types of advertising sales ending with a small directory
publishing company, 1955-62.

High spots were a year in Korea as a Military Government
officer and survival professionally during the 1952 riots at Jackson
Prison.

Convictions — socially liberal, financially conservative, politically
independent and religiously questionable.

[729]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WILLIAM ROBERT JOHNSTON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4621 37th St, N., Arlington 7, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Headquarters, USARAL, APO 949, Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MARRIED: Katherine Rounds, Nov. 3, 1941. CHILDREN: Robert, May 16, 1943;
Debbie, March 3, 1949.

occuPATION: Army officer — general staff officer — intelligence.

AFTER leaving college, I went back to Chicago and was able to
get into the investment banking business as a trainee, which is really
another term for underpaid and overworked office boy. In 1940, by
which time I had been made a salesman, my National Guard unit —
the Chicago Black Horse Troop of the 106th Cavalry — had been
federalized, and I was in the Army, which is where I have been off
and on for the past twenty years. I reverted to civilian life and the
securities business for three years after World War II, but was re-
called late in 1948. My field of specialization has been Intelligence
with emphasis on the Far East and Southeast Asia in particular.
Assignments have included GHQ of the Far East Command, a long
tour in the Pentagon and presently one with the U.S. Army in Alaska.

I shall retire in August of 1963, after twenty-three years of service,
at which time I hope to go into teaching or possibly continue on in
Intelligence in a civilian rather than a military status.

[ 730 ]

ee Lema sisnsnctiniaemasmain

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GILBERT EDWARD JONES

 

HOME ApprEss: Fox Run Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

oFFicE appress: IBM World Trade Corp. 821 United Nations Plaza, New
York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Jean Coats Morse, June 3, 1942. CHILDREN: Leila H. and Jean McP.
(twins), March 30, 1943; Pamela C, Jan. 11, 1945; Gilbert Edward, Jr.,
Sept. 25, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, IBM World Trade Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Webster Apartments, 1959-62, Swedish Chamber of
Commerce of the U.S., since 1962, National Foreign Trade Council, 1961,
1962, IBM WTC, since 1962; trustee, Shipley School, 1960-62; member,
Blood Recruitment Committee, American Red Cross, since 1962, Develop-
ment Committee, International House, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Economic Club of New York; National Sales Executives Club,
Institute of International Understanding, Harvard Club of New York,
Pilgrim’s Society; Union Club; Greenwich Field Club.

TO recount the adventures of twenty-five years of living since
leaving the hallowed halls of Harvard is a gigantic job. It all started
with acquiring a job with IBM six days after graduation. Now, 4
quarter of a century later, the same IBM is still supporting me (thank
God) but a Jot has happened in the meantime.

Phase one was a bachelor’s life with four Harvard alumni in a
small east side flat in the thick of New York pandemonium. It lasted
just long enough, until Pearl Harbor. It was highlighted with a job
at the World’s Fair, duplicate bridge games, squash and the like.
Its most lasting influence was the fortunate meeting with my won-
derful wife, a Boston post-deb named Jean Coats Morse.

The war brought the usual reward of a Harvard ROTC man, an

[731]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ensign’s commission. Shortly thereafter, Jean and I were married
and managed to produce three delightful daughters before V—J day.
Meanwhile the Navy managed to keep me overseas most of the time
(obviously not all of the time). After a year’s sojourn on a Pacific
atoll, we specialized in a destroyer convoy duty, the major asset of
which was periodic stops in the United States.

Life settled down to normal by January, 1946, with the now large
Jones family settled happily in Darien, Connecticut, halfway between
our in-laws in Massachusetts and New Jersey. Commuting became
a way of life. The suburban schedule became a routine dictated by
the New Haven Railroad and the local tennis and beach club, but
not forever. IBM (I’ve been moved) started us on the circuit in
1949, and in four short years we had four large houses in Short
Hills, Albany, Boston and Riverside. The high point of the tour
turned out to be Albany. None of us will ever forget it. First, the
continual snow season made all of us permanent ski enthusiasts.
Second, we had a son! For those of you who have had three daugh-
ters, the significance of this feat will be appreciated! Finally, like a
good rolling stone, we came to rest in Greenwich, Connecticut, and
have lead a reasonably normal life ever since.

The task of making a living has turned out to be a fascinating
challenge throughout. My assignments with IBM have included
mainly marketing positions such as district manager, sales manager
and president of IBM’s Data Processing Division, the marketing
division of the domestic company. I also had an exciting two-and-
one-half-year tour of duty as executive assistant to the president of
the IBM Corporation. The most challenging assignment of all has
been my present position with our international subsidiary involving
business overseas in ninety-one different countries. With our basic
policy of employing nationals and manufacturing and engineering
overseas, this has proved to be the most interesting job anyone could
ask for.

On the home front our children have been our greatest assets.
The three girls are presently in three different colleges — Wheaton,
Wells and Vassar. They are above average athletes. All three ski
well. The twins love tennis and “Pam” seems to love everything,

particularly swimming and diving. Our son, presently ensconced in
the Greenwich Country Day School, eats, lives and sleeps football,
hockey and baseball, depending on the season of the year,

My wife and I love vacations in the Virgin Islands, will travel
anywhere, and still manage to weather innumerable ski trips. She is

[ 732]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an enthusiastic figure skater. Probably her greatest claim to fame
was her ability to found an investment club two days before the
stock market crash of May 28. She is presently president of the
“Acorn Analysts,” and needless to say the market continues to go
down. She also patiently accompanies me on various forays against
fresh-water and salt-water fish, the nearest thing I have to a hobby.
We've had a wonderful twenty years. We still hope the best is yet
to come.

JOSEPH EBBET JONES, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ApprEss: 6 Abbot Rd., Lexington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1938. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938.

Marriep: Christine Clare Donovan, Sept. 20, 1940. CHILDREN: Joseph Ebbert, 3d,
March 31, 1942; Gregory Donovan, Noy. 9, 1944; Margo P., Nov. 3, 1949;
Christine D., July 12, 1952; Kevin C., April 13, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Management consultant; independent practice.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lexington High School P.T.A., 1961-62; treasurer,
Association of Management Consultants, since 1962, New England Society
of Management Consultants, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Association of Management Consultants; Smaller Business Asso-
ciation of New England; National Association of Accountants, New
England Society of Management Consultants.

WHILE I have not yet achieved the success which had been vaguely
anticipated at graduation, I am quite happy with the results to date.
At the top of my list of assets are five usually inspiring progeny and
a reasonably understanding and still charming wife, Christine. Life
has been exciting as we followed the carcers of our two cldest boys
through high school and into Brown and Yale. Both combined athlet-

[ 733]

Te rereneqergyip ey ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ics and brains to a point where father could often brag when they
scored — and sometimes cringe when they fumbled.

In recent years as the mouths grew bigger and the tastes even more
expensive, the dominant theme of my life has been the struggle to
make a decent living. I shall admit to having been less crafty than
I should have been in planning and executing my career. More by
chance than by design I have been a management consultant for the
last sixteen years, but it seems to fit my non-organization-man and
sometimes highly critical temperament. Since I never could quite
catch the brass ring while on someone else’s merry-go-round, I be-
latedly took the big gamble of going into business for myself. Hav-
ing survived more than three years of this challenging existence as a
consultant, financial analyst and opportunist, it is a fair bet that I shall
eventually prosper at it.

So far there has been little time for activities not connected in
some fashion with the children or with earning a living. We have
taken our turns at Scouting, P.T.A.’s and fund drives emanating
indirectly from these. Since I am beyond the point of no return in
consulting, I play an active part in two associations of consultants
and in two other business-oriented groups. On rare occasions I
still dabble in photography — mostly of the family; and go skiing
or fishing mostly with the family. I am glad to help out on Harvard
’38 Reunion activities, perhaps because they provide a thread of
continuity.

An ambition for some year out ahead is to satisfy my curiosity
about the rest of the world with a fair amount of living or working
abroad or just plain traveling. I also hope to do something pro bono
publico, such as a current embryonic effort on commuter rail-
roads; or to pursue a pet theory that the voting privilege should be
restricted to a handful of well-qualified leader types; or another
theory that colleges like Harvard are badly out of focus on the needs
of the bright man without a family fortune.

I look forward with enthusiasm to the years ahead and hope I can
write for the Fiftieth Reunion Report that I was a “late bloomer”
for whom life really began at forty.

[ 734 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rk RIPLEY OGDEN JONES

 

porn: April 10, 1915, Cooperstown, N.Y. parents: Alexander Ogden Jones,
Alice Ripley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938(39).

piep: Killed in action, Oct. 17, 1942, over Malta.

RIPLEY OGDEN JONES was a member of the Harvard Flying
Club while at college and participated in intercollegiate flying
meets. After graduation he entered the U. S. Navy and completed
his flight training at Pensacola with distinction. In 1941 he obtained
permission to resign his commission in the Navy so that he could
join the British Royal Air Force. He received his formal com-
mission in the RAF, and trained in Great Britain as a night fighter
pilot. In 1942 he was posted to the Island of Malta, was promoted
to flight leutenant and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross.
He participated as flight leader in the ‘ ‘Malta Convoy Battles.”

On October 17, 1942, he was reported missing from a sortie of the
126th Fighter Squadron, Royal Air Force. He was survived by
his mother and a sister.

[735 ]

“1 OW ano geERE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT CLARK JONES

   

we

By
a
os
x

oo cubase:
et tiene

iG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1716 Cambridge St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Polaroid Corp., Cambridge 39, Mass.

PREPARED AT: DeVilbiss High School, Toledo, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1939;
PH.D., 941.

MARRIED: Lois Kathryn Bertholf, June 15, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Theoretical physicist, senior physicist, Polaroid Research Labora-
tory.

OFFICES HELD: Editorial vice-president, Society of Photographic Scientists and
Engineers, 1959-63; director-at-large, Optical Society of America, 1962-64.

MEMBER OF: Optical Society of America; Acoustical Society of America; Arche-
ological Institute of America; American Academy of Arts and Sciences;
Sigma Xi; Phi Beta Kappa.

pusLications: More than seventy-five scientific publications, including “Separa-
tion of isotopes by thermal diffusion,” with W. H. Furry, Reviews of
Modern Physics, April, 1946; “Performance of detectors for visible and
infrared radiation,” Advances in Electronics, 1953; “Quantum efficiency of
detectors for visible and infrared radiation,” Advances in Electronics and
Electron Physics, 1959.

EVERY scientist working in industry has to decide how much of
his time he is willing to give to administrative work. Accepting ad-
ministrative responsibilities is the only way for the scientist to “move
up” in his organization, but the price is that he has less time to work
as a scientist. After a taste of minor administrative responsibility in
supervising a small group of engineers and scientists in the late ’40’s,
I decided the price was too high, and ever since then my only ad-
ministrative responsibility has been my secretary.

I have been in the research laboratory of Polaroid Corporation
since 1944; it is something of a jar to realize that I have been there
cighteen years, They have been very pleasant years, with much

[ 736 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

opportunity to do scientific work in the fields of optics, infrared
and photography. Most of my work is quite independent of the other
work going on here, and this independent work is the subject of most
of my sixty scientific publications since 1944. (There were fifteen
earlier publications.)

Nearly all of my work is in theoretical physics — that is to say,
I] work at a desk instead of in a laboratory. But during the last four
years, 1 have assembled about a hundred kilobucks of equipment to
measure the structure of the images on Polaroid pictures. This
equipment is now producing a steady stream of results.

The independence of my work also makes it possible for me to
attend many scientific meetings, usually six per year, and to visit
scientists here and in Europe. In the summer of 1961 I was in Eng-
land a month attending meetings and visiting laboratories, and in
1962 I was in Europe twice for a total of two months attending In-
ternational Congresses in Optics and Acoustics in Munich and Copen-
hagen (I was one of the three USA delegates to the Optics Congress)
and visiting scientists in Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, and the
Netherlands.

My wife and I had a seven-week vacation in Switzerland in 1955,
and a nine-week vacation split between Norway and the rest of
Europe in 1959, during which we traveled 18,000 miles by train! We
plan to celebrate our twenty- -fifth wedding anniversary in a ten-
week March-May 1963 vacation in Egvpt, “Israel, Turkey, Greece
and Italy.

I like to travel. Particularly, I like to travel by rail. Before 1948,
I had never been west of the Mississippi, but since then I have made
up for it; I have traveled by rail in every one of the forty-eight con-
tiguous states, and in every country of Western Europe except Por-
tugal. Before 1955, nearly all of my travel was by rail, but beginning
in 1955 most has been by air. In the thirteen years 1948-1960, mv
records of business and vacation travel show that I traveled 280,000
miles by rail. This is the distance to the moon, and is thirteen times
the circumference of the earth. If the average speed of the trains
was forty miles per hour, the total travel ume was 28o days; thus I
was On trains six percent of the thirteen years!

In 1948 I discovered how much fun it is to ride in the control
compartment of the locomotive of a train, sitting between the en-
gineer and the fireman. It is so much fun that, in many of my train
trips, I have made arrangements to ride on the locomotive, and I have
had six vacations in which I did nothing for several weeks except to

( 737]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ride locomotives from dawn to dusk, most often in Colorado
have traveled the locomotives of 160 trains in North America fc
total of 27,000 miles, and on the locomotives of ninety-five tre
in Europe for a total of 5700 miles.

I started using a Leica camera at the same time the extens
travels began, and the experience of taking many thousands of P
tures has trained my eyes to see and appreciate the appearance
things, as distinct from their mundane function. I now enjoy arcl
tecture, nature and art museums as never before. Other hobb:
are high-fidelity music and the collecting of 4% by 1%@ by % in:
blocks of metals, particularly elemental metals.

No matter what their field of specialization, most scientists ha
a lively interest in astronomy and in biology; astronomy tells 1
where we are, and biology, what we are. Many years ago I decide
that when I reached forty, I would permit myself the luxury c
studying these fields. I have given a lot of time to the study of th
more scientific aspects of medicine, biochemistry in particular, an

have attended most of the meetings of the American Astronomicz
Society during the last six years.

 

HOME AppREsS: 180 Talbott St., Rockville, Md.

orFrice avoress: U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Germantown, Md.

prepared AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

occupation: Assistant director for admission, Division of International Affairs,

US. Atomic Energy Commission,
UPON entering the outside world I went to work for the Pennsyl-

[ 738]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vania Railroad, in accordance with a long-standing ambition which
some find unaccountable, and spent two and a half happy years
in its regional offices in Chicago. Then one day in the spring of
1941, it seemed wise to enter into an arrangement with the U. S.
Army under which they would receive my services for a period of
one year (later extended) and I would initially receive twenty-one
dollars per month to say nothing of various fringe benefits. By a
set of curious chances (as goes a song I am currently brushing up
on), I presently found myself engaged in counter-intelligence. In
about mid-1943 I happened to be given an assignment relating to
a mysterious outfit innocuously named the Manhattan District.
This was followed by further such assignments and ultimately I
was assigned to the Manhattan District as intelligence officer for its
Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago and its
other facilities in Illinois and surrounding states. In the last months
of the war I was transferred to the corresponding assignment at
Los Alamos. Following the war, I remained in service long enough
to go to the Bikini bomb tests with Joint Task Force One.

Back, at last, to the Pennsylvania, but after a few weeks I was
lent to the newly formed Atomic Energy Commission for a
temporary assignment from which I never returned. In recent
years I have been associated with the Commission’s Division of
International Affairs, whose work largely concerns cooperation with
other nations and international organizations in the peaceful uses
of nuclear energy.

I rely on several hobbies to divert the mind from the ravages
of old age. The most arduous of these is light opera, for some
years I have done the so-called Martyn Green parts in Gilbert &
Sullivan operas for several community groups, but principally the
Montgomery (County) Light Opera Association, of which I am
currently the harassed president. As a hobby, comic opera does have

the disadvantage that it sometimes seems to offer too little contrast
to the office.

[739 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CLAY CORSON JORDAN

 

HOME apprEss: 800 Bethany Rd., Burbank, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Manlius School, Manlius, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

mMarRIED: Wilma Kenyon, Dec. 2, 1945. CHILDREN: Deborah Lee, Aug. 17, 1947;
Kenyon Leland, Nov. 1, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Section supervisor, Shipping Department, Lockheed Aircraft
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant manager, J. J. Newberry Company, Kingston, N.Y,
1938-39; assistant, Muller & Phipps (Asia), Ltd., New York City, 1939-48
(including managership, Bombay, Colombo and Calcutta offices); assistant
export manager, General Milk Company, 1948-53; private business, 1953-56;
shipping department, Lockheed, Burbank, since 1956,

MEMBER OF: Lockheed Management Club.

AFTER graduating from Harvard, I joined the J. J. Newberry
Company in Kingston, New York. However, a longing for travel
brought me to Muller & Phipps (exporters) in New York City, and
for them I went to Bombay, India, in 1941 (May), where I stayed
for four years. During this time I was variously classified as a
“Key” man, and 4F by the U.S. military. Was transferred by
Muller & Phipps to Colombo, Ceylon, then back to New York on
the M.S. Gripsholm.

While staying in Greenwich, Connecticut, with my sister, I met
Wilma Kenyon, an army nurse, just back from Italy. We were
married two months later and honeymooned back to India (Cal-
cutta), on a tramp steamer. In Calcutta we weathered the Calcutta
riots of 1946 which followed a three-month strike of the post
office, telephone and telegraph services. My daughter Deborah was

[ 740 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the first American born in Free India, two days after Indiz
independence.

Deciding against raising my family in India, I returned -
America and joined the General Milk Company, Los Angeles, Fs
them I traveled the Far East and returned to the United States
1950. Six years later I made a complete break with export ar

travel, joining Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, where I ship rath
than receive.

California, where I have now lived for some fourteen years,
apparently going to be my home from here on in.

WILLIAM MORTON JUDD

POD REO AY

    

4
4
2
4
A
@
a
&
4

 

HOME appREss: 127 W. 69th St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Columbia Artists Management, Inc., 165 W. 57th St, New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
UNMARRIED,

occuPATION: Manager of concert artists and attractions, Columbia Artists
Management, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Columbia Artists Management, Inc.; president,
Columbia Festivals, Inc.

[ 741 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

THOMAS JAMES JUDGE, JR.

SES aE

           

HOME ADDRESS: 1711 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Dept. of Labor, 14th & Constitution Ave. N.W., Washing-
ton 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Ramsay Technical High School, Birmingham, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938.

occuPATION: Economist; Bureau of International Labor Affairs (will negotiate
tariff agreements under Trade Expansion Act).

MEMBER OF: The Meet Americans Club; American Economic Association, In-
dustrial Relations Research Association; American Contract Bridge League.

HAVE just returned from another trip around the world and
found your pleas had not been forwarded to Macao or Kenya.
While in college I was unable to accept the exchange fellowship to
Lingnan University and the State Department takes a dim view
of travel to China. However, I have made the trip to every other
major country of the world and when the Hilton Antarctica opens
I plan to be there.

[ 742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEO KAHN

 

HOME appress: 3 Glen Ave., Chelmsford, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Purity Food Stores, Inc., 30 Littleton Rd., Chelmsford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; aM. (Columbia
Univ.), 1939.

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: President, Purity Food Stores, Inc., a supermarket chain.

MEMBER OF: Newton Squash and Tennis Club.

AFTER graduation I went to the Columbia School of Journalism
for a year. In the fall of 1939, I went to work for a New York
State Senator with gubernatorial ambitions, as a public relations
secretary. This lasted until 1941, when I went into the Army. I
served as a navigator in the Army Air Force until the end of the
war. Upon discharge I] went into the supermarket business with
my brother, and that has been my vocation to this time.

I never married. My hobbies are tennis and squash, which I play
at the Newton Squash and Tennis Club. I am a Republican, a non-
believer, and an optimist.

[ 743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

BERNARD FRANCIS KAMINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 11236 Cashmere St., Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bernard F. Kamins Public Relations — Advertising, 190 N.
Cannon Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass., New
Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Loretta C. Cooper, June 26, 1938. CHILDREN: Bernard John, Sept. 9,
1942; Wendie Lou, Jan. 16, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Public relations counsel.

OFFICES HELD:
Political: Public relations chairman for “Dinner With Ike,” 1960,
member executive board, United Republican Finance Committee, Los
Angeles County, since 1962.
Professional: Public relations chairman, Beverly Hills Chamber of Com-
merce, 1952-54, Beverly Hills Business and Professional Men’s Association.
Business: Editor, Cambridge Recorder, 1939-40; unit publicist, Paramount
Pictures, Inc., 1940-41. Publicity and advertising director, Harry Sherman
Productions, 1942-43. Executive assistant, Charles R. Rogers Productions,
1943-44. Publicity and advertising director, Principal Artists Productions,
1944; for Jesse Lasky Productions, 1945; for Cagney Productions, 1946;
for Inter-American Productions, 1947. Public relations counsel, Buddy
Ebsen Enterprises, 1948; also for Gloria Films, 1948; for Arch Oboler
Productions, 1949-51; for National Society of TV Producers, 1950-51;
for J. W. Robinson Company stores, since 1953; for National Board of
Review of Motion Pictures, Inc. 1954; for Marvin Miller Enterprises,
since 1956; for National Audience Board, Inc., 1956-59; for Guy Madison
Productions, 1958-60, for Hebrew Union College — Jewish Institute of
Religion, California, 1958-60; financial public relations consultant, since
1960.
Charitable and Educational: Public relations counsel, March of Dimes,
tygso-6o (ten-year award); public relations counsel, Hollywood Actors
Council, 1950; instructor, Propaganda, University Extension, UCLA,

[ 744 ]

vi Aliibbigaasiabiianianastiaataeinitiliainlniaiiatveniidiiibint tit telteiabs iL UL. 1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1953-54; public information director, Community Chest, 1955; board mem-
ber, Jimmy McHugh Charities, 1955; board director, YMCA, 1956-58,
board member, L.A. State Mental Hygiene Advisory Board, since 1956,
ex officio member of board, Hebrew University College, California, 1959.

Benevolent: Board member, Men’s Club, Wilshire Boulevard Temple,
Los Angeles.

MEMBER OF:

Scientific: Local 818, Screen Publicists, Greater Los Angeles Press Club.
Cultural: Town Hall; Men’s Club, Wilshire Boulevard Temple, Chamber

of Commerce and Civic Association; Business and Professional Men’s
Association.

Social: Beverly Hills Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Basic Propaganda, book published by Houlgate House, 1951.

Author, screen story, “Forty Thieves.” Co-author, “Sky Princess,” screen
story.

AT year’s end, twenty-five years later (than you think), I guess I am
established in my field, because Who’s Who In the West says so,
and I am listed in other less publicized tomes, like the International
Television Almanac and its brother, the International Motion Pic-
ture Almanac; and who is going to argue with the Financial Publicists
Directory? Besides, H. Allen Smith last year took a kindly potshot
at me by writing a chapter in his book (appropriately titled, How
To Write Without Knowing Nothing) about a mistake of mine
some twenty-two years ago.

But more important to me than that is the fact that (in this neck
of the woods where it doesn’t seem to be the custom) I am sull
married to the same wife (Radcliffe ’38), still listening to her as a
sounding-board for what I am or am not going to do. We have a
seventeen-year-old daughter, a high school senior, aiming at college,
and a twenty-year-old son, a junior at the University of Cali-
fornia at Santa Barbara. I have enough time out in the day to spend
an hour at the club, to take an occasional brief vacation, and to read
a book or two.

What’s good: My son likes the same individual sport 1 do, swim-
ming, and is contemplating a law career (this is what my father
wished for me when I was at Harvard); I have been able to pursue
the same field for all this time.

What’s bad: I never studied economics at college and I should
have, for my special work; instead, I am absorbing it slowly. Too
many compulsory activities keep me from taking as many vacations
as I would like. Some professional problems keep emerging that
are too tough to solve. I can’t retire today.

High points during the quarter-century are my reaching the

[745 ]

1-7 PLUTO eR RODS

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

promised land, California, to progress in my field on more fertile
ground; opening my own business in 1948; Ike acknowledging my
book while he was President; my meeting him in person and having
breakfast with him in 1960.

When I entered Harvard, there was family talk about my becom-
ing a lawyer. I did not have a bent toward department store busi-
ness (my father’s). My son seems to have this penchant as well as
the aspiration toward the law. But, by sublimation, I have been pub-
lic relations counsel for five bar association groups and for one of
the largest department store groups in Southern California. In ad-
dition, strangely enough, my occupation keeps me in daily touch
with attorneys for their advice regarding what should be done for
mutual clients.

When I graduated, I wanted to spend all my energies and time on
advancing in my profession, so I tried right away to lick the other
problem that faces young men — answer to the question, With whom
am I going to face the rest of my life? Radcliffe ’38 solved this
personal relations problem before it became a problem. I found I
liked newspaper writing better than anything else, then that I liked
publicity work better than editing; Los Angeles was better for
publicity opportunity, so I came here.

My first real publicity job was at Paramount Studios, where I
committed the boo-boo about which H. Allen Smith wrote. One of
the producers promoted me to publicity director post and I was off
to the races from post to post until a strike in Hollywood compelled
me to stay at home for several months. So I got the book off my
chest that all men have bothering them until they write it, finally.

This wasn’t so tough because I had been reading all the books I
could buy on social psychology (still owning some I never could
understand because the contents went into medical-scientific treatises
on neurology but which some day I shall tackle again).

I figure the book net me my first authentic commercial client, al-
though momentarily it was a total loss. The Investment Dealers
Digest of March 5, 1962, ties the book, Harvard and me all together.
In a feature page article, the author asserts:

“As for the importance of abiding by the Harvard motto, ‘Veri-
tas,’ — truth —all agree with Mr. Kamins’ thesis in a book he has
written that truth is the best propaganda — whether the truth is good
or bad, and no matter how the client feels about it. In the movie
business, making Sophie Glutz an exotic product of Baghdad may

mean extra gold at the box office. In financial public relations, deal-

[ 746 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing with the life stream of the economic system, deception can mean
: ”?
ruin.

STANLEY SAMUEL KANTER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4 Monmouth St., Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., czm! laude, 1938, A.M. 1939; M.D.
(Washington Univ., St. Louis), 1943.

marriED: Thelma F. Cohen, Aug. 10, 1947. CHILDREN: Martha Jane, Jan. 7, 19493
Joel Abraham, Aug. 4, 1950; Neal Edward, Feb. 18, 1953; James Henry,
Sept. 2, 1954; Laura Ellen, Aug. 26, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Physician; senior psychiatrist, Massachusetts Mental Health Center.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Director, Division of Legal Medicine, consultant, Bran-
deis University Psychological Counseling Center; instructor, Harvard Uni-
versity; clinical instructor, Tufts University, president, Northeastern So-

ciety for Group Psychotherapy, 1961-63; member, Visiting Committee to
Psychological Counseling Center, Brandeis University.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Psychiatric Association
(fellow); American Group Therapy Association, Massachusetts Society
for Research in Psychiatry; Northeastern Society for Group Psycho-
therapy; New York Academy of Science; Massachusetts Association for
Mental Health; Waquoit Bay Yacht Club.

pusLications: “Group Psychotherapy for Obesity,” 1951; “Some Influences of
an Experimental Situation on the Psychotherapeutic Process,” 1956; “Some
Aspects of Ego Functioning as Reflected in Skin Temperature Changes,”

1958; “Part I, Comparative Psycholinguistic Analysis of Two Psychothera-
peutic Interviews,” 1961.

THE years since graduation have been full — my reaction being
that time is accelerating geometrically while I move slow ly along.
Family, friends, patients, students — learning , treating and teaching,

living and loving. How to describe it. Chemistry i in the Rade litte

[ 747 ]

a cenpamaa ag pe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

laboratory — father’s death— working my way through medical
school — developing an interest in psychiatry. World War II service
as Army psychiatrist in France and Germany, 1943-46. The horror
and the fun. More formal psychiatric training in Boston, 1946-49.

Marriage —a working partnership — pleasure and pain in the
service of creation. Five children — their unique blends and be-
haviors make for a lively household, We have been fortunate in
most major respects. The pains and benefits of a five-year personal
psychoanalysis. Building a “honeymoon” cottage on Cape Cod —
expanding that cottage regularly to include the growing family.
Sailing and tennis—the former increasing, the latter decreasing.
Renewal of old friendships with classmates and their families.

The satisfactions and frustrations of medical practice, teaching
and research. Research in individual and group psychotherapy —
how to sweat with people and purpose. Participating in changes as
the Boston “Psycho” (Psychopathic Hospital) became the Massa-
chusetts Mental Health Center. Improvement in patient care and
expansion of service.

Vacation trips — Haiti, Mexico, Canada, ski weekends and back
to favorite Seconsett Island on Cape Cod. The tremendous variety
of social and economic conditions. Learning to ski at forty-two —
watching the children overtake and pass me — how to yield grace-
fully and sometimes gratefully — the line between courage and fool-
hardiness. New clinic, new house, new boat. From the halls of
Monmouth Street to the shores of Waquoit Bay. Organizations
and scientific meetings. The difficulty of writing — wish I hadn’t
been excused from English A in 1934.

Presently involved in consulting services to students now. Also
the problems dealing with control and rehabilitation of public
offenders. Recent intermittent revival of old interest in the violin.
One of the biggest problems of all—-where to find the time,
energy and skill? Life is ever full of increasing responsibilities
and pleasures,

[ 748 ]

clad ule dll aged tama

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILLIP H. I. KAPLAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Cleveland Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Benson Shoe Co., 192 Broad St., Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; CP.H. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1940; M.p.H. (ibid.), 1946.

MarRRIED: Clara Sorofman, Oct. 19, 1947. CHILDREN: Frances Ellen, March 20,
1949; Janet Marilyn, July 18, 1950, David Barry, Nov. 30, 1952; Robert
Martin, Sept. 16, 1959.

OCCUPATION: President, Benson Shoe Company, treasurer, Rumford Machine
Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: 210 Associates.

PUBLICATIONS: “Spore Formation of Anaerobes,” Journal of Bacteriology, 1940.

IT seems but yesterday that we stood in line and watched the
Class of 1913 march before us at our Commencement procession;
some were still youthful in form, most greying at the temples, but
all were, to us, old men approaching their fifties — men for whom
over half their adult life had passed.

We are much more fortunate. We are young men still, approach-
ing our fifties. Most of us plan for the larger achievements, the
higher goals of next year. It is only at moments like this, when we
look back, that we take stock of the years gone by. In my case
I have much to be thankful for.

Most important, Clara and I have four mirror images. Frances
at thirteen is beset with all the problems of an incipient teen-ager,
but for all that is a lovely young lady with wide brown eves. Janet
at twelve is a mischievous imp, quick, sweet and growing fast.
David is ten, so active he wiggles and dances when he stands sull.
These older three tease, fight, and compete against each ether

[ 749 ]

ogee Ry

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

several hours daily. And Robert, at three, unmindful of the sibling
turmoil in the atmosphere, serenely rules the household.

In 1950 I left the hallowed corridors of the U.S. Civil Service
Commission (Nat Myers was a fellow examiner) and entered the
shoe manufacturing world with my brother-in-law. We own the
Benson Shoe Company, make ladies “novelty” shoes, and by dint
of a good deal of luck and twelve to fourteen hours per day of
work, have steered our company to less turbulent waters. In the
course of business, I count with Dan Coven, and match wits with
Jack Dona.

Clara and I love to travel. For the most part this has been en
masse, seat belts fastened, as far as we can between school terms,
camp seasons, and sporting or social events. Sometimes, after we
have arranged a team of baby-sitters, we escape the brood for a
time to the Berkshires, New York, Washington, Europe on one
occasion, or even to a Boston hotel for weekends.

We are now at an age when men of like years begin to succumb
to the strain. So we limit our calories, maximize our insurance
and piously trust that the odds are with us. But for the most part
life has been good to us, and Harvard’s contribution to this higher
measure of return seems more positive with each passing decade.

THOMAS KAPLAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 239 Temple St., West Newton, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Goulston & Storrs, 131 State St., Boston, Mass.

parpareD aT: South Side High School, Fort Wayne, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B. Cum

laude, 1941.

[750]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Dorothy Epstein, June 8, 1941. curcpren: Howard Alan, Sept. 16,
1942; Nancy Diane, April 18, 1946.
OCCUPATION; Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Temple Shalom, Newton, Mass.; trustee, Beth Israel
Hospital, Boston; assistant secretary to the Board of Trustees, Beth
Israel Hospital; executive committee, Federal Tax Institute of New
England; executive committee, Boston Chapter, American Jewish Com-
mittee; trustee, Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Boston.

I HAVE reviewed what I wrote in connection with the Tenth and
Eighteenth Anniversary Reports. I find that nothing startling has
happened in the last seven years which might be considered news-
worthy by any of my classmates.

The only truly memorable event in the past twenty-five years
occurred on June 8, 1941. My selection of a mate is proof of the
adage, “It’s better to be lucky than to be smart.”

In the Eighteenth Report I wrote: “The past eight years have
been wonderful ones. I'll gladly settle for like years during the next

seven.” The last seven years were wonderful ones, and I’ve gladly
settled for them.

ELLIOTT KARLIN

 

HOME aApprEss: 19 Greenleaf Rd., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 88 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1034-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.B.Ay 1940.

MARRIED: Pear] Winick, April 23, 1944. CHILDREN: Rosanne Susan, Nov, 2, 1946;
Burton Michael, Sept. 20, 1950.

occupation: Manufacturers’ representative.

MY business activities, as a manufacturers’ representative, keep

[751]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

me on the go constantly with regular personal contacts in the felg
and attendance at regional and national trade shows. Keeping pace
with the changing patterns of distribution is a stimulating challenge.
My children keep me abreast of the trends and the times of the
younger generation. Rosanne, a junior in high school, is president
of the Youth Group at our Temple and has just been honored with
a Youth Leadership Award. Burton, who is in junior high, is ve
proud of being selected first drummer in the school band. Inci-
dentally, we have just added a soundproof room for him to
practise. Burton, also, is keeping pace with his sister. He has just
been elected president of Temple Israel Religious School. Pearl,
whose principal occupation is keeper of the home, specializes in
speech therapy, in addition to participation in community activities,
As times passes, I realize more and more the value of a strong
Liberal Arts Program such as we enjoyed. A solid general educa-
tional background is becoming increasingly vital to an individual's
full development in this nuclear age. I hope my children will enjoy

the advantages of this type program when they enter college in
the near future.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Beaumont St., Ashmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 713 Dudley 5St., Dorchester, Mass.; 520 Commonwealth Ave.,
Boston, Mass.

prepareD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, D.M.p. (Tufts Coll.), 1943.

makrriep: Eleanor A. Finkel, Jan. 7, 1944. CHILDREN: Donna J., Jan. 25, 1949;
Beverly J., April 2, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Dentist.

L752]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1961, secretary, 1962, American Academy of Dental
Medicine; president, 1962, Roxbury-Dorchester Dental Society.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Dental Medicine; American Dental
Association; Greater Boston Dental Society; Metropolitan District Dental
Society; Alpha Omega Dental Fraternity, Roxbury-Dorchester Dental

Society.
AFTER graduating from Harvard I entered Tufts Dental School
and received my D.M.D. degree. An internship at Forsyth Dental
Infirmary was interrupted by my being called to active duty in the
Army Dental Corps where I served as a dentist until 1946. At that
time I began private practice in Uphams Corner, Dorchester.

In 1953 I was recalled from the Reserves into the Army. While on
this tour of duty I served as Chief Periodontist in the dental clinic.
(A periodontist is a dentist who concentrates on the treatment of the
supporting structures of the teeth, namely, the gums and the bone —
to arrest the progress of pyorrhea.)

At the conclusion of the Korean War I resumed practice at my
original office. Recently in February of 1962 1 opened an additional

office in a medical building at Commonwealth Avenue, Kenmore
Square.

MYRON BEECHER KAUFFMAN, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 219 S. Columbia Ave., Columbus 9, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kauffman-Lattimer Co., 263 N. Front St., Columbus 16, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Bexley High School, Bexley (Columbus), Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: 8.B. (Ohio State Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Virginia Gallen, Sept. 20, 1940. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Brown, Aug. 31,

1941; James Beecher, Dec, 23, 1943; Mary Virginia, Aug, 28, 1946; Andrew
Myron, Nov. 23, 1952.

[753]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occupation: Secretary-treasurer, Kauffman-Lattimer Company, wholesale drugs,

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer and director, Kauffman-Lattimer Company,
Columbus, Ohio, 1942-63, Kauffman-Lattimore Company Inc., Parkersburg,
West Virginia, 1950-53; director, Walding-Kinnan & Marvin Company,
Toledo, Ohio, 1959-63; vice-president and director, T.C.F. Development
Company, Columbus, 1962-63, Pilot Dogs, Inc., Columbus, 1953-63; trustee,
St. Ann’s Hospital, Columbus, 1959-63.

MEMBER OF: Columbus Country Club; Rockwell Springs Trout Club; Hoover

Sailing Club.
UPON leaving Cambridge in January, 1938, I returned to Ohio
State University and managed to muster enough credits to graduate
in the fall of 1938.

After that I went into the family wholesale drug business along
with my two cousins. There, the keen competition, the ever-chang-
ing character of the drug business and the likes of the Senator from
Tennessee have kept us pretty much on our toes. And with a wife
and four children (two of whom are presently away at college and
two more will soon be ready), my nose has stayed pretty close to
the grindstone. Pve managed to salvage some time for recreation,
but between golf, sailing, fishing, hunting, an occasional trip with
the family and a lingering love for the streams, lakes, woods and
fields, I seem to have nowhere near enough time left for all of
the other things I keep planning to do.

My political leanings are definitely toward the conservative side
(I confess even to voting for Alf Landon) and I find it quite a
bitter pill to swallow to be dragged once again further and further
down the road to socialism by politicians and fellow travelers
from Harvard.

[754]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAY WILLIAM KAUFMANN

geet Pea One aes ema ee

p 4
i

if

  

HOME ADDRESS: 83 Main St., Roslyn, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jay W. Kaufmann & Co., 111 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cu? laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MARRIED: Mary MacLean, May 23, 1942. CHILDREN: Maryjay, Oct. 12, 1943;
Margo, June 7, 1947; Melissa, Jan. 12, 1950; Cecelia, July 3, 1953; Alex- -
andra, Feb. 14, 1957; Jon, June 23, 1959; Priscilla, Nov. 11, 1960.

occupation: Stockbroker and underwriter; partner, Jay W. Kaufmann &
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Gyrodyne Corporation, 1953-58, Industrial Hardware,
1955-57, I. Rokeach Company, 1956-58, Golden West Markets, 1959-60,
Theatrical Subsidiaries, 1954-59, National Uranium, 1954-56, United
Profit-Sharing, 1956-58, Automated Procedures Corporation, since 1961,
Nashville Electronics, since 1961, Alaska Power & Telephone, since 1962,
National Cybernetic Corporation, since 1962, American Defense Lines,
1955-57, Associated Manufacturers Company, since 1961, Rand Properties,
Inc., since 1962; president and director, Petrosur Oil Corporation, 1959-61,
Seaboard-American Corporation, since 1961, The Trinity Place Fund,
1955-§73; past commander, Roslyn Post, American Legion; member, New
York bar, since 1942, American Stock Exchange, 1941-58, National Stock
Exchange, since 1958, New York Produce Exchange, since 1955, New
York Mercantile Exchange, since 1958, Edmonton, Alberta, Stock Ex-
change, since 1952.

WHILE waiting around for the results of my New York bar ex-
amination in 1941, I bought a seat on what was then the New York
Curb Exchange for $1000. Two months later came Pearl Harbor.
After four years in the Army, I had forgotten whatever law I knew
and had picked up a family. At that time, as you may recall, it was
harder to lose money in Wall Street than to make it and I was en-
couraged to believe that this was one way to eat without working.

[755]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

My belief was unfounded. However, I stayed in Wall Street anc
have had mv own firm since 1946.

We have been doing a general brokerage business, specializing ir
our own highly speculative underwritings, for the past seventeen
years. Some have been spectacularly successful; others just as
spectacularly unsuccessful. I like to go on the board of any com-
pany I have underwritten, which accounts for all those director-
ships. I realize that at this time the attitude of the regulatory
authorities is not too much in favor of the broker remaining close
to the company, but it still seems like a good idea to me.

I have been much interested in the founding of the new National
Stock Exchange, which I hope may one day rival the other exchanges.
I am also working on the organization of a new mutual fund which
won't buy anything over one dollar. As I stop to consider these
activities, those of you who remember me will see that I am still
“uiluing at windmills,” alchough I would just as soon eat as fight now,
which is a considerable difference.

My seven kids, plus the usual ups and downs of Wall Street, have,
I hope, kept me from becoming a “stuffed shirt,” although I do ad-
mit, as I grow older, that I like to attend reunions, something I might

once have scorned.

JOHN VAUGHAN KEAN

 

Woe apoarss: 2 Angell St. Providence 3, R.L

ovvice aponrss: Edwards & Angell, 15 Westminster St, Providence 3, R.L
parpansp Af: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGRERS: A.B, C17 laude, 1938, LL.B, 194t.
UN SS AMRIED.

[756]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupATION: Lawyer, partner, Edwards & Angell; engaged in general practice
of law.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Scholarship Committee, 1952-62, vice-president, since
1962, Harvard Club of Rhode Island; board member, Downtown Branch,
Greater Providence YMCA, since 1961; chairman of special committees,
Rhode Island Bar Association, board member, Providence Junior Chamber

of Commerce, 1947-50, officer (now colonel), Rhode Island Army Na-
tional Guard, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Hope Club; Agawam Hunt, Turk’s Head Club and Harvard
Club of Rhode Island; Army and Navy Club, Washington, D.C.,; American
and Rhode Island Bar Associations, Association of the Army of the United
States; National Guard Association, YMCA; Rhode Island Historical So-
ciety; Division of Christian Social Relations of Episcopal Diocese of
Rhode Island, and Edwards Fund Commiuce of Episcopal Diocese for
housing for the aged; Republican Finance Committee.

pusLications: Articles on law and public affairs in professional and trade asso-
ciation journals.

THE Twenty-fifch Anniversary Report finds so many of us still
in midstream — very busy but often wondering about the relevance
of what we are doing, hopeful for the future ‘but more inclined to
question the survival “of values we once took for granted.

During the years 1938-63, 1 have been professionally trained
(Harvard Law School Class of 1941); served an apprenticeship (as
a so-called “young man” in a big law firm); done something for
the country along with others who were born at the right (or
wrong) time (with six years’ active army service in World War Il
and the Korean emergency ); and involved myself in an assortment
of interests and activities for the law firm of which I] am now a
partner and the community where I live.

Such day-to-day demands leave too little time for thought and
understanding about the wider world which is changing so rapidly .
But I suppose this has ever been the chronic complaint ‘of reflective
middle age. One can be quite envious of classmates who teach or
write or whose public service has brought them into daily contact
with some of the great questions of our ame. But for them, toe,
experience is enriched by its details.

In my own ease, major details include the following:

(1) After graduation, I was subjected to the necesary (fer me)
discipline of the Harvard Law School, which, as far as work habits
and associations were concerned, might have been one hundred
miles from the Yard. I finished my formal civilian education with
the last “normal” prewar Class of iygt.

(2) From August, 1939, to this day, “nermaley” has been a dele

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

sion. The world in which I grew up (post-World War I) has
fallen apart. My father died suddenly in 1940, and for a time I con-
sidered giving up law school and going into the U.S. foreign service,
a field of continuing interest. However, I stayed with the law and
then, anticipating military service, found myself again in Providence,
Rhode Island, where I lived as a child, and attached to the largest
and (I think) the best law firm in the area. I had just enough time
to take and pass the state bar exam and be admitted to practice in
the spring of 1942.

(3) Army service was a varied if not very glamorous experience.
I started as an Infantry private and emerged a captain. Along the
way, I attended the Command and General Staff School and went
around the world, with a year’s stopover in China, where I was
part of an unsuccessful United States effort to stabilize the Far East.

(4) The 1946-50 period was supposed to usher in a new era of
universal peace and expanding prosperity. For me, these were the
years of getting started, after the war, as a lawyer, and I was
absorbed in jury trials, equity and appellate practice, and the odds
and ends of a big office.

(5) All this came to an end in June, 1950. It is perhaps useful, if
deflating, to realize that, regardless of how promising one feels
oneself to be in a particular job, the gap caused by a sudden de-
parture is quickly closed. It is then important to meet creatively
the new situation, whatever that may be. As a World War II
“retread,” therefore, and still a captain, called up in the Korean
Emergency, I served in Germany as assistant G-2 of the 43rd
Infantry Division. My experiences were interesting, and I enjoyed
Europe, which | had not visited since childhood.

(6) I returned to Providence and my law firm in the summer of
1952. Since then, there have been no drastic changes to report but
a slow and continuing shift in emphasis, exemplified in legal work
in a shift from “catch-as-catch-can” practice, with an accent on
litigation, to a more ordered and remunerative business practice,
with considerable out of town travel.

My present outside interests include (a) politics (we have just
elected a Republican Governor by the slimmest margin); (b) edu-
cation (I have had ten rewarding years in scholarship work, which
has brought me in touch with some outstandingly creative people);

(c) community projects of various kinds; (d) the Army (I am com-
pleting twenty years as a full colonel of Artillery); (e) travel (a
month in East Africa is planned for this winter); (f) physical exer-

[758 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cise in reasonable amounts; and (g) good reading (for which there
is never enough time).

The other day an undergraduate speaker at our Harvard Club
holiday luncheon put it very well when he said that the important
thing about Harvard was not that all Harvard students should be
well-rounded but that the College should continue to be well-
rounded from gathering together men of diverse interests and back-
grounds. Collective forces at work in the world and increasing
reliance on statistical criteria would have it otherwise. But the
essential Harvard contribution must not be lost. That contribution
is above all else to recognize and affirm individual qualities and by

so doing to maintain the ongoing values of individual and social
experience.

JOSEPH FRANCIS KEELEY, JR.

 

HOME AppREsS: 1190 N.E. 1ooth St., Miami Shores, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Miami Shores Medical Center, 95:6 N.E. Second Ave, Miami
Shores, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938; M.D. (Univ. of Maryland),
1942.

MarRIED: Millicent E. Donlon, Nov. 5, 1944. cHtLpreN: Joseph Francis, 3d,

Feb. 1, 1946; Charles Donlon, April 28, 1947; Shawn, Sept. 6, 1948; Robin,
March 3, 1950; Laurel, July 18, 1954.

occupation: Physician; co-founder, Miami Shores Medical Center.
OFFICES ‘HELD: Clinical assistant professor of medicine, University of Miami,
since 1951; founder, Arthritis Clinic, 1954; chairman, Schools Committee,

Harvard Club of Miami, 1953-58; regional chairman, Scientific Committee,
Florida Chapter, Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation.

[759]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MEMBER OF: American, Southern and Florida Medical Associations; American
Rheumatism Association, Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation; Uni-
versity of Miami voluntary faculty; Harvard Club of Miami; Kiwanis,
Coral Reef Yacht Club; Miami Yacht Club.

pusLicaTions: Medical column, Florida Arthritis News.

THE ball takes funny bounces. My career as a naval medical officer
came to an abrupt and inglorious end on January 17, 1944, at the
height of that puerile ritual— survival of the primitive, pubertal
initiation rites — known as “crossing the line.” As first — and last —
man in an overcharged “hot seat,” I got a jolt which propelled me
clear across the fantail of our “can” and left me with a broken hip.
Eleven weeks and several battles, atolls, hospital ships and freighters
later, I reached Aiea Heights, where the patch-up process started.
Somewhere along the line spinal arthritis set in, so in November,
1945, I was retired.

If in June 1938, as I joined the ranks of “educated men,” a little
bird had whispered in my ear that my adult years would be spent in
South Florida, I would have thought him a crazy bird indeed. South-
ern Connecticut had always appealed to me as the ideal place to live;
therefore, plans to practice in my native Fairfield County were care-
fully drawn before my entry into the Service. Promptly on dis-
charge, then, I headed back to Connecticut to start anew. The
winter and spring of 1946, however, were long, wet and cold. By
April I had difficulty getting about. My mother and an aunt in
Miami kept boasting that the climate in Miami would help me. Just
to prove them wrong, I packed up my proudest and only posses-
sions — a wife and son — and moved to Miami for two years — long
enough to finish my medical residency.

Florida was indeed the promised land. My health improved, two
more boys joined the family and I was given the opportunity to
practice with two men already established in Miami. One year later
I bought out one of the partners. My new partner and I immediately
set about to establish a group medical practice — old stuff now, but

something radically new in the Miami of 1949. An appointment to
the attending staff of Jackson Memorial Hospital paved the way for
my small participation in the founding of the University of Miami
School of Medicine in 1951 and 1952. Personal interest in arthritis
plus my membership on the medical faculty enabled me to establish

a small experimental arthritis clinic in 1954. In just one year this

baby grew so big that it was necessary to import full-time paid

faculty to direct this sub-specialty, It continucs to flourish. For

[ 760 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

diversion, I chairmanned the Schools Committee of the Harvard Club
of Miami over a five-year span.

Meanwhile, two girls were added to the family group. Five chil-
dren living in a prolific neighborhood can gather an unbelievable
assortment of camp followers. With a soft-hearted mother to push
around, my brood soon turned our home into the television mecca of
Miami Shores. Once again the ball took an unexpected bounce. A
friend told me how he had broken the spell of the idiot box in his
home by enrolling his boys in a free sailing class at Miami Yacht
Club. I promptly gathered up my three boys and dragged them
down to the class. Each Saturday afternoon for the next eighteen
months I sat on the pier while they flapped around Biscayne Bay.
Slowly I learned the lingo. One day the urge was too great. Mil and
I took out a boat —just to try it—and were hooked. Now the
whole family is sail nutty. All our spare time is spent on the water
sailing Prams, Moths and Jets. Our best effort to date is the National
Junior Moth Championship of 1960.

By 1961 all seemed ship-shape and serene. From both the vo-
cational and avocational standpoint, everything seemed entirely
satisfactory, so I settled back to enjoy myself. For the first time,
perhaps, there was leisure time to look about me; or perhaps, twenty
plus years of training and work had enabled me to recognize sick-
ness in bodies other than mammalian. For, as I look about, it ap-
peared most obvious to me that the body politic was gravely ill —
moribund, perhaps. The cause of the disease was easily ascertainable.
The long dead carcasses of Rationalism, together with its monstrous
offspring, dialectic materialism, sprawled unburied over the land

while frantic liberals flailed them unmercifully with their jaw bones
trying to restore vitality to the putrid remains.

Change is necessary, but change is not inherently good. There
are absolutes which continue to apply and to exert their etfect no
matter how vehemently they might be denied or ignored. The end
does not justify the means. Grave problems of mutual intercourse
among peoples, international law and order, conservation of re-
sources — to skim the surface — beg solution, but will not be solved
with lies, deceit or magical incantations, Dragging down the strong

will not strengthen the weak. Infecting the physician with the
patient’s pneumonia will not cure the patient.

The time, I felt, had come to separate the wheat from the chatf,
to preserve and amplify the worth-while changes, to discard the
worthless. The only constructive way to try to help appeared to be

[ 761 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

through politics —a field I had always despised and shunned. In I
jumped! Who can guess the outcome of this latest bounce?

RICHARD SARGENT KEENE

WA coat

ro

   

HOME aAppRESS: 19 E, Fairview St., Mohnton, Pa.

OFFICE AppREss: George W. Bollman Co., Inc., Adamstown, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Amesbury High School, Amesbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRiED: Sarah Joy Waldron, July 5, 1941. cHiLDREN: Shelley Anne, Sept. 25,
1943; Natalie Joy, Feb. 23, 1947; Carol Margaret, Dec. 27, 1949, Mary
Waldron, April 9, 1951.

occupation: Hat and hat body manufacturing, new product development.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1948-54, president, 1950-52, Amesbury YMCA, presi-
dent, Amesbury Industrial Management Club, 1953; director, 1948-54,
president, 1949-50, Amesbury United Fund; director, 1958-63, president,

1959-60, national director, 1960-63, Reading Chapter, Society for the
Advancement of Management.

MEMBER OF: Amesbury Industrial Management Club; Amesbury Country Club;
Amesbury YMCA; Reading Industrial Management Club; Reading Chap-
ter, SAM; Amesbury and Reading Ski Clubs,

PUBLICATIONS: Patent: Equipment and procedure for flocking.

MY departure from Harvard in 1938 was too swift for me to line up
for my diploma with the rest of the Class, and my visits and contacts
with Harvard since that time have been all too infrequent. However,
I have continued to look back to those four years and the summer of
traveling in Europe which followed as the richest kind of prepara-
tion for life, and the perspectives which were gained or started dur-
ing those years have been appreciated ever since that time.

In the fall of ’38, I entered the hat manufacturing business with a
firm located in my home town, and it has been hat manufacturing

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ever since (except for the usual intermission — courtesy of Uncle
Sam). As more of you and yours have gone hatless or worn other
than felt hats during these intervening years, the industry contracted
extensively, and Merrimac Hat Corporation finally gave up manu-
facturing wool felts in 1954, after shutting down six operations,
plant by plant, from 1948 on. Their closing brought about a re-
location of the Keene family from Massachusetts to Pennsylvania,
where another hat manufacturer beckoned, and since that time we
have seen New England jargon turned into Pennsylvama Dutch
expressions.

Our family of four girls precludes much chance of any further
Harvard graduates in this second generation, but we may have a
Wellesleyite yet to follow in her mother’s footsteps, although Get-
tysburg College claims the first-born. It is a rich experience to watch
four girls grow, with all of the variations which defy explanation of
heredity and environment. We are thankful that individuality is a
part of family patterns.

Life has been as routine as any family of four girls would permit,
with brief vacations introduced by short business trips to England
and the Continent to revisit some areas touched in ’38.

Outside interests have continued to keep the non-business hours
full, and time never seems to be sufficient to go around. Sports in a
very amateurish way continue to be an interest and golf and skiing
predominate, with creaking bones indicating that time is passing
swiftly.

When one leaves Harvard, however, and considers those ancient
and venerable alumni of twenty-five years, it is difficult to compre-
hend reaching that respected status. Now that such a situation
faces me the yardstick has suddenly changed, and instead of having
had much time in which to accomplish many things, it is as though

the years were only ten, and I am barely out of school! I need
some more time!

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT EDWARD KELLEY

 
   

POIRIER Sa cag FOIE eo Be IN rhe ge ce om

HOME appress: Hill Province Road, Williamstown, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sprague Electric Co., North Adams, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1942.

marriepD: Ellen Irene Nolan, Sept. 15, 1945. CHILDREN: Susan Irene, Aug. 26,
1946; Joan Sara, May 24, 1951.

occupaTion: General counsel, secretary and director, Sprague Electric Com-
pany.

FOLLOWING graduation, I obtained a law degree at Boston

College Law School. My practice of law was postponed by three

and a half years’ service in the Corps of Engineers at Fort Belvoir,

Virginia, which terminated in October, 1946. While in service, I

met and married Ellen Nolan from Quincy, Massachusetts. I was

admitted to the District of Columbia bar in October, 1946.

After service, we returned to the Boston area, where I was ad-
mitted to the Massachusetts bar in October, 1947. From 1947 to
March, 1962, I engaged in the general practice of law in Boston,
and, during this time, we made our home in Wellesley Hills, Massa-
chusetts.

On April 1, 1962, I was made general counsel, secretary and a
director of the Sprague Electric Company of North Adams, Massa-
chusetts. In August, 1962, we moved to Hill Province Road,
Williamstown, Massachusetts, where we are presently enjoying life
in the Berkshire Hills.

Over the years, I have managed to keep relatively fit with squash,
though at a steadily slowing pace, have tried a hand at golf, with
unspectacular results, and am now taking a crack at skiing, hope-
fully free from fractures.

[ 764 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT PIERCE KELLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7530 Coquina Drive, North Bay Island, Miami Beach 41, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 550 Brickell Ave., Miami 32, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Miami), 1954.

MARRIED: Marjorie Marie Sullivan, Nov. 7, 1942. CHILDREN: Carol Pierce,
Dec. 17, 1943; Robert Pierce, July 14, 1947; Christopher Paul, Sept. 20,
1950; Allan Richard, Jan. 14, 1955; Bruce Franklin, June 19, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Attorney, general practice of civil law, in individual practice.

OFFICES HELD: Town Prosecutor, 1957, Municipal Judge, 1958-59, North Bay
Village; commanding officer, Ship’s Supply Officer Division, Miami,
1957-61.

MEMBER OF: American, Florida and Dade County Bar Associations; Harvard
Club of Miami; Phi Delta Phi; University Club; Bath Club, Camerilla
Club; Cotillion Club; U.S. Naval Reserve; Racquet Club.

IT appears that twenty-five years have passed since graduation,
although I find it hard to believe. The economic and world situa-
tions were not too roseate upon graduation, and those situa-
tions may be even more confused today. The world has been chang-
ing, and the next twenty-five years until our soth Reunion should
be interesting and different.

After two years with various positions at the Hood Rubber Com-
pany, Watertown, Massachusetts, I went on active duty in March,
1941, at the Naval Finance and Supply School in Philadelphia. That
was followed by duty at the Naval Torpedo Station, Newport, Rhode
Island, supply officer of the USS Prometheus (AR-3), USS Bridge
(AF-1), Naval Purchase Office, New York, Naval Shipyard, Boston,
and USS Portsmouth (CL-102). This last duty contained six months
in the Mediterranean as Flag Ship of the Mediterranean Fleet, with
full opportunities to visit Switzerland, Greece, Italy, ete.

[ 765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

After two years as sales manager of the C & S Shoe Manufactur-
ing Company, Framingham, Massachusetts, 1 moved to Miami,
Florida. With a law degree from the University of Miami, Miami,
Florida, I have been engaged in a general type of civil practice. My
civic duties have encompassed positions as Municipal prosecuting
attorney, Municipal judge and member of Charter Review Board.

I married Marjorie Sullivan of Brookline, Massachusetts, in 1942,
and we have five children. Last year our daughter entered Wellesley
College and we had another son. Of our four boys, the eldest shows
promise as a tennis player and, of course, the advantages of a Har-
vard education have already been explained to him.

Life in Miami has been very pleasant, the weather and living
conditions ideal, but a return to Boston at least twice a year is essen-
tial to retain the New England perspective.

JOHN FRANCIS KELLY

oe

cal 8 tis eS

     

ap AN a RNR RN TSI

Pasa Salt od ARE a tate AU Bo ca

 

HOME AppRESS: 773 Solway St., Glendale, 6, Calif.

OFFICE ADDREss: Southern Counties Gas Company of California, P.O. Box 3249,
Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Vermont Academy, Saxtons River, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: $.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Ida Mae Palmquist, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Public utility supervising accountant.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California.

THERE have been few changes in my life since writing for the
18th Anniversary Report. Long ago the problem of selecting wed-
ding anniversary and other gifts has been solved —I simply renew
the credit cards annually.

[ 766 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I continue with Southern Counties Gas Company of California.
The “accountant” part of my listed occupation may be misleading,
as I have trouble with my own income taxes, and in California you
have both state and federal. I am sure any classmate who has
devoted his life to the study of paleographs can do better. My
work is primarily concerned with the preparation and publication of
reports and statistics required by regulatory commissions, financial
analysts and insurance companies. It is active and interesting.

In the 18th Anniversary Report I wrote that living in the Los
Angeles hills above Silver Lake was a compromise between the smog
of downtown Los Angeles and the ever increasing population of
the valleys. Since then we have moved farther back into the hills
above Glendale. Living at the end of a canyon close to a golf course
could be advantageous, since even before California became the
largest state in population, four A.M. was considered a good starting
time.

I was a member of the Scholarship Committee of the Harvard
Club of Southern California for three years, and was happy that
the son of a Business School classmate was admitted to Harvard
College from Southern California.

WILLIAM SUMNER KEMP, JR.

©

 

HOME ADDRESS: g1 View St. Fitchburg, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Crocker Hamilton Papers, Inc., Fitchburg, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Rosemary Crocker, April 15, 1939. CHILDREN: William Sumner, 3d,

Oct. 27, 1940; John Crocker, Aug. 8, 1942; Lawrence, Oct. 23, 1945;
Barbara Fay, Dec, 18, 1949.

[ 767 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HARVARD SONS: William Kemp, 3d, 63; John Crocker Kemp, *64.

occuPATION: Executive vice-president, Crocker Hamilton Papers, Inc., subsidi-
ary of Weyerhaeuser Company, Tacoma, Washington.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Safety Fund National Bank and Fidelity Cooperative
Bank, both in Fitchburg, Tudor Pulp & Paper Company, New York
City, Russell & Crocker, Ltd. Markinch, Scotland, Specialty Paper &
Board Affiliates, New York City, 1960-63; member, Fitchburg Housing
Authority, 1945-55, 1960-65; member, Fitchburg State College Advisory
Comm., since 1956; finance chairman, Republican City Committee, 1950-61.

MEMBER OF: Fay Club, Oak Hill Country Club, both Fitchburg; Chicago
Athletic Association; Profile Golf Club, Franconia, N.H.

THE Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report serves as a universal stimu-
lus to most of us, I am sure, to try to evaluate our lives to date or in
other words, “How’m I doin’?”

The next question has to be, “Compared to whom or what?”
As far as my two Harvard sons are concerned, I am quite sure
that they hope they can be more creative, more socially conscious,
more involved in major issues. I doubt if they really think the
scope of a salesman’s career, even if or when you get to be the boss,
is enough of a challenge or a reward to satisfy them, but back in
1938 I don’t remember that many of us were as aware of “our
responsibility” as many of the Class of 63 seem to be.

But as I read over the previous Reports ] think most of us have
become involved in the world of today to a remarkably similar
degree; the Community Chest drive, the PTA, perhaps local or state
politics in some small way, a hospital committee, the growth of a
business enterprise especially involving research and development of
new or improved products or methods. All of these things are a
part of life in the past twenty-five years and they have offered all
the challenge and rewards I could have ever wanted.

Crocker Burbank, the paper company with which I have been
associated for the past twenty years and for the past ten a director
and vice-president in the sales division, joined the Weyerhaeuser
Company, as a subsidiary, on July 1, 1962. This is quite a change
for a company that has been owned and operated by one family
since 1826. The next twenty years look pretty exciting to me as
we try to expand in the national market in competition with the
major paper producers in this country and overseas. This Weyer-
haeuser Company markets the fine papers, business papers and tech-
nical papers made by Crocker Burbank Company and Hamilton
Paper Company, both subsidiaries of Weyerhaeuser Company. My
present job is to handle the sale of the technical and specialty papers

[ 768 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

made primarily in the Crocker Burbank paper mills in Fitchburg.

On a personal level life is and has been equally exciting and
pleasant. The Kemp family has always loved to ski and we have
been lucky enough to try it out in Europe and Aspen, besides
having built a little ski lodge in Franconia, New Hampshire, a few
years ago. I hope Bill (Harvard ’63) will have helped make the ski
team record a good one,

It is always nice to see one’s children doing a much better job
than the old man ever did. Obviously, I was very smart when I
picked their mother. Bill graduated from Exeter and John from
Milton Academy, where Lawrie now is. Our only daughter,
Barbara, is still only thirteen and no doubt will lead her rapidly
aging father a merry chase in the next few years.

Classmate Malcolm McVickar is a close business associate; in
fact, we almost share the same desk. Just recently we found out
that another classmate, Warland Wight, is in charge of lumber sales

for our parent, the Weyerhaeuser Company in Tacoma, Wash-
ington.

4: JOSEPH PATRICK KENNEDY, JR.

 

BORN: July 25, 1915, Hull, Mass. parents: Joseph Patrick Kennedy, ‘12, Rose
Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Fitzgerald Kennedy, ’g0; Robert Francis Kennedy, 48:
Edward Moore Kennedy, ’54.

pieD: Lost in flight, Aug. 12, 1944, in European theatre.

AFTER graduation Kennedy spent a year as private secretary in

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

the American Embassies at London and Paris, and then entered the
Harvard Law School where he spent two years. In June, 1941,
he enlisted in the Naval Reserve, began training as a naval aviation
cadet and was commissioned as an ensign in April, 1942. After
eight months of duty with a transition squadron he joined a patrol
squadron in January, 1943. He was promoted to lieutenant (j-g.),
transferred to a bombing squadron and in July, 1944, became a full
lieutenant.

He was lost in flight while piloting a Navy plane on a special
mission in the European theatre. He was awarded the American
Defense Service Medal and the European-African-Middle Eastern
Area Campaign Medal. He was posthumously awarded the Navy
Cross and the Air Medal. In 1946 a destroyer, USS Joseph P.
Kennedy, Jr., was launched as the Navy’s tribute to his heroism.
He was survived by his parents.

FRANCIS KEPPEL

Mag RR CA amp Seon emg agora om

    

HOME AppREss: 55 Brewster St., Cambridge, Mass.

oFFice appress: Office of Education, U.S. Dept. of Health, Education and
Welfare, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

MarrieD: Edith Moulton Swain, July 19, 1941. cHiLpren: Edith Tracy, Nov.
19, 1942 (7. Samuel S. Drury, Jr., Sept. 8, 1962); Susan Moulton, Feb. 15,
1947.

OCCUPATION: Educational administration,

orrices HELD: Trustee, Boston Museum of Fine Arts, since 1954, currently,
Sarah Lawrence College and Markle Foundation,

MeMbBbR of: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; Century Association
(New York); Harvard Club of Boston.

[770]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT has taken twenty-five years to leave Cambridge for good. Even
as I write from a desk in Washington, looking out on a scene very
different from the Harvard Yard, it is hard to believe that the
tie has finally been cut.

There have, it is true, been two other absences. I tried to become
a sculptor after college by spending a year at the American
Academy in Rome. This turned out to be a failure in the arts but
a success Otherwise. A pretty New York girl was in Rome that
year and in losing a career I found a wife. It took a little while
to persuade her to marry an academic type, for 1 came back to
Harvard as an assistant dean of freshmen, but we were finally
married in Wakefield, Rhode Island, in the summer of 1941.

As with so many others in those days, the scene shifted to Wash-
ington and the War Department, and ultimately to service in uni-
form, partly in the United States and partly in the European theatre.
By chance I was assigned to work which brought me in close touch
with educators and social scientists and the rest of my career has
been built on this accident. The end of the war brought with it
a chance to go back to Harvard as assistant to the Provost. By
this time, our daughter Tracy had been born in Washington and
had started a happy youth which was culminated last fall by a
Cambridge wedding to Samuel S. Drury, Jr. Soon after we returned
to Cambridge, Susan’s arrival made a family of four.

In 1948 President Conant asked me to take on the job of Dean
of the Graduate School of Education. As an undergraduate, I must
confess that I had barely heard of the School and I soon discovered
that few others had either. For fourteen years it has been the
center of our life and occasionally our despair. There was a lot
of money-raising and speech-making involved, and my wife in
sardonic moments used to refer to it as the graduate school from
education. But it was a good job, and at the end we left with a
sense of having been able to play a useful part in the School's
growth, as well as a sense of profound affection for the community
in which we lived so long.

It has not been a life that encouraged hobbies. Sculpture, at least
in my case, is not something that can be done in the odd hour.
The best relaxation seems to be exercise, and now that middle age
has come, this takes the form of men’s doubles in tennis, We have
bought a little cottage in Canada, in the village of North Hatley in
the Province of Quebec, near the Vermont border. It has been a
good arrangement for the children and has made it possible for us

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

to form close Canadian friendships that have varied what might
otherwise have been too academic a circle.

Living as we have in Cambridge, we have heard a good deal
about the Twenty-fifth Reunion of former classes. I can report
that families of members of the Reunion Class seem to have a better

time, if possible, than the head of the household. The Keppels
therefore look forward eagerly to June.

FREDERICK KEPPEL

 

HOME ApprESS: Box 486, Route 2, Camp Creek Road, Springfield, Oregon.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Controls & Communications Co. P.O. Box 3007, Eugene.
Oregon.

prePaRED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.
UNMARRIED,

occupation: Engineering, control systems, design and fabrication, project
engineering and purchasing.

IT has been a very good twenty-five years and I welcome this
platform to gloat about it.

Bragging about one’s beautiful wife and brilliant children seems
not only acceptable, but generally well regarded. Despite multiple
evidences of rather too many humans now on this globe, Society,
the Bureau of Internal Revenue and the Defense Department all
work constantly to make the bachelor feel ashamed of himself.
Well, to me this opprobrium simply does not sell. I have had

continuously and am having an increasingly marvelous time and
am not one particle ashamed of it.

[772 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Youth was grossly overrated but for me each year brings increased
satisfaction and pleasure. Possibly the causes of this delightful
situation are as follows, Obviously very few are of my own doing:

(1) Superb health, respected.

(2) A constant insistence on jobs, locations and recreations that
interested and satisfied me, rather than those that impressed others
or those that had financial advantages.

(3) A passionate love of all things outdoors, particularly those
things found along clean trout streams and rivers.

(4) An interest in things and ideas more than incidents and
people.

(5) A permanent attitude that it is not too late.

(6) A belief in common stock, carefully chosen, watched, and
sensibly changed.

You may perhaps find the above pattern rather more useful to a
solvent bachelor fly-fisherman engineer in Oregon than to the
Organization Man and his family in suburbia.

In June, 1938, I picked up one end of a steel tape for a very good
contractor constructing a section of the Sixth Avenue Subway in
New York City. In December, 1941, I had for two years been
contractor’s shaft engineer on the section under the Hudson of the
Delaware Aqueduct Tunnel. When the Bomb fell, I was a Seabee
lieutenant on my way back here after about thirty months of Solo-
mons to Okinawa. During the first part of 1946, I took a superb
trout-fishing vacation in New Zealand. Incidentally, this cost less
than I would have spent at home. From 1946 to 1957, it was my
privilege to do process engineering for L-O-F Thermopane near
Toledo, Ohio, while we grew from forty men at tables to 400 with
conveyors.

Analysis during the spring of 1947 showed that the topography
was unsatisfactory and the 7oo-mile round trip to decent trout-
fishing was excessive, so I headed for the Pacific Northwest with no
specific destination. This move reduced my salary by about 30%
and was unquestionably the best investment I ever made.

Presently, and I think permanently, my home is in Springfield,
Oregon, on the bank of the McKenzie River where any evening
after work there are a few trout ready for a dry fly. The glass walls
of my bedroom, living-room and kitchen see a quarter of a mile
of river without sign of humans, My desk is twenty minutes away
where we have a small company that concerns itself with automatic
control systems. Ninety minutes in one direction are always snow-

[773]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

covered mountains. Two hours in the other direction is the
Pacific. Here there is space to live while you work.

Surely I have much for which I should thank Harvard. There it
was required that one learn to try to understand things instead
of merely learning what to do about things. Education, not train-
ing. Probably Harvard also helped what my parents and Milton
Academy so well began, and a few friends since have continued, by
teaching me a very little of how to read, cipher, see and listen.

The fact that I have never attended a reunion is not due to lack
of appreciation of what Harvard has done for me, although I do
question the virtue of a reunion’s nostalgic appeal to the glands.
But the main thing is this absurd custom of holding reunions at the
very peak of the spring trout-fishing. First things first, gentlemen;
I probably shall not be seeing you.

PETER GORTH KERBY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 206 Hommocks Rd., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Nylonge Corp., sor Fifth Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935—1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Mabel Gladis Williams, May 16, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president — marketing, Nylonge Corporation, manufacturer
of cellulose sponges.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Mamaroneck Connie Mack League, New York; chair-
man, Regatta Patrol Race Committee, Larchmont Yacht Club.

MEMBER OF: Larchmont Lodge No. 1030, F. & A.M.; Ancient Accepted Scot-
tish Rite, White Plains, Mecca Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S., New York; Har-
vard Club of New York; Cellulose Sponge Institute, U.S. Power Squad-
ron, White Plains, N.Y.

[774]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LIFE since graduation seems to break down into three distinct
periods —- B.W. (before the War), the War, and A.W.

Before the conflict, Lever Brothers Company (soap) took me in
tow from September, 1938, until November, 1942, during which
time I received basic training in the operational rudiments of so-
called big business: how to develop, plan and take a product to
market. Indoctrination as well took place in the distribution patterns
of the retail trade.

From November, 1942, through May, 1946, the U.S. Army had
my undivided attention (private to captain). I was initially invited
into the Ordnance Corps. However, after a brief period of various
cadre schools and O.C.S., a shiny second lieutenant emerged. Addi-
tional training in Fort Custer and at Yale found me in Civil Affairs
and Military Government as an economics officer. Further in-
doctrination occurred in Shrivanham, England, where I was “inte-
grated” into the British Army, and landed on Avranches Beach,
Normandy. About a year was spent with the British in Civil
Affairs activities in France, Belgium, and Holland. Activities con-
tinued in this field, with the final responsibility in the U.S. Military
Government of economics officer (trade and industry, rationing
and price control) in Reg. Kassel, Germany.

After the War, Kerby, Dahlstrand, Inc. was formed as an import-
export firm, specializing in imports of semi-finished household
products, and exports of basic commodities. In early 1950 (as a
partial outgrowth of this import business of cellulose sponges), a
few others and I formed the Nylonge Corporation, manufacturing
cellulose sponges. This industry has had excellent growth, with
the company fortunately becoming one of the key producers.

My main hobbies undoubtedly are my continued love for the
sea and the forest. Over the years I have been a “stink-potter,”
but last year graduated to the “Raggers” and now spend my leisure
hours sailing on Long Island Sound and along the Coast. As an
avocation, I am a tree farmer (with most of the timber holdings
being in Central Maine), and a suburban gardener around the house
(when it’s poor sailing weather).

Through the years, my mugwump political tendencies have con-
tinued, and I even backed a Democratic Congressional candidate
(who lost in Westchester recently). But, the continued stronger
control by the federal government over the individual, and the lack
of apparent responsibility of politicians for future generations
worries me. I am also concerned that the widespread desire of a

[775]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

large percentage of the population to have the federal government
guarantee complete welfare benefits, with little risk or effort ex-
pended by the same people, eventually will doom the free enterprise
system under which our country grew and flourished.

HENRY SHERRILL KERNAN

SS

   

HOME AppRESS: Worcester, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: USOM/Korea, APO 301, San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Montclair Academy, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938: DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.F. (Yale Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Josephine McClellan, Feb. 24, 1945. CHILDREN: Henry Devereux,
Dec. 31, 1946; Catherine Stewart, June 9, 1948; Dennis Bruce, Feb. 7,
1953; Christopher Niles, Oct. 6, 1954; Patricia McClellan, March 28, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Forestry adviser to the Republic of Korea. Employed by the

Agency for International Development, Department of State, Washington
25, DC.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Foresters.
PUBLICATIONS: One-hundred and fifty articles on forestry and conservation,
and one book, The World is My Woodlot, published in October, 1962.

MY first important decision after leaving Harvard was that of
choosing a career. I chose forestry because it appeared to open wide
horizons of new activities, whereas other careers, whose practitioners
I had observed, appeared to lead towards dullness and routine. The
decision was a sound one, although the reason was foolish,

The process of acquiring a degree in forestry took three years of
study at Columbia and Yale, and was difficult and often painful.
Nothing at Harvard had prepared me for simultaneous physical and
mental exertion or for dealing with the sort of people found in
lumber camps. However, after a few years I learned to hold my

[776]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

own on both counts, and forestry became the enthralling occupa-
tion that it has been to me ever since.

I could not enter the armed forces because of lameness due to
infantile paralysis. For that reason, while my classmates were in
uniform, I was moving from Mexico to Quebec to South Carolina
and to Idaho in various tedious, ill-paid jobs. At last my opportunity
came, and in the summer of 1943 1 went to the Republic of Colom-
bia to explore for quinine bark. Here my most romantic dreams
of adventure came true. On muleback or on foot, I traveled through
some of the world’s densest jungles and most magnificent scenery.
I slept in isolated homesteads, in Indian villages, in caves and in leaf
shelters. I was altogether on my own; I learned Spanish fluently,
and the thought that my dangers and hardships were at least as great

those of the military gave me great satisfaction.

There a poisonous snake bit my hand and sent me back to the

United States to recuperate. My employer became the American
Forestry Association of Washington, D.C. However, the routine
of office and suburban life seemed irksome after a few months and I
therefore became the northeastern consultant for the same organiza-
tion. My work consisted of investigating and reporting upon the
forestry situation in various northeastern states. This travel so
enamoured me of the American country side that I invested all
of my savings in a property of 1200 acres near Cooperstown, New
York. There are some fields and a river, a mountain, a lake, caves,
brooks, springs, and hundreds of acres of prime forest of hemlock,
maple and pine. There are trout and beaver, deer, coon, grouse,
ducks and a myriad of songbirds. I am so inordinately fond of these
acres that they nearly persuade me to exchange all the delights of
study, travel and work around the world for life in that one little
valley.

I did live there during the better part of four years; and | then
earned my living by an odd assortment of forestry work. It included
contract planting, logging, sawmilling and selling my own timber.
However much I enjoyed the life, its economic base was so narrow
that I probably would have left it even if a wonderful picce of good
luck had not come my way. This was the offer of a position as
forestry adviser on a United Nations Economic Mission to Bolivia.
This time my adventures in jungle and mountain left me unscathed,

and I returned home eager for more of the same.

In those days, the early 1950's, aid to under-developed countries,
which has since become a major activity, was barely under way.

[777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Because I had a specialty applicable to such countries, experience
abroad and a command of several languages, I decided to make it my
career. I have worked since as forestry adviser for six years in
Persia, four years in Spain, and I have now been in Korea almost a
year. Side trips have taken me to Italy, Cyprus and Tunisia. In
all these countries, my special interest has been the high and remote
areas of forest and wildland. Since I have been trained to observe
and make judgments about such areas, I find them interesting; and
the broader base of experience I gain, the more interesting they and
my work become. I intend to stay in this work as long as I can.
If for any reason I have to give up my concern with forests around
the world, I will return to my own land and concentrate all of my
professional attention upon the forest I really love best.

In a few lines, I cannot breathe life into the names listed above
as my family. Just as forestry is, as far as I am concerned, the best
occupation in the world, they are the best family. Thus far my
children are all excellent students and have scarcely seen the inside
of a hospital or a doctor’s office.

My minor hobbies are archery and flute-playing, but my major
diversion is that of learning and reading foreign languages, a taste
acquired at Harvard. Korean is the twelfth. My favorite books,
which I read over and over, are works of art which I enjoy without
any consideration for their practical value, books such as War and
Peace, Don Quixote, Shakespeare and Homer.

Aside from my work, my family and my diversions, my one
claim to distinction is my writing. ‘This activity makes up, in some
degree, for my total lack of any community activities, offices,
degrees, honors or appointments. The fact that just about every-
thing I choose to write appears in print sooner or later is a source of
great satisfaction.

[ 778 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES CONSTABLE KERNAN

     
 

mepeeereee_ coon suena
ote cone
oe € x + Py -
- YO
ie s

a . * ot.

’

 
 
   

HOME AppRESS: 211 Higby Rd., Utica, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chas. H. Daly, Inc., Hotel Hamilton, Utica, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MarRIED: Genevieve Neligan, Aug. 20, 1945. CHILDREN: James Constable, Jr.,
Aug. 2, 1946, Andrew N,, July 25, 1949 (died May 6, 1960); Susan D., Oct.
30, 1950; Robert P., 2d, Jan. 11, 1952; Elizabeth N., Jan. 7, 1953; Patrick M.,
June 22, 1957; Madaline M., Jan. 12, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Real estate sales representing the General Development Corpora-
tion — Florida Real Estate, also managing Split Rock Beverages, Inc., a
small local soft drink bottling company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Harvard Club of the Mohawk Valley, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Mohawk Valley; Sadaquada Golf Club.

PRIOR to World War II, spent three years in Louisiana and Texas
with Grubb & Hawkins, oil producers. Enjoyed New Orleans and
Houston very much.

Served in the Army for four years, April, 1942, to May, 1946,
in the Quartermaster’s Corps. Private to first lieutenant. Com-
manded truck company for two and a half years in the United
States and Europe. Returned to the oil business in 1946. Worked
twelve years in the Middle West, Gulf to Canadian border, for
Helmerich & Payne, Inc., oil producers and drilling contractors of
Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Developed some eye trouble (deterioration of the macula). Have
been operating from home base since 1958. Have enjoyed seeing
and working in many parts of the country where I have met many
fine people and have lots of friends.

On politics: As a result of my traveling, have reached the con-
clusion that most people in the forty-six states which I have visited

[779 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

are quite capable of meeting and solving their own problems. Per-
haps democracy would survive longer and socialism be less ominous
if more people, especially in the federal government, were of the
same opinion.

ROBERT MILLS KERNAN

   

HOME appreEss: 691 Lakeside Drive, Robins Air Force Base, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2853d Air Base Wing, Robins AFB, Ga.

PREPARED AT: Montclair Academy, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Josephine A. Furey, Oct. 30, 1951. CHILDREN: Robert Furey, Aug. 16,
1952; Martha Sherrill, Nov. 13, 1953; Joseph Devereaux, Feb. 4, 1955; Mary
Francis, Aug. 2, 1957.

occupPaTION: Lieutenant colonel, U. S. Air Force.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER graduation, I spent two years with the St. Regis Paper
Company, at the Norfolk, New York, plant. Then I beat the
draft call by two months into the Air Corps, as it was then called.
My tour of combat in the war was during 1942 which I spent with
the 19th Bomb Group in the Southwest Pacific. I was co-pilot
on B-17’s; flew fifty combat missions. Returned to the U.S.A. in
November, 1942, and finished the rest of the war as an instructor
pilot training replacement B-17 crews for the European theatre of
operations.

In 1947 I applied for and received a regular commission in the
U.S. Air Force. For ten years I was in the Strategic Air Command.
From 1957 to 1960, I served in the Paris office of the U.S. Air
Force in Europe. In 1958 an old injury to my neck caught up with

[ 780 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me and my status as a “disc man” became official, ie., the flight

surgeon declared me no longer fit for flying duty because of a

slipped disc in my neck. Not being on “flying status” in the Air

Force is somewhat disappointing; but it does not cut one off from
opportunities to enjoy life tremendously and to engage in many
interesting occupations. Both of these I have managed to do to my
complete satisfaction. I am at present stationed at Robins Air
Force Base in Georgia, which is a part of the Air Force Logistics
Command. I have been here since returning from Paris in 1960.
I can expect to be transferred in a year or so because the average
tour in the Air Force is about three years; but there is no way of
knowing where I'll be next. We are wanderers and birds of passage
in the Air Force. My family and I have no permanent home, but
always enjoy ourselves wherever we happen to be.

ALEXANDER KEVORKIAN, JR.

is
.

    
 

    
 

es RE ete

4°
rs

}

3

hig: i

‘%&

 

HOME ADDRESS: 126 Eastbourne Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Super Tire Service, 234 Quincy Ave., Quincy, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Salesman,

MEMBER OF: Scituate Country Club.

AFTER a few years of alternating between the family business and
working, I was requested to add my considerable weight to the
war effort. I was known as possibly the army’s meanest private.
In order to avoid KP, the primary cause of this meanness, 1 ad-
vanced myself to lieutenant, spending thirty wretched months in

[ 781 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

the C.B.I. Theatre — but on somewhat better terms than my enlisted
men.

Following this extensive world tour, I returned to my home-
stead which then looked better than any other place on earth. I
haven’t wandered from here since. Local selling territory keeps me
circulating in fresh air on the outskirts of town where I’m in least
danger of losing my health or Boston accent.

For several years I grumbled about the condition of our foot-
ball, but my interest dulled when my friend “chief” Boston wasn’t
summoned from New Hampshire to cure it. However, much has
been done as evidenced by the fine material on our squads. This
progress is great, measured against our day when we almost had
to buy a ticket to the game in which we played.

Two years ago, I took up golf, a sport highly recommended for
old gladiators with stiffening joints. I agree that this is the greatest
game ever devised for man’s general health, but I think it’s the
most exasperating if he wishes to play it well. My progress is
slow but T’ll never stop trying. I’m hooked.

+k HERBERT VICTOR KIBRICK

fret epee pager Ser RRO

   

UR oy Gee nti Se Cte ce lace cas

BORN: July 8, 1915, Boston, Mass. parents: Isaac S. Kibrick, Anna Rozen.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; LA., 1943.

MARRIED; Jane Mittau, Sept, 7, 1941, Boston, Mass.

piED: Nov. 30, 1960, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

wiwow: Mrs. Herbert V. Kibrick, 57 Harvard Ave., Brookline, Mass,

HERBERT VICTOR KIBRICK spent four years with our class
and was a resident of Lowell House and a member of the Glee

[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club. After college he became associated with the New York Life
Insurance Company in Boston, and in 1958 was named president of
the firm’s Top Club, the highest sales honor attainable by a field
underwriter. He was also a member of the Million Dollar Round
Table. He was associated with Boston and National Life Under-
writers Associations, American Society of Chartered Life Under-
writers and the Boston Life Insurance and Trust Council. He was
a member of the examining committee of the Boston Public Library
and the executive committee of the New England Alumni Associa-
tion of Phillips Academy. He was also a member of the Associates
of Adolescents of Children’s Medical Center and member of the
board of directors of the Friends of Music of Boston University.
In 1953 he was appointed to the faculty of Northeastern University
as a lecturer on taxation. A lieutenant colonel in the Army Reserve,

he served as a lieutenant during World War II. He was survived
by his wife.

SIDNEY KIBRICK

 

HOME apprEss: 381 Clinton Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Boston University Medical Center, 15 Stoughton St., Boston 18,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938(39); PH.D. (Massachusetts Inst.
of Technology), 1943; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1946.

MarRRIED: Anne Karlon, June 16, 1949. CHILDREN: Joan Elaine, Oct. 6, 1954;
John David, Aug. 9, 1959.

occuPaTIoN: Medical research and teaching; associate professor of microbiology
and medicine, Boston University School of Medicine; chief, Section on

Infectious Diseases and Virology, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals; lec-
turer on pediatrics, Harvard Medical School.

[ 783 ]

wo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICES HELD: Member of various state and local advisory commissions in the
area of public health.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; New England Pediatric Society,
Society for Pediatric Research; Delta Omega (Public Health); Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on virology, infectious diseases and pediatrics in var.
ious professional journals.

MY four years at Harvard were followed by a five-year recuperative
period at M.I.T., where I acquired a doctorate in bacteriology,
strength for further study and an interest in medical research and
teaching. Five years later ] had added a medical degree from Boston
University, completed my internship and was awaiting army assign-
ment. Army discharge in 1949 was celebrated by marriage and a
return to Harvard, this time to the Children’s Hospital Medical
Center, an affiliated teaching hospital. There I remained for twelve
years on a full-time basis, initially as a research fellow and later as
assistant clinical professor of pediatrics. This period, which was
both exciting and rewarding, was spent for the most part working
with polio and other viral agents as a member of the research
division of infectious diseases directed by Dr. John Enders, Nobel
Laureate in 1954. The studies then underway in this unit, on
applications of tissue culture to virology, not only helped reveal
numerous previously unrecognized viruses, but also formed the
basis of both the polio and measles vaccines and, in brief, initiated
what is now regarded as a new era in virology.

In 1961, with the completion of a medical research building
at Boston University, I accepted a position there as associate pro-
fessor of microbiology and medicine and chief of the section on
infectious diseases and virology, retaining, however, both a teach-
ing and research affiliation with Harvard. For the past two years
I have been occupied with organizing and directing my new unit.

During my third year in medical school I found myself continu-
ously attracted to the hospital surgical service, although I had
hitherto experienced no inclinations toward surgery as a career.
This apparent diversion from my initial goal of medical research
was satisfactorily resolved when I discovered that my interest lay
not in surgery, but rather in the surgical supervisor, whom I
subsequently married! My wife is a typical “38” spouse, ie,
attractive, capable, vivacious, and intelligent. In 1952 she was
appointed as a Fellow of the Harvard Foundation for Advanced
Study and Research, becoming their first female fellow. A few
years later she received her Ed.D. from Harvard, making her also

[ 784 ]

, - ngage saree marae
DEN EOL

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a Harvard “Alumnus” and the first nurse, I believe, to receive
a doctorate from the School of Education. Her interests, like mine,
have inclined toward an academic career and, at present, she is
chairman of the Graduate Division and professor of nursing at
Boston University School of Nursing. She is also active on various
national committees in her field. Although both our schedules
involve meetings away from home, we have managed, to date, to
synchronize our activities to allow time for family togetherness.
Our family, a somewhat later acquisition than that of most of our
classmates, consists of Joan, eight, John three, and a poodle, age
six months. Participation in non-professional community affairs has
consisted primarily of the usual degree of PTA involvement.

As befits the conservative nature of a Bostonian, we have finally
decided, after almost a lifetime in the Boston area, to put down
roots there and have recently purchased our first home.

HENRY MAYNARD KIDDER, JR.

pete ETE

     
   

   

iis pastes st SIE UN ABE Nach ea Sieh gsR N68 N

HOME apprEss: Sandy Hill Road, Oyster Bay, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 Broad St., New York 4, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1034-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; LL.B, 1941.
marrigD: Reine M. M. Tracy, June 5, 1942. CHILDREN: Henry Maynard, 3d,
Sept. 11, 1943; John Tracy, Nov. 12, 1945; Timothy J., Jan. 20, 1952.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer, partner, Meyer, Kissel, Matz & Seward.
MEMBER OF: Down Town Association; Association of the Bar of the City of
New York; Nassau County Bar Association; American Bar Association,
Cruising Club of America; Harvard Club of New York City.

I WAS about to start this narrative with the statement: “After
four and one-half uneventful war years served in small vessels of

[785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

the U.S. Navy .. .”, when just in time I remembered the biggest,
best and happiest event of my career to date — my marriage, June
5, 1942. That great event could easily take up ten times the entire
space allotted on this form, Let it suffice to state that never has any
man to my knowledge had to overcome so many obstacles in so
short a space of time to win the hand of a maiden. I doubt if I
could now persuade a highly uncooperative commanding officer,
who did not think too much of marriage as an institution anyway,
that I had to have at least three days to get married. I wonder if I
now would have the drive and perseverance to straighten out in
one day the perfect morass of red tape occasioned by tests, waiting

eriod, etc., that were required for a New York marriage license,
and I still look back with amazement on the fact that I was able
to persuade a taxi driver to drive me from Norfolk to Washington
on credit, when on the morning of the big day all the planes were
grounded because of fog. It was then I acquired my first gray hair,
but it’s been well worth it.

So let’s begin again. After four and one-half uneventful war
years (except for the above very important event), I returned to
my home town, New York City, and commenced the long, arduous
apprenticeship of the young lawyer. Now some sixteen years later,
I cannot detect any great difference between what I did then and
what I do now, except that the probate clerk at the New York
County Surtogate’s Court sometimes calls me by name instead of
calling me sonny — recognition of some sort.

Among my greatest satisfactions is the ownership of a fine, old
catboat, Mayflower of Woods Hole, in which my wife, myself,
and as many of our three sons as I could impress into service, have
cruised from Cold Spring Harbor to Woods Hole each of the last
eight summers. I had always longed for this large (30-foot) and
venerable (53-year old) vessel throughout my boyhood years at

Woods Hole, and finally in a fit of rash enthusiasm when the office
had a good year, I bought it.

A great vicarious thrill has been to watch the athletic prowess
of my boys, It has done a lot to make up for the frustration of that
bright fall day twenty-eight years ago when it was rather painfully
impressed upon me that football which was played with pleasure
and some success by a 145-pound boy at prep school was definitely
suicide at Harvard and I turned in my uniform. Our eldest is at
the University of Colorado and son number two was for a year in
Bill Brown’s house at Andover, where he has played varsity foot-

[ 786 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ball for the last two years. We fervently hope that, on the impetus
of such good example and instruction, number two may be material
for Harvard next year. Our postwar model is only ten at this

writing.

DAVID HOYT KIMBALL

en

  

MAILING ADDRESS: % American Express Co., Florence, Italy.

JOHN WILLIAM KING

 

HOME ADDRESS: 97 Summerside Ave., Manchester, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 77 Water St. Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: St. Joseph’s High School, Manchester, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 194—
LL.B. (ibid); 1943.

MarRiED: Anna McLaughlin, Oct. 13, 1945.

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: State representative (New Hampshire), three terms, governor,
State of New Hampshire, since 1963; ballot law commissioner (N.H.);
director, New Hampshire Tuberculosis Society; editor, New Hampshire
Journal,

MEMBER OF; American, New York, New Hampshire, Manchester (N.H.)
Bar Associations; Bar Association of City of New York, NACCA.

AS Governor-elect of the State of New Hampshire, my primary
concern is to do a good job as Governor. I remain fondly apprecia-
tive of all that Harvard College has done for me. I regret only that
the demands made upon me, as a practising lawyer and a politician,
have prevented me from developing the wonderful associations made
at Harvard.

SHERWOOD KING

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1817 Vista Lomitas Drive, Fullerton, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hughes Aircraft Co., P.O. Box 2097, Fullerton, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B., 1938; S.M. IN E.E. (Lafayette Coll.),
1940.

mMarrieED: Desiree B. Rogers, Sept. 20, 1941. CHILDREN: Marie-Desiree, Sept.
20, 1943 (m. Jess John Andresen); Sherri Rogers, July 30, 1948. GRANDCHILD:
James John Andresen, Aug. 15, 1962.

occupation: Project manager, advanced projects, Radar Division, Hughes
Aircraft Company.

OFFicEs HELD: President, University of Tennessee Faculty Club, 1954-55; act-
ing member, Doctoral Fellowship Committee, Hughes Aircraft Company.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers (senior member); Sigma Xi, Eta
Kappa Nu; Harvard Club of Orange County.

puBlications: Miscellaneous technical papers in publications of Institute of
Radio Engineers.

[ 788 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
TWENTY-FIFTH REUNION! I suppose I always realized that

it would have to come some day — but so soon? And what do I
have to show for this past quarter-century? Nothing but a good
job, a glass house with a view of Catalina Island, a swimming pool,
a sports car and a wonderful family. Really no more than the
average Californian. Sometimes it can be very discouraging to
see the years roll by with so little to show for the unremitting toil
that is the fate of Harvard graduates. There was a time when I was
well-off, rich in the intellectual wealth of the academic life and
unburdened by material things. (How can you be burdened by
what you don’t have?)

Dissolve and flashback as they say in a quaint suburb of Fullerton
called Hollywood . .

Following that hot June day in 1938 I set out to gather a collec-
tion of sheepskins. Two years later the winning of a Master’s at
Lafayette College seemed like enough hide of the ewe for the
present; and so it remained. The Bell Telephone Laboratories in
New York City was willing to take me on at that stage of my
development, and I was ready, even eager, to accept a weekly pay-
check. That thirty-two dollars a week, so incredible a figure for
a living wage today, was a princely sum, and the research and
development atmosphere of the Laboratories was almost as heady as
the collegiate world. The fact that I had a fiancée impatiently tap-
ping her foot back in Cambridge may have been significant. It was
my good luck to enter almost immediately into the secret world
of Radar. Those were the days when you couldn’t mention the
word to your wife even if it was only to translate the clever
acronym. This work was deemed so essential that the draft board had
its collective knuckles rapped every time they reached for me, and
finally they got tired of sending greetings. This was a comfortable
state of affairs for a newly married man, even though it meant no
subsequent G.I. benefits.

Following the temporary outbreak of peace in 1945, the then
new mobile radio telephone systems for automobiles were an excit-
ing development effort for a while. But I harbored the lingering
suspicion that Harvard’s emphasis on the whole man through gen-
erous doses of the liberal arts had left me something less than a
whole engineer. I needed to augment my education somehow.
One of the best ways to learn something is to have to teach it, and if
you can get paid for it, so much the better. I joined the electrical
engineering faculty of the University of Tennessce in 194>-

L789 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Through the gamut of three-phase circuits to Maxwell’s equations
I raced, one day ahead of the students, until nine years later, I was
able to keep a week ahead of them. I was beginning to think of
myself as an expert. Perhaps I was, since I had progressed in the
college catalogue listing from assistant professor to associate pro-
fessor. Those were the golden years, I kept telling myself, when
I was raising my two young daughters with an assist from my
devoted (and economical) wife.

In 1956, the gold of California looked more realistic and, sight
unseen, we joined the vast migration to Smogsville where the
legendary Howard Hughes had an aircraft company that produced
no aircraft. (They are made by the Hughes Tool Company, quite
naturally.) Here I am, back in Radar again, not any sadder, hope-
fully wiser, and much better paid. As a project manager I have to
take more lumps for my pay, but the diverse facets of the work are
fascinating; engineering, management, finance, sales and customer
relations are rolled into one ball of wax. Also, since the only custom-
er, the Department of Defense, is in the East, I am slowly growing
wings.

Those little girls have rather grown up in the meantime. The
elder, nicknamed Dewi, is married, so she cannot come to the
Reunion, The question is, can Desiree, Sherri and I make it? You
won't know unless you come and find out for yourself.

 

HOME ApprEss: 621 University Pl., Swarthmore, Pa.
OFFiceE Appress: Swarthmore-Rutledge Union School District, Swarthmore, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Shattuck School, Faribault, Minn.

[ 790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; A.M. (Univ. of Chicago), 1939;
pup. (ibid.), 1952.

MARRIED: Joanna Renetzky, Jan. 29, 1943. CHILDREN: Jana Susan; James Richard,
Aug. 1, 1945; Mary Ann, April 5, 1952; John Whitney, Aug. 18, 1960.

occuPATION: Superintendent of schools, Swarthmore-Rutledge Union School
District.

OFFICES HELD: Supervising principal, Quantico Post Schools, Quantico, Va.,
1948-51; training specialist, Federal Civil Defense Administration, 1951-52;
high school and junior college principal, 1952-55; director of secondary
curriculum, 1955-59, acting superintendent, 1959-60, Burlington, Iowa.

MEMBER OF: American Association of School Administrators; Pennsylvania
Association of Chief School Administrators, National Education Associa-
tion; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

THE prediction of Wilson Binger that 1963 would see me ensconced
on a Minnesota turkey farm, married to my childhood sweetheart,
and surrounded by a bucolic brood has gone somewhat awry.

I left Cambridge in 1938 planning to teach high school English.
After a year at the University of Chicago Graduate School of
Education I accepted a position teaching elementary science in the
University Laboratory Schools. This episode came abruptly to an
end in April, 1941, when | was ordered into active duty with the
Seventh Infantry Division.

It was during my five army years that Binger’s prophecy began
to crumble. In California I met, courted, and won a belle of San
Luis Obispo, and found time before and after service in the Aleu-
tians and the Marshalls to forge two links with immortality —a
daughter and a son.

On release from the service I returned to Chicago in pursuit of
the Ph.D. In the summer of 1948, after completing the residence
requirements and much of the research for my dissertation, I
turned my face toward Virginia where for three years I served as
supervising principal of the Quantico Post Schools. The vicissi-
tudes of school administration coupled with the recreational temp-
tations of the environment made progress on the dissertation negligi-
ble, so, with a heavy heart, I gave up the joys and cares of Quantico
to serve as a training specialist for the Federal Civil Defense Admin-
istration in Stillwater, Oklahoma.

Life in Oklahoma was fruitful. After eleven months I left it
with a doctorate of philosophy, a brand-new daughter and a position
as principal of the Burlington, Iowa, High School and Junior
College.

In the eight years that followed I had a wealth of professional

[794 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

experience as a principal, as director of curriculum, and finally as
acting superintendent. The family flourished. We took camping
trips in the West and South, in Canada and Mexico. Life on the
Mississippi, both ashore and afloat, left indelible memories.

The move to Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, in 1960 was followed
very shortly by the birth of our second son and fourth child. With
his arrival Joanna and I can claim a child for each of the cardinal
points of the compass. The eldest is now a junior in college, the
youngest will soon be a candidate for nursery school.

Art Schlesinger, among whose admirers 1 have long counted
myself, reported that he had written The Age of Jackson with a
twin on either knee. After trying to pen this simple chronicle with
only one two-year-old tugging at my elbow, my admiration for
Arthur is unbounded.

+ LEROY KING-SMITH

 

BORN: Sept. 5, 1916, New York, N.Y. parents: King Smith, ’05, Grace Brew-
ster.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

marriEp: Mary DeForest Lindsay, June 21, 1940, Greenwich, Conn, CHILDREN:
Sanford Brewster; Laurie Lindsay.
piep:; Dec. 31, 1954, Los Angeles, Calif.

LeROY KING-SMITH spent two years with our Class and then
transferred to the Babson Institute, graduating in 1938. He worked
for the Guaranty Trust Company of New York until 1951, when
he was reported to be ill and living in California. He was survived
by his wife and children.

[ 792 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANIEL DALTON KINLEY

MaiLiNG ADDRESS: H. P. Hood & Sons, s00 Rutherford Ave., Charlestown 29.
Mass.

br RADCLIFFE WILLIAM KIRK

 

BoRN: Nov. 14, 1914, Chicago, Ill. parents: Walter Radcliffe Kirk, LL.s., ’ot,

Maude Hamilton.
TRANSFERRED FROM: Occidental College, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.
pieD: Aug. 22, 1936, near Lake Forest, Ill.

RADCLIFFE WILLIAM KIRK was a member of Kirkland House
while at Harvard. He was killed in an automobile accident during

vacation after our sophomore year.

[ 793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT JAMES KIRKPATRICK

 

HOME apprEss: 607 Garden Ave., Bellevue, Nebr.

OFFICE appREss: Directorate of Information, Hq., Strategic Air Command,
Offutt AFB, Nebr.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarriED: Margaret Jeanne Kerrick, Dec. 25, 1940 (died September, 1962);
Tosca Enders Hulsey, Jan. 9, 1963. cHitpren: Vicki Louise, Dec. 9, 1945;
Marcia Jean, Sept. 16, 1950.

occupation: Public and internal information, Strategic Air Command, U.S.
Air Force.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge.

RECALLED to active duty (U.S. Air Force) in 1951. After turning
“career” Air Force, was shipped overseas to Hq. zoth Air Force,
Kadena Air Base, Okinawa, where my family joined me a year
later (in January, 1953). Returned to the United States in June,
1954, when I was assigned to the r9th Bombardment Wing (M),
Strategic Air Command, stationed at Pinecastle AFB, Florida. From
there I was reassigned to Headquarters Second Air Force (Directo-
rate of Information), Barksdale AFB, Shreveport, Louisiana. From
there I was reassigned to the Directorate of Information, Head-
quarters Strategic Air Command, Bellevue, Nebraska, in late 1958,
where I am still assigned.

My wife, Jeanne Kerrick Kirkpatrick, died suddenly at home in
the summer of 1962 and was laid to rest in Bloomington, Illinois,
her birthplace.

I remarried on January 9, 1963, taking as my bride Tosca Enders
Hulsey.

[ 794 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM ARTHUR KIRSTEIN

 

HOME apprEss: 13 Mayer Drive, Suffern, N.Y.
prepareD AT: Hillsborough High School, Tampa, Fla.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938.

UN MARRIED.

I HAVE been ill for some time.

DOUGLAS BINNEY KITCHEL

 

HOME ADDRESS: Passumpsic, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kilfasset Farms, Passumpsic, Vt.

?REPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

"EARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., ctem laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Sybil Beck, Radcliffe °36, June 22, 1937. cuttoreN: Douglas Binney,
Jr. June 17, 1938 (#2. Brinna Baird, March 18, 1961); Robert Guilford,
July 30, 1939; Frederick H., Nov. 28, 1941; Alice Sybil, Oct. 3, 194%

[ARVARD SON: Frederick H. Kitchel, 64.

[795 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occupation: Owner and operator, dairy farm and milk business.

OFFICES HELD; Member and president, Brightlook Hospital, 1948-52, St. Johns-
bury Red Cross, 1960-63, St. Johnsbury Community Concert Association,
1959-63; member, 1950-63, vice-president, 1962-63, Fairbanks Museum, St.
Johnsbury; member, Vermont Water Resources Board, 1960-63.

MEMBER OF: Sphinx Club; Synapse Club; Great Books Club.

SINCE graduation my wife and I have lived in an ideal spot six miles
from St. Johnsbury, Vermont, in the Vermont foothills. A perfect
spot for a growing family, with open fields, woods, brooks for
fishing and swimming, roads for riding, wildlife for young Indians,
and ski areas close at hand when kids were growing and old folks
free enough to ski.

The nature of my work — rebuilding a large farm, improving
the soil, and caring for several thousand scattered customers — has
kept us very much at home. We do hope to get away more if any
of our sons decides to return. So we have had very busy lives — at
the local level, participating in all kinds of civic and social activities.
Also much time for reading, gardening, or just enjoying lazily the
beauties of nature.

That we are closer to the pulse of nature and the spirit of religion
I truly believe. As to the area of service — and the answer to the
old question of chicken and egg — this would provide a subject for
debate through many a long evening.

ROBERT ELIOT KITSIS (see Robert Eliot Curtis)

BERNARD KLEIN

 

HOME AppREss: 71 Pleasant St., Sharon, Mass,

[ 796 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Klein’s Super Market, Inc., 982 Dorchester Ave., Dorchester,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; Ep.M. (Boston
Teachers Coll.), 1940.

MARRIED: Jean Andrews, Sept. 17, 1939. CHILDREN: Russel Alan, Jan. 23, 1943;
Michael Andrew, Jan. 25, 1947; Cathy Ellen, July 18, 1949.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Klein’s Super Market, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Sharon Tennis Club.

LOOKING in retrospect over these past twenty-five years, my im-
mediate reaction is “Where the hell have they all gone?” With the
aid of a little sophistry, I dare say this can be taken as a pretty good
sign.

I suppose, like a substantial majority of my classmates, I have set-
tled or sunk (the choice of words is optional) into a life which may
be roughly described as slightly center of middle class. This in-
cludes just about all the appurtenances, the suburbs, the split-levels,
the commuting, the PT'A meetings, the green Jawn and exotic plants,
the Sunday Times, etc., etc. Actually, it’s not quite as dreary as it
sounds.

After Harvard, I studied for an Ed.M., taught English for several
years, brought the Wehrmacht to heel, taught again, found the re-
wards incommensurate with the gaff, went into my father’s business,
expanded it modestly, found the rewards incommensurate with the
gaff.

I have found my contentment in a closely-knit family life. I
have three children, the eldest of whom is currently at Antioch. I
have the uneasy feeling that seeing at perhaps too close range what
Harvard has been turning out these past twenty-five years, he hoped
for Antioch. But I feel that my second son may establish a tradition,
if two generations at the same college may be said to constitute a
tradition. Failing that, there’s a possibility that Harvard may become
co-educational by the time my daughter reaches college age.

For relaxation, I still enjoy playing tennis with my family, al-
though I am reaching the age when doubles affords a somewhat
greater degree of attraction. I like puttering around the grounds,
although my plants don’t always reciprocate with the same degree

of enthusiasm. And I still find myself going back to Donne or
Swift or Hardy; and for this, in all seriousness, I shall alw ays be
grateful to Harvard.

[ 797 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

GEORGE THEODORE KLEIN

¥
ome

  
  

 

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6854 N. Elm Tree Rd., Milwaukee 17, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Organic Compost Corp., Germantown, Wis.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: 5.B., 1938.

MarrieD: Shirley S. Kaiser, June 4, 1944. cHILD: Harlyne Day, May 12, 1945.

occuPATION: President, Organic Compost Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, Germantown Industrial Development Corporation;
vice-president, Germantown Rotary Club; member, board of directors,
Organic Corporation of Pennsylvania, Oxford, Pa.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Nurserymen, Wisconsin Fertilizer
Association; Illinois Nurserymen Association; Wisconsin Real Estate
Board; Phi Sigma Delta; Harvard Club of Wisconsin, Harvard University
Club.

puBLicaTions: U.S, Patent No. 2,750,269.

SINCE none of my classmates accepted my offer to help set up a
fertilizer plant in the East, I had to rely upon a Penn State graduate
to help form an operating company in Oxford, Pennsylvania, just a
stone’s throw from Wilmington, Delaware. During the past two
years I have made quite a number of trips to the East but, unfortu-
nately, I never had the time to go to Cambridge. I am certainly
looking forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

Since our Eighteenth Report I have had some very rewarding and
joyous moments. We completed a very modern fertilizer plant in
Germantown, Wisconsin, another new home in suburban Milwaukee
and had several memorable vacations.

During the last presidential campaign I did hear from some of our
good Democratic classmates, including my old running mate, Bob
Downes. Being active in the Wisconsin Harvard Club brings me in
contact with many of the young men applying for admission to

[ 798 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard. Many of us old grads would find Harvard mighty difficult
under the present-day accelerated program. Even though this might
be our silver anniversary, I am proud to say that I still have hair and
it is 95 % black.

CARLETON HOAGLAND KLINCK

   

   

, Aa we 4

E “Wis. & * 4
- : 4 q

. re Lg Be
oe 3

HOME aApprEss: Independence Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Employers’ Group Insurance Companies, 40 Broad St., Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10934-1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1938(39).

MARRIED: Virginia Childs, Nov. 3, 1939. CHILDREN: Christopher, July 27, 1940
(m. Alison Rodday, Jan. 7, 1961); Carleton Hoagland, Jr. May 23, 19425
Jay C., April 26, 1943. GRANDCHILD; Quinton Klinck, Sept. 17, 1961.

occuPATION: Insurance; assistant regional manager, New England Depart-
ment, agency and production.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, Life Department, Kings County Savings Bank, 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: Algonquin Club of Boston; Concord Country Club; Harvard Club
in Concord (president, 1961-62).

AFTER several moves during the early years of our marriage, we
have now made our home in Concord, Massachusetts, for the past
seventeen or eighteen years. In 1961 our eldest boy was married and
now has a son of his own. Although our travels have not been ex-
tensive, we have had the opportunity of making various trips to
Bermuda and throughout the Virgin Islands. As for hobbies, mv
main one is golf.

My business life has been connected primarily with two fine
organizations: the first being John C, Paige & Company (1939-42).
a large general insurance agency, and, the second the Employers’

[799 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Group of Insurance Companies with whom I have been associated
since 1951, as personal assistant to the president, 1951-53, and assist-
ant regional manager, New England Department, since 1955. I still
do a great deal of business (fire and marine underwriting) with my
former employer, John C. Paige & Company, and am happy to say
that some of my closest personal and business friends are connected
with that organization.

In 1953 1 was fortunate enough to return to Harvard to attend
the 24th Session of the Advanced Management Program at the
Harvard Business School where, in the course of three months, |
made many new friends from all over the world.

All in all, the past twenty-five years have rolled by at a far too

rapid pace. My main objective today is to be around for our
Fifteth!

ROBERT FDWARD KLINE

 

Home aporess: 1012 Gilchrest Drive, Ridgewood, Pittsburgh 35, Pa.

orrice appagss: Kline & Smith, 3400 Grant Blig., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

parpaneD AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS SN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DFGARES: A.B, Ctr lade, 1948; LL.B, 1O4t.
maaniep: Rae R. Marks, May 30, 1957. cautomes: Pamela Iris, Aug. 23, 1958

Flisabeth Ingrid, July jo, 1940, Douglas Edmund, April 8, 1942.
occupation; Lawyer,

mMemosa ov: Harvard-Yale-Pnnceton Club of Pittsburgh, Variety Club; Penn-
sylvania and Allegheny County Bar Associations.

EXCEPT for being one of the last in the Class to take a wife, and

except for being one of those awarded the Legion of Merit in World

War II, I think my biography would be hopelessly routine. Ive

enjoyed it anyhow,

[ Hoo J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES WARREN KLUBER

 

BorN: April 18, 1918, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Charles Fidelis Kluber, Mary
Dolan.

TRANSFERRED FROM: St. John's University, Brooklyn, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938; A.M. 1942.

marRieD: Margaret Perkins, July 17, 1943. ciutp: Allan Lawrence, June 14,
1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allan Lawrence Kluber, “s5 (deceased).

pie: Killed in blimp accident, July 2, 1944, off Mr. Desert Island, Maine.

AFTER college Kluber spent a year at the Graduate School of
Education and taught school on Long Island until September,
1941, When he joined the Navy. He was commissioned as an ensign
and served aboard the USS Suntee, a tanker operating in the North
Atlantic, and the USS Promerbeus, a repair ship operating in the
Pacific. He then undertook flight training and received his wings
in March, 1934. He was a licutenant, USNR and a member of
Blimpron II at South Weymouth, Masachusctts, He was killed
in a crash off Mr. Desert Island. Maine. He was survived by his
wife and son.

[ 801 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ELLIOTT BURRIS KNOWLTON

 
 

 

ROS

Wie

Mp

 

HOME aporéss: ‘Petticoat Hill,” Bailey Road, Holden, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Norton Co., Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: 8.B., 1938.

MaRRIED: Sallie Coe, 1940. CHILDREN: Nina, Aug. 6, 1941, Carolyn Taft, Oct.
23, 1945; Gretchen Burris, May 2, 1948; Sallie Elliott, March 17, 1951; Dana
Coe, Feb. 5, 1954.

occuPaTION: Public relations manager, Norton Company.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Worcester Orchestral Society; governor,
Worcester Music Festival; president, New England Chapter, Public Re-
lations Society of America; vice-president and trustee, Worcester Science
Museums; vice-president and director, Holden District Hospital; director,
Worcester YMCA, Worcester Chapter, MSPCC; treasurer, Maplewood
Cemetery; trustee, Shepherd Knapp School; corporator, Worcester
County Institution for Savings, Worcester Boys Club, United Prison Asso-
ciation of Massachusetts; “Committee of 20,” Leicester Junior College; All
Saints Church (past vestryman),

MEMBER OF: Rotary (Worcester); Worcester Club; Tatnuck Country Club;
Worcester Players Club; Mystic Seaport; Harvard Club of Worcester
(past president, currently chairman, Scholarship Committee).

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on public relations in professional journals.

TWENTY-FIVE years out! It does seem that long, but I honestly
don’t feel that much older. A young-in-spirit spouse plus five girls
under twenty-two have conspired to keep this bald-head partially
immersed in Ponce de Leon’s storied fountain. I tell myself I can
do anything my teen-agers and their beaux can—and do, except
for a curious lack of staying power destined by advanced age, ten
extra pounds and a ruptured disc. In particular, the disc has paid

[ 802 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unexpected dividends, for now my “petticoats” haul wood, change
tires, carry luggage and open sticky windows.
What has transpired since Harvard gave me an S.B. in English?

(I doubt if many of us today could get a P.U. in Husbandry.)
Six months in the South Pacific (two in Tahiti) plus one hundred
days before the mast of a square-rigged grain ship around Cape
Horn to England in 1939 satisfied, temporarily, a gnawing wander-
Just. Newspapering and marriage followed when the Providence
Journal lured me away from the Boston Herald for a raise to
twenty-five dollars a week.

College NROTC apparently qualified my peace-loving soul for

sterner trials, so most of 1941 passed ferrying food and ammunition
to Iceland and the West Indies with “Uncle’s’ Navy. Three months
at Mine Warfare School in Yorktown, Virginia, turned out to be the
only shore duty of World War Il. The next four years were con-
cerned with sweeping mines from Maracaibo to Casablanca, Oran
to Naples, Toulon to Okinawa and the China coast to Japan’s
[nland Sea in wooden-hulled YMS’s and the big fleet-type AM?’s —
{rst as commanding officer, later as division commander.

The war over, a discouraging reply to a letter to Louis Bromfield
equesting encouragement dashed hopes for life-on-the-farm. Need
or dollar-producing employment landed us in Worcester and a
ob in Norton Company’s advertising department. My brief prewar
purnalistic sojourn soon convinced my masters that it would be
fer having me write in space they did not pay quite so much
ar. Result: in 1949 I became manager of a newly created public
lations department. In spite of losing a little more hair trying

convince management that tomorrow is already here, the past
relve years have contributed a stimulating life which can only
me from working with thoughtful people and challenging situa-
ns.
The nature of my work, an inherited inclination to help where
-ded, coupled with a fatal inability to say “No,” have propelled
into too many community activities. Rewarding? Very much
but hard on a growing family.

Vinter skiing, spring plowing and manure spreading, summer
ing and sailing, plus fall riding (two horses — female, of course)
9 us all out of court. Five Bermuda Races, others nearer shore
an occasional cruise keep us in close touch with the beloved sea.
uttedly, such diversity stifles true excellence in any one activity.
the returns for living fully are immeasurable. —

[ 803 ]

——— Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

I’ve written no best sellers, composed no masterpieces, invented
no wonder drugs, built no bridges, founded no empires, but for
posterity, Sallie and I have produced five daughters who will endow
this planet with more song, sweetness and light than all the Antoi-
nettes, Elizabeths and Jacquelines put together. Match that, you
summa cums! With no sons for Harvard, we’ve done next best:
Nina, our eldest unmarried, pounds a typewriter and helps handle
undergraduate parking tickets in the Dean’s office at University
Hall.

Politically I'm an impatient Republican, religiously a nature-loving
Fpiscopalian and philosophically enough of an optimist to believe
that man, because he likes it here, will be smart enough not to blow
himself through the Van Allen belt.

WILLIAM CARROLL KNOX, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 460 Knollwood Rd., Ridgewood, N.J.

OFFICE apprEss: White & Case, 14 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Sewanee Military Academy, Sewanee, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B. Cum
laude, 1941.

MaRRIED: Inge Madsen, July 17, 1948. CHILDREN: John William, Dec. 8, 1951;
Peter Erik, July 9, 1955.

OccUPATION: Lawyer; partner, White & Case.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, National Bankruptcy Conference.

MEMBER OF: American and New York State Bar Associations, Association of
the Bar of the City of New York, American Law Institute; National Bank-
ruptcy Conference.

I HAVE discovered the truth of the aphorism that the law is a
jealous mistress — whatever other invidious things may be said

[ 804 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

about it. The practice of the law, with emphasis on domestic and
international banking, has therefore kept me fully occupied since
leaving Cambridge, except for a tour during the war with the 12th
Armored Division from Kentucky to Germany. I have devoted
my spare time to my family and the endeavor to read a few good
books on the side. A provincial from the hills of Tennessee, I
have kept abreast of the times and furthered the trend toward the
internationalization of the world by marrying a native of Denmark.
The result of the mixture has been highly satisfactory to me, except
that the children speak in Danish whenever they do not want me
to know what is going on.

TRUMAN PAUL KOHMAN

    

HOME ApprEss: 440 Greenhurst Drive, Pittsburgh 16, Pa.

oFFice appress: Dept. of Chemistry, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pitts-

burgh 13, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1938. DEGREES: A.B., Cu?” laude, 1938; PH.D. (Univ. of
Wisconsin), 1943.

MARRIED: Jane Sievers, Oct. 13, 1945. CHILDREN: Leslie Jane, April 13, 1949;
Paulette Lynn, April 16, 1952; Steven Truman, Aug. 6, 1959.

occupation: Professor of chemistry, Carnegie Institute of Technology.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in Pittsburgh Section, American Chemical Society,
chairman, NRC-NAS Subcommittee on Nuclear Constants, 1952-35; mem-
ber, Editorial Committee, Annual Reviews of Nuclear Science, 1956-60,
director, Nuclear Science and Engineering Corporation, since 1954; deacon,
First Baptist Church of Pittsburgh, occasionally,

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Physical Society; Ameri-
can Nuclear Society; American Geophysical Union; Geochemical So-
ciety; Meteoritical Society; National Geographic Society; American Asso-

[ 805 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ciation for the Advancement of Science; Sigma Xi; Alpha Chi Sigma;
Gamma Alpha.

puBLications: About forty-five technical papers in scientific media; a couple of
patents.

+ HOWARD ALVIN KOHRMAN

 

BORN: July 16, 1917, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Max Isaac Kohrman, Sylvia
Singer,
PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.
Diep: Killed in action Dec. 27, 1943, over Algiers.

AFTER graduating from the Law School, Kohrman returned to
Cleveland to enter into the practice of law with the firm of Kohrman
& Kohrman. He entered military service as a private in May, 1942,
and after training sailed for England in May, 1943. He was pro-
moted to flight officer and transferred to Algiers and was attached
to a night fighter squadron as radar observer. He was reported
missing in action over Algiers, December 27, 1943, and presumed
to have been killed at that time. He was survived by his parents.

[ 806 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SIM ANDREW KOLLINER, JR.

 

HOME ApDprREss: 22 Fort Slocum Rd., New Rochelle, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., 330 W. 42d St, New York
36, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Stillwater High School, Stillwater, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 77agna cum laude, 1938; A.M. (Univ.
of Minnesota), 1942.

MARRIED: Jean Scrimgeour (Radcliffe ’39), Sept. 6, 1942. cHILpREN: Andrew,
June 13, 1951; Martha Ann, Jan. 8, 1954.

occuPATION: Director of research, McGraw-Hill Publishing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Westchester Library System, 1960; member, New
Rochelle Board of Education, 1962; junior warden, Trinity Episcopal
Church, New Rochelle, 1961; member, Technical Committee, Advertis-
ing Research Foundation, 196t.

MEMBER OF: Huguenot Yacht Club; American History Club of New Rochelle.

FACING this form and with it the truth of the actual time lapse
since Harvard has made me try to reconstruct the person, ideas and
ambitions of that time. It’s impossible. Some glimmerings come
through, but for the most part, I find I’ve rewritten my own his-
tory in terms of later knowledge (an insight probably gleaned from
History 1).

I know it was my intention to have an academic career in the field
of American history and I got as far as a Master’s degree and some
teaching before the war. Four years of the Navy and the tentative
offer in 1945 of a teaching post at small pay with Quonset Hut liv-
ing accommodations thrown in ended that career. It was replaced
by a long hitch (since 1946) with McGraw-Hill in market research
which hadn’t been invented in 1938, as far as I knew.

Not always inconsistent, I have kept to some loyalties formed
prior to graduation, such as Radcliffe, the Democratic Party and

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

American architecture, Radcliffe was easy——-a case of loyalty
through marriage; the Democratic Party not quite so easy but a
pretty consistent loyalty since Roosevelt’s Tercentenary speech, and
American architecture a case of “building watching” based on a
course of Kenneth Conant’s which has given me pleasure in both
obvious and odd places ever since.

Currently, I find I go to meetings — business by day, civic by
night. If I ever find myself out of one long enough I want to do an
article on “The Sociology of Meeting Going — or Why Americans
Leave Home.” I’ve already done the section on head-hunting.

This fall I saw Joe Stephens in Dallas for the first time since the
war, and we talked about what we got out of Harvard. We decided
maybe the most important thing was an approach or mind set summed
up in the determination not to be vegetables. And this, at least, I’m
sure is consistent with the ideas and ambitions we had in 1938 — even
though the “anti-vegetable” has taken different forms.

Enough of this — it’s time for another meeting.

KURT ADOLF KRAUS

 

MAILING AvprEss: 110 Ogontz St., Oak Ridge, Tenn,

[ 808 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 718 Catalonia, Coral Gables, Fla.

OFFICE AppREss: University of Miami School of Medicine, Miami, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Plaquemine High School, Plaquemine, La.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.D., 1942.

MARRIED: Harriet Britt, 1956. CHILDREN: Frank Turner, Oct. 29, 1958; Gretchen
Elaine, Dec. 5, 1960.

occuPATION: Physician,

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Tulane School of Medicine, professor of surgery,
University of Miami School of Medicine; vice-president and director,
Consolidated Companies, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; Southeastern Surgical Congress,
New Orleans Surgical Society; American Medical Association, Dade
County Medical Association; Alpha Omega Alpha (honor medical fra-
ternity); Coral Reef Yacht Club; Nu Sigma Nu.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on surgery in professional journals.

AFTER leaving Cambridge in 1938 I spent the next ten years ob-
taining professional training. This began at Harvard Medical
School followed by interning at Charity Hospital in New Orleans
and finally by five years of surgical training at the Mayo Clinic at
Rochester, Minnesota. Because of a medical discharge from the
Army in 1943, my training was relatively uninterrupted.

While engaged in the practice of surgery in New Orleans from
1948 to 1956, I participated as a member of the voluntary staff at
Tulane University School of Medicine. Because of my interest in
academic medicine, I left New Orleans to join the full-time faculty
of a new medical school at the University of Miami in Florida where
at present I am professor of surgery. Life has rushed by so fast and
my time has been so filled by a consuming profession that I have been
dilatory regarding many aspects of “living.” I was not successful

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

in securing a wife untl I was forty years old and so am enjoying
only now the prerogatives of a doting parent.

My hobbies, sailing and hunting, give this boy who was raised in
the country a much needed contact with the outdoors.

Looking back I realize that so much time was spent with day-to-
day activity that too little time was spent in taking a long look down
the road to evaluate the goal. Somehow, even after realizing it, the
habit of conforming is so deeply ingrained that I am still swept along
with day-to-day living.

+ RICHARD GEORGE LABOVITZ

 

BORN: July 17, 1917, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Joseph Labovitz, Adeline
Castleman.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.
piED: Killed in action, April 30, 1943, in the North African area.

AFTER graduation Labovitz joined the Regular Army as a second
lieutenant. By 1940 he was with the Seventh Field Artillery Regi-
ment of the First Infantry Division, where he was assigned to
Headquarters Battery. He was later made communications officer
and battery commander, with promotion to the rank of captain. In
August, 1942, he landed with his division in England. In the African
campaign the unit participated in the Oran operation and marched
cross-country to Tunisia. Later in 1943 the division moved to
Northern Tunisia. Labowitz was operating a command car when
a squadron of Stuka bombers attacked the area and he was killed
by bomb fragments. He was survived by his parents.

[ 810 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP FOSS LACKEY

      

 
  

 
  

  

   
 

 
 

oe em
t
ens

a

O=went
.

ri -

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Windermere Rd., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.,; Kent’s Hill
School, Kent’s Hill, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B, (Boston Univ.), 1948.

MarrieD: Sarah Angus, Feb. 7, 1945. CHILDREN: Nancy Elizabeth, Nov. 3, 1947;
Linda, March 9, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of managers, since 1949, chancellor, 1949-53,
secretary, 1953-54, Massachusetts Society of the Sons of the American
Revolution.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of the Sons of the American Revolution,
Boston Bar Association.

 

TO write a report of events since 1938 is an undertaking which re-
quires us to select or pick out what appears to us to be essential or
important and to omit the ordinary or non-essential.

Naturally, the most important events for me have been my
marriage to Sally Angus and the birth of our two daughters, Nancy
and Linda. We have been very happy.

Like so many in our Class, I was called to serve in World War Il.
I entered the Navy in 1941 (Naval ROTC graduate in 1938), as an
ensign and came out in 1946, as a lieutenant commander. I do not
consider these years wasted by any means; they gave me experience
which has helped me through the years.

Since April 12, 1949, I have been a practising attorney in Boston.
At first it was “rugged” building up a law practice on my own, but
patience and an understanding wife have paid off and I am now en-
joying a good practice and a pleasant life.

[ 8rr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

We have see-sawed between living in the “big city” and the sub-
urbs. From 1946 to 1949, we were apartment dwellers in Boston;
from 1949 to 1954 we lived in Marblehead; from 1954 to September
10, 1962, We again were apartment dwellers in Boston; on September
10, 1962, we finally purchased a seven-room colonial house in
Wellesley Hills where we expect to be living for some years to come.

At the present time I am still serving as class agent for the Class
of 1934, Kent’s Hill School. Also, I have continued serving on the
board of managers of the Massachusetts Society of the Sons of the
American Revolution. I am a member of the Boston Bar Association.

It is with a great deal of anticipation that we all look forward to
our Twenty-fifth and the renewing of old friendships.

EDWARD TAYLOR LADD

Sener

eg MAE SE I BEN CBRE ILE TEA NIE ENE SS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1236 Springdale Rd., N.E., Atlanta 6, Ga.

OFFICE apprEss: Div. of Teacher Education, Emory University, Atlanta 22, Ga.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938, a.m. (Yale
Univ.), 1942; PHD. (ibid.), 1950.

MarriED: Maria Barbara Lenz, July 18, 1948. cHILDREN: Monica, Nov. 15, 1954;
Christopher William Palmer, March 29, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Professor and director, Division of Teacher Education, Emory
University; professor of education, Agnes Scott College; director, Agnes
Scott-Emory Teacher Education Program.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Student Advisory Committee, International Student
Service, 1941-42; member, Planning Committee, 1945-46, chairman, New
Haven Chapter, 1949-50, American Veterans Committee; member, board
of directors, Clifford W. Beers Guidance Clinic (New Haven), 1955-58;
chairman, Georgia Council on Teacher Education, 1960-61; member,

[ 812 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Georgia State Department of Education Committee on Research, since
1962; member, other Georgia professional committees.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors, American Civil
Liberties Union; American Veterans Committee; Association for Super-
vision and Curriculum Development; Georgia Educational Association;
Harvard Club of Atlanta, Holy Trinity (Episcopal) Church, Kappa Phi
Kappa; National Council for the Social Studies; Yale Club of Atlanta.

puBLications: Co-editor, Social Aspects of Education: A Casebook, Prentice-

Hall, 1962; professional articles and book reviews in Harvard Educational
Review, Social Education and other journals,

A HARVARD senior with no idea of a career is a picture to horrify
educators of 1963, but that, twenty-five years ago, was my situa-
tion. Equipped for nothing else, and possessed of a strong do-good
drive, I decided to try my hand at teaching. Harvard helped me to
land a job, and I went west —all the way to Ojai, California. The
Thacher School, a significant and pleasant place to teach, confirmed
my disposition toward an education career. But, though I had never
myself attended a public school except in Germany at twelve, it
was the challenge of public education that intrigued me. So in
1950, thinking of an eventual school superintendency, I enrolled in
the Education Department at Yale.
The year 1942 brought army service, first in the Signal Corps, then
as a “special agent” in the Counter-Intelligence Corps. Whether I
contributed to victory is questionable, but service in the European
Theatre was interesting and at times fun. Entering Paris with the
first United States troops and trying to flush out suspicious civilians
was hardly “hell,” and screening Germans in Wiesbaden and Frank-
furt was educational, to say the least.
After discharge I spent a few lazy months at home, helping in
a small way to launch the American Veterans Committee. But my
newly whetted appetite for public affairs soon took me back to
occupied Germany as a civilian education officer. Working for
the government from 1946 to 1948, helping to redirect and in a
sense re-educate, taught me a lot of things about Germany, political
science, and education that my Harvard major in the history and
literature of Germany and my Yale graduate work in education had
not. More important, it introduced me to a fascinating young
expellee from East Germany, who was then a student, later a teacher,
and eventually Mrs. E. T. L.
Back at New Haven I finished up my ten-year doctoral program
by 1950, but the idea of school administration had faded, and
again I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do. Among educationists we

[ 813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

have a saying. “Those who can, do; those who can’t, teach; and
those who can’t teach, teach teachers how to teach.” Whatever its
truth, that in a general sense is what I started to do and have been
at ever since.

First came three years at the School of Education at Syracuse
University, where I also held a joint appointment in the social
science faculty. In between, we spent two summers in Germany
on Unitarian Service Committee educational projects. Next came
five years at Yale again, working in both the M.A.T. program and
the doctoral program in education. In these years, the last ones for
Yale’s Education Department, we experienced the full force of the
attacks on education as a field of study and spent much profitable
thought on scoring out what was valid and what was not. I became
more than ever convinced that the rigorous, scholarly study of the
subject in all its aspects is a possibility and a necessity, if still a
rarity, and that this is a major challenge facing especially the in-
dependent university. So in 1958 I was glad to come to Emory
University to be director of its division of teacher education. (As
head of a cooperative program, I was also appointed to the faculty
of Agnes Scott College.)

Emory is an excellent and improving institution, and it’s exhilarat-
ing to work in a field which finally has attracted national concern,
money and scores of brilliant young people. Because of many
factors, among which the more important include Sputnik 1, Frank
Keppel’s faculty, Mr. Conant’s work, and the Ford Foundation,
new insights and practices are coming rapidly in American educa-
tion — at a pace which will soon be breakneck. Knowledge is ex-
ploding so fast as to make me depressed about my own increasing
relative ignorance, but the lag in practice affords possibilities for
action that are exciting, and I think I’ve adjusted to being less a
scholar than an administrator. (I wonder, by the way, if our class-
mates know that ’38ers now head up education programs at four
private universities, the others being Burbank, Gordon, and Keppel.)

Georgia, too, is exciting. Four years ago people acted as if not
to talk about integration would make that frightful specter go
away; now it’s present and widely taken for granted. Then the
backwoods boys dominated politics, and Governor Vandiver was
pledged to close schools rather than allow even token desegregation;
today the power is distributed around the state, and the same man
seems almost to boast of the progress in integration. Education,
which also had lagged, is getting better fast, and to our surprise a

| 814 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Yankee, moderately tactful, I hope, is not only permitted to play a
part in the changes but welcomed to do so. The fluidity and
opportunities for exerting an influence remind one of postwar
Germany.

Monica, eight, and Christopher, six, alternately wear us down
and puff us up with pride — par, I suppose. Is it a sign of middle
age that we now worry less about dividing up a small income
than about dividing up our time between a little professional editing
and writing, a little art (especially in Maria’s case), a little church,
a little politics (still liberal), a little camping, and so on? Anyway,
the academic travels seem to be ended, and we suspect with mixed
feelings that we are becoming minor pillars of a community. We
feel quite settled in a nice, old home in the lush Druid Hills section
of Atlanta — where we'd like more classmates to visit us.

HENRY LAHEE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1807 Ewing St., Houston 4, Texas.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936,

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Research and invention in mathematics and data-control systems;

self-employed.
MEMBER OF: Society of Exploration Geophysicists.
PUBLICATIONS: Oil tool patent No. 2,927,806.

DURING the past twenty-five years, most of my time has been
an unexplainable race to learn, and mostly via personal rather than
academic institutional paths. Exeter and Harvard uncovered in

[ 815 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

me an uncomfortable thirst for knowledge and for some wisdom,
too. (Received a Stevens Defense School Certificate.)

On the bright side, I have enjoyed explorations into such tangi-
bles as fractional-and-variable order mathematic operators and multi-
dimensioned data-control systems which display their deformations
upon input data dynamically. On the dark side, I have not enjoyed
the difficulties which must be faced in trying to explain the eco-
nomic uses of such tangibles. It may be that I have learned how
to bypass the cosmetic which is patience, to find some new truths;
but have not yet learned to use the same cosmetic to sell them?
Even so, I have no complaints.

Whenever politic winds blow hard, “Harvard” becomes to an im-
portant few a “dirtyword.” Every human entity becomes chal-
lenged to bypass and to use the cosmetic which is patience, of
course.

I hope to learn more, to profit, to marry, to have children and
to rest.

EDWARD CARY LAMBERT

 

HOME apprEss: 459 Berryman Drive, Buffalo 26, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Children’s Hospital of Buffalo, z19 Bryant St., Buffalo 22, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lewis and Clark High School, Spokane, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938; M.D., 1942.

MarriED: Eugenia Perry, 1939. cHiLpreN: Samuel Cary, Nov. 5, 1942; Gordon
Edward, Sept. 29, 1947.

occuPaTION: Pediatrician; director of Cardiac Section, Children’s Hospital of

Buffalo; associate professor of pediatrics, State University of New York at
Buffalo, School of Medicine,

[ 816 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Cardiac Section, American Academy of Pediatrics,
1959-60; vice-chairman, Council on Rheumatic Fever and Congenital Heart
Disease, and member, board of directors, American Heart Association;

member of Sub-board of Pediatric Cardiology, American Board of
Pediatrics.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics, American Heart Association,

Buffalo Ski Club; Practitioner’s Club of Buffalo; North Shore Yacht Club,
Heart Association of Erie County.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on pediatrics and pediatric cardiology in professional
journals.

IN addition to the usual inertia, I suspect that part of my reluctance
to submit the following was due to my dislike of facing the fact
that a quarter of a century has elapsed since I finished college. So
much time gone by and so little accomplished. Just about half the
time — eight years for medical school and hospital training and
three years for the Army — was spent getting ready to settle down.
The past twelve years have been passed in enjoyable suburban life
as a Democrat in a community of Republicans.

In addition to a wife and two sons I find that I have acquired a
house, a garden, a dachshund, a French poodle, a Siamese cat and
a small sailboat. In general I have felt that life has treated me
generously in that I have accomplished one of life’s goals, namely
that of having an occupation which offers both the opportunity
for making an adequate living and also a pleasurable and stimulating
challenge — even if I often feel that I have never fully met the
challenge. Equally there has been the joy of raising two boys
whom I regard with ill-concealed pride and affection.

I find that I have retained a feeling of loyalty for both the
College and the Medical School in spite of never having acted as an
enthusiastic alumnus.

My chief philosophy must be a hedonistic one which I hope 1s
enlightened. Wistfully I would like fifteen more years of skiing.

[ 817 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT LINCOLN LAMBERT

rere
ie

  

HOME ApprEss: Sylvan Heights, Emporium, Pa.
OFFICE AppREsS: Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., Emporium, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marrizD: Enid O, Williams, May 23, 1942. CHILDREN: Robert Lincoln, Jr., May
2, 1944; David Howell, Oct. 30, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Robert Lincoln Lambert, Jr., ’66.

occupation: Manufacturing; section head of chemical development, Sylvania
Electric Products, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Physical Society; Institute
of Electronic and Electrical Engineers; Electrochemical Society; American
Association for the Advancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Several patents and others pending, relating to methods of con-
trolling porosities and methods of casting films; paper, “Techniques and
Applications of Film Casting,” presented at 1962 Tube Techniques Con-
ference sponsored by Advisory Group on Electron Devices of the Depart-
ment of Defense; the Symposium will be published by Pergamon Press.

AFTER realizing that the world was not rushing to beat a path to
the door of a holder of a B.S. degree in chemistry, and after a
series of odd jobs, including carpentry, etc., and a stint in the
leather finish business developing adhesives, polishes, and paints, |
finally settled into the electron tube business. Through the years,
this has forced me to integrate (perhaps superficially at times) the
various fields of physics—my first love—and chemistry with
sngineering and business management into a career which has
‘equired constant study and adaptation. Fortunately, the initial
ndoctrination into the world of manipulation of unseen aggrega-
ions of energy occurred in the relatively quiescent days before
Norld War IL.

[ 818 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Early in 1942, because of the urgency of producing tubes for
the proximity or VT fuze, I was transferred from Salem, Massa-
chusetts, to Emporium, Pennsylvania, and the years of commuting
to college, to work, and to night school appeared at an end. The
county in which this community is situated is the smallest in the
state and has more deer than people — except during hunting season,
when the population doubles and the deer go elsewhere. The
fishing is good, and so is the small game hunting generally.

Although this small community permits one to go home for
lunch in five or ten minutes, it is still 500 miles from Cambridge,
so the lonesome boy cashed in on the engagement ring, furniture,
and refrigerator he purchased the day before Pearl Harbor, and
shortly after May 23d, 1942, another girl, Enid, was added to
“Girls Town,” as it is known by an article in Colliers magazine.

During the intervening years, we have been blessed with two
sons: Robert, Jr., now a freshman at Harvard; and David, who
expects to attend Lehigh this fall. Like most parents we have partic-
ipated in the local activities as the boys grew older. Consequently,
over a period of years, I have been teaching in or the superin-
tendent of Sunday School in the Presbyterian Church, and serving
as a deacon or elder, clerk of session, or other officer in the local
church. In civic activities, I have worked as Cubmaster, Cub
committee chairman, chairman of the troop committee, as officer
and chairman of various PTA committees, and chairman of the
local (60-mile radius) section of the American Chemical Society.
Other activities have involved vocational guidance work, promo-
tion of and judging of science fairs, coordination of Pennsy lvania
State University Extension courses in this area, and generally helping
younger people “find themselves,” and stimulating young engineers
to develop and discipline themselves to avoid technical obsolescence.

For the most of four years, we lost the companionship of our
younger son while he was with the Columbus Boychoir. However,
mementos and letters from the tours in South America, Canada, and

the rest of the United States helped provide bright spots for those
years.

During the years, the home built after the war has grown
too small for the accumulation of books, journals, and magazines,
SO a spare-time project of the past three years has been the con-
struction of additional 1,000 square feet of house to serve as a
study and woodworking shop.

The trouble-shooting of production plant chemical problems and

[ 819 ]

7

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

coordination work of the war years has matured into the operation
of a chemical development and applied research laboratory where
I direct investigations of photoconductors, batteries, chemical kinet-
ics in electron tubes including electron emission and _ insulation
problems, and other solid state phenomena. A day spent at this
activity, followed by night school, civic activity, or participation

in a church responsibility, makes for a full day in the “Land of
the Endless Mountains.”

CHRISTOPHER LEE LANDRY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Woodland Rd., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 170 Merrimack St., Lowell, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Littleton High School, Littleton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1938; M.v. (Tufts Coll.).
1943.

MarRieED: Barbara Sullivan, Feb. 25, 1941. CHILDREN: Brenda Lee, June 24, 1942;
Christopher Kevin, April 18, 1944; Brian Francis, March 22, 1947; Alan
Sullivan, June 24, 1951; Christina, May 23, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Christopher Kevin Landry, ’66.

occupation: Neurological surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Captain, Medical Corps, AUS, 1945-47; instructor in neurological
surgery, University of Nebraska, 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Yorick Club, Indian Ridge Country
Club; Harvey Cushing Society; Congress of Neurological Surgeons; Massa-

chusetts Medical Society, Aerospace Medical Association; Flying Physi-
cians Association.

est hE AROMAT EEE YL REET ES

&
*
|

A YEAR in the drug business and four in medical school were
humdrum and uninspiring. However, “The Happy Life of a
Doctor” started with the internship and continues to be fulfilling

[ 820 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and rewarding. Recent past and future years in the practice of
medicine are marred and confused by unmerited and self-seeking
attacks on my profession from high political position.

Barbara and I have enjoyed great pleasure and good fortune
with our children who have done well in the contest for places in
the schools and colleges.

The great adventures of the first half of the twentieth century
were to remove a tumor of the brain and to fly an airplane, and
I have done both. For the greater accomplishments of the second
half I am content to be a thrilled and applauding spectator.

The conditions and events of this life in this time lead me to an

increasing adherence to what are now called conservative political
convictions.

PAUL FRANKLIN LARCOM

 

HOME AppREss: 8 Clapboard Hill Rd., New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Union Carbide Corp., 270 Park Ave. New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarrieD: Barbara Noyes Little, April 10, 1943. cHrLpREN: Richard, Feb. 24
1945; Gail, Dec. 18, 1946; Ann, April 20, 1954; Elizabeth, June 6, 1955.

occupation: Insurance buyer; assistant manager, Insurance Department, Union
Carbide Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Cub Scoutmaster, New Canaan, Conn., 1954; co-president, Saxe
Junior High School PTA, 1959-60; president, New Canaan Parents’ Coun-

cil, 1959-60; member, Schools and Scholarships Committee, New Canaan
Harvard Club, 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: New Canaan Harvard Club; New Canaan Field Club,

YOU know you are getting older when the time arrives to com-

[ 821 ]

~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

plete your Twenty-fifth Report, when your friends’ children are

being married and other friends are retiring. In contrast though,

and more appealing to me, my father-in-law accepted a better job
at age sixty-eight, and an associate of mine decided to enter college
to qualify as a teacher at fifty-five.

I have no additional degrees, publications or patents, but am
happily married to the same girl. For twenty years she has been
described as “housewife” on the income tax forms. This means
active participation in the P.T.A., Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, etc,
but she is now a member of the New Canaan Board of Education
with Classmate A. Mason Harlow.

Richard is now in the college application stage and Gail has
another year to go. Our “second generation,’ Ann and Elizabeth,
have started their education and will be ready for college about
the time I have recovered financially from getting the first two
through.

To round out our harmonious confusion, we have added an
American Field Service student to the family. Peter Schurink, our
Dutch lad, has proven to be an interesting experience for all of us
and I heartily recommend your participation in this program.

I have been with Union Carbide Corporation for twenty years
and am assistant manager of the insurance department. My work
has required a considerable amount of traveling in the United
States and Canada. During the past two years, however, the area
of travel has been enlarged to include our subsidiaries located in
most of the free nations of the world. I regret the time spent away ‘
from my family but the experiences, the education and the associa-
tions have been most rewarding to me and I am grateful for them.

I am still trying to complete the home building project started
twelve years ago, and realize that as it nears completion I shall
probably not need so large a house much longer. For the past

four years, my other hobby has been sailing and, probably due
to the influence of Music 1, I have been assembling high fidelity
equipment and have started to build up a music library.

I expect my life to continue in about the same pattern for several
more years due to the ages of our children — but I sometimes wonder
what it might have been like had I gone to M.LT.

. LE TITLE
fee Pen te

[ 822 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK ALFRED LARSON

gre ne

e
> .
rp

  

HOME ADDRESS: 266 Washington St., Holliston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. 396, General Dynamics/Electric Boat, Groton, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Technical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marrieD: Muriel Catherine Butler, Oct. 19, 1941. CHILDREN: Lyn Butler, Nov.
3, 1942 (7. James Michael Bray, June 15, 1961); Richard Peter, Nov. 21,
1947; Lee Ellen, Dec. 28, 1949. Granpcuitp: Kathleen Bray, April 1, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Production contro] engineer, General Dynamics/Electric Boat,
production of submarines.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, School Housing Committee, since 1951, School Build-
ing Committee (four schools), since 1952; treasurer, Holliston Town Re-
publican Committee, since 1962; chairman, Holliston Red Cross Fund
Drive, 1958; treasurer, P.T.A., 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Industrial Engineers; Registered Profes-
sional Engineer, Massachusetts.

NEARLY twenty-five years since graduation have left a kaleido-
scopic trail of activities that has no relevance whatever to any pre-
conceived plans stemming from college preparation. This may not
be 100% true inasmuch as I had a semester course in accounting
to qualify for my first post-graduation job as a cost accountant at
the Dennison Manufacturing Company in Framingham, Massa-
chusetts. Two years later my transfer into production was hardly
justified by anything studied in college.

Interjected at this point was my most significant and wonderful
experience of all, my marriage to Muriel Butler. Pearl Harbor
followed two months later, and, following that, a scramble for
assignment in the Navy, notwithstanding the natural apprehension
of Muriel who was anticipating our first-born, daughter Lyn.

Failing to get a waiver on my partially defective color percep-

[ 823 ]

— _—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

tion, 1 was rejected as a lieutenant (j.g.) in Radar Plot. The Arm ;
however, recognized the potential of a Harvard grad, and I was
given a rifle and a shovel. These, with my college training, qualified
me as a private in the Combat Engineers. A year’s training in
lovely Hattiesburg, Mississippi, with its sand, pine trees, and blister-
ing sun was all the postgraduate training required for the service
that followed in one of Europe’s coldest winters. This service in-
cluded mine field layouts, bridge building, reconnaissance, includ-
ing Paris, London and Brussels, and an occasional skirmish with
the “Jerries.”

Upon returning to peace-time activities I did staff work for
Dennison’s because there were no regular jobs open. I was subse-
quently made manager of their branch in Milford.

It was at this point that our only boy, Richard (Harvard ’69),
was born.

After two and a half years, the Milford operation was incorporated
into the Framingham operations. The family, in turn, moved to
Holliston, Job-wise, 1 was again free within the company. Several
minor responsibilities in Planning and Materials Control were syn-
thesized to provide me with a job with supervisory status. A second
daughter, Lee Ellen, joined the family toward the end of this stint.
Following a year and a half in this planning work I was invited to
join the merchandising division. The idea here was to create
glues and gummed papers and cloths that would appeal to the
trade. Realizing an utter lack of creativity for an area like this
prompted me to investigate other pastures.

This led to a job as an industrial engineer with U.S, Steel at their
Worcester Works (American Steel & Wire Division). Seven years
here were marked by a succession of exorbitant Steelworker Union
demands followed by steel price increases. A concomitant of this
was the drying up of our share of a market that turned to lower-
priced foreign steel and substitute products such as aluminum,
plastics and glass. This inexorable attrition of business brought
the axe down on the Worcester Works, and, over the past few years,
has decimated the industrial engineering staff, along with others.

In short, “Daddy,” twenty-four years after graduation, was trying
to fit his questionable talents, background and education to a new
activity.

General Dynamics Corporation, Electric Boat Division, in Groton,
Connecticut, in the meantime has agreed that my background coin-
cides with their requirements for production control engineering

[ 824]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the building of Polaris-firing nuclear-powered submarines. Very
interesting work! This job change will eventually mean the rest
of the family’s leaving Massachusetts and settling in the proximity
of the Connecticut shore, handy to the H-Y crew races.

Moving after fifteen years in Holliston will mean giving up a
host of town activities, and perhaps this is the only way that
Muriel and I can have “out”: Boy Scout Committee, School Hous-
ing Committee secretary, School Building Committee secretary
(for four new schools), PTA Treasurer, Republican Town Com-
mittee treasurer, Red Cross Fund Drive chairman, Sunday School
teacher; and a pending appointment to the Diaconate of the Con-
gregational Church; and, for Muriel, Nursing Committee chairman,
Retarded Children’s Fund Drive chairman, Welfare Committee,
Fluoridation Committee chairman, Church Nursery director, Red
Cross director, and Girl Scout Committee. As I review this list, I
think we must have been “nuts”!

Shedding these activities may, in fact, afford us a real opportunity
to enjoy our two youngest before they have left the home hearth.
This is a cherished prospect because, after nearly twenty-five years
out of college, our children are the only real substance in any
recapitulation of these years. It is in them that we look to see
reflected the indoctrination of those Harvard years: the spirit, the
dignity, and something about four “H’s” that I seem to recall from

one of our graduation speeches — humanity, humor, humility, and
perhaps the fourth, last but not least, was heart.

MORRIS EDWARD LASKER

 

HOME AbpRESS: 300 Millwood Rd., Chappaqua, N.Y,
[ 825 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICE AppRESS: Battle, Fowler, Stokes & Kheel, 477 Madison Ave., New York
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, Magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B. (Yale
Univ.), 1941.

MarRIED: Toy Schubach, April 27, 1943. cHILpREN: Harry Morris, Feb. 15,
1944; David E., Aug. 15, 1945; Kristen M., June 23, 1948; Timothy W,,
July 18, 1953.

HaRvaRD son: Harry Morris Lasker, ’66.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Staff member, U.S. Senate Investigating Committee (Truman
Committee), 1941-42; director, Urban League of Westchester County,
since 1950, Play Schools Association, New York City, since 1950; member
and president, Board of Education, Chappaqua, N.Y., since 1959, Town
Attorney, 1955-57, Justice of Peace, 1957-58, New Castle, N.Y.; member,
Committee to Visit Dept. of Philosophy, Harvard University, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Bar Association of the City of New York; American, New York

State and Westchester County Bar Associations; Harvard Club of New
York.

HOW could it be a more different world than it was in 1938? And
yet, plus ca change, plus c’ est la méme chose. Then it was Hitler, now
it is— Mao Tse Tung?

Anyway, trying to make some sense of this twenty-five years in a
few paragraphs, it seems to me it has been a process of trying to
build a stable platform from which to accommodate to change: as
Archimedes offered to move the world if he had a place to stand.

Have I moved the world? No — except as we all do. I have par-
ticipated. Chronologically there has been: stimulating service as a
lawyer on Harry Truman’s Senate Defense Investigating Committee;
the Army, here and overseas; practice of law in New York, and less
than I wish, as a country lawyer in northern Westchester.

Life has had its solid relation to the large and small affairs of men;
labor law and its connection to the sharing of wealth, the sharing
of power, politics at the local level; participation in local affairs as
member and president of the Board of Education (Chappaqua, New
York); Town Judge and attorney for the Town — Democratic
candidate for Congress from eastern Westchester.

Toy and I met during the war and were married in April, 1943.
The difference in our backgrounds — she western (Utah), I eastern
(New York) — has added a dimension to our happiness and to what
we've been able to give our children. They are: Harry, nineteen,
and to our delight a freshman at Harvard (who lived in Wiggles-
worth C-12 during 1934? ’35?); David, seventeen and a half, finishing

[ 826 ]

amare tare

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

high school this year, Kristen, a high school freshman, and Tim, a
sixth-grader. Harvard-conscious they have become because of the
pleasure of having 1938 Reunions chez nous off and on for the last
five years.

Life is good in the appealing hills and wooded country of northern
Westchester — in the agreeable village which is the focus of the area
—and in the engaging (may I say beautiful) home we were lucky
enough to fall upon eleven years ago. And good fortune has permit-
ted us to stay rooted in an unrooted world. Connection with Har-
vard has been kept warm through Harry’s present attendance and,
as much, by stimulating participation on the Visiting Committee to
the Philosophy Department to which Courtney Smith kindly ap-
pointed me some four years ago. This annual visit has been a parti-
cular exhilaration each time and has moved me to do what I can to
keep in touch with the subject —a difficult task in a commuter’s
life.

Time passes. Our children are becoming young men and women.
I reflect, and I find myself reflecting on many of the fundamental
questions we chewed over years ago. They have new titles, perhaps,
but old substance. I find myself asking: Can we free ourselves from
the lure of the material? How can we educate young people for
change and give them a general underpinning in an age of such
super-specialization? How can we assure them healthy emotional
growth to maturity when they must for so long remain economically
dependent? Have we lost —or are we gaining —a national con-
science for a lasting elimination of prejudice? Can we discipline our-
selves for the effort of peace in a competitive world? Is a com-
petitive standard consistent with peace?

If you are on the Taconic or Hutchinson parkways, leave them

and drop i in here in the country to have some cheer with Tov and
. We look forward to June.

[ 827 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19 38

GRAYSON FARQUHAR LATHROP

   

wh i

HOME AbprEss: 36 W. Tenth St. New York 11, N.Y.
orrice appress: Al Paul Lefton Co., Inc., 71 Vanderbilt Ave., New York 17,

N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.
marriep: Muriel Jacobs, cutLpren: Grayson Farquhar, Jr., 1951; Kevin Halsey,

1954 (by previous marriage).
occupaATION: Advertising; vice-president and general manager, Al Paul Lefton

Company, Inc.

JOSEPH NICOLA LATORRACA

 

HOME appress: 2 Roswell Terr., Glen Ridge, N.J.

OFFICE AppRESS: Latorraca Bros. Inc., 67 Vestry St., New York 13, N.Y,
PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; A.M., 1941.

[ 828 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Isabelle Elsie Latorraca, July 19, 1941. cHmpReN: N. Joseph, May 3,
1942; Dennis Michael, July 23, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Food importing, Latorraca Bros. Inc., administration and sales;
also consultant in specialty foods, principally Italian gourmet products.

OFFICES HELD: President, Circola Italiano, Casa Italiana, Columbia University,
since 1941; committee member, Italian Chamber of Commerce for Trade

with Italy, 1946, 1952; committee member, Fund Raising Drive, Home and
School Association, 1955.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago I left Harvard with certain aspirations
and goals to reach. I had plans for a career in teaching in Languages
and Literature but the same year I left Cambridge, I took over the
management of the family importing business after my father’s
death, and in 1948 I purchased the company outright. At first I
regarded this work as a detour from my original plans. However, I
can say now in retrospect that twenty-five years in the importing
business and foreign trade have afforded me many personal challenges
and satisfaction, and to say the least, a modest and comfortable liv-
ing. Besides, I have been not too far removed from my original in-
terests, namely French and Italian language and culture.

I also count among my blessings a fine family, a comfortable
home in suburbia, enough leisure time to pursue some of my
interests in literature. We have two sons: Joseph, now twenty years
old, is a junior at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jer-
sey, and is studying for a teaching career; Dennis Michael, now
sixteen, is a junior in Glen Ridge High School. Both Mom and
Dad have been active in our local cultural activities, in Home and
School fund raising drives, and in some choral and dramatic presen-
tations. Several years ago, at the suggestion of interested friends,
I started tutoring groups in Italian which evolved into regular cul-
tural soirées both literary and musical.

In the last five years my business activities have afforded me an
opportunity to do consultant’s work in the rapidly expanding Gour-
met Foods field. I have had several assignments for companies going
into this line, and for the future I envisage most of my work in this
capacity both here and abroad, where the expansion of the Common
Market has created new interest in our business methods.

Aspirations for the future involve the following: moving to a
warmer climate, three or four months of the year abroad working

with my foreign principals interested in selling in this market,
mastering Spanish,

[ 829 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FREDERICK A. LAVEY

TIA REE

      

a. a

HOME ADDRESS: 4204 Thornapple St. Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Public Utilities Reports, Inc., 332 Pennsylvania Bldg., Washing-
ton, D.C.

prepareD AT: Manchester High School, Manchester, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1946,

marrieD: Evelyn Heatwole, Jan. 16, 1943. CHILD: Frederick Painter, June 24,
1950.

occuPATION: President and general manager, Public Utilities Reports, Inc., pub-
lishing company.

oFFices HELD: Dean, Delta Theta Phi law fraternity chapter, University of Vir-
ginia Law School, 1942, 1946; founder, president and chairman of the
board, Shenandoah Retreat Civic Association, 1958-60; executive secretary,
Utilities Publication Committee, Washington, D.C., since 1961; chairman,
Boy Scout Troop Committee, since 1961; member, Publishing Management
Committee, Associated Business Publications, Inc., since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Raven Society; Harvard Club of Washington, University of Vir-
ginia Club of Washington; Harvard Business School Club of Washington,
National Lawyers Club; American Bar Association, Shenandoah Retreat
Country Club.

IN a review of events during the past twenty-five years that have
shaped or affected my life, living and points of view, perhaps the
most salient impression is that my life has been far more varied and
different than | had thought it would be — characterized through-
out with exceptionally good fortune and favored with opportunities
to become engaged in activities that I have considered useful and
worthwhile.

Of course, there were plans and, inevitably, changes. I recall
that 1 went to Harvard for its economics and banking courses and
expected to become a banker, probably in New York. That was

[ 830 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

still my plan during a year in Harvard Business School. One year

of banking in New York convinced me that this would be fine —

for others. Plans changed and I entered the University of Virginia

Law School in 1940. (I later felt fortunate that I had decided

earlier not to join a cavalry regiment in New York City —to get

my year of military service over with — because the regiment
became converted to an armored tank unit two months later!)

The new three-year plan embraced conscientious study of law,
to become an ace New York lawyer with a large income! My
good fortune was that I met Heatie (Evelyn to her home folks)
within three weeks after my arrival in Charlottesville, Virginia —
and while this changed my plans, it was the best thing that ever
happened to me. For the first time it seemed that I began to place
real value on things other than money (or the lack of it in my
case) and my world took on a completely different aspect. (My
sister sensed the change sooner than I and stated with some relief
that I had finally come to see the forest through the trees.)

My draft board couldn’t quite see me spending three pleasant,
consecutive years in the Virginia foot-hills —and so I joined the
Navy in the spring of 1942. It seemed like an awfully long three
and a half years— first with Naval Intelligence in Washington,
then as an ensign on the destroyer Caperton in the Pacific, and
finally as a lieutenant on the carrier Lake Champlain in the Atlantic.
Somehow the recollections of an orange sunrise on the mirror-like
blue Caribbean, the view of Diamond Head from the Palai, the
lonely air-strip on Funa-futi in the South Seas, the densely covered

hills from off-shore Hollandia and the 15” gun fireworks as seen
on an evening watch at anchor off Saipan, all seem to overshadow
in retrospect the less peaceful times at sea—and I guess it’s better
that way.

Heatie and I were married in the University Chapel in Charlottes-
ville on a beautiful day in January, 1943, prior to my assignment
for sea duty, and she lived there in our apartment while I was in the
Pacific. It was again good fortune that I could return there late in
1945 and resume law studies.

I finally received my law degree in 1946, and practiced tax and
utility law in Hartford and Washington until t951. Then plans
changed again and I became engaged in the publishing business, in
the company of which I have been president since 1960, I have felt
this has been more of an interesting life for me than a law practice,

with the challenge of anticipating the need for and potential of new

[ 831]

___]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

publications to produce and market. My work in publishing has in-
volved, among other things, considerable travel in all parts of the
country, providing splendid opportunities for good visits with class-
mates in many cities. One particularly interesting event was a brief
but worthwhile trip to West Germany in the spring of 1961.

All in all, the last twelve years have definitely been the best, with
the growth and development of our son marking the highlight of
them. We have all found pleasure and welcome change of pace dur-
ing the last six years, in the planning and building of a home in the
Virginia Blue Ridge Mountains —a ready retreat on weekends and
in summer from the busier tmes in Washington.

One thing strikes me most clearly in any year-end review of events
during this period. It seems that there can be so many demands
upon one’s time, for various and ostensibly worthwhile projects,
activities and endeavors, that it can become difficult from day to day
to separate the wheat from the chaff in the devotion of time, interest
and attention to the events of the moment, and so lose sight of the
main path to long-range objectives of life and living with meaning.

This, I think, is one of our greatest and most important continuing
challenges.

CHARLES KANE COBB LAWRENCE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 738 Chinoe Rd., Lexington, Ky.

OFFICE ADpRESs: Episcopal Theological School, 544 Sayre Ave., Lexington, Ky.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; B.D. (Virginia
Theological Seminary), 1941; st.m. (Union Theological Seminary), 1952.

[ 832 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarriED: Jean McDowell Hanger, Nov. 22, 1945. cHtLpreN: Margaret Hanger,

Feb. 3, 1947; Charles Cobb, April 14, 1949; Isaac Shelby, Oct. 10, 19553
Susanna Hart, Nov. 9, 1959.

occupation: Christian ministry; professor of systematic theology, Episcopal
Theological Seminary of Kentucky,

OFFICES HELD: Member, Dept. of Religious Education, Diocese of Maine, 1945~
49; executive director, Dept. of College Work, Diocese of Pennsylvania,
1952-58, member, board of directors, Christian Settlement House, Phila-
delphia, 1953-58; member, executive council, Diocese of Lexington, since
1959; deputy to General Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church,

1961; regional representative, of the Office of Admissions, Harvard
College, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Idle Hour Country Club, Lexing-
ton, Ky.

PUBLICATIONS: “That Word ‘Catholic’,” monograph, Holy Cross Press.

I WRITE this in the midst of the Cuban crisis. My mind goes back
to 1936 when Hitler remilitarized the Rhineland. If France and
England had stood firm and prevented that expansion of German
power, twenty million people might not have perished in violent
conflict in the following ten years, Few of us were much aware of
the significance of that event in our sophomore year. I think first of
our classmates and comrades who lost their lives in the vast confla-
gration that followed our graduation, and then of others who have
died prematurely in recent years. There are many men | counted as
real friends who will not be with us when we meet again, Deo
volente, next June. Their lights shine brightly in this dark world,
and illumine the way before us. I am afraid it will be increasingly
difficult until we find the way to nuclear disarmament. If we could
break through that mental and political barrier, the future would
have unimaginable possibilities for constructive development. Every
other breakthrough in science, even into space, pales in comparison
to this one. It is my fervent hope for the New Frontier that it lead
us to a world free from the fear of nuclear holocaust. If Harvard
has fitted brother Jack for this magnificent task, she has served us
well. May he be as valiant for peace with freedom and justice for all
as brother Joe was in war. Then the hopes and promises of that
other Harvardman who led us during our youth in a crusade for
“freedom from fear” will begin to come to pass.

Harvard has produced so many presidents and national leaders in
many fields that I suppose I should sing her praises for being pre-
eminent and without peer in higher education in America. I know
it is true because it is universally attested, but my own experience
does not reflect it. Perhaps it was because she was so much in my

[ 833 ]

—_— LU

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

bones from family tradition that I could not approach her with the
freshness and enthusiasm of a stranger to her halls of learning. Per-
haps it was because the prevailing scepticism in matters of faith and
morals robbed her of appeal to me. No doubt, also, I did not give
Harvard of my best, so she could not give her best to me. Intellec-
tual honesty and carefulness in search and scholarship she taught me,
but not vision and hope and great expectation. Yet “where there is
no vision the people perish.” Let us hope she may regain that vision
which inspired her founders and impart it generously to her sons, |
think already she has begun to do so under the presidency of Nathan
Pusey.

The significant trends in my life since the Tenth Report in ’48
have been a movement of my family southward, and of my profes-
sion into more academic channels. I left the parish ministry in Maine
in 1949, and did graduate work in theology in Union Seminary in
New York City. I then became a tutor for two years in the General
Seminary there. In 1952 I took a position at the University of Penn-
sylvania ministering to students. In 1958 I took a big leap to Ken-
tucky to work at the State University and to teach in a seminary of
the Church nearby. After completing construction of a church and
student center I relinquished the chaplaincy at the university in
1962, and I am now professor of theology at the Episcopal Theologi-
cal School of Kentucky in Lexington. No doubt this type of work
in the Church was in the stars for me ever since 1938. That it
should be in Kentucky rather than in Massachusetts is due in part at
least to my marriage in 1945 to the charming girl, born and reared
here in the Blue Grass, who has been my partner during all these
wanderings and given me four wonderful children. The eldest is
beguiling the boys at Staunton Military Academy while studying at
Stuart Hall in Virginia. The youngest is delighting the neighborhood
as a toddler. The boys in the middle of the family are full of Little
League and Small Fry sports activities that keep us on the go con-
tinually. The younger boy is learning Russian in his school, which
is a sign of the new age in which we live.

I return to New England occasionally for family marriages and
reunions and vacations. The blue seas of the Maine coast, especially
around Mt. Desert Island, still call me to a welcome change from
the green hills of Kentucky. This summer past I took my whole
family there for a family reunion on the occasion of my parents’
fiftieth wedding anniversary. Every one of their thirty-nine chil-
dren and grandchildren gathered from far and near to celebrate this

[ 834]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

milestone in our family life. If our fostering mother means anywhere
near as much to us, the sons of Harvard ’38 will gather from the four
corners of the earth in June of ’63 to honor her and rejoice in their
common heritage.

RALPH LAWSON, JR.

Pee

  

HOME ApprEss: 140 Morris Ave., Providence, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 543 Mineral Spring Ave., Pawtucket, R.I.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938(37).

MarRIED;: Margaret Tyng, May 28, 1938. cHmpren: Ralph, 3d, July 25, 1939;
Susan Tyng, May 29, 1942 (7. Freeman I. Davidson, 3d, Sept. 1, 1962);
Margaret Fuller, June 15, 1945.

occuPATION: Manufacturing; executive vice-president, Lawson Products, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, R.I. Community Chest, Pawtucket YMCA, Duxbury
Yacht Club; president, Highlander Class Association, vice-president,
Providence Chapter, Society for the Advancement of Management.

MEMBER OF: Duxbury Yacht Club; Manhattan Club; To Kalon Club; Paw-
tucket Rotary Club; Harvard Club of Rhode Island.

IT is not easy to sit, pencil poised, and decide how to write of the
past twenty-five years. What has—or has not—been accom-
plished to make one a worthy — or unworthy — member of that
distinguished body: the Harvard Alumni? What were the expecta-
tions with which we confronted the world twenty-five years ago;
how have they been fulfilled; and, where do we go from here?
Personally, I have a family in whom I can rejoice. I finished re-
quirements for a degree a year early in order to be able to marry my
wife, Margy, and this was good. Margy, after helping to produce
three children, has turned into a Republican politician, active in the

[ 835 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

councils of the party in Rhode Island. Peter (Ralph, 3d) is now
twenty-three and, after two and a half vears in the Army, has re-
turned to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute to complete his studies.
Susan, at twenty, was married in September, and we are most hap
with our new son-in-law, Freeman I. Davidson, 3d. Beebles (Mar-
garet) is an enthusiastic freshman at Smith.

Geographically, we spend our time between Providence and
Duxbury. Providence is the scene of work; Duxbury, of play. The

“play” part revolves around small sailboat racing, principally in
“Highlanders,” with dribs and drabs of golf, picnicking, friendship,
and just plain relaxation.

Vocationally, I find my job is fascinating and is my principal
hobby. After five years with the telephone company and one year
in the machine business, I find myself now, and for the past nineteen
years, in the business of knitting elastic fabric. Lawson Products is
small_—we employ about 200 — but the prospects for growth and
development are great. The textile business has its limitations, its
frustrations and its periods of downright misery, but its possibilities
are enormous and its ramifications fascinating. It has provided a
comfortable living and has been meeting all of the children’s educa-
tional requirements asked of it. The fun of it is in the growth poten-
tial and only the future holds the answers to that.

Community service has revolved around the usual; such as, Com-
munity Chest and United Fund, YMCA, school fund-raising, local
club activities and the like. I am happy in my family; I believe I
have friends; my work is most stimulating; and, I hope I try to bea
good citizen. Outstanding contribution to the welfare of man is not
yet from here.

[ 836 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

CARROLL ROsS LAYMAN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 125 N. Park Ave., Hinsdale, IL

OFFICE ADDRESS: George Ray Hudson Advertising Co. g S. Clinton, Cha ages &
Ill.

PREPARED AT: DuQuoin Township High School, DuQuamn, OL

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREE: A.BOIN Baa. (Univ, of Hind, git

MarriED: Betty Jane Lovegren, June 20, tgyo. Cautmers, Susan Grav, Vow te
1943; Carol Lyn and Cathy Lea (twins), June af toge, Nallv Ann, the
23, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, George Ray Hudwn Advertrung Campeny (a.
count supervisor, new business manager, radun PV recent dares tees
OFFICES HELD: Elected to and scrved as delegate, altcenate dele gp ste, marnerstong
committee member, exccutive committce member and tae cherie,
Hinsdale Village Caucus; president, one year, director, several geery Phin.
dale Committce of 100; charter member, directug three yeary commmurne
chairman, several years, Hinsdale Kiwans Cub, Baand af Des om, Usman
Church of Hinsdale = cight years, vice-chairman, one pres, chasrreen ten
years; Fxecutive Council of Union Church = arven sear, Mews (hod of
Union Church — president, one year, and held many offers wn earee Reosed
of Directors, Hinsdale Community House — 9's yearn ehecrreese patie
relations committee, three year, varus others over years me Uf emt de
Community Chest and Red Cross, Pinedale Pose Nas pay Armen ne fo gpeoe
— director, three years, chairman of Ameneanam Caomenatee, thoes yoors

MEMBER OF: Broadcast Advertiung Club of Chaago, b wenn (heb wd (he
cago; Chicago Federated Advertrung Club, Rie enm Cheb nf Poveb sie
Committce of 100, Hinsdale, American Legon, Ph Delee Phone be aanicee.
Union Church of Plinsdale; Bellew and Henedw ty beatles, Crave do bee
Basic Education, Hinwlale Towss Meetorg A enn seme,

IF anyone should remember me, he wall know Pdnta'e Brest os head
at Harvard. Called home by the scneus ines of my farther whee
dicd several wecks later, [ sulwcquently transferred to the ( nereraty
of Hlinois and managed to graduate on hedube sey Jose. op 4

(837)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

While at Champaign, Illinois, I found myself singing, then an-
nouncing on a local commercial radio station. Well, law school lost
to broadcasting and eventually advertising. I won’t detail the various
tours of duty in business. It’s enough to say that I’ve been in broad-
casting, television and advertising for most of the years since gradua-~
tion, As an advertising agency principal today, Pm always looking
for some new accounts . . . so don’t hesitate to call me.

For the record, 1 do want to report that I had a tour of duty in
World War II. I applied for and received a commission in the
USNR and served a little less than three years, including eighteen
months in the South Pacific, with a Combat Aircraft Service Unit.
I was honorably discharged as a lieutenant (j.g.).

Now, let’s get one record straight for a proud father. A Harvard
Class Report of a few years ago omitted one of my prize possessions
... my first and eldest daughter, Susan Gay, now a sophomore at
Kansas University, and a talented pianist and musician. I have four
daughters as the vital statistics show. Our twins, Lyn and Lea, are
sophomores in Hinsdale High School, and Sally, our baby, is now in
fifth grade.

Finally, having to leave Harvard when I did, just as I was begin-
ning to get the hang of the place, was disappointing. However,
moving to the University of Illinois proved most eventful and re-
warding. There, I met, wooed and eventually won the beautiful and
lovely young lady who became and still is Mrs. C. R. Layman.

FRANCIS XAVIER LEARY

 

HOME Appress: 651 Cabrillo Ave., Coronado, Calif.
OFFICE apprEss: U.S. Naval War College, Newport, RI,

[ 838 ]

| |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marriep: Ann Elizabeth Merker, Aug. 11, 1943. CHILDREN: Anne Virginia,
March 28, 1945; Margaret Frances, Dec. 31, 1946.

occupation: Colonel, U.S. Army.

TO recapture, record without embellishment and then expose to
curious scrutiny personal events which have occurred over a quater
of a century is not only a difficult undertaking, but a brave one. I
find that with the approach of senility, the power of accurate recall
steadily declines, the urge grows to bedeck the most common occur-
rences in sententious and tumid terms, and, at the same time, a re-
luctance builds up to chronicling one’s personal history in the light of
the eminent success of fellow classmates.

It therefore behooves me to report only in general terms and to

state that almost twenty-five years in the Army, with much of it
spent on joint duty with our sister services and allies and almost half
of it spent overseas in peace and war, have resulted in a modicum of
material gain. (Our pay rates are closely scrutinized by brother
alumni in important branches of the federal government.) Yet, the
compensations of those years have been more than adequate for this
“Tommy Atkins.” A wonderful wife and two lovely daughters
imaging the many virtues of their gracious mother. Friends who
have been both comrades-in-arms and peacetime associates. Oppor-
tunities to learn from and about my fellow man and to impart some
of that knowledge on subjects ranging from the simple non-technical
military stuff to more complex matters dealing with human emotions
and behavior under stress. A chance to be one of the pioncers in the
Army’s field of nuclear weaponry. The good fortune to travel to
both sophisticated and primitive areas of the globe. And through
it all a hope that by doing one’s best, whether pushing papers as a
staff officer or commanding troops in the ficld, some microscopic
benefit might accrue to these United States.

[ 839 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

+ TIMOTHY LEARY, JR.

 

BORN: March 8, 1917, Boston, Mass. parents: Timothy Leary, Olga Cushing.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

marrieD: Delphine Thompson, Oct. 11, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Patricia
Elizabeth, Jan, 17, 1943; Pamela Ann, Jan. 6, 1945.

DIED: Jan. 3, 1954, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

AFTER graduation Leary worked in a radio and record shop, be-
came interested in radio servicing and attended evening radio service
school. In November, 1942, he went to M.I.T. as an electronic
technician and was working for an engineering degree. After three
years as technician on various Navy-sponsored research projects he
was promoted to the position of assistant engineer on “Project
Whirlwind.” He was survived by his wife and children.

[ 840 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN PHILIP LEE

 

HOME apprEss: Avenida Miraflores 12-57, Cali, Colombia.

OFFICE appress: Aluminio Alcan de Colombia, S.A., Apartado Acrceo 1044, Cali,
Colombia.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1034-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.B.A4 1940.

MARRIED: Nancy Guild Peabody, Nov. 16, 1940. cHitpren: Charles Peabody,
Feb. 16, 1944; John Philip, Jr. Jan. 21, 1944; Margaret Davidson, Feb. ¢,
1949.

OCCUPATION: President, Aluminio Alcan de Colombia, S.A. aluminum manu-
facturers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Young People’s Association, St. John’s Fpicopal
Church, Youngstown, Ohio, 1942-43; commissioner, Boy Scouts of Anwrwa,
Youngstown, Ohio, 1942-43; secretary —board of governom, Se, Paul's
School, Sao Paulo, Brazil, 1955-56; vice-president — board of directors
1961-62, president, 1963, Colegio Bolivar, Cali, Colombia, vevrryman, SM.
Thomas Episcopal Church, Cali, Colombia, 1961.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club, New
York; Laurentian Lodge Club, Shawbridge, Quebec.

THE twenty-five years since our graduation have brought me a
family, a stimulating job and an international life.

The family consists of my wife Nancy who, for twenty-two wf
the twenty-five years, has quietly, efficiently and enthusiastically
provided a home and family life in the five ditferent countrics we
have lived in since our marriage — United States, Canada, Fryland,
Brazil and, at the moment, Colombia. Our two sons, harles and
Philip, after schooling in Canada, England and Brasil spent four
years and six years respectively at St. Mark's and are now attending
Penn. Our daughter Margaret, equally international in’ education,
starts four years at Garrison Forest School in September of thes
year.

[ 841]

1 L__-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

The stimulating job came after crossing the Charles in 1938 and
graduating from the Business School in 1940. At that time I joined
a family business, Lee Engineering Company in Youngstown, Ohio,
where we lived longer than in any other place, eight years. We
sold the company in 1948 and for two years we lived in New Jersey,
the company’s new location. During those years I had come to the
conclusion that I wanted to be in a growing industry and an inter-
national one. In January of 1950, I joined Aluminum Limited in
Montreal and our international life started in earnest. It has been
stimulating, challenging and interesting.

Specifically, I have gained two languages — Portuguese and Span-
ish; a realization that in spite of differences in speech, color and
customs people are the same the world over — good, bad and in-
different, that a Harvard education is internationally respected,
that United States is the greatest country of all but the great hope of
the world is a deeper knowledge of other countries on the part of
our citizens. Finally, if I could do it all over again, I would not
change a thing.

WILLIAM E. LEE

 

HOME appress: 160 Pelhamdale Ave., Pelham, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. C. Penney Co., W. 34th St, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Storm King School, Cornwall Heights, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: AB., 1938,

marriED; Eleanor Loupret, 1941-46; Joyce Ellingwood, 1948. CHILDREN: Vir-
ginia, March 6, 1942; Janet, June 22, 1949; Margaret, Nov. 23 19515 Char
lotte, April 23, 1954; Richard, Sept. 5, 1957; Alyson, May 2, "oes ; -

occupation: Retail, J. C. Penney Company, coordinator of metropolitan stores

[ 842 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Storm King School.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Pelman Men’s Club.

I HAVE looked forward to our 25th Reunion for some years. Now
it is here — perhaps a little too quickly. It seems a long way back to
the good times we had in Adams A-16. Most of the years have been
good, problems, of course, even tragedy, but on the w hole, I con-

sider myself most fortunate.
In 1938 I joined the William Filene Company of Boston. During

the next twenty-two years I worked in almost every phase of the
business, became general manager of its branch store division, and a
member of the management board. In 1960 I joined J. C. Penney
Company. I look forward to many satisfying years with this out-
standing organization. I have a wonderful wife, six healthy (beaun-
ful and handsome) children, and a rewarding business carcer,
With others I am deeply concerned about the state of our world.
I worry about the tendency of people everywhere to act with a
“What’s in it for me’? attitude. I am concerned that I, personally,
don’t do enough to help make a better world, but perhaps my con-
tribution can best be a good family life, with children who gain from
it a sense of humor and the courage to stand up for what they know
is morally right.
We extend a cordial invitation to all to visit us in Pelham or in the
summer at Mooney Point, Squam Lake, New Hampshire.

NORMAN EDWARD LEEN

ee —
- ; 4

gems. —, }

‘y é . : j

  

HOME AbpRESS: 35 Sutton Rd., Needham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: IBNI Corp., 520 Boylston Se, Boston, Mass
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Alas,

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).
marriep: Lucy Jane Clark, Nov. 20, 1942. CHILDREN: Norman Edward, Jr., Dec.

8, 1945; Michael Collingwood and Ralph Clark (twins), Sept. 1, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Sales manager, IBM Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director of sales and marketing, Executives Club of Greater Bos-
ton, seven years.

MEMBER OF: Charles River Country Club, Newton, Mass.; Binghamton (N.Y.)
Country Club; Providence Sales Executives Club, University Club of Bos-
ton; Needham Sportsman’s Club; Boston Harbor Marina, Inc.; Fernald
League for Retarded Children; St. Sebastian’s Men’s Club.

A QUARTER of a century has passed us by in what almost seems
like the explosive burst of a champagne bubble.

After graduation and a brief selling experience in Boston, a friend
convinced me that the best challenge for a young college graduate
was a career in the Naval Air Force. After cadet graduation at
Pensacola, Florida, instructorships in Florida, Texas, Rhode Island
and Massachusetts, | completed my service experience as executive
officer of PV Squadron VB-134 and commanding officer of Scouting
Squadron VS-62. After decommissioning VS—62 in Norfolk, Vir-
ginia, in 1945, I was discharged as lieutenant commander after over
3,000 hours of flying.

Within thirty days, I joined the IBM Corporation and have served
the company during the last seventeen years in various sales capaci-
ties with present assignment as sales manager in Boston.

I believe that excepting business and family the greatest pleasure
in life can be found in as many hobbies as one can enjoy. Among
mine are tuna fishing every September in Provincetown with Charlie
Mayo, Dartmouth graduate, on his Chantey Il, salmon and trout
fishing, hunting for upland game, deer during the archery season,
golf (twelve handicap), bicycling and piano. My sons share in these
hobbies — Norman, Jr., at St. Sebastian’s Country Day School,
Newton, Massachusetts, and Michael at St. Joseph’s Academy,
Wellesley, Massachusetts. My son Ralph, unfortunately, is blind.

I am convinced that the selling profession is one of the five keys to
the economic growth and prosperity of the United States. The
other four are: a better balance in government control of industry
and government control of labor, integration into the common mar-
ket, nuclear disarmament, and aid to education. (University studies
generously give us credit for using less than one-third of our mental
faculties.)

The American people represent 6% of the total world population
but have 50% of the total cash income and the other 94% of the

[ 844 ]

a re

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

world splits the other 50%. The rest of the world looks to us for
leadership, direction, action, and assurance of world peace — ours is
a tremendous responsibility.

I feel sure that we have all had our problems since graduation, but
in retrospect, I am reminded of Mark Twain who observed, “ft am
an old man and have known a great many problems, but most of
them never happened.” May the next twenty-five years be happicr
and less turbulent than the last twenty-five. My earnest prayers ask
that the champagne bubble will burst with a toast for greater happi-
ness and security for your children and mine — yes—and the
children of the other 94% of the world, too.

The greatest legacy I could leave my children is that they be con-
vinced that success depends on only one thing — their own dedica-
tion and self-motivation to the realization of their dreams and ob-

jectives — their self-determined purpose in life. Their degree of
success depends only on their degree of dedication and seclf-motiva-
tion — nothing else counts.

MATTHEW BRYCE LEGGETT

 

HOME apprEss: 9 Plymouth Rd., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambrnlge ta Maw.

PREPARED AT: Enfield High School, Thompsonville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938, 8... (Mawachusetts bee. of
Technology), 1940.

mMarRiED: Marjorie Ernst, May 29, 1943. cHipres: Whincy Moaleoln, Vlarch
21, 1949; Judith Alison, Dec. 28, 1951,

occuPATION: Academic administration; associate director of admiaona, ebiees toe
of advanced placement, exccutive secretary Atoms for Powe Veanty ba

MEMBER OF: Sigma Ni; A.F, & A.A.

[ 845 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

pusLicaTions: “Which Freshmen will Fail?”, College Board Review, No, 41
Spring, 1960; “Advanced Placement at M.LT.”, Technology Review, Vol.

64, No. 4, Feb., 1962.

THREE more years of getting ready; four for jobs I swore back
then I'd never do; ten in what the preparation in College and after
was presumably aimed at. A disaster, or some would say so. An in-
terlude and then, completely unrelated to what went before (or
was it?), an entirely new adventure, one in which these last eight
years are surely only the beginning. Thus, the “professional” tale.
The other more normal, more usual, equally happy in its outcome —
marriage, two children, the usual family activities.

M.LT. seemed attractive for study in colloidal chemistry and,
after a false start in chemical engineering, it seemed attractive for
further work in chemistry — perhaps a doctorate. But war came and
there was a job to be done in research in chemical warfare, still at
M.LT. in a curious melange of military and civilian personnel. It
was here that I met Marge, similarly migrated down-river from Rad-
cliffe and doing research. At war's end, married and not really will-
ing to return to the academic life as students, we went on to the
family’s business; small, in textiles, serving other New England
small textile outfits.

It was interesting at first, but increasingly boring, restrictive, un-
challenging (in the cliché of our youngsters in school). More and
more, the church, the youth groups, took our time, our attention,
our interest. Out there in Springfield, we learned to ski, to hike and
climb passably well, we found our children. Then the disaster (if
it was that). The floods came; the buildings and the inventory
took two days to topple completely into the river. It was a power-
fully depressing sight, but it was also the opening of a possibility
for change. .

Change to what? One presumed something similar and looked
for jobs for a chemist who had been shunted into a narrow line for
ten years. But by sheer happenstance, the search included a visit to
M.LT. followed by further visits and (I’m still not sure how) a place
in the Admissions office.

So began the best time. Working with young people, mostly
bright, mostly eager. Helping them (one hopes) to choose an edu-
cation and, to a degree, to identify goals. Travelling a bit in this
task. Selecting a class each year (but this is the least time-consum-
ing part of it), Add to that, in a curious turnabout way, the coun-
seling of students who have chosen to come. Just a regular group

[ 846 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and then, for two years in a row all freshmen who were placed on

robation at the end of the first term. How do you select such fine
fellows who turn out like this? More importantly, what can you
(and M.I-T.) do for them now? Happily, in many cases, quite a bit.
Add other administrative functions in a turbulent, dynamic aca-
demic and research community and there is the setting for me for
genuine excitement and pleasure, growing more rather than less
each year.

What does it signify? Not much perhaps, but certainly this: —
that preparation may come by misdirection, too, if we're lucky; but
also that we would do well not to foreclose our children’s future by
imposing our goals for them on them with strait jackets. Maybe their
best future lies in their ability to explore and to learn for them-
selves who they may become.

A. JAMES LEHMAN

SENET

 

HOME apprEss: 15 Maple Ct., Hamilton, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREss: Wilmurs, Second and Marker Streets, Hamilton, Ohi,

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. cu7 laude, 1938.

MarRiED: Edith L. Snook, cHiLpReN: Peter, Oct. 30, 1948; Thomas, Dee. 19,
1949.

OCCUPATION: Owner and manager of small home improvement firm.

OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, Progressive Citizens of Ohio and Progresuve
Party, 1946-48; president, Unitarian Fellowship of PLamilton, tyAz.

MEMBER OF: Citizens Government League, Hamilton Community Coane.
Rotary.

FOR the first few years after graduation, I wandered . . . an asort-
ment of jobs in Chicago, a fruitless excursion to Hollywood, two

[ 847 ]

setssstonoea |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

years at advertising research in New York. Finally back to Cincin-
nati to find the girl who has put up with me ever since. Turned
down by the Army as 4-F, I spent the war years in a small metal
machinery plant, helping with their unaccustomed problems of
personnel, expediting, production control, etc.

After the war, we took a full-time fling at the political life and I
was employed by a succession of liberal organizations which culmi-
nated in 1948 in the Progressive Party. The Wallace defeat, of
course, was total; nonetheless those two years must balance out as
busy and exciting ones when I saw men and women at their best,
working to create what they believed was a better answer.

By this time, we had two children and the Lehmans settled down.
I blundered into the home improvement business and have been
there ever since — happily, if not with outstanding financial success.
Edith, a graduate of Duke, returned to school and emerged as an
art teacher in the public schools. Pete, my eldest son, has interests in
law and journalism and is picking a small midwestern college next
year. Tom, our thirteen-year-old, leans toward math and music.

Ten years ago, we moved to Hamilton, a smaller community north
of Cincinnati, and found that for us there are great pleasures in some-
thing a little less overwhelming and impersonal than a big city.

BRUCE GARDNER LEIGHTON, JR.

é
&
ne
z,
i

ceaMte’

 

HOME appress: Route 1, Box 206, Stuart, Fla,

OFFICE appress: 301 California Ave., Stuart, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Ridgewood High School, Ridgewood, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: 8.B., 1938,

[ 848 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Augusta Shifferstine, May 18, 1942, CHILDREN: Victoria, Jan. ia tage,
Sara A., Feb. 16, 1950.

occuPATION: Accountant and tax consultant.

OFFICES 'HELD: Vestry (second term), St. Mary's Church, member, board of
directors, Stuart Kiwanis Club.

MEMBER OF: Brotherhood of St. Andrew; Florida Accountants A wow rate,
Martin County Library Association.

I GUESS that the early years of my life after the spring of 193% are

a stereotype of the average nineteen-thirty-cighter, Just a bare start

at a business career — in my case with Sperry Gyroscope Company

in Brooklyn — which I suppose was more or less promiung when ill

winds blew in from out west; a tour on active duty with the Navy,
most of which was spent riding with the fast carriers of task forces
thirty-eight and fifty-eight west of Pearl Harbor asa fighter director
officer; and an informative few months spent on the stat® of the
Commander, First Aircraft Carrier Squadron of the British Pacatic
Fleet as Fighter Director Liaison Officer. In looking through an old
wallet the other day I found a little grav card inucd by the Com.
missioned Officers Club of Mog Mog Island, Ulithi Atoll, and al.
though I can’t recall meeting any of vou 1 wonder if there are any
card-holders among the Class.

After the grand tour we moved to Pittsburgh, and inte the buy
problems of the post-war world. While Pm relauvely certain that
these were of the soul-scarring varicty, the one most vivid in my
memory is the one which centers around a really wonderful sprang
evening when I came home to find a gang of youngsters tihng try.
cycles ’round and ’round a race track which they had buate an any
front yard on which a young stand of grass was just getting ext ab.
lished. Our daughter v icky, of course, was the grand marshal of
the race.

We drove down to Florida in the spring of tg¢4 to see mother
and dad who, at the time, was running a fair-sized farming opera:
tion on 1200 acres of sand land that he had boughe just after the war
It was a wonderful spring, and Pittsburgh did seem anokys by cre
parison. Besides, dad needed help on the fann. ‘Therefore, with
wonderful white sand beaches and good surf swimming only we te
ten minutes away, a job to do, it secmed very inportant ter kernal a
hand. So we sold out and came south.

Surroundings such as we have here don’t came cheaply, it sero
because just after we found a place to hive and pot eettledl we roa
into some pretty bad sessions which culminated sa a sheep five ce

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

here four years ago. Since fertilizer and insecticides are very ex-
pensive and it takes more of them than the ordinary person can
imagine in the sand lands of Florida, a lost crop or two causes
trouble. The freeze was just that. We sold out. I moved into town
and hung up a shingle.

That was three and one-half years ago. I’m still at it and not the
least bit discouraged with the results to date. Some days are rather
long, but my office is just five minutes’ drive from our door, so
that long days are translated into effective working hours. The
beach is still six minutes away. For those of you who are at all
interested, it was 76° yesterday afternoon (January 17th) and the
same is forecast for today.

I somehow have the feeling that this is just about where I came
in: JFK now is in FDR’s old house, the New Deal has progressed
(they say) through two letters of the alphabet and is now the New
Frontier; but I wonder, because it seems to me that the tune of the
General Theory proposed by John Maynard Keynes hasn’t been

rescored even a little bit. For Harvard men that doesn’t seem to be
much progress.

NATHANAFL AUGUST LEMKE

   

cb ee IR: elit EE
PR A ESTE RN Ne em

HOME appress: 4124 N. Prospect Ave., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFicE appREss: Weidner & Lemke, 927 Wells Bldg., Milwaukee 2, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: S.B, Magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941.

marrigp: Alice Coffin, Jan. 13, 1945. CHILDREN: Clark Elliott, July 29, 1946;
Bradley Nathanael, May 27, 1948, Laurel Alice, May 30, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Attorney,

[ 850 ]

lt

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, Shorewood, Wis., 1952-38; member, Shorewomd
School Board, since 1958; lecturer in law, Marquette Univerwty Law
School, 1946-59.

MEMBER OF: Wisconsin and Milwaukee County Bar Associations, Phi Bera
Kappa; American Legion —~ Alonzo Cudworth Post of Milwaukee, Plarward
Club of Milwaukee.

FROM Harvard Law School, I, a Wisconsinite, ventured to New

York City which I had heard was the Mecca for aspiring young

lawyers. I worked in a law firm under the guidance of a Harvard

man who had come from a small community in Michigan and after
years of grueling work had become a junior partner with sutticient
funds to purchase a weekend farm in Pennsylvania. He epromized
for me my growing confusion with metropolitan existence when he
stated: “I’ve worked like the devil all my life to get from the farm to
the farm.” So, after an interlude of three and one-half years of mine-
sweeping | in the Navy during World War II, I returned to Wiscon-
sin, where I have spread my roots in Shorewood, a suburb of 47,000
just north of Milwaukee.

While in New York City, I lived in Greenwich Village just otf
Washington Square, with several Harvard Law School clasunates
My experiences were varied, running from sessions with aspiring
artists and writers of the Eighth Street Sunday Chowder Society, to
participation in the social activities of St. Bartholomew's Com-
munity Club, where I met my wife. I even broadened my education
by attending New York University at night to remedy my deficient
background in math so that I could qualify for a commisuen in the
Navy.

I was not at Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. [was there when
the war ended and skippered one of the YMS sweeps the 143, that
did the postwar clearance sweep of Pearl. Before that, [ skippered
the 113 in the Southwest Pacific, and before that, U skippered the
YMS 249 in the Atlantic. My worst expericnce was a seventy two-
hour ordeal on the flying bridge during a typhoon in the Pacite.
How we ever survived that blow I don’t know, We continuaily

rolled beyond the fifty-five-degrce capsizing point. We pitched
down like a crash-diving sub, We pitched up ke a jumping pet.
poise. But we did survive and the amazing thing about it all ts that
even though I swore to myself during the ordeal that E would for:
evermore spurn the sight of water, I find that my moose enjoy able
moments of recreation are found on Wiscomin’s many likey ant
waterways.

[ 851]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

] enjoy my law practice which has been supplemented the last few
years with the problems of managing a downtown office building.
My most interesting case to date was opposing a condemnation ac-
tion for a proposed downtown municipal parking structure. M
assigned task was to convince a jury that there was no necessity for
additional downtown parking. I was surprised when the jury agreed
with my contention. A result of the case was a public referendum,
which was successful, to change Wisconsin’s constitution so as to
eliminate the requirement of a jury verdict of necessity in municipal
condemnation cases.

I have taken an active interest in local affairs. For six years |
served as village president of Shorewood. Since four years ago, |
have been serving on the Shorewood School Board. Shorewood
has an excellent public school system and has produced quite a few
graduates who have done well at Harvard. I myself went to private
schools, but I have become and am a firm advocate of a good public
school system in one’s own community where one’s children can
obtain the proper education for college while still living at home and
participating in community life.

My main hobbies are fishing and camping which enable me to
enjoy Wisconsin’s woods and lakes. I sometimes wonder why I
didn’t prepare for some type of outdoor life. Every time I visit a
fish hatchery or forest ranger station, the grass looks awfully green
on the other side of the fence.

I am fortunate to have an understanding wife who enjoys the same
things I do. We have three stimulating children and form a closely
knit family group. I am hopeful that our two boys will go to Har-
vard and that our daughter will attend Radcliffe.

My philosophy of life has not changed too much since my forma-
tive years at Harvard. Perhaps the most valuable point of view which
] acquired from several of my sociology courses was and is that one’s
ultimate values and goals in life are not subject to scientific or logical
analysis, In the midst of an ever increasing stress on scientific ad-
vance and specialization in this world of ours, it is comforting to re-
flect from time to time that logic and science will never be able to
replace those ultimate values and ends which we all acquire, varying
as they may be, which give us each our raison d’étre.

[ 852 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tr EDWARD FRANCIS LENIHAN, JR.

 

poRN: Feb. 8, 1917, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Edward Franco Lenihan,

Esther Hatch.
PREPARED AT: Catalina School, Catalina, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.
pieD: Aug. 26, 1944, in Italy.

AFTER college Lenihan spent two years in the Graduate School.
In 1942 he entered the U.S. Army Medical Corps and served in the
North African and Italian campaigns. He died of a fever of un-
known origin in the 64th General Hospital near Naplex Pile was

survived by his father.

WILLIAM PURCELL LESTER

OO EE NE ROE

 

HOME appress: 334 Tom Elunter Rd Fort Lee Nop
OFFICE AvpRESS: Prentice-Hall, Ine. Englewoust Chita SJ

[ ¥s3 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED aT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, AM. (Boston Univ.), 1942.
marriD: Phyllis Louise Moore Bartlett, Jan. 14, 1947. cumLpren: Lucy Ann,

Nov. 10, 1949; Mary Louise, May 15, 1951; Jonathan Bartlett, Jan. 7, 1959.
OCCUPATION: Production editor.

MEMBER OF: U.S. Army Reserves (major); First Presbyterian Church of Engle-
wood; Harvard Club of Boston.

THE years since college have been filled with study, army, job and
family. In my job I am concerned with textbooks, and because of
my children I am involved in the town’s educational activities.
Hence, I think a lot about education in all its phases and am increas-
ingly aware of the need for better general education and better
specialized training for everyone. Translating this interest into
action, my wife and [ have worked toward an improved library for
our community. Our endeavors have also extended to various pro-
grams for enriching school and community life, especially in the
areas of art and music. Our goal, of course, is the old but nonethe-
less worthy one of a life of value for our children and ourselves.

LAURENCE SHER LEVENSON

aT ESN PRA NN

   

bes om

HOME apprEss: 575 Grand Concourse, Miami Shores, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Berger and Levenson, 1502 duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla.
PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. 1944.

marrieD: Annamae Feldman, Feb. 15, 1949. cHiLpreN: Shari Lynn, March 1,
1950; Richard Joseph, Dec. 19, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; Florida and Dade County Bar Associa-
tions; Masonic and Shrine Temples.

[854]

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE request for a contribution to the anniversary report brings to
mind many peaks of happiness, satisfaction, frustration and even
sadness in the past twenty-five years. Though nostalgic from a per-
sonal viewpoint, however, I eliminate each one after examining it
for general interest.

Prepared theoretically and philosophically by the College and later
the Law School, I embarked on the practice of law. In retrospect,
having added a certain amount of experience in practical applica-
tion, I can say that I have enjoyed the last eighteen years in the legal
profession and have achieved a certain degree of success.

Nothing earth-shattering, to be sure, but enough to keep my wife
in paints (oils and water colors), my daughter in hair spray, lipstick
and phonograph records (a teen-ager), and my son in footballs, base-
ball gloves and fishing tackle (and I hope a Harvard education). Per-
haps my contributions have amounted to something more in their
lives and training, but the listed items are most immediate and press-
ing.

All in all, with family and practice, the intervening years have
been personally rewarding, and I hope to attend the coming Reunion
to renew contacts with Harvard and classmates of °38.

EDWARD PHILIP LEVINE

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 131 Bishopsgate Rd., Newton Center, Maw.

OFFICE Appress: Crimson Camera Exchange, 135 Massachusetts Ave, (Camn-
bridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Afass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE? A.B, 1938,

[ 855]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Marrigp: Gilda B. Warshaw, June 22, 1940. CHILDREN: Raida Ann, Dee. 8,
1941; Roberta F., April 13, 1944; Marjorie N., Feb. 21, 1947; Diane J.,
Jan. 31, 1951.

occupaTion: Owner and operator, Crimson Camera Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, New England Camera Dealers Association, presi-

dent, Weeks Jr. High P.T.A.

SUBURBIA makes for a frantic existence and the passage of time be-
tween this Report and my last one goes almost unnoticed. The hair-
line may recede farther, the eyeglass prescription may need more
frequent changes but the only real outward change marking the com-
ing and passing of the years is noticed in the growth of my family.
The four little girls have grown into young ladies. Raida is graduat-
ing this summer from Wells College; Bobo is at Bennington; Margi
is at Newton High School and our baby? — no more — Diane is at
Junior High School. The first of our brood is making marriage
plans—with a Harvard man, of course — Gerald Goldman, ’62.
Our involvement with the girls and their activities is tremendous.
Because of them I’ve been the J.F.K. of the Weeks P.T.A.; have
driven millions of miles in car pools; have led innumerable Girl
Scouts along innumerable country paths; chaperoned many dances;
been an active member of the Wells College “Fathers’ Club”; have
really played the part of the dear suburban Dad.

I've stayed on at the Square — my store is just across from the
Harvard Yard as, I hope, many of you know. I not only see many of
our Classmates, our former professors and tutors, but Pve been a
father-away-from-home to many male offspring of our Class —
cashing innumerable checks and giving lots of not-asked-for advice.

The Reunion is very “special” to me — I’ve had a share, as assist-
ant treasurer of the Permanent Reunion Committee, in the planning
of this gala event. There has been lots of nostalgia — lots of “busy-
ness” — lots of fun. I’m grateful for the goodnesses of the past years.
I ask no more than that the years continue in a similar vein and I’m
looking forward to putting on the bowler, rearing the 38 banner and
seeing you all in June.

[ 856 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT SAMUEL LEVY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 970 Lenox PI., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 227 W. Fifth St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: $.B. (Univ. of Cincinnati), teas.

mMarRIED: Ethel T. Heller, June 21, 1939. cHitoreN: Robert Hy Dee. 4. tage. Jo
Carol, Jan. 13, 1946; Peter H., June 25, 1949; Bruce R. Sept. & s0¢3. James
R., Oct. 7, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Charles Meis Shoe Company, shee importer,
manufacturers and wholesalers.

OFFICES HELD: Coordinating committeeman, Cincinnati Peace Center, unce twa.

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union; National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People.

I CAN think of no biographical material of importance, interest or
gravity equal to the immediate problem of survival confronting me,
my classmates, and all humanity.

It seems to me that this and every possible forum should be adapred
to an examination of the problems and implications of the required
changes in our behavior and attitudes if “man is to prevail.” The
continuation, on the contrary, of the parochial and hinted intro
spection which this sort of report implies serven among other
. things, to perpetuate some of the moves which have led us to thre
impasse.

Let us, on this occasion, rededicate ourselves to fearless truth,
which our University cherishes on its escutchcon, so that oar haured
personal triumphs may be far outshone by the trumph of all nanens
over greed and selfishness, bias, hatred and fear — common eneries
of all decent humans.

[ 857]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HOWARD JACOB LEWENSTEIN

RB pone es mae re gaa STN EYE SEN
& . ae

   

HOME appress: 172 Walnut Hill Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE appRESs: 416 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass.

prepared AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938, M.v. (Tufts Coll),
1942.

marrieD: Helen Charlotte Rosenfeld, Jan. 21, 1945. CHILDREN: Leonard Nor-
man, Feb, 2, 1950; Richard Barry, Nov. 15, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.
OFFICES HELD: Associate in surgery, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, assistant in

surgery, Harvard Medical School, since 1949; clinical instructor in surgery,
Tufts Medical School, since 1947; member, board of directors, Greater
Boston Medical Society, 1958-61, president, Boston Graduate Club, Phi
Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity, 1958; member, board of directors, since
1950, president, 1957, Temple Emeth Brotherhood, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha (honor medical society); American Board of
General Surgery; American Board of Abdominal Surgery; American So-
ciety of Abdominal Surgeons; American Medical Association; Massa-
chusetts Medical Society; Norfolk County Medical Society; Greater Bos-
ton Medical Society; Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity.

Publications: “Latent Subphrenic Abscess,” Journal of Mt, Sinai Hospital,
New York, 1946; “Myocardial Infarction following Intravenous Priscoline,”
New England Journal of Medicine, 1952; “Familial Occurrence of Meckel’s
Diverticulum,” New England Journal of Medicine, 1963.

IN June of 1938, I watched all the old men of the Twenty-fifth Re-

union Class march into the Stadium and I still clearly remember my

surprise that so many of that ancient class had the strength to come
back to Harvard. Now, returning for my own Twenty-fifth, I
just don’t feel ancient. I suppose that these twenty-five years have
seemed short because they have been very busy and basically happy
ones, Four years of medical school and five more years of surgical

[ 858 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

training were so demanding that my only non-professional achieve-

ment in that decade was a brief leave-of-absence to gee marricd,

During the first couple of years in private practice, 1 wasn't swamped

by patients but found my time fairly well occupied by clinic work,

teaching and hospital conferences. It was pleasant, after those nine
years, to be relatively free for evenings and weckends. There was
finally time to be with friends, begin at golf and enjoy family life
My reputation apparently spread, because in 1953 the Government

heard about me and invited me to join the surgical service of the
Army hospital at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Actually my two
years there were surprisingly enjoyable. I had gotten quite busy in
my practice and the 8.00 a.M—4.30 P.M. schedule at Bragg was a nice
change of pace. As chief of my service, I could delegate the rouune
work and handle only the major surgery. Of this there was plenty
—a constant supply of fascinating trauma supplicd by the parca-
chutists at this “Home of the Airborne.” Interestingly cnough, we
treated more injuries from auto and motorcy cle accidents when the
boys over-exuberantly went “‘on the town” to celebrate a succesful
jump than we treated from the actual jumps. The highlights of my
two years there were threefold: (1) a 10—point buck shot on the
last day of the hunting season, (2) a hole-in-one on the z225-yard
13th hole at the Mid-pines Club at Pinchurst and (3) doing a rectal
examination twice (once for each year) on a three-star general.

After returning to Boston, I was pleased to find that it did not take
anywhere near so long to put a practice back together as it did to
start it the first time around. It only took about five months to get
rolling at full steam and this has continued up to the present time.
In addition I resumed my teaching on the Surgical Faculty of Har-
vard Medical School and Tufts Medical School, which I have always
enjoyed. These things plus the organizational work listed above
keep me constantly busy. A surgical life is not an casy ene but |
love it. I do take time for golf and for travel but actually tune is my
biggest problem.

There ought to be an internship also for doctors’ wives. Myvi w le
survived her training period and now thinks nothing of napping for
an hour in the hospital lobby at midnight on our w av home frosts
some affair. We have two sons who probably will stunt aricalig rve
unless socialized medicine comes here first. If it docx PE shall try te
guide them into something else. I feel strongly that the hfe ofa
doctor under socialized medicine would noc be a happy one. Pais

( 859 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

also sure that it would not be a good thing for the country and |
hope that we avoid this tempting trap.

Politically, I am a Republican. I have a social conscience like any-
one else, but I’m tired of refusing patients who want me to sign some
paper so that they can collect money and loaf for unnecessary weeks
or months when they are able to work.

Each of us derived many advantages from our Harvard education.
For me, one of the lasting benefits came from the locked room in the
library at Kirkland House — an immortal book of unprintable (yet
there they were) limericks. Collecting stamps or coins might be a
more profitable hobby but could not have provided the many laughs
I've had over the years in collecting many more limericks to add to

the original hundred. I hope to learn at least one more new one at
the Reunion.

ARTHUR NORMAN LEWIS

 

HOME appress: 11530 Highview Ave, Silver Spring, Md.

orFice appress: U.S. Dept. of Defense, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: A. B. Davis High School, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1940, DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1938(40).

MARRIED: Kathleen Pearce, Aug. 16, 1947, CHILDREN: Anne Pearce, Sept. 4, 1953;
Susan Margaret, June 11, 1960.

occupation: Senior analyst, U.S. Department of Defense.

NOT wishing to betray an unseemly haste, I graduated from Har-
vard College in 1940, two years after the rest of °38. Thereafter, I
came to Washington, attending law school at George Washington
University (1940-42) and working at the Census Bureau. To my de-
light (and, no doubt, that of the Census Bureau), I transferred a year

[ 860 }

ed

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

later to a more interesting job at the War Department. I enlisted in
the Army the following year, serving in the Signal Corps in Fingland
and Germany. In 1946 I returned to my previous job at the War
Department, or to give it its newfangled name, the Department of
Defense. I am still there and I am seriously considering becoming a
career employee.

In 1947 I married Kathleen Pearce. We have two daughters:
Anne Pearce Lewis born in 1953 and Susan Margaret Lewis born in
1960.

Travel has been extensive within the country, owing largely to
scattered in-laws, but foreign travel out of uniform has been con-
fined to one brief official visit to Europe. My politics remain liberal
Democratic. Hobbies have ranged from chess to bird-watching,
currently the game of Go seems to be taking up some of my time.

CLARENCE WILLIAM LEWIS, JR.

  

bhi cs cnarn, Heisei N’ .

 

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Weirwood Rd., Radnor, Pa.

OFFICE AppREss: Aetna Life Insurance Co., 3 Penn Center Plaza, Philadelphia 3,
Pa.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.EI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MarrigD: Catherine E. Murphy, Dec. 2, 1948 cHitoren: Leslie Anne, July te
1943; Lucinda Mary, Aug. 28, 1950; Clarence William, 3d, Aug. 34 tut.
Catherine Callis, July 5, 1954.

occupation: Insurance; regional supervisor of group annuities castern depart
ment, Aetna Life Insurance Company; supervise acquisition and mainte
ance of group pension business in five-state area from New Jersey through
Virginia and in the District of Columbia.

MEMBER OF: Merchants Club of Baltimore City, Mul, Maryland Ssaacey of
Pennsylvania. ‘

[ 86n |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

AFTER two years and a summer school make-up, the great depres-
sion finally squeezed hard enough to necessitate my immediate inde-
pendence. A succession of adventuresome endeavors followed in-
cluding truck-driving, office clerking, the Merchant Marine (North
Atlantic and Baltic during the winter months) and merchandising,
My real business career eventually began in 1939 in Boston with the
then embryonic Blue Cross movements, After an interesting five
years, during which I serviced the Harvard faculty and employee
group, I joined the Aetna Life Insurance Company because of my
interest in the broader aspects of the “Employee Benefits” field. Suc-
cessively I worked in Boston, Worcester and Springfield in Massa-
chusetts, then in Philadelphia and Baltimore. In 1948 in Baltimore |
met and married my wife and acquired my eldest daughter whose
own father had been an Air Force casualty in the war. My continu-
ing good fortune provided three more children, so that finally we
have three girls and a boy.

In the meantime, I became increasingly interested in the group
pension field. Toward the close of 1958 my company transferred
me back to Philadelphia to specialize exclusively in pension work
and in 1959 I was appointed regional supervisor of group annuities
for our eastern department.

As I write this and look back, I am exhilarated. [’'ve enjoyed do-
mestic happiness and fulfillment, and absorbing and satisfying work.

The platform is solid and I’m eager to start the next twenty-five-year
mission in an ever exciting atmosphere,

GEORGE SHERMAN LEWIS

 coreiaee meena

ee rae mg

I RCN Ee IF RRR RIE EE SET

Ei

  

HOME appress: 31 EF. r2th St, New York 3, NY.

[ 862 ]

~—____|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICE ADDRESS: George S. Lewis, Architect, 200 E. soth St. New York 22, NY,
PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938(39); BARCH, 1942.
marrieD: Marianna Olmstead, Aug. 8, 1959.
occupaTION: Architect, independent practice.
MEMBER OF: New York Chapter, American Institute of Architects; Architec-
tural League of New York; Harvard Club of New York City.
puBLicaTIONS: Work published in Architectural Forum, Architectural Record,
Interiors, Nuestra Arquitectura, House & Garden, American Home,

THE School of Design in 1938 had only recently given up tcaching
the classical orders; it was a ferment of seeking how to build for our
own time, and it was exciting. Graduated, I went into an engineer
regiment with some colorful Boston contractors who couldn't sce
much in Le Corbusier but who knew how to construct a railroad
bridge over the Rhine in a hurry.

Since 1946 I have been mostly in New York, and the last four
years, married to Marianna, have been the best. I have been a de-
signer in several architectural firms, most rewardingly with Skid-
more, Owings and Merrill, Marcel Breuer, and with Efarrison &
Abramovitz on the U.N.

I was on a team which placed third in the competition Saarinen
won with his memorial arch in St. Louis. My first independent com-
mission was a house for the John Bainbridges. We have a smull
office of a size in which one is closely involved in all the details, and
the projects have included houses, offices, commercial studios, a pre-
paratory school library; some of these have appeared in publicanons
and a house won an Architectural Record Award for 1962. It would
be good to be doing more to help counteract the distigurement of
the city and countryside by those who are attuned to the fast buck.

At various times I also have had classes at Cooper Union, Prate
Institute, and, as a visiting critic, at Syracuse and Cornell. You are
apt to keep your perspective when you give students a program of
requirements for, say, a research laboratory, and then work with
them as they develop their own approaches.

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MELVIN SAMUEL LEWIS

 

HOME apprEss: 50 Riverside Drive, New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Colton-Lewis, Inc., 230 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

married: Marian Kirschenbaum, Oct. 18, 1952. CHILDREN: Marjorie Ann, March
19, 1954; Laura Jean, April 4, 1956.

occupation: Merchant; partner in Colton-Lewis, Inc., Boston.

ON Commencement Day, 1938, I left for Europe for the purpose of
establishing an export-import business which was later incorporated
under the name of Colton-Lewis, Inc. Twenty-five years later I am
sull in the same business and still traveling to Europe, among other
places. It is the old French proverb: “The more things change, the
more they remain the same.”

And yet, there have been some wonderful changes. In 1947 I
acquired a partner, Bert Litman —a classmate, no less; a wife in
1952, a daughter in 1954, and still another daughter in 1956.

Politically, I have been in favor of those presidents who graduated
from Harvard.

Philosophy? For the past twenty-five years we have all had prob-
lems. For me, these are problems no more — they are challenges.
May the challenges of the next twenty-five years be as interesting as
the problems of the past twenty-five.

[ 864 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD LINDENFELSER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Arlington St.; Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Cyanamid Co., 5 Bay State Rd. Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: George School, George School, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Ruth Beecher, Jan. 11, 1941. CHILD: Peter Wyatt, Sept. 23, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Peter Wyatt Lindenfelser, ’63.

occupaTION: Technical director, Building Products Division, American Cyana-
mid Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chemist, senior chemist, 1939-53, group leader, plastics, 1954-44.
manager, plastics research, 1955-57, manager, fibers research, tyst-3y Re-
search Division, director, fibers research, Fibers Division, 1959-61, techni-
cal director, Building Products Division, since 1961, American Cyanamid
Company; chairman, Schools and Scholarships Committee, Harvard Club
of New Canaan, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Harvard Chemists, Resins Adv nary
Committee, Technical Association of Pulp and Paper Industry; Divtwon
of Polymer Chemistry, American Chemical Socictv,; American Awnta-
tion for the Advancement of Science; Alpha Chi Sigma (chemical fra-
ternity), Society of the Plastics Industry; Darien (Conn.) Country Club,
Winchester Country Club.

pusLications: “A New Resin for the Resin Pulp Molding Induwey,” To4PF7,
1953; “Use of Triazine Resin for Board Surfacing,” TAPll, 1956, twclve
U.S, patents and several Canadian and foreign patents,

I WAS one of those who went through college with no clear ilea of
what his profession would be. Chemistry was my major because tt
Was interesting and easy for me but, by graduation, interes¢ had
waned. It took one year w ich my merchant father selling wool ina
decadent market to revive my interest in chemistry. In the fall of
1939 I badgered acquaintances with letters and phone calls ans
walked the streets of eastern cities until | found a job with Amernan

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ALBERT EUGENE LINDSAY

    

HOME AbpRESS: 5940 14th St., N.W., Apt. A-4, Washington 11, D.C,

OFFICE appress: Dept. of Defense, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938; A.M. (Univ. of North Caro-

lina), 1939.
marriep: Ann Ruth Goldberg, April 12, 1947. camp: Elizabeth McWilliams,

July 23, 1948.
occupation: Analyst.
MEMBER OF: Linguistic Society of America, American Philological Association.

THE year after graduation I studied Romance languages at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina. From 1940 to 1951, I was in the Navy,
becoming a lieutenant commander. During the war I was in active
combat in the Pacific. I had to leave the Navy because of impaired
hearing, and spent the next three and a half years studying compara-
tive linguistics at North Carolina, after which we came to Washing-
ton. This much was in the last Report. Life has passed unevent-
fully during the seven years since.

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SYLVAN ABRAHAM LINN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Bothfeld Rd., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Essex Food Shop, Inc., 1 Essex St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Florence Colmes, November, 1948. cHiLpreN: Richard, March 1,
1950; Jonathan, Oct. 6, 1951; Steven, Dec. 30, 1954; Andrew, Mav 1s, toe

OCCUPATION: Restaurateur.

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Temple Shalom of Newten,
Chestnut Hill Country Club.

AFTER graduation I attended Harvard Business School, which I left
after one year for a business venture which proved unsuccessful.
Early in 1941 I was drafted into the service. I saw active duty with
an anti-aircraft battery in the Solomon Islands, New Guinea and the
Philippines. I was discharged in 1946, with the rank of captain.

Like many other men, I was confronted with the future. Should
I return to the Business School for my second year, look for a job,
or join my father who was proprietor of a dclicatessen-restaurant in
downtown Boston? I took the easy way out, choosing the latrer
course. There I have been ever since, catering to the culinary necs
of approximately two thousand people daily.

1948 was the most important year of my life. It was then [ mee
and married Florence Colmes. Since then my life has revolved about
my wife and four boys, the eldest of whom is now thirtcen, P have
been active in Cub Scouting and managed Little League baseball
teams. I wince when I realize that I have yet to go through the same
experience with my two younger ones. However, I enjoy at, and
sincerely believe that it is a father’s obligation to be actively inter-
ested in his children, especially during their formative years, Measn-

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

while I recreate playing golf in the summer, bowling in the winter
and otherwise doing whatever my wife has planned. And that,
gentlemen, brings me up to date.

SEYMOUR ROCKWELL LINSCOTT

DT aE ae oy

  

  

HOME appress: 47 Judson St., Braintree, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Boston Globe, 135 Wm. T. Morrissey Blvd., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marrizp: Doris M. DeBan, June 9, 1946. cuiLpreN: Jeffrey Lathrop, Nov. 5,
1950; Jody, Feb. 15, 1953.

occuPATION: Journalism, night city staff rewrite.

EVER since reading The Front Page at an early age I planned to
make journalism my life work, and strangely enough that’s exactly
the way things have worked out. I have never been sorry, never had
any regrets about missed opportunities. Few newspaper jobs provide
riches, and mine is no exception, but money is not important to me.
T have enough to get along comfortably, with no worries.

My job of rewrite is a peculiarly satisfying one, providing endless
variety, wide scope for imagination and the perpetual challenge of
putting words together intelligently under the pressure of racing
deadlines, All in all, I’m still surprised they pay me for having so
much fun.

T embarked on this happy career directly after leaving Harvard in
1938, when I caught on with the still lamented Transcript as office
boy and worked up to the exalted position of reporter. My top pay
was thirty dollars a week. It seemed like a million at the time.

The paper breathed its last in the spring of 1941. I went to Spring-

[ 870 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

field and the staff of the morning Union, but didn’t like the town or
the hours and returned to Boston, to the publicity department of the
New England Council. Not much chance for writing there, so I
moved to the Globe in 1943, and there I still am.

Married, June, 1946, a girl I had met on a blind date four months
before. This turned out to be the smartest move I ever made. The
union has produced a son, approaching twelve, and a daughter, nine.
They are both good kids.

We entertained practically around the clock, mostly musicians
and similar riffraff, while living i in the city, but seldom now after
moving to the suburbs. Life is uneventful but never dull. Poker, jazz,
books, tennis, the beach and the great outdoors fill in the intervals
between family and work. I have shunned all fraternal and other
affiliations, preferring to travel light through life. I am a registered
Democrat, a practicing agnostic and a confirmed fatalist.

WILLIAM WOODROW LIPSITT

ggg eT otha

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2813 N. Second St., Harrisburg, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5 N. Front St., Harrisburg, Pa.

PREPARED AT: William Penn High School, Harrisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, LL.B., 1948,

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm, Reynolds & Lipsirt.

OFFIcEs HELD: Director, Harrisburg City School Board, 19s5-4e, preadent od
board, 1957-61; trustee, Harrisburg Public Library, ty¢s-43, swe prewe
dent, Keystone Area Council, Boy Scouts of America, tg43-44, member,
board of directors, Dauphin County Bar Association, tgte 41, werrtary of
board, 1960; past exalted ruler, Harrisburg Lodge No. 12 BPOE, tute.
president, Salem Lodge No. 26, B'nai B'rith, 1990.

[ 871]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MEMBER OF: Harrisburg Area Chamber of Commerce; American and Penn-
sylvania Bar Associations, American Legion Post No. 27; Veterans of

Foreign Wars Post No, 1086, Optimist Club of Harrisburg, Republican
Club of Harrisburg, Harvard Club of Central Pennsylvania.

MY story since graduation is brief. Drafted into the U.S. Army
immediately after receiving a Law School diploma, forty-four
months were spent in the European Theatre during World War
II. Recalled as a reservist for fourteen months during the Korean
Crisis, I was finally discharged from military obligations in 1952,
with the rank of first lieutenant. The highlight of my public
career has been a period of service on the Harrisburg (Pa.) School
Board, probably the only bachelor in its history to become president
of the board.

As with most attorneys, activity in community projects, particu-
larly in many fund drives, is routine, but essentially my time has
been devoted to the practice of law. Fortunately, our law office
is always faced with a backlog of work which keeps me busy al-
though it will be a number of years, I’m afraid, before any fortune
is acquired.

With no wife to please, I do have the opportunity to get away
for football weekends in the fall. Being a perennial sophomore,
victories by my high school team, the Crimson and the Baltimore
Colts thrill me and losses are sad disappointments. Except for these
autumn trips, I have difficulty leaving the office. However, during
the past five years, I've had two extended vacations abroad, includ-
ing an interesting sojourn in the USSR.

Getting exercise is always a problem and this, in part, accounts
for added weight about the mid-section. Golfing, boating and ice-
skating provide pleasurable moments, but I’m not really proficient
in any of these sports.

Central Pennsylvanians are predominantly Republicans and the
fate of the party is of concern to me. It is difficult to convince
the folks around here that anyone exposed to life in Cambridge
believes in good government and a sound economy. Despite the
state of affairs, I sincerely believe in the greatness of Harvard, My

interest in the achievement of the University and its alumni never
wanes and I have hope for the future.

[ 872]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID REED LIT

 

Fe

HOME ADDRESS: 1700 33d PL, S.E., Washington 20, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bureau of Old-Age & Survivors Insurance, Baltimore 35, Mud.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1938.

MarRRIED: Dunya Chernenko, Dec. 17, 1938 (divorced 1949); Helene Sensenich,
Nov. 17, 1950. CHILDREN: Maya, April 4, 1941 (72. Robert D. Puccetti, May
17, 1961); Peter, April 1, 1944.

occupaTIon: U.S. government management analyst.

THE directions for writing this account say talk about career his-
tory, government service, and social and political convictions, among
other matters, and I have lived in such a way that I can cover all of
these at once. This is because my career has been government ser-
vice, because most of this service has been in the health programs of
the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and because |
think these are good. Since the program I am working in now was
enacted during a Republican administration, I can perhaps clarity
the views question by adding that I think we should be doing more
than we are, and that I believe in expanding the public sector grad-
ually and along the lines of a national consensus. More specitically
my work now is in connection with the disability insurance pro-
visions of the social security system. It runs to management surveys
of State agencies, writing speeches, program planning, helping to
cope with Congressional investigations, and of course taking things
out of my in-box and putting them j in my out-boy,

War service and travel can also be combined, because mose of my
travel was involuntary and a part of my war service, This was in
the Navy and the first place it took me to was Elarvard. ‘The Lise
place it took me to was Tokyo and in between to a number of other

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

places that were very noisy at the times of my visits. Most of these
were sparsely populated and had palm trees, or had had palm trees.

Writing about what has happened in twenty-five years is an
awesome undertaking because the world is so very different. My
children belong to the unbelievable group of adults who do not
remember the Depression and who cannot imagine life without
television, and my wife and I often talk about how very strange this
group is, and how it keeps growing. I like fishing, listening to music,
reading, going to meetings of my neighborhood improvement asso-
ciation, and as my friends know very well, talking.

ARNOLD STUDENT LITMAN

 

HOME AbDpRESS; 7906 Stevenson Rd., Pikesville 8, Md.

OFFICE appREss: Men's Hats, Inc., 419 W. Lombard St., Baltimore 1, Md.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: §.5., 1938.

marrieD: Gloria Goodman, April 9, 1943. curpren: Pamela, July 4, 19445
Judith, April 25, 1946; Nancy, March 29, 1950.

occupaTION: President, Men’s Hats, Inc., manufacturers of men’s hats and re-
lated items.

OFFICES HELD: President, Men’s Hats, Inc., since 1956, Hat Council, 1958-62,
Longmeadow Association, 1958-62; director, Hat Institute Tariff Com-
mission, 1962-63, Associated Jewish Charities Division, 1951-55.

Member oF: Harvard Club of New York; Suburban Country Club (board of
governors, 1958-63).

MY career started in the fall of 1938 with a trip to the Baltimore
plant and a plan to stay there for six months to learn the family
business men’s hats. Twenty-four years have now passed; I

[874]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have wed, reproduced thrice, am still learning the business and still

reside in Baltimore.

My delightful marriage with Gloria started in 1943 at Boise,
Idaho, on a desolate Air Force training post and we were buffcted
from one miserable spot to another until I flew overseas. 1 Iefr
behind me my will to immortality — hopefully a son — who turned
out to be Pam, born on the Fourth of July. Our second son was
Judy and our third, Nancy; the latter, probably sensing my despair,
can handle the pigskin, the horsehide, or water skis like a pro,

The hat business continues to offer all the challenges that a tough
competitive industry can dish out.

From the war (how I love it when the youthful uninitiates say,
“And which war were you in, sir?”) my most memorable moment
occurred as I found myself alive and running after having piloted
a disabled B-17 bomber to a crash landing behind the enemy lines
in France. While hiding in the woods with machine-gun-toting
Germans searching within mere yards of me, I made up my mind

that if I survived and got home to a peaceful existence, nothing
would ever bother me again. (But then who can listen to all the
things we tell ourselves?) A fascinating month living with the
French underground gave me more material for my sense of values.

Athletics: My last try at basketball was three years ago when I
organized a team of parents to play the varsity of the private school
that my daughters attend. It took me two weeks to start walking
again and I have returned to golf as my only athletic endcavor.
In this field I have been more successful and have been the incum-
bent champion of my country club for the past decade.

Nostalgic Moment: A visit to the Yard with the family after a
lapse of twenty-three years really rocked me. Either it was a very
foggy day or I developed my own misty view of the scene. I noted
that beards seem to have replaced the green bags.

It took considerable self-discipline to jot this biographical sketch.
Not because my pen is insufficiently facile but rather because my
tally comes out so much smaller than I had planned. Just as I have
looked back with regret to my college days and wished I had
learned a good deal more of what was available to me, so have I
reviewed the twenty-five years stretched out behind and become
aware that I had projected many more accomplishments than have
been realized.

And yet after I succumbed briefly to these flagellations, IP added
up the score and was pleased: a fine family, true comradeship in

[ 875 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

spousedom, good and warm friends — my closest and best is broad-
mindedly from Yale; for my fellow man, a respect which I hope is
reciprocated; no moments of regret for shortcuts nor any conscious
sacrifice of integrity; and a strong feeling — fool that I am — of
being in the flush of my youth with many arenas yet to be entered.

BERTRAM MEYER LITMAN

 

HOME appress: 107 Franklin St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Summer St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; A.M., 1941.

MarRigD: Frances Solomon, Sept. 1, 1946. CHILDREN: Deborah Jane, Aug. 5, 19495
Peter Eliot, May 15, 1951; Barbara Louise, March 3, 1953.
occupation: Vice-president and treasurer, import and manufacture in the mens

gift field.

orrices HELD: Chairman, Newton Chapter, ADA, 1957-59; State Board, ADA,
1959-62.

1 TAUGHT school for two years after Commencement and then
returned to Harvard for a Master’s degree. Returning to teaching
in the fall of 1941, I can recall most vividly the moments of anxiety
when I was invited with my class into the school auditorium on
Monday morning, December 8, to listen to the President on radio
(sic) requesting Congress to declare war. Shortly thereafter I was
in the Navy, and the next four years passed.

The return to civilian life found me thoroughly confused. With-
out the protective cocoon of the uniform, not wanting to return to
teaching, and thoroughly inexperienced in the business world, I took

[ 876 J

———$$—_$$______|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a normally sensible course of action. I got married and went into a
new business venture with Classmate Mel Lewis.

The next several years were devoted to siring three youngsters and
suffering the growth and non-growth pangs of a small business, And
suddenly it was 1956 and time for our Eighteenth Reunion Report.

It is now seven years later and I find myself not too far removed
from the situation therein described. The young family of 1956 is
inevitably the middle-aged family of 1963. Problems of diapers have
been supplanted by those involving orthodontia — and I might add
that I cannot change a brace either. The three little Litmans have

matured to an extent completely unforeseen, and I am constantly
astonished at the knowledge and worldliness that these pre-adoles-
cents evidence. Of course, I have retained all my youthful bounce.
The physical appearances of age are camouflage while the newly
acquired reading glasses are an affectation. Even the incipient arthri-
tis is merely a sympathetic evidence of my desire to be one of the
boys.

An observation that has struck me is that I am on most cordial
terms both with my wife and my now long-time business partner.
Our firm, Colton-Lewis, Inc., manufactures and imports in the men’s
gift field. We have expanded considerably and the small problems
of years ago are the larger problems of today. We sell to the fine
stores all over the country. Frequent trips to Europe for both Mel

and me have been a necessary and pleasant concomitant.

t ARNOLD HOWARD LITT

 

BorN: July 15, 1916, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Morris Litt, Theresa Cohen.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, NUL

[ 877 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1938,
pep: Drowned May 10, 1943, in Colorado River.

ARNOLD HOWARD LITT spent two years at Harvard Law
School, finished his law studies at New York Law School and was
admitted to the New York bar in June, 1942. He then enlisted in
the Army, was assigned to the Corps of Engineers and sent to OCS
at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, where he received his commission as
second lieutenant in January, 1943. He was assigned to Company A
of the 88th Engineer Battalion, Heavy Pontoons and sent to Arizona
for training. He was a platoon commander, company supply officer,
battalion swimming instructor and trial judge advocate. While on
maneuvers at the Imperial Dam, Arizona, he was drowned in the
Colorado River, He was survived by his parents.

EDWIN ARTHUR LITTLE

 

HOME appress: 225 Maple St., Framingham, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Newton South High School, Newton, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938; a.m. (Middlebury Coll.),
1953.

MARRIED. CHILDREN: Priscilla, 1949, Penny, 1951; Martha, 1952.
occupation: Teacher of French, Newton South High School.

MARRIED, and have three daughters: Priscilla, thirteen; Penny,
eleven; and Martha, ten. Was lieutenant and later captain, command-

ing a team of French military intelligence interpreters in France
during World War Il. Taught Latin, French and Spanish in several
private schools after the war. Am now teacher of French at Newton

[ 878 ]

$e)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

South High School, which shares many interests and activities in
common with Harvard.

We now live in Framingham, where I own a house which is an
authentic pre-revolutionary antique. I have a vegetable garden and
orchard much too big for me to take care of, though I do as well
as I can with it.

Two years ago, we spent the summer touring Europe in an auto-
mobile hired in Naples, Italy. There were six of us, my mother, my
wife, my three children and I. We drove from Pompen, Italy, to
London, England, with no hotel reservations. We managed sur-
prisingly well, and enjoyed a truly unforgettable experience.

Recently I re-discovered golf, which I now enjoy, though it is
too late for me to become a golfer. I have also recently discovered
the stock market, which I now find fascinating, though that, too,
I may have discovered too late. (I understand the time to buy was
back in the ’30’s). Or, perhaps it may prove to be too early. (It
looks as though 1962 will prove to have been a good time to sell.)

Next year, we plan to go back to Europe for the entire year —
all six of us—to live in the suburbs of Paris under conditions as
much like those experienced by the average French family as

possible.

JOHN WHITE LIVINGSTON, JR.

    

HOME AppRESS: 427 Park Ave., Manhasset, Long Island, N.Y,

OFFICE AppreEss: General Electric Co., 570 Lexington Ave, New York a3. N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Kirkwood High School, Kirkwood, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1939. DEGREES: 8.8, 1938(go), thom Crook
lyn Law School), 1950.

[ 879 ]

___1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
MarrieD: Emmi Dippel, June 19, 1946. cHiup: Margaret Emmi, Sept. 29, 1951,
occupation: Management research and analysis,

MEMBER OF: Mohawk Club; Harvard Club of New York; Washington Square
Torch Club.

POST-COLLEGE, 1 managed construction field offices, was a
newspaper reporter, wrote radio news, and did public and industrial
relations work. In the U.S. Army, 1942-46, I served chiefly on the
Mojave Desert, in England, and on the Continent, and was an early
participant in the Military Government of Germany. Demobilized,
I traveled via Stockholm to Prague to marry; and returned with my
bride for a brief stay in Washington as Information Specialist for
the Office of the Secretary of Commerce. This was followed by
some nine years in New York City with the Research Institute of
America as writer, editor, and editorial executive; my specialty there
became the design and development of new business services. At
the same time, in 1947-50 I was attending law school at night, and
was admitted to the New York Bar in 1951. I have not, however,
been in active practice. In 1956, 1 withdrew from commuting,
joined the General Electric Company, built a house near Schenec-
tady, and spent five most enjoyable years in that locale.

We arrived at our present address very recently via transfer, and
a year spent renewing acquaintance with New York City area from
an apartment in Summit, New Jersey. My work at General Electric
remains challenging: I am generally concerned with providing better
management tools, but have become particularly involved in improv-
ing the art of longer-range business planning and forecasting. Aside
from this, I am in the active Army Reserve, do some gardening
when the weather is right, plus much reading when it is not, and
seem with my wife to be programmed for re-learning a succession
of sports from ping-pong to skiing and riding in team with our
growing-up daughter. We are a family which travels much and
widely; we are not rooted deeply; and my wife and I are one in not
being inclined to philosophical reflection. Personally, I do not know
whether I have become more conservative or more progressive, more
optimistic or more pessimistic. My current briefcase equipment in-

cludes both a collapsible umbrella and a collapsible fishing rod. You
take it from there. Further this deponent saith not.

[ 880 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY WEIDEMANN LOCKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Forman St., Cazenovia, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: William Wallace Co., 263 N. Broad St., Flizabeth, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Margaret Manning Russell Howell, Aug. 16, togt, Fasex, Mase
CHILDREN: Charles Holyoke, April 7, 1947; Edward Warren, March 4.
1949; Sarah Ballister, Nov. 2, 1935; Priscilla Russell, Aug. 20, tose.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative for New York State and eastern Pennsylvania,
William Wallace Company, sheet metal products and factory-built
chimneys.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, U.S, Naval Reserve, Retired.

MEMBER OF: Cazenovia Club; Willow Bank Yacht Club.

WE are now settled in the lovely little Central New York town of
Cazenovia, slowly making over an old house to fit our needs. This
is our fourteenth residence since Marge and I were married twenty-
one years ago. To look back over the last twenty-five vears ts not
always a pleasant business. There are so many missed opportunines
Still, the future has always seemed more inviting to me than the
past and we have still a long way to go.

Our main concern now is to educate our children to the pone
where they will be able to handle their lives better than we have
ours. This is not only time-consuming but costly, and yet so very
worthwhile. Bumming around the country as we have ‘done, from
Massachusetts to Virginia, California, New Mexico and now New
York, has given us a sort of perspective which, if not lucrative, hag at
least, opened our eyes to a few of the more worthwhile pursuits
It isn’t that we are getting old, just more discerning. We rive more
slowly now to the lure of the vital issue, the burning questien and
the local crisis.

[ 88: J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Now, at last, after twenty-five years, do the real rewards come
from those “Four Golden Years” at Harvard. Years wherein we
were inspired, however imperceptibly, with a deep-rooted faith in

the future and a will to see a better world through the eyes of our
children.

AUGUSTUS PEABODY LORING

 

HOME AppREsS: 573 Hale St., Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Loring, Wolcott Office, 35 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.B.A.. 1940.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Jane Blake, Sept. 22, 1944. CHILDREN: Peter Blake, July 12,
1945; Ellen Gardner, May 5, 1947; Christopher Blake, April 21, 1950;
Jonathan Blake, Nov. 10, 1952.

occupation: Professional trustee and president, Plymouth Cordage Company.

OFFICES HELD: Master, treasurer, 1951, Lodge of St. Andrew, A.F. & A.M;
treasurer, Governor Dummer Academy, since 1952, Boston Athenaeum, to
date; treasurer, Trustees of Reservations, 1955-61; vice-president, Bostonian
Society, since 1961; trustee, Boston Lying-In Hospital, Boston University,
Peabody Museum of Salem, Thompsin Academy, Woods Hole Oceano-
graphic Institution; director, New England Merchants National Bank,
Haverhill Gas Company, Hollingsworth & Vose Company, Massachusetts
Hospital Life Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Club of Odd Volumes (treasurer); Examiners Club; Manchester

Yacht Club; Somerset Club; Tavern Club; Cruising Club of America; Wal-
pole Society; Union Club; Essex County Club.

ON leaving college I decided to continue my process of learning
and so entered the Harvard Business School, graduating in 1940.

From there I progressed into my father’s office to learn the business
of being a professional trustee.

{ 882 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Two years of bookkeeping and tax work ended by my entering
the Coast Guard in 1942. After four months in New London, |
emerged as a fledgling ensign and was assigned to teaching celestial
navigation in fourteen easy hours to succeeding classes of officer
candidates. I repeated this course once a month for the next vear
and a quarter, at the end of which time I sounded like a broken
record. In January of 1944, I was transferred to the 125-foot Coast
Guard Cutter Active, becoming commanding officer one month
later.

After six months in Greenland doing weather patrol in the Davis
Straits, and being fascinated with the fiords and ice, I was trans-
ferred to Miami in September of 1944, and was attached to the
Gulf Sea Frontier. On the way south I wisely acquired my wife,
Elizabeth Jane Blake of Boston.

The rest of the war was spent operating out of Miami and Key
West doing odd jobs such as escorting tugs and tows to the Canal
Zone, Weather Patrol in the Gulf and Air Sea Rescue off Key
West. Not very exciting but with my wife living in Mianu
or Key West a good part of the time it made for a very pleasant
interim.

After getting out of the Coast Guard in September of 1945, |
went back to work with my father. In 1951 he died and I took
over his trust business. The next year I became treasurer of Con-
solidated Investment Trust and in 1955 I joined forces with Samuel
H. Wolcott, Jr., forming the Loring, Wolcott office.

In 1947 I became a director of Plymouth Cordage Company and
have taken a great interest in the affairs of the company. Due to
a series of circumstances, I became chairman of the board and
president of Plymouth Cordage Company in 1961 and I am at the
present time devoting a large part of my time to this job.

Over the years I have become associated with numerous charitable
organizations and at the present time, among other things am
treasurer of the Boston Athenaeum, Governor Dummer Academy,
Society for Propagating the Gospel Among the Indians and
Others in North America and trustee of Boston University, Peabody
Museum of Salem, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.

My spare time in the summer has been devoted primarily to sailing
and for the last several years my vacations have been taken on a

small ketch I built four years ago. In the early igso’s | became
fascinated by a series of charts called The Atlantic Neptune and
the searching for them has been fun.

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Liz and | have produced four children — the oldest two are at
boarding schools and the youngest two are still at home with us.

Since college I have come to know and appreciate more and
more the teachers at Harvard and only regret that I didn’t make
more of my opportunities while still an undergraduate.

WILLIAM ISAAC LOURIE, JR.

     

is

HOME AppRESS: 1228 Blair Mill Rd., Apt. 302, Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE Avpress: End Results Evaluation Section, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, Md.

PREPARED AT: Rayen High School, Youngstown, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938, M.P.H. (Yale Univ.),
1941.

UN MARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Statistician; assistant head, End Results Evaluation Section, Na-
tional Cancer Institute, U.S. Public Health Service.

MEMBER OF: Delta Omega; Sigma Xi; N.I.H. Chess Club.

pustications: “An Abridged Life Table for the White Population of the
United States in 1830,” with A. J. Jaffe, Human Biology, 1942; “End Results
in Cancer of the Large Intestine,” with S. J. Cutler, presented at the Eighth

International Cancer Congress, Moscow, July, 1962; founder (with Leo
Chall) of the journal Sociological Abstracts, 1952.

RATHER than indulge in a chronological survey of past activities
with emphasis on a few timely but mediocre accomplishments, I
shall try to highlight the present and the recent past. However,
since I learned so much about myself I must not omit mention of
three years of army experience as a sergeant in a medical laboratory
in New Guinea, the Philippines, and Japan during World War I

I.
Seeing how differently other peoples live made a lasting impression
upon me.

[ 884 ]

 

Z
i
i
i
h

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After over twenty years of federal employment, mostly as a statis-

tician in the study of cancer, I am now in an increasingly interest-
ing program which attempts to evaluate the effectiveness of various
ty pes of treatment. Recent developments have involved us in
cooperative studies with England, France, Denmark, Norway and
Finland. First, I was sent to see whether the data were comparable
enough to ours to make cooperative studies productive. Then I
became concerned with converting their data into the type of
punchcard which we use. Eventually I became responsible for
providing relatively elaborate analyses via various electronic com-
puters. I have learned much and have some new friends abroad.
I have also experienced the agonies of being a third-generation slave
to a large computer. (First-generation slaves are the operators,
second-generation slaves are the programmers.) The work has been
successful enough that such international collaboration will probably
continue. As an example, take the question whether surgery is
better than radiation for the early cancer case. In the ‘Unired
States, except for a few specific instances, surgery is the treatment
given the early cancer case; rarely does an early patient receive
radiation. In northern Europe, just the opposite situation prevails
because the tradition is centered around the radium institute. Al-
most never does the early cancer case undergo surgery. In neither
area alone could one answer this question of the relative merits of
surgery and radiation. By combining forces perhaps we can agree
upon some answers. To Harvard I owe my apparent predilection
for nonconformist attitudes and lost causes. Looking back, I am
now certain that sometimes it was plain rebelliousness and delayed
adolescence. At other times it was poor judgement. However, my
point is that I never felt a fear of differing. Whether this be a
blessing or a curse is a moot point, but it certainly has made for
an interesting life.

As an example of what I mean, I somewhat reluctantly mentiot
what has been in some ways my most important activity of the last
eight years. I also sketch it as at least partial explanation why I
have not supported Harvard financially as I had intended (and still
hope to do). For no very logical reason, when I was working in
Pittsburgh I became possessed of a complete family composed of a
father, mother and three kids. Starting by helping financially in
an occasional crisis, over time I found myself the main support.
After accepting responsibility I could not rationalize dropping them
when they came to depend upon me. The matter of colle ge expense

[ 885 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Let EEN

is the roughest with the two youngest children in college at the
same time and every college increasing its fees yearly . . . By the
way I am quite tired of being noble, It is strangely perplexing
to have received relatively so little personal satisfaction from all
this. However, I am stubbornly resolved if possible to see it through
until the youngest finishes college. ’Iwill be tough.

One weird by-product both elated and depressed me. I, a bache-
lor, had a “son” admitted to Harvard! Because of my dim views
of the high school he had attended, I was amazed. I was also
pleased that the Harvard admission procedure could detect and
select this fine lad with potential. However, I could not convince
myself that the boy was ripe yet for Harvard undergraduate compe-
tition. I hope he gets there for graduate work.

The only Class Reunion I attended was the Twentieth. It had
an impact on me that I had not anticipated. For the first time in
years I was among people who basically thought the way I did.
Considering the wide range of occupations, political affiliations,

religious beliefs, relative affluence, etc., I don’t believe this state-
ment. Yet this is the impression I gained. I am, therefore, looking
forward to the Twenty-Fifth. I need another reinforcement of
values or dose of intellectual vitamins.

ST IRN TIE SN TES  mapay eee Es

; Fence EE SIME
epee .

HENRI MAZYCK CLARKSON LOW, JR.

  

MAILING ADDRESS: 710 Webster St., Topeka, Kans,

[ 886

—_—_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE FREDERICK LOWMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Allwood Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cummings & Lockwood, 1 Atlantic St., Stamford, Conn,

PREPARED AT: New Canaan High School, New Canaan, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. 1942.

MARRIED: Mary Maud Farrell, Oct. 4, 1947, Darien, Conn. cHitoren: John Far-
rell, June 10, 1950; George Frederick, Jr., Oct. 15, 1952 (deceased); Peter
Hadden, Aug. 11, 1954; Patricia Ann, April 11, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Trial lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, AMS Corporation, Modern Golf
Enterprises, Inc., Permacast Corporation, Inc.; president, Kiwanis Club of
Stamford, 1956; director, Boy Scouts of America, Alfred W. Dater Coun-
cil, Stamford, Silvermine Guild of Artists, New Canaan; chairman, Darien
Red Cross Fund Drive, 1952-53, Darien Heart Fund, t954, Darien Cancer
Fund, 1956-57, Darien Red Cross Disaster Committee, 1954-57, Darien
Eisenhower for President Committee, 1951-52; member, Darien Representa-
tive Town Meeting —chairman, Finance Committee, chairman, Rules
Committee, 1952-56; president, Young Republicans’ Club, New Canaan,
1946, Young Republicans’ Club, Darien, 1950; secretary-treasurer, Harvard
Club of New Canaan, 1946-54; member, board of governors, Wee Burn
Country Club, 1952-54; director, New Canaan Community Orchestra
Association, 1946-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New Canaan and New York; University Club
of Bridgeport, Wee Burn Country Club and The Tokencke Club, Danen,
The Woking Golf Club of England, Woking, England, Mid-Town Club,
Stamford; All Stamford Club; Kiwanis Club, Stamford.

UNTIL this time, I thought I had been leading a full and active life.
However, when [ attempt to write about what I have done in
terms of accomplishments, my activity seems limited and my
accomplishments slight.

I have a fine family, consisting of a wife, two boys and a gil

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

They are maturing ina normal and happy fashion, and if all goes
well, they will finish their preliminary schooling and proceed to
college. Since being a Harvard father no longer gives an applyin
son any real priority, | query whether either of my boys will be
admitted to Harvard, but both tell me they intend to try when
the time comes.

My military activities were described in the Eighteenth Anni-
versary Report, so there is no purpose in reviewing them further
here. It suffices to say that I am a lieutenant colonel in the Reserve
with a mobilization designation at the Pentagon; I have completed
twenty years of service, thereby qualifying for retirement.

When I became a partner in my law firm, I noted that fact with
great pride in an earlier Report. I still have the same feeling, but
as my name approaches the top of the firm letterhead, and I move
to larger and more impressive offices, | am beginning to feel less
the sense of accomplishment and more the sense of the running out
of time. Nevertheless, I am enjoying my legal practice and hope
to contribute in some small way to the law and those people I
serve as their lawyer. I have had some significant cases which have
brought me to the Supreme Court of Errors of the State of Con-
necticut on many occasions, and to the Supreme Court of the
United States on a cherished few.

One of my most pleasant experiences in connection with the
practice of law was to attend the American Bar Association Conven-
tion in England in the summer of 1957. I was selected as one of
twenty lawyers to represent the American Bar Association aS a
member of its golf team. By a strange series of events in which
Edgar Eisenhower, our team captain, became ill, to be succeeded
by Professor Andrew J. Casner of Harvard Law School, I, in turn,
succeeded Professor Casner when his lecture engagements prevented
him from playing on the team. As captain of the American team,
I was royally entertained in England, introduced to the Queen and
the Duke of Edinburgh, and made an honorary member of The
Woking Golf Club. Incidentally, our team beat England.

Insofar as athletic accomplishments are concerned, I am pleased
to report that 1 won the National Mixed Doubles Platform Tennis
Championship in 1959, and got to the third round of the National

Veterans Doubles Tennis Tournament in 1962, when I teamed
up with my old Harvard tennis partner and classmate, Hubert
H. Hauck.

Sometime ago, I discontinued active interest in local and state

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

politics, while the Republicans, under the leadership of President
Eisenhower, seemed to be doing fairly well keeping the Country at
peace and operating in a reasonably efficient fashion. Prior thereto,
I had served in various state and local Republican offices. In view of
the present take-over by other Harvard Democratic contemporanes
I am inclined to feel that I should become more active, and intend to

do so.

DAVID ALBERT LUBIN

 

HOME AppREss: 14 Wassar St., Leominster, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lubin’s, Inc., 3; Monument Sq., Leominster, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Leominster High School, Leominster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarriEp: Felice Forgelman, June 25, 1939. CHILDREN: Laurence Vernon, March
7, 1941; Andrew Michael, Aug. 26, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Laurence Vernon Lubin, °63.

occupaTIon: General manager, Lubin’s, Inc., retail clothing and real extate.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Leominster Savings Bank; trustee, Leominster Heapital,
past president and life board member, Congregation Agudas Achim, pos
president, Probus Club; past treasurer, B'nai B'rith Lodge, Zions Organs-
zation; past president, Chamber of Commerce, Jewish Community Council,

MEMBER OF: Wilder Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Consistory and Aleppo Temple,
Probus Club; Eagles; Elks; American Legion; Vererans of Forcign Wars,
Jewish War Veterans.

AFTER leaving college, I entered the family business of retail
clothing. Equipped with a sense of humor and a Willingness to
understand people, I have found this type of work rew arding and
exciting. Presumably, all businesses have their trying moments
and the humdrum detail-full days. Mine is no exception, Never:
theless, it has afforded me a means to satisfy my desires.

[ 889 ]

————

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Twenty-five years in the same business has seen its growth and
expansion into other business areas. Today the challenge to make
a living is just as great, but when the road gets rough my Harvard
background stands me in good stead. Independence of thought and
freedom of motion — intangibles that in 1938 were accepted but
not understood — have permitted me to accept life as it flowed.

The years incorporated marriage, war and children. The war
years saw me in the Infantry in Europe with the Third Army.
They are memories both harsh and humbling. They made for an
appreciation of the years following.

Those years gave me a family of loyal wife and two fine sons.
My elder son, Larry, attended Mount Hermon and Harvard with
distinction. My younger son, Andy, is following in his place.
Larry’s commencement is this June.

In a small town one does not live in the shadows or become lost
from the community, I have been active in the Chamber of Com-
merce with some altruism and a little selfishness. A good city means
a good business. I have been active in my Synagogue because of
conviction. As a past president, I have fostered and guided its
physical growth, The younger people in the community can be
that more proud because of the willingness of the generation before
it to work.

The savings institution and the hospital have invited me to sit on
their boards. Whatever I have contributed is in that nebulous
world of experience and desire to make the next fellow’s lot a little
easier.

Harvard background reverts to an old formula I learned in
“Phil.” As long as the sum of the wishes equals the sum of the
means, happiness will follow. Given a reasonable tolerance of one

man for another and a pragmatic understanding of life surrounding
me, I have had a truly happy life.

[ 890 ]

 

 

|
‘
t

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN RICHARD LUCAS

  

==60 Via Maria, La Jolla, Calif.

~ RANKLIN MONROE LUDDEN

 

o Walhalla Rd., Columbus 11, Ohio.

[ 89r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PAUL RAYMOND LURIE

   

HOME Appress: 5 W. 79th St., Indianapolis 60, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Indiana University Medical Center, 1100 W. Michigan St.,
Indianapolis 7, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1938; Mo.
(Columbia Univ.), 1942.

MaRRIED: Barbara Samuel, May 31, 1942. cup: Andrea, Aug. 7, 1946.

occupaTion: Academic medicine; professor of pediatrics, Indiana University
School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Research fellow in pediatrics, Yale University School of Medi-
cine, 1948-50; assistant professor of pediatrics, 1950-54, associate professor,
1954-62, Indiana University School of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: Society for Pediatric Research, Midwest Society for Pediatric
Research; American Heart Association (Committees on Scientific Program
and on Congenital Cardiac Effects); Contemporary Art Society of In-
dianapolis.

PUBLICATIONS: About twenty-five papers, mostly concerning congenital heart
disease, including “Postural Effects in Tetralogy of Fallot,” American
Journal of Medicine, 1953.

FOLLOWING medical school and an internship at New Haven

Hospital came three crazy years in the Air Force as psychiatrist,

V.D. control officer and air commando. Barbara and J then returned

toward normal but never quite made it all the way. At the end of
my pediatric residency at New Haven, I was all set for private
practice and had even bought a large black car, when Professor
Grover Powers steered me into trying a research fellowship. I’ve
been an academician ever since. We have been delighted with the
choice. It has been exciting to have had a hand in the development
of the virtually new field of pediatric cardiology and, more spe-
cifically, the physiology of congenitally malformed hearts with a

[ 892 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

view to planning their surgical repair. In 1950, I brought my
meager new knowledge to Indiana and a medical school w hich was
just entering a stage of rapid growth. My own section has been
built solidly and we have grand plans for ‘future work. The con-
tinued advent of new and stimulating faculty members (including
an occasional Harvard man) to the campus is also gratifying.

About six years ago we built a dizzy modern home on a ereck
bank — “low land” as it is called disparagingly by the neighbors,
There are many hand-done touches: Barbara’s ceramics, my woud-
work, our concrete. And there are plenty of projects sull ahead.

Our daughter is nearly ready for college and is one Democrat in
a sea of Republicans. Last spring, the three of us took a wonderful
nine-week European trip, during five weeks of which I worked in
hospitals in Stockholm and London.

JOHN BARTHOLOMEW LYONS

 

HOME AppREss: 4 Read Rd., Hanover, N.H.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 309 Silsby Hall, Hanover, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, Magna cum laude, 1Qi8, AM tela,
PHD., 1942.

marrigepD: Mary Priscilla Johnson, Nov. 4, 1945. cHttnars: Rosemary, Apol &
1948; Lisa, Dec. 17, 1950; John, Feb. 2, 1983; Barbara, Dec. an tote.
Diana, May 17, 1959.

occupation: Professor of geology, Dartmouth College.

MEMBER OF: Various scientific societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers in professional journals,
SUBSEQUENT to receiving the Ph.D. in geology, E spent the nev
three and a half years with the Army Air Forces seeving ae a

[ 893 ]

misdlahtininthttaicnninieiaaane . ee hnnemaninnaiiiens a |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

medium-bomber pilot in the Mediterranean theatre. Following a
brief postwar stint with the U.S. Geological Survey, I accepted
an appointment to the Dartmouth faculty in 1946, where I have
remained since that time, attempting to interest and enthuse students,
and to do something worthwhile in the area of geological research,
My success at these ventures has, perhaps, not been epochal, but
the challenge is continuously there, and makes life interesting.

Looking backward over the past twenty-five years, it’s difficult
to think of something I’ve accomplished which is really unique,
and likely to set me apart from my classmates. I’ve practised my
profession as close to the North Pole as it’s possible to go on land,
but I’m sure others have visited more exotic spots. My family
may have the highest ratio of girls to boys (four to one) among
the ’38ers, but I’m inclined to doubt this, and am not at all certain
that I should receive any credit for this phenomenon. It’s quite
possible that P've voted for more losing political candidates than
anyone in the Class, but even if this could be proven statistically,
I'd hate to admit it. Anyway, the big prizes still lie ahead. We still
have to maneuver the children through college, and launch them
successfully into the mainstream of life. And there’s still time and
opportunity for poking the earth here and there, and, with luck,
for turning up the big significant scientific find. As with most
men, there’s a fair amount of Walter Mitty lurking in my sub-
conscious.

ROBERT DANIEL LYONS

ag

ens ACN NLT TEE" LL ALTE EN

 

HOME AppREss; 504 Crosswoods Drive, Falls Church, Va.
OFPICE ADDRESS: The Pentagon, Washington 25, D.C.

[ 894 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, M.B.A., 1940.

marRieD: Margaret J. Angus, June 24, 1942. cHitpreN: Robert A. Dee. >, tute,
Mary Louise, March 30, 1955.

occupaTION: Director for Procurement Management, Office of the Scerctary af
Defense.

OFFICES HELD: President, Ideal Chemical Products, Inc.

WE started our married life in Washington, D.C. where we helped
fight the battle of the Potomac in the old Purchasing Division of the
Army Service Forces. Then on to purchasing for the Ford Motor
Company in Dearborn, Michigan. During the Korean contlict we
moved to Dayton, Ohio, where I served as a member of the Air
Force Procurement Committee of the Air Matéricl Command. Then
on to California, where I served for four years as president of
Ideal Chemical. Back to Dayton, Ohio, again, this time as asistane
to the director for procurement and production. While serving
in this post, I was invited to make a solo study in procurement for
the Department of Defense. As one general put it, “when the
sergeant complains about the mess, he generally gets to be mew
sergeant.” Hence back to Washington, D.C, in my present capacity,
One could venture the observation that we have closed the loop.

JOHN RIESTER MABFE

 

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: 24 Center Ave. Little Fally, NJ,
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Paterson, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGRERS: A.B, 1978; arm (fimton (nee 1, bpat

MarRIED: Eva Ditano, Aug. 28, 1943. Cittonss: Joan March 8, tegt, fe rer.
March 8, 1950.

[ 8oe ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occupation: Physician, general practice.

OFFicEs HELD: Assistant attending, medicine, Paterson General Hospital.

MeMBER oF: New Jersey and Passaic County Medical Societies, American
Medical Association; American Ordnance Association; Fourth Armored
Division Association.

CAP and gown were scarcely put away when Welch Peel, ’39,
and I set off for California in a fifty-five-dollar 1929 model A Ford
roadster to see the new world. We loaded the car trunk with
aspirin and No Doze to sell at service stations enroute; drove three
days and two nights and put up at a motel every third night. We
made it there and back to Welch’s home in Kentucky, having
paid only ninety-three cents for repairs but with the same trunkful
of aspirin. Welch’s father took the merchandise off our hands,
Welch sold the Ford for seventy-five dollars payable after the
tobacco harvest (taking as security a mortgage on two red mules);
while I learned that I would never make the grade as a salesman.
Fortunately, I had been accepted at Boston University Medical
School, so had five more years before I would have to earn a
living.

During the first year at medical school, I shared a cadaver with
Fduard Ulrich. His fine sense of humor in the macabre setting of
the anatomy laboratory helped me in the transition from concentra-
tion in mathematics at Harvard to medicine at Boston University.
It was with great regret that I learned of his death in 1943. My
association with Konstantine Yankopolus at medical school was
equally pleasant but has a happier ending; we still see each other
once a year.

The internship at the Paterson, New Jersey, General Hospital,
1942, 1943, Was the climax of the four years at medical school. It
was the opportunity to be directly responsible for the health of
the sick poor. Whether it was the exhilaration of useful service
or the fact that for the first time in my life I had a regular salary
(twelve dollars and fifty cents per month) and could afford two
cokes instead of one or that the student nurse was so cute, I do
not know but I did fall in love. It took half of that year to convince
her that we were meant for each other and then I discovered that
student nurses were not permitted to marry. By the time the nurs-

ing school gave a special dispensation I had finished the army course
at Carlisle that teaches doctors and dentists how to take orders and
was properly prepared for marriage.

It takes more than just bride and groom to be married in the

[ 896 ]

bo

ed |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Russian Church. Maid of Honor and Best Man are selected with
more than the usual care, since they must hold heavy crowns
over the heads of bride and groom throughout the one-hour
ceremony. Eve’s best girl friend, who had had previous experience
with crown holding, and my friend, a stalwart intern, solved the
problem admirably and we were married Saturday, August 28,
1943. Ihe honeymoon in New York City was only a long weekend
because Eve had to return to the hospital on Tuesday afternoon
and worse than that spend all her nights at the nurses’ home exce pt
for her official “overnights.” She had only another six weeks to
finish training and take her State Board Exams and then come to
Abilene, Texas, where we lived in a two-room garage apartment.
This was a longer honeymoon but ended with my transfer to the
Fourth Armored Division at Brownsville, Texas, in December.
Eve put in a few miserable days at the Brownsville Hotel before
the division was shipped to its staging area at Camp Miles Standish,
Brownsville would have been the last I saw of her if I had not
gone AWOL for a few hours at home. It was worth it to get
the melancholy sound of the Brownsville train whistles out of
her ears.

The Fourth Armored Division spent six months in southwest
England. My assignment was giving medical care to the troops
billeted in a small village. It was quiet work and gave time to
enjoy the country side. On one visit to London I met Welch Peel.
In his off duty hours he was a fire warden. One night we watched
the last big incendiary bomb raid on London and helped stamp out
a few fires. Throughout this inferno he remained as calm as he did
at the wheel of the Model A Ford.

In July the division was sent to France and not long afterwards
led the 3rd Army in its sweep across France. In this breakthrough
our leading tanks had shot up a number of German trucks loaded
with supplies. Among these was a truck with the German Anny
payroll, amounting to $250,000. When I got to the scene the road
was ankle-deep in brand-new francs. The money was so new I
was sure it was counterfeit. I scooped up only a few thousands
of dollars, enough to pay each man in my medical detachment his
regular month’s pay. It wasn’t until I saw an elderly woman craw hing
under a moving tank to retrieve some moncy I had thrown away
that I suspected its true value. That evening I was convinced when
my corporal bought a café, lock, stock and barrel, with a fistful
of found money. However, the interest in the moncy waned as the

[ 897 ]

__ L-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

fighting grew more difficult and when the war ended for me with
my capture in the spring of 1945 I was happy just to be alive.

Following the war I took a residency at Princeton Hospital to
refresh my memory. Eve came down also and worked as a nurse.
This led to a peculiar situation. Although we had been married for
two years I had quarters in the hospital and she a room in the
nurses’ home, The hospital authorities were adamant and this
time there was no special dispensation, so we doubled our efforts
to find a place to start practice.

In the spring of 1946 we found a seventy-five-year-old house in
Little Falls, New Jersey, suitable for a combined home and office
and opened the doors for general practice. We lived on the second
floor and used the first floor for office space. It was a pleasant
arrangement until our daughter Joan was born the following year.
When she began to spend most of her time with the patients in
the waiting room we planned an addition to the house to be used
for office space. The office was completed in 1949, getting me out
of the home and Joan into it. The next year our home was
blessed with a red-headed son Jeffrey and our family was complete.

As the children grew older, I took an interest in gardening,
rooting cuttings of evergreens and hollies, and home movies. The
movies led to another interesting hobby. Invited to North Carolina
to take movies of duck hunting in Currituck Sound, I brought along
a shotgun, probably for self-defense. The sky was filled with
swan, snow geese and canadas; the ducks were looking over the
spread. After the first fifty feet of movies I lost my photographer's
calm and reached for the shotgun. Three boxes of shells later I was
a pure schizophrenic not knowing whether to reach for the camera
or for the shotgun. The next day I did better with both shotgun
and camera and the third day was able to enjoy taking movies
almost as much as the shooting. Now, after hunting from Quebec
to Lake Mattamuskeet, the hunting movies are better than my
marksmanship and more enjoyable all year long, but are not nearly
as tasty as the Christmas goose.

A few miles of movie film can present a problem to a family. It
did to ours. We solved it by building another addition to the
house, enlarging the living room and providing storage closets.
We did this in 1958 and trust it is the last major change in our
home.

Our daughter Joan is in her second year at Passaic Valley High
School, doing well and looks forward to a New Engl y illee

gland college.

[ 898 J

__]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our son Jeffrey is in the seventh grade at the Little Falls Flemen-
tary School and has no doubt that he will be Harvard "72. We
have enjoyed summer vacations at Cape Cod where part of the fun
is visiting Konnie Yankopolus and his family in Mattapoisett. We
have long since given up trying to keep up with them in the
number of children, but have not grown tired of enjoying their
children.

DAVID PARK McALLESTER

SORE ota ate ie 28 eam

;
s

 

HOME ADDRESS: 62 Prospect St., Portland, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.), tqya.

MARRIED: Susan Brown Watkins, Sept. 1, 1940, CHILDREN: Bonner Jean, March
13, 1949; Burling Vincent, Feb. 19, 1952.

OccUPATION: Professor of anthropology, Wesleyan University.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1956-57, member, executive beard, 1958-63,
editor, 1959-62, councilor, 1963, Society for Ethnomusicology, member,
board of directors, Verde Valley School, Sedona, Ariz. 1957~$9, research
associate, 1949-63, member, board of directors, 1962-63, Muscum of Navajo
Ceremonial Art, Santa Fe, N. Mex.; member, board of directors, Muscum
of Music, New York City, 1962-63.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; American Anthropological Association (fellow), So ity
for Ethnomusicology; Signet Society; Religious Socicty of Frnemls, Wiul-
derness Society; American Friends Service Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: Peyote Music, 1949; Enemy Way Music, 1964, The Myth of the
Great Star Chant, ed., 1956; “Navajo Creation Chants” Crecerd altniin ard
booklet, ed.), 1954; “Music of the Pucblos, Apache, and Navaho” Creentd
album and pamphlet), co-editor with Donald Brown, tyss.

SINCE 1938 my doings seem to have been under the direct inthuence

[ 899 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

of a lucky star. For one thing, I married Susan Watkins, and for
another, we produced two very entertaining children: a ranch-
type daughter and an artist-inventor son. Our life has been inte-
grated with my profession in a way we teachers can be envied for.
I received my Ph.D. in anthropology at Columbia in 1949 (there
was an interruption of four rewarding years during the war when
] was a conscientious objector serving in the Forestry Service and
later as an attendant in a mental hospital) and since then it has been
a round of teaching and field work with a good many camping trips
worked in.

My research has been with the Navahos of Arizona and New
Mexico, principally, and with the related western Apaches in Ari-
zona. I have been studying their music in its social and religious
context and find that the subject grows in interest as the years go
by. Some of the chants I have recorded take as much as nine nights
to perform, I am working with a living epic tradition as exciting as
though I were able to be present when Homer was singing his
tales. I was even able to film one of the chants and so have a
chance to learn something of the ins and outs of that fascinating
medium.

Teaching at Wesleyan has been a delight. I’ve been interdepart-
mental from the start, teaching, in addition to anthropology, biology,
humanities, social psychology and music, all with an anthropological
slant. At present I am giving a course in the Humanities of the
Near East and the Far East and this transcultural interest was much
enhanced by a half-year we've just had in Hawaii, where I was
Visiting Carnegie Professor of Music at the university. I may
sound like an intellectual hobo, but I figure that I am continuing
my liberal arts education and hope it never stops.

Aside from my teaching and research, I have had a ringside seat
in the development of a society and a journal in ethnomusicology.
In the spring of 1953, I got together with three colleagues in the
field and we decided that there were enough ethnomusicologists
all over the world to warrant real communication. For three years
we sent out a mimeographed newsletter to everyone we'd ever
heard of with the slightest interest in world musics, and in 1956 we
organized the Society for Ethnomusicology which now sends a
very respectable journal to members all over the world.

My interest in the Quakers when 1 was an undergraduate led to
my joining the Society of Friends when I went to Columbia. This
association has felt right to me ever since. We have a small and

[ 900 J

 

oo
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

satisfying meeting in Middletown and I have had some connectioa
with the wider activities of Friends through the American Fem
Service Committee in which I participate in some of their work

with American Indians.
We have a colonial farmhouse on the edye of town with a big

yard and a brook and view up the Connccticut Valley, Rushing
has lately built a tree house and is weaving something specul for
somebody for Christmas. Bonner has had a horse for two months,
tends to him most responsibly and is teaching him to jump, Sanan
is writing poems and has added Polynesian and Oriental cookery
to the miracles she produces in the kitchen, This is the report

of a man well content and very grateful.

JOHN JAMES McCARTHIY, JR.

 

MAILING AppREss: 45 Warner St., Gloucester, Mass.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ALAN McCLENNEN

 

HOME appreEss: Silver Hill Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Cambridge Planning Board, 57 Inman St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.c.P. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1947.

MaraieD; Louise Field Herman, May 21, 1938. CHILDREN: Alan, Jr., April 5,
1939 (mm. Frances Fuller Tyng, Sept. 16, 1962); Charles Eliot, March 3,
1942; Walter, June 9, 1945; Eliza, June 5, 1948.

HARVARD sons: Alan McClennen, Jr., 61; Charles Eliot McClennen, ’64.

OCCUPATION: City planner — planning director for Cambridge Planning Board.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Boston Section, 1958, president, 1960-61, New Eng-
land Chapter, American Institute of Planners; director, Massachusetts
Federation of Planning Boards, 1955-58; chairman, Lincoln Planning
Board, 1952, 1957; member, Lincoln Board of Zoning Appeal, 1959-63;
commissioner, Lincoln Water Commission, 1962-65; president, Parents’
Council, Lincoln Public Schools, 1948; chairman, Cub Scouts Committee,
1950-53, Greater Boston Community Fund, 1949, Children’s Medical Cen-
ter Fund, 1948, all Lincoln; director, Cambridge Mental Health Associa-
tion, 1961-63; Class Agent, Harvard Fund Council, 1960-62; council
member, New England Yacht Racing Council, 1960-63; president, South-
ern Massachusetts Yacht Racing Association, 1960-63; commodore, Chatham
Yacht Club, 1940-41, 1946, 1954-55; governor, Eastward Ho! Country Club,
1950-63; director, Boston Electro Steel Casting Company, 1950.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Planners; National Association of Housing
& Redeveloping Officials; American Society of Planning Officials; Southern
Massachusetts Yacht Racing Association, Chatham Yacht Club, Eastward
Ho! Country Club; Harvard Faculty Club; National Trust for Historic

Preservation.

PICKING up from my Tenth Anniversary Report which cov-
ered rather excessively my activities until that time, I now find
myself forced to find out whether I have produced anything in

[ 902 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

these last fifteen years. Most simply, and not previously noted due
to the timing, was the birth of a daughter, Eliza, on June g. tog,
an occurrence which required me to participate in the Tenth Re-
union as a temporary bachelor.

Beginning at about this time, I really got into city planning
Positions with Newton, Boston, Cambridge, Somerville, the Con
monwealth of Massachusetts and, since 1958, back with Cambrulye
have kept me professionally active. As Planning Director for Cam-
bridge, I am responsible for directing the daily operations of three
junior professionals, draftsmen and clerks, in data gathering and
analysis for both short and long-range recommendations to appropry-
ate city officials. I have participated in the drafting of soning
ordinances and legislative revisions, highway and redevelopment
planning reports, with dashes of promotion and publicity work.
All through there has been an effort to draw out a citizenry that
sometimes seems a bit apathetic unless it wants to sav “no”, more
important, to help it understand that long-range good may jusafy
some short-range injuries; and perhaps most important, to get it to
believe that there are people in the government service who want
to help them. Sometimes the results, which unfortunatcly don't
show, are most satisfying.

For visible accomplishments, however, I can look at some projects
Two successful redevelopment projects have been carned eut in
Cambridge. One can be seen behind MLI-T. and the other, more
noticeable to reunioners, is near old Stillman on Me. Auburn Stecet.
The preliminary standards of development for both projecty were
prepared under my supervision. The chicf need in such work
patience and persistence. They took from tggo to iy4o to grt
under way.

In this frightening day of the automobile-oriented Amencan ¢f
often curse Henry Ford), as Planning Director for Cambrutye, |
find myself in the unhappy position of having to discuss highways
which will displace hundreds of familics. The balancing of murs >-
al finance, transportation needs, land cconomien acsehetes and

personal feelings and valucs compounded by the political avertones
is not easy. Patience, again, is of importance — the mayor express
way system for Greater Boston was desizned ins iyg* but thes
“Sword of Damocles” still hangs above the city,

Much activity has been related to developing a greater under
standing and : appreci iation of zoning with the result that Casdbentos
has adopted a modern, forward- -looking ordinance, We neve have

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

excitement in trying to keep people from distorting it. Fortunately,
in Cambridge citizen groups provided with advice will expend
effort to keep things in order.

It is worth noting that, in Cambridge, degrees from the two
monsters, Harvard and M.L.T., may be sort of an embarrassment of
riches.

Professionally, I have held various positions in the American
Institute of Planners, serving finally for one year as president of
the New England Chapter. I am afraid, however, that I have not
been a one hundred per cent professional planner. I have found
myself drawn into a number of community activities. The longest
stint perhaps was serving for ten years as an elected member of the
Lincoln Planning Board. Here we (A. T. Howard and E. A. Black
of °38) attempted to develop information and standards which
would help the town in the face of the suburban push of the last
decade without getting involved in unjustified negative procedures.
With other local interests, a sense of residential value was produced
in the town so that by and large economic factors took control and
slow development resulted.

During the same period I worked on every conceivable com-
munity project: church, fund-raising, Cub Scouts, drama and parent
groups. At this writing, I serve as a member of the Zoning Board
of Appeal and am a Water Commissioner, as well. Summers I
have been to Cape Cod, the Orleans-Chatham area, where I have
tried to do my share, in the operation of sailing and golfing activi-
ties, often with a special emphasis on working with young people.

More important, perhaps, is the pleasure of the years with a family
and members of a pleasant community. Somehow, I have seen the
four children grow up without serious signs of misbehavior. More
puzzling than anything is the fact that they have all worked harder
and got better results from their educational opportunities in the
local public schools, and more recently two of them at Harvard,
with a third one in suspense, than I ever did in prep school and
college.

What all this adds up to [ have not yet figured out. I didn’t
start off with any clear-cut philosophy of life, but somehow the
end product seems to be satisfactory and certainly not injurious
to others. I am afraid that I can’t associate it with any particular

course at college, or any particular deep impressions that college
made on me.

[ 904]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HENRY McCORMICK

 

HOME AppREsS: 31 Fuller St., Halifax, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Silver Lake Regional High School, Kingston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Bridgewater High School, Bridgewater, Mass., Roxbury Memvortal
School, Roxbury, Mass.,; Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; ED.M. (Boston Teachers Coll.),
1940.

MARRIED: Margaret M. Kennedy, May 18, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Town Planning Board, since 1956, presdent, Regronal
Teachers’ Association 1960-61; chairman, Town School Building Com-
mittee, since 1958; Wartime: 1st Service Command — New England areca
chief (civilian), Cryptographic Security, 1941-44, visual aids coordinator,
1944-45, training director, 1945-46, chief, Employee Utilization, t944, e*-
ecutive trainer, Merchandising Human Relations for Jordan Manh Com-
pany, 1946-55. .

MEMBER OF: Educational organizations.

PUBLICATIONS: Manuals for Signal Corps, merchandising.

CAREER: A Skewed curve.

A. Painter: Professional. Portrait and house (1938-39).

B. Student: Of education and the “ites” of Dewey (tg3y-4).

C. Servant: Civil, until prodded. Collector of lower case utics at
the Army’s First Service Command. Above reproach during
World War II despite conspicuous amputation of first phalant,
trigger finger, right hand, on Day of Call (1941-44).

D. Trainer: Of “The Six White Horses of Merchandising” ==
Allied Stores Corp. Stable. More little titles and, so help me
(it’s the Veritas), a key to the men’s room of Jordan Marsh's
mahogany row. Status (1946-55).

E. Teacher: Of English. No titles. Certainly, no starua But

[ 905 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

bundles of kids! And are they learning me, like I say, educa-
tionwise (1955—-).
FAMILY: Peggy.

Share budget with pretty, blonde, Kennedy widow. (No, Virginia,

there is no .. .) Leverett and Marlene, no kin, collie and minia-

ture dachshund, respectively, along with seasonally fruitful cats,

share our board. No children as yet — don’t laugh, it can happen.

Brother Tom has won seven. Oldest is eight.

TRAVELS: I have traveled widely in Halifax.
HOBBIES: Early American houses, pine furniture, drawing, paint-

ing, town politics, second-guessing and beer.

WAR RECORD: Coddled, as essential civilian, at Headquarters, -

First Service Command, Boston. F
GOVERNMENT: Town Planning. Trying to keep my thumb in

the dike against the urban sprawl, I’m concerned with the pres-

ervation of wet-lands, marshes and meadows. An advocate of
green belt practices, open spaces and the one-acre lot, I'd like to
see more law, more control and less subdivision in our subdivision
control laws, architectural coordination in our public buildings,
and some sort of harmony in our domestic. Peggy, on our Board
of Health, and I1—the Rachel Carson and Lewis Mumford of
the town’s many acres. Somebody hit us with that.

CONVICTIONS: Social: While definitely not anti — have resisted
the baubles, bangles and beads of fraternal organizations: busi-
ness, military, religious and patently social do-gooders. Let them,
individually, take elective responsibility and be shot at on the
boys’ night out. A gun-shy huddle nauseates me.

Political: By Australian ballot, about 70-30 Democratic; by stand-

ing vote, 69-31 the same way. (I tend to weaken during long

town meetings). Nationally, I voted Kennedy(s). Locally, if I

don’t know the man, I ask and judge and vote.

Religious: For God, for Country and for the Ecumenical Council.

If Yale can do it, why can't we?

I mean not to be wholly flippant, although Peg claims that I in-
variably snap that slender line, Since 1938 I have been outrageously
fortunate in health, marriage, home, and in reaching what goals I
have set for myself. Obviously, these latter have been at ground
level, but they have been of my choosing.

Although Harvard is only forty miles from by barn and fireplace,
I’m ashamed to say that, despite bales of mail, I’ve virtually lost
touch with both her and you. Tomorrow, I’ll renew the ties. And

[ 906 ]

‘
¥
:
i
i
\
t

 

 

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

twenty-five years of tomorrows have evaporated. Twenty-five
years! And yet today I caught myself identifying with the fiftcen-
ear-olds I teach.

I should stop here with some apt Latin quote. But TP still don’t
know Latin. Twenty-five years ago, I received a Bachelor of
Science degree in English as a reward for my ignorance of that
quiescent tongue.

WILLIAM VINCENT McDERMOTT, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 570 Bridge St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, M.D. tg32.

MarRRIED: Blanche O’Riorden, May 15, 1943. CHILDREN: Blanche Anne, Jan. p41,
1948; William Shaw, June 11, 1949; Jane Travers, March 34, tuce.

occuPATION: Surgeon; assistant clinical professor of surgery, Hlarvard Meda al
School; associate visiting surgeon, Massachusetts General flospital.

OFFICES HELD: Research fellow, National Institutes of Health, Depe. of Phyue-
logical Chemistry, Yale University School of Medicine, togy. nulitary wey:
ice, ETO; battalion surgeon, ss0th AAA-AW? Battahon, commanding
officer, 1st HU, 30th Field Hospital, major, 1943-46, awactate dite tor ed
surgery, pro tem, Kings College Hospital, London, Fogland, Apol Mey.
1960; director and member, Research Allocations Caommuttce, Ved af
Foundation of Boston, 1957; member, editorial board, Josermed of Sae ge: af
Research, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Society of University Surgeons; American Surgwat Awe ron,
Boston Surgical Society; New England Surgical Socwey, Vises huserre
Medical Society; American Medical Association; Penpatene Chib, See
lapian Club; Dedham Country and Pole Club; Plarvand Clib of) feanon

PUBLICATIONS: Forty-three scientific articles; four books (sects), frase beak
reviews; one non-professional publication,

[ 907 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FOR some years, I have felt twinges of guilt concerning our re-
quirement at the Massachusetts General Hospital that all applicants
for surgical internship submit an autobiography along with the
mass of factual data which has accumulated during their eight years
of university education. On reading these prior to the written and
oral examinations which are part of the selective procedure, one
senses the acute discomfort which accompanies this type of effort
in most instances. Now that I am backed in a similar corner, I
shall undoubtedly be even more sympathetic when the annual
ritual recurs during this academic year.

In organizing the factual data of my life since graduation, it is
apparent that I have never really escaped from Harvard. Except
for military service during World War II in England, Normandy,
France, Luxembourg, Germany, Austria and Czechoslovakia, I have
lived as an undergraduate at Harvard Medical School, as a resident
surgeon at one of the Harvard hospitals and later as a member of
the faculty. Even a year at Yale in the Department of Physiological
Chemistry would be technically classified as a sabbatical year from
surgical training. Certainly this represents a very provincial exist-
ence compared to the exotic biographies which will be scattered
through this volume. In actual fact, however, life has been far from
restricted. This hybrid existence as a clinical and academic surgeon
makes one a part of an international professional community and
Blanche and I have accumulated friends in England, Europe and
South America who have kept us, I hope, from a life of limited
horizons, and our travels of the past ten years have been a source
of recurring jolts to any self-satisfied equanimity.

Some reference to progeny seems to be acceptable in this type
of report. We have a daughter at Maplebrook, a son at Groton
and a somewhat belated young lady at home with us. On the occa-
sion of the latest arrival, one of our friends addressed her note of
congratulations to “Dear Sara and Abraham,” which we felt was
an extremely unkind chronological reference when our physio-
logical age was obviously not even approaching the apogee,

It seems to me that our Twenty-fifth Reunion comes too early
in life to begin to philosophize. First of all, there is too little time
in every day as yet for this type of contemplative appraisal, and
secondly, many of the answers may still be ahead of us. In the
meantime, | shall go along with James Thurber in his Fables for
our Times — “It is better to know some of the questions than all of
the answers.”

[ 908 J

eee LH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

—ARD FRANCIS McGONIGLE,

 

—x 108, Waynesboro, Va.

— ARTHUR McGOWAN, JR.

    

OSI BEES Rtg Ege: SOM ae ig cs

—=nte Way, La Jolla, Calif.

[ ge ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT ENGEL MACHOL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2865 Whippoorwill Lane, Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE Appress: Conductron Corp., 343 S. Main St., Ann Arbor, Mich,

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; s.M. (Univ. of Michigan),
19§3; PH.D. (ibid.), 1958.

MaRRIED: Florence Guttman, Sept. 8, 1946. CHILDREN: Margot Ellen, May 25,
1949; Kennard Dean, Jan. 17, 1951.

occupation; Vice-president for systems, Conductron Corporation (research
and development).

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Publications Committee, Operations Research Society
of America; professor of electrical engineering, Purdue University (on
leave); lieutenant commander, USNR.

PUBLICATIONS: Systeme Engineering (with H. H. Goode), McGraw-Hill, 1957;
Information and Decision Processes (Ed.), McGraw-Hill, 1960; Recent
Developments in Information and Decision Processes (Ed., with P. Gray),
Macmillan, 1962; System Engineering Handbook (Ed.), 1964 (hopefully);
numerous articles.

I STARTED out as a chemist. This was a mistake which I blame
on one of those inspiring high school teachers you occasionally
read about, who inspired me to go into chemistry. Now, three
degrees later (all in chemistry), I think I might have made a good
mathematician. In fact, I took the summer of 1960 off to study
mathematics — but it’s a little late.

Anyway I got out in—as you all remember—a somewhat
unfavorable economic environment. After walking the streets for
four months I landed a job as a chemist at twenty-five dollars per
week. A year later I quit for another job as a chemist, at a tremen-
dous increase: $125 a month. I was going to school at night and
was well along toward a Master’s degree (chemistry, of course)

[ 910 ]

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

when I became crazy patriotic. This was late in 1940, and T wanted
personally to do in Hitler. I had it all doped our that Congress
wouldn’t declare war, but Roosevelt might send the Marines sn,
so I joined the USMC as an aviation cadet.

This was another mistake. I was about as good an aviator as |
was a chemist. Furthermore, after we washed out an airplane, |
insisted it was the instructor’s fault, which turned out to have been a
tactical blunder. After my discharge from the Marine Corp and
being turned down by the RCAF (even as a navigator), I ended
up as an ensign, USNR, assigned as ground-school instructor — sell
well before Pearl Harbor. This I was good at, but I wanted over-
seas, so in typically devious fashion I got myself transferred to
M.I.T., where I could study aeronautical engincering. Just short
of a Master’s degree, I was shipped to California, and after much
wangling, finally got myself off to the Solomon Islands as an aviation
engineering officer. There a stick of Japanese bombs straddled me
one night, and while this didn’t harm me phy sically, it did violent
harm to my patriotism. A year and a half later, w ‘hen | got bach,
I was pleased to stay back. I am about to retire (after twenty vears),
as lieutenant commander, USNR.

My next profession, another mistake, was due to the execllene
advice of my friend and classmate, Teddy White. “Journalism os
the coming field,” he wrote me from Chungking, “but it requires
specialists. You should become a science reporter.” That sounded
good. I hadn’t learned enough aeronautical engincering to nuke
a living at that, and I didn’t really like chemistry. While sall in
uniform I wrote and peddled a few articles, and on diwharye
landed a job with a popular science magazine. Six months later
this job folded and I found myself writing science articles for a
popular encyclopedia. I worked on three ditferent encyclopedias
in this phase, but for one or another reason never got past M ~~ I
am still abysmally ignorant of anything thar starts in the bse half
of the alphabet.

In 1949, having in the interim acquired the brightest jewel of
my life, and with it continuing and increasing responuluhacsy my
science writing proclivities took me as technical editor to an organ:
ization doing a thing called Operations Research, Tt can't be ade-
quately defined briefly, but it’s a kind of organized applicatiens af
mathematics, scientific methodology and common seas to ipers
tional problems and man-machine systems, and TE boved it. Ia ngts
I moved to the University of Michigan, to a laboratory doin y

[git ]

ERS

aR 90g RN econo ARE a ett ea AE AI | FRESNO SINES ES .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

similar work on guided missile systems; I went as technical editor,
but was soon doing more engineering than writing. After a while,
I began to feel I knew something about “system engineering”
(which is like operations research, only different), and another
fellow and I in our spare time started writing a book with this
title, which was published by McGraw-Hill in 1957. The book has
done well— 15,000 copies in English, plus Japanese and French
editions, and it’s still selling.

Meanwhile I was continuing school. After getting most of a
Master’s degree (in chemistry) at night at Northwestern Uni-
versity, I entered the University of Michigan. They allowed me
to transfer in any six points I liked from the previous schools, and
I started all over. In due time I got the S.M. (in chemistry) and
a few years later had completed all the minor requirements for the
Ph.D. — that is, the courses, languages and prelims. To do the
research for an experimental thesis, | had to go down to half-time '
on my job for a year. This was difficult financially, but my wife :
encouraged me. I didn’t really want it in chemistry at this point,
but I couldn’t pass the prelims in anything else.

So at the end of 1957 I found myself with a Ph.D. in chemistry
and a book in system engineering and a great longing to be a pro-
fessor. I therefore announced to the world at large — totally with-
out basis — that I was an electrical engineer, since this was where
the jobs seemed to be. The kind-hearted head of the Electrical
Engineering Department at Purdue, who made me an associate pro-
fessor, allowed me to teach the courses in the undergraduate curricu-
lum one at a time (meanwhile teaching graduate courses in system
engineering), and I eventually learned a little about it.

In December of 1960, an old friend formed a new corporation,
called Conductron, and asked me to join as vice-president for sys-
tems. We work mostly on military systems, trying simultaneously
to improve the country’s defenses and make a few dollars for
Conductron; I think we may have done a bit of both. Meanwhile
we are back in our beloved Ann Arbor,

The autobiography has been long, which fortunately leaves little
room for the philosophical peroration which seems to be expected
in these things. My first serious ambition (not counting street-car
conductor) was to be the world’s greatest scientist — sort of a
masculine Mme. Curie. After passing through the phase of wanting

to be a hero, I wanted to be science editor for the New York Times.
At one point I thought the world’s greatest job would be technical

  

[

 

[912 ]

—_——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

editor for the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton (a plaice
where I have never visited). Then I wanted to be a profesor and
a consultant — ve done a little of that. Now my ambitions are
a little vague. I'd like to do some traveling (we sull look back
glowingly on a six-week lecturing tour I made to Japan); Vd hke
Kennard to go to Harvard; I’d like Margot to marry a Harvard
man; I’d like to see Conductron stock go up; I'd like my wife to be
happy. I’ve learned a little about power and leadership, but 1 do
not think I can communicate this understanding. I've also learned
a little about truth: somewhere between ethics and oppertuniun
lies an ideal course, and one must continually force himself toward
the ethical; as one becomes more knowledgeable, this becomes
more difficult.
They have been a good twenty-five years on the whole, and the

world has dealt more kindly with me than I or anyone else deserves.
I look forward with enthusiasm to the next twenty-five.

+ EDWARD DEXTER McINTYRF.

 

porn: April 2, 1915, Dedham, Mass. Parents: Clarence Milburn Sty toes ee,
Grace Dexter.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

piep: Killed Jan. 24, 1944, over Tawara Lagoon.

AFTER leaving college McIntyre worked for the Ameriwan Ate:
lines before entering military service, In January, tggs, he enloted
as a cadet in the U.S. Army Air Forces at Boston and was cers:
missioned as second licutenant in January, togy. Tle was statiened
in Virginia and South Carolina before being sent to Coba, where

[913]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

his duty was patrolling the sea coast. In September, 1943, he was
ordered to San Francisco, remaining there until December, 1943,
when he went overseas. He was killed in action over Tarawa

Lagoon while returning from a mission. He was survived by his
parents.

DONALD NEAL McKAY

Ae AOD TNS

 

HOME apprEss: 219 Dorchester Drive, Hoyt Lakes, Minn.
OFFICE AbpRess: Frie Mining Co., Box 847, Hoyt Lakes, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Manila, Philippine Islands; Roosevelt High
School, Minneapolis, Minn. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

MARRIED: Doris Marie Ekman, June 21, 1941, cHiLpREN: Donald Neal, Nov. 2,
1951; Stephen Ekman, Oct. 10, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor of administering services, Erie Mining Company, ta-
conite mining and processing.

orFices HELD: Member, St. Louis County Republican Committee, since 1958;
member, since 1960, president, 1962, Hoyt Lakes Library Board; president,
Gertrude Boase-Anna Keefe P-T.A., 1959-60; council member, Boy Scout
Troop 161, Hoyt Lakes, 1956-57; council member, 1960-61, secretary-treas-
urer, 1961-62, Cub Pack 162; senior warden, 1956-58, clerk of vestry, 1962,

St. Stephen's Episcopal Church; president, St. Stephen’s Episcopal Church
Building Corporation, 1958-62.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants; Polaris Dance Club.

AFTER graduation from college, I attended the Business School,
getting my M.B.A. in 1940. My first job was the sulphur mining
industry in the Texas gulf coastal town of Freeport. After my
marriage on June 21, 1941, to Doris Ekman (University of Minne-
sota, 1940), We continued to live in Freeport until I entered the

[914]

 

_

__—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Navy in 1943. Our stay in Freeport was enlivened by the fact that
this small town was bursting at the seams with construction and

operating people brought in for the huge complex the Dow Chem-
cal Company was building there. Our own company, Freeport
Sulphur, was doing the pilot plant work ona nickel-cobalt recovery

rocess, which was to lead to the building of the plane at Nicaru,
in Cuba, taken over by Castro not so long ago. The voung
Cuban metallurgists and engineers who were ‘being trained by us
made a noisy and colorful contribution to our social life. We alwa
had the experience, in common with the rest of the populauon of
the area, of becoming refugees from hurricanes in two succesuve
summers. Neither storm, fortunately, had the destructive power
of that which battered Freeport in the fall of 1961.

My navy career was interesting but relauvely uneventful. Doris
was able to be with me in Louisiana, in the sw ampland below New
Orleans, and in Boston, where in the Supply Corps School TP wound
up right back at the Business School, and again in Virginia. When
I left for the Admiralty Islands in the Pacific, Dorie, who has a
degree in interior architecture with considerable training in draft.
ing, took a job in the design section of a defense project operated
by Minneapolis Honeywell and, conscientiously and most irritat-
ingly, refused to tell me what she was w orking on untal aftce
Japan had surrendered.

After the war, we returned to sulphur mining in Texas and
Louisiana, alternating, in fact, with such frequency berween the
two that we decided we would try another part of the country.
After a brief and mutually unsatisfactory experience with the flour
milling industry in Minneapolis, I went back to the mining in-
dustry, this time iron mining, on the Mesabi Range in northern
Minnesota, where we have lived ever since. In 19§3, my tiem,
Pickand Mather & Company, began the construction of a taconite

lant and for four years I was involved in what was at that time
the largest construction project ever to be undertaken an the
United States financed solely with private capital, Since ty¢s, J
have been in the business of helping to make taconite pellots
Except for my return during the war, T have been to Cambridye
only once since graduation, this being in tgsg, when LE attended a
conference at the Business School.

Our elder son, Donald, was born in tgs; our vounsee wn,
Stephen, in 1956. Our activities, except for those concerned with
our church and with politics, have largely been dircetty related

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DONALD McCALLUM McKELLAR

    
       

  

HOME appress: 1298 N. Waukegan Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.

oFFIce appress: Field Enterprises Education Corp., 510 Merchandise Mart,
Chicago 54, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938.

marriep: Dorothy W. Pierce, Feb. 18, 1939. CHILDREN: Donald McCallum, Jr,
Feb. 3, 1941; Peter Pierce, March 26, 1943; Chadwick Field, April 16, 1946,
Winston Pierce, Sept. 8, 1950.

occupation: Book publishing; executive vice-president and director of inter-
national operations, Ficld Enterprises Education Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Lake Forest Recreation Board, 1954-56; director, Field
Enterprises, Inc., 1956; officier commandeur, Confrerie des Chevaliers du
Tastevin, 1956; director, Arlington Park Jockey Club, 1957; section chair-
man, Large Firms Division, Community Fund-Red Cross Joint Appeal,
1957; trustee, Chicago’s Educational TV Station — WTTW, 1960; mem-
ber, Illinois Racing Board, 1961; director, The Potter Company, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Thoroughbred Club of America; Chicago Club; Shoreacres Club;
Racquet Club; Harvard Club of New York; Tennis and Racquet Club of
Boston.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago my father reflectively studied the
fledgling that he was about to boot out of the nest and remarked
that, although it was apparent that I had not absorbed much of
the intellectual atmosphere to which I had been exposed during
the past ten years, he guessed it had all been worthwhile. He
commented affably on some of the excellent and expensive tastes
I had acquired and his benediction was that he reckoned I would
get along all right because he perceived I was one of those souls
born to be lucky. A summation of events in the past twenty-five
years shows that I have indeed been lucky,

To begin with, I met my wife through a weird combination of

[ 918 ]

I

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

circumstances which led me to Hot Springs, Virginia, via the Hasty

Pudding show. Our marriage has been blessed by four male off-

spring of varying interests and talents, who, thus far, have not

shot either of their parents, who, in turn, have cheerfully remained
together in wedded bliss.

My business career was interrupted by service with the Fighth

Air F orce, a fairly rough theatre of operations. Despite encmy
flak and fighters I returned with the usual complement of “hero”
ribbons but without a scratch. Having done nothing but fly an
airplane for three years I briefly turned to aviation as a liv clihood.
The field seemed too limited, so I moved to the Midwest and
lucked into a job with the Quarrie Corporation, a book publishing
firm which was a subsidiary of Field Enterprises, Inc., and owned
by Marshall Field.

My arrival on the scene was coincidental with the formation of
plans and policies which when executed properly over the fiftcen
years lifted the business to the status of the largest book publisher
in the world, both in terms of units of sale and dollar volume. In
case you have not had The World Book Encyclopedia and Child-
craft for your growing families, make sure your grandchildren do
not suffer the same privation.

As of now I am executive vice-president in charge of Inter-
national Operations, which gets me into every part of the world.
We are in the process of creating international editions of our
products, so I go bustling about trying to gain first-hand knowl-
edge of the culture, economy, educational systems, ete. of each
country in which we plan to publish. Then follows the task of

building a sales force to distribute our products. My job is both
absorbing and fascinating — how can one be more lucky than that?

My non-business interests mostly involve the outdoors and all
forms of sports. Fishing (light tackle), hunting (ducks and upland
birds), golf (eight handicap) are in competition with raising and
training Labrador retrievers and, of course, the horses. My race
horse interests are now intercontinental — France, England, and
here at home. A mild form of insanity, but no one ever committed

suicide while they had an untried yearling in the barn, and in the
ageregate my luck has been good. As I look back, I tind that
many of the non-curricular courses I took at the Ritz Bar, the
Crescent Club, Suffolk Downs, Rockingham Park, the Ipow ich
Marshes, etc., played a large part in helping shape my latter-day
activities and interests. I am delighted I went through Harvard

[919 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

then rather than now, as I believe that such courses as the above
are nonexistent.
By nature I am an unreconstructed optimist, at the polls a Demo-

crat, at church an Episcopalian, in society a liberal, and in general
lucky as lucky can be.

ELWOOD SCOTT McKENNEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Curve St., West Newton, Mass.

orFice appress: Municipal Court of the Roxbury District, Roxbury, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREES: AB., 1938; LL.B. (Boston Univ-), 1950.

married: Kathleen E. Lomax, Aug. 8, 1942. CHILDREN: Peter Scott, Nov. 12,
1943; Rudge Scott, Sept. 19, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Justice, Municipal Court of the Roxbury District.

OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, chief secretary, to Governor of Massachu-
setts, 1950-60; director, Johnson Paint Company, Inc., since 1960; presi-
dent, Freedom House, 1952-55; member, Boston Redevelopment Authority
Advisory Commission, since 1963,

memser oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Military Intelligence Association of New
England; Boston Legal Aid Society; Nigerian-American Hospital Founda-
tion.

THE afternoon of graduation day I reported to my job carrying

luggage at Boston’s South Station, a job which had provided

sustenance during my last two and a half years at school. Since
then I have worked successively as page boy in the Massachusetts

Legislature, W.P.A. writer, waiter, handyman, insurance rater,

wartime undercover agent for Army Intelligence at home and
abroad, V.A. contact representative, commissioner of the first
Massachusetts fair employment practice commission, attorney, di-

[ 920 ]

I

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rector of the World Veterans Fund, New York City, exccutive

secretary and chief secretary to the Governor of Massachusetts
and finally Municipal Court Justice.

The forties and the fifties were as challenging as the sixties appear
to be and I owe my upward climb, unspectacular as it has been, to
hard work, initiative, ability, a few friends who became adversaries,
a few strangers who became friends, and the uncommon good
sense in having left the door ajar when opportunity knocked. 1
have traveled through much of the United States and parts of
Europe, Africa and Central America, unfortunately without having
made much impression on persons or events. My hobbies have
been game fishing on Cape Cod, music and literature and the con-
stant attempt to capture the elusive expertise which justifies the
time thus spent.

As to social, political and religious convictions, I shall be capsule
brief. I have been and am a Democrat of liberal persuasion, having
been actively engaged, unlike most so-called liberals, in the business
of government for several years. I am of the firm belicf that
progress and reform start with inspired leadership and after that
take a little while, the oft-repeated tragedy being that the public has
a fickle and unreliable memory and can scarcely be depended on to
correct the usual imbalance of emotion and intelligence. Peculiarly,
however, the crises continue and the leaders change and, except for
historians, time goes faster than one would wish.

JOHN FITZGERALD McKENZIE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Salisbury Drive, Westwood, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 Garrison St., Boston 16, Mass,

[921]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.c.s. (Boston Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Florence Boone Stevenson, Aug. 24, 1944. CHILDREN: James Johnston,
July 24, 1946; Thomas William, Jan. 2, 1949.

occupation: Higher education — director (president), Massachusetts Bay Com-
munity College.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Tilton Academy, Tilton, N.H., 1940-41; professor of
business administration and chairman of department, Tilton Junior College,
1941-42; U.S. Army Medical Service Corps, 1942-46, director, Men’s Di-
vision, Fisher Junior College, 1946-47; associate professor, chairman, Dept.
of Business Administration, University of Massachusetts, Fort Devens, 1947-
49; assistant to dean of Graduate School, 1949-53, University Dean of Men,
1953-59, Boston University; director of public relations and community
relations, Itek Laboratories, Itek Corporation, 1959-61; director, Massachu-
setts Bay Community College, since 1961, member, executive committee,
National Association of Student Personnel Administrators, 1956-59; edu-
cational adviser, National Interfraternity Conference, 1957-59; member,
Westwood PTA Executive Committee, 1955-59, 1961-63; presidential ad-
viser, Alpha Phi Omega National Service Fraternity.

MeMaer oF: Public Relations Society of America; Boston Executives Associa-

tion; New England Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools; Young
Adult Committee, YWCA.

publications: Articles and papers for professional journals on education and
student personnel administration.

THE past twenty-five years have been full, rapid, and altogether
satisfying, largely due to my choice of education as a career. After
pursuing a master’s degree to completion in 1940, I was fortunate
to receive my first teaching appointment at Tilton Academy in
New Hampshire, where I taught some twenty-five hours a week,
coached football, baseball, and hockey, supervised a dormitory of
energetic teenagers and, in general, assumed many of the responsi-
bilities of the father of a large family before it became my time to
have a family of my own.

After two delightful years as a prep school teacher, the Army
beckoned, and I became a private in Uncle Sam’s forces. There
I was fortunate to spend virtually all of my army career as a teacher
of military administration and, ultimately, was discharged in 1946
as a first lieutenant in the medical administration department.

It was during my term of army service that I had the good for-
tune to be stationed in Virginia where I encountered a Southern
belle who was destined to share my future life. From my personal
point of view, this was one of the really fortunate outcomes of
the Second Great War.

I returned from the service to head up a newly formed school for

[922 ]

—~__

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

men at Fisher Junior College in Boston. After a year, I was ap-
pointed associate professor and chairman of the Department of
Business Administration in the new branch of the University of
Massachusetts at Fort Devens, set up specifically to provide for
returning veterans who sought a college education. After three
delightful years of building the new two-year college, I was ap-
pointed Assistant to the Dean of the Graduate School at Boston
University where I remained until 1953 when I was appointed
the first University Dean of Men in the history of Boston Uni-
versity.

In 1959, I had the opportunity to join a newly formed research
company, Itek by name, as director of public relations and com-
munity relations for their research labs, and after two most inter-
esting years in industry, I was elected to head up the new Massa-
chusetts Bay Community College to be established in Boston, The
chance to create a new college, select a faculty and student body,
and to implement some rather novel ideas in education has bee
and continues to be a thoroughly gratifying experience. This ts
particularly true when one realizes that this kind of college provides
higher educational opportunities for young people of modest cco-
nomic circumstances who would not otherwise have this oppor-
tunity.

The future holds a great challenge with virtually limitless oppor-
tunities to provide for untold generations of young people to come.
I sometimes liken our situation to that of some pioncering educators
who established a new college some 326 years ago in Cambridye.
Having been the beneficiary of the efforts of the founders of
Harvard College in no small way, I dare to hope that I may play
a small role in contributing to some extent to the future education
of young people in our community today and in the years that

lie ahead.

[ 923 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RICHARD BARTON KENNEDY McLANATHAN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 434 E. 58th St., New York 22, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; PH.D., IQ51.

MarRIED: Jane Fuller, Jan. 3, 1941.

occupation: Free-lance: consultant on art and museums, writer, lecturer, radio

(a weekly program on art on WQXR), television.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in English and history, Allen-Stevenson School, 1938-

42; assistant curator of decorative arts, 1949-54, secretary of the Museum,
1952-56, editor of museum publications, 1952-57, curator of decorative arts,
1954-57, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; director, Munson-Williams-
Proctor Institute, Utica, N.Y., 1957-61; trustee, member executive com-
mittee, Boston Arts Festival, 1951-59; curator, art exhibit, American Na-
tional Exhibition, Moscow, USSR, 1959; American specialist for State
Dept. in Poland, West Germany, Denmark, 1959, in Yugoslavia, 1961;
member, board of advisers, Boys’ Club of Boston, since 1954, trustee, Boys’
Club of Utica, 1960-61; member, board of directors, St. Luke’s Memorial
Hospital Center, Utica, 1959-61; Society of Fellows, Harvard, 1943-46;
senior fellow, American Academy in Rome, 1948-49 (Prix de Rome, ’48);
distinguished service award, USIA, 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Museum Association; Society of Architectural His-

torians; American Federation of Arts, New York State Council on the
Arts; Commissioner's Com. on Art and Museum Resources.

PuBLicaTions: Co-author, The M. and M. Karolik Collection of American

Paintings, 1815-1865, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 1949; editor, Classical
Coins, Museum of Fine Arts (Agnes Baldwin Brett), 1955, etc.; contributor
to Art News, Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians, BMFA
Bull., Arte Veneta, Atlantic Monthly, Antiques, Museum News, etc.;
dec. arts ed. for Webster's Unabridged International Dictionary.

THE Twenty-fifth Reunion year is always, I suppose, a time for

reminiscence and evaluation. From Chvwate days on I seem to

have been heading for an educational carcer, by instinct and by the

[924]

——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

example of people I was lucky enough to seudy with, especially
George St. John, for so many years Choate’s headmaster, Russ vy rea,
and Dudley Fitts whose enthusiasm confirmed me in fone te
Harvard and directed me toward work with his frend and bece
mine, Ted Spencer. At Harvard I never got over the exotement
of the discovery that with the instructor's permmuon anc coult
sit in on courses offered in practically every concersable sutyect
Indulgence in this enthusiasm may not have helped the marks
in those courses taken for credit, bur, as an educanonal exspeneme,
it was tremendous and lasting.

Two years of teaching small boys in the Allen-Scevenwin So howd
in New York City immediately on graduation were beene snl
satisfying and pointed the way back ro ‘Cambridge and the graduate
school. The advantages of marriage and maturity were retlceted
in my work in the Department of Fine Arts, and led te memberst ap
in the Society of Fellows where association with both june and
senior fellows, but especially Alfred North Whitchead, Henry bce
Shattuck (with whom I was later associated at the Muscum of Pine
Arts), and Professors Nock, Brinton, Morton, Phuw and Pevin,
confirmed me in my resolve to be, to the bese of my absuey. a
constructive revolutionary in the ficld of art education,

The achievement of a doctorate reflected not only the capable
instruction but also the atfectionate concern of many, forges
among them being Chandler Pose, Leonard Oyrdvche, Kenneth
Conant, Jacob Rosenberg and Langdon Warner.

My move from Harvard to the Muvcum of Binge Nete as acausnt
in the Department of Paintings was the beginning of 4 potent on
an institution where, thanks largely to Harold Palvell the sheree tog
for many years, I was enabled to carry out such Ciperinenty ae fe
conduct for a year the first regular tcleviuon show fe ors: winate in
a museum, an ‘hour a week, though We ammbstisasty: eearted woth
ninety-minute spectacular, give a coure in the Vbawum on the
Arts in America, under Reg Phelps imaginative and psc ful Cuter
program, and broadcast over WOBEE, stare the fee poymelae pet
cations of the Muscum; work with the art peegrans ef the love
Clubs of Boston which Iced to a mayor evhuheteen ands euea eal ef
symposium at the Muscum on art education fog ghslleen, af wich
the Boston Arts Festival from tts firse shaky bar yrrsarary me

I moved from paintings to decorative arte te bean ween!
curator of that large and fae mating department gop Pavers ee!
with those of cditer of muses prblis strome aad we retary c€ a

[ars]

"HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

museum in addition to my TV, radio, and other activities. During
these years I greatly enjoyed the opportunity of working closely
with such distinguished older statesmen of the world of art as
Harold Edgell, George Chase, Ned Hipkiss, Dows Dunham, Kojiro
Tomita, Henry Rossiter and George Swarzenski, whose unstinted
sharing with a younger colleague of their knowledge and experience
is but a fair measure of their generosity of spirit.

After Harold Edgell’s death in 1955 a change in regime at the
Museum seemed to mark the end of the possibility for continuing
creative experiment, so Jane and I took off for Europe on a year’s
leave of absence to take up again projects begun under a Prix de
Rome seven years earlier.

I returned to become director of the museum in Utica, New York,
choosing it as an ideal field for experiment with a projected new
building designed by Philip Johnson, the completion of which was
greeted by an unprecedented community response; an attendance
for the first nine months of 139,000 people in a city of 100,000, which
incidentally includes a number of fellow graduates and a classmate,
Brad Millet.

Our stay in Utica was interrupted only by my trip to Moscow
as curator of the art exhibit of the American National Exhibition in
1959, followed by visits as a specialist for the State Department
to Poland, Germany, and Denmark, and, two years later, by a trip,
again as an American specialist, to Yugoslavia during which we
drove more than 2500 miles on all kinds of roads and sometimes
no roads at all; only a jeep, land-rover, or our VW could have
made it.

When it became clear that there was no longer an opportunity
for continuing the active program I had instituted at Utica, I
reached a decision. Jane and I are unencumbered alike by children
or money, so after an adult life so far spent entirely in connection
with institutions, I decided to try free-lancing to see if the years
of professional experience could be turned to usefulness for others
as a consultant, to continue writing, television, radio work and
lecturing. We found a small apartment in Manhattan for head-
quarters and are now well into the second year of the experiment.
So far rent and taxes are paid and we eat regularly. The variety of
work —as consultant with such diverse organizations as Macy’s,
‘Time and Life and the Atlanta Art Association, lecturing at colleges
and universities across the country, writing, occasional television,

and a weekly program on WOQXR —is stimulating, And partici-
[ 926 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
pating in such pioneering ventures as the New York State Couneal
of Arts, the first attempt in the United States to solve the problem
of government patronage and encouragement of the arty and one
which is a heartening success, is deeply sansfving.

Also Jane and I have been able to enjoy our house at the mouth
of the Kennebec more in a year and a half than in the previous five,
Our place is a tree farm and my favorite avecatons are working on
the woods and building stone walls, though | have turned mmto
a fair carpenter as well.

What does this all add up to? First of all, grantude — an unrepsy-
able debt to those whose friendship, trust and csample provnted
both inspiration and purpose; gratitude for opportunites for ncan.
ingful experience and to those, first of all my wife, who helped
me to learn from that experience, Second, a conviction that the
arts are a function of life, are as necessary to health as bead, and
are to be shared as richly and broadly as posuble.

Looking back, it appears that there has been a conudency of
effort and that out of much attempted some worthwhile rewuilts
have been achieved. But, far more important, looking forward, st
appears that whatever necessitics or opportunities nuy are, free.
dom, in a certain measure at lIcast, has been won, and that perhaps
the interest on my debt of gratitude is beginning to be repant

+ RICHARD COLIN MACLAURIN

   

YA

BORN: Dec. 26, 1914, Boston, Maw, panrwte Richard Cae taser Vhie beeeun,
Margarct Young.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Multan, \f 20a,

YEARS IN COLLSGE: 1914-1918 DOnaTR 88, fh

(927 ]

_—___

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

secsaiee. Biles Rhodes, March 29, 1941, Brookline, Mass. cHipren: Sheila,
July 14. sqq2, Peter Jerome, Aug. 2, 1944, Richard Neil, Dec. 2, 1947,
Cin Dee. qe tus}.

pero Vay 4 1939, Boston, Mass.

WHILE at college Maclaurin was a resident of Eliot House and
member of the Ski Team (captain), Mountaineering Club (prew-
dent), Hasty Pudding- Institute of 1770 and the Fox Club. After
college he worked for the J. P. Squire Company in Boston undl
rygy when he entered the Navy. Ele spent three years as assistant
industrial rcluens officer, attaining the rank of lieutenant, at the
Beston Navy Yard and then took a civil service pesition at the Navy
Vard as labor relations superintendent. In 1946 he was appointed
perwanel officer at MALT. and since 1954 was director of General
Services there, At the time of his death he was special assistant
to the preudent of MILT. Maclaurin’s widow, Ellen, was married
on December a, 1y42, to Roger Pierce, '39.

KENNETH MacLEDBH

&

5a gee RTRSY We SERS TEL tos

 

eRe NTI

MULING Anoanss: 14 Quai de Passy, Paris 16, France.

marae at: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn; Fountain Valley School, Colo-
rado Spnngy Colo.

VEAMS BN COLLPGE: 1934-1938 DEGREES: $.B, Cum lrtde, 1938; A.M. 1940.

Mana. Cipars: Martha; Bruce; Fllen; Kenneth Ian.

acer earian: Writer.

JOINED U.S. Department of Agriculture as cultural anthropolo-
wist, working for two years in rural problem areas. Switched to
whiting and ediung w rork in same agency, still working with

[928 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

people and places. In 1942 transferred to the COI, precursor of the
OSS, and worked there for several months before entering the
Navy.

Entered Navy in spring of 1942 as ensign. Assigned first to Air
Combat Intelligence, later trained as naval aviator, LTA, and flew
ana-submarine lighter-than-air patrol for two years. Left Navy in
spring of 1946 as lieutenant senior grade and command pilot.

Joined editorial staff of Life in July, 1946, as assistant science
editor, Became science editor in 1948, covering all fields of science
and medicine, also exploration and occasional adventure. Best
efforts were series of essays, one on “The Atom,” another, Life’s
biggest in space and effort, called “The World We Live In.” In
this operation, which ran parallel to regular science department
work for almost three years (book included), I had a chance to
work closely with artists as well as photographers and researchers
and to edit the copy of a remarkably fine writer, Lincoln Barnett.
From science I moved to the Special Projects section of the maga-
zine, which was set up to do just such series as “The World We Live
In” and also special one-subject issues. I planned and edited another
large series called “The Epic of Man,” which dealt with human
origins and development up to the time of written history. The
special issues provided an opportunity to learn issue structure and
printing procedures. I edited several, the best of which was prob-
ably one called “The Air Age,” and a special publication on Hun-
gary.

During the late fifties I sat in quite often for the regular copy
editor and thus worked with all the magazine’s writers at one time
or another. In 1960 I copy-edited a special fully written mock-up
of a new experimental format for the magazine, designed by Editor
Edward Thompson and Art Director Charles Tudor. It served as
a basis for several major changes introduced last year. F ollowing
the experimental issue job I took over a division consisting of five
departments. This was primarily an administrative job and required
more personnel management than creative editing.

I applied for transfer to Paris in order to work exclusively as a
writer — something I had not been able to do in New York, where
one text piece per year was about all I could manage. I had done
a few long articles on undersea work (scuba and other diving has
been a special avocation for twenty years) and did a couple more
on archaeological subjects. During the past year subject matter
has ranged from Berlin and Algiers to adventures under the sea

[ 929 ]

—_]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

and under the earth, The work and life in Europe has been every-
thing I had hoped it would be.

Further specifics: Married, four children. Eldest Martha, a senior
at Radcliffe. The others, Bruce, fifteen; Ellen, thirteen; Kenneth
lan, nine, are at the American School of Paris.

Other special skills and interests: Flying (I’m a private pilot
and have a plane near Paris); photography (I’m a fair photographer
and getting better); diving (at the moment I share Hannes Keller’s
world’s record deep dive of 724 feet, but that record is due to be
broken this month). I am also a tolerable piper (bagpipes, that
is), perhaps the best on the Quai de Passy.

CHARLES SENFF McVEIGH, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 17 Bacon Rd., Old Westbury, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: 60 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1941.

marriep: Evelyn Bransford, July 15, 1939. CHILDREN: Evelyn B., April 14, 1941;
Charles Senff, 3d, July 4, 1942; Johnson B., June 15, 1946,

occupation: Partner, Morris & McVeigh, attorneys.

OFFices HELD: Trustee, New York University Medical Center; vice-president,
Society for the Relief of the Destitute Blind, Bronx, N.Y.; member of
board, Rehabilitation Institute, New York.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York City; Piping Rock Club,

Glen Head, Long Island; Links Club, Anglers Club and Down Town
Association, all New York City,

AFTER leaving Harvard College in 1937, | came to New York and
worked for Bryan, Pennington & Colket brokerage firm during
the daytime and attended New York Law School at night. In

[930 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the fall of 1938, I attended the University of Virginia Paw No tond
and graduated in 1941. I then came to New York and started my
law practice with the firm of Winthrop, Stimson, Purnam & Robern
In 1942, I entered the Navy as a gunnery officer aviyned to the
Armed Guard Service. After my first tour of duty, bE became a
gunnery officer on the Destroyer Fscorts and served in the Mesh.
terranean, North Atlantic, Caribbean and Pacitic. U poo the tera.
nation of my naval service in September, 194%. [ came to work at
Morris & McVeigh, 60 Wall Street, New York City, and became
a partner in 1950.

My daughter now attends the College of Special Studies at
Columbia and expects to graduate this June, My son Charles ts a
junior at the University of Virginia and his ev entual career, at thas
writing, is unknown. My younger son, Johnson, ws at Nalidbury
School, Salisbury, Connecticut.

MALCOLM McVICKAR

   

ye *
AB 88 tga Nt oe ABR

HOME appREss: 71 View St., Fitchburg, Mas

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crocker Hamilton Papers Ines ¢4¢ Weeemsrcen¢ Se, Date Shoe
Mass.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Sourhboro, Mase.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1936. DEGREE: BAIN a, (Cadumdsa Ure tras

marrieD: Martha Lisbeth Kline, July 6, tgga, crnnese Vad edin, fr. Ee bs
1941; Morgan, July 4. 1944; Marcy Kane, July ¢. toad, Deaeg'ee Ree, Sew
10, 1952.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, Crocker Hamilton Papeeg bey ated are nf

Weyerhacuser Company,

OFFICES HELD: Director and past prevalent, Veutng Nururg Umea cerceos, B®

burg; charter member and former chaserman, Ceccerme (eters € prtitcncet oe

{y3t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

for Urban Renewal, 1958-62; former director, Family Service; former
moderator of Foreign Policy Discussion Group, Fitchburg; former direc-
tor and trustee, Brantwood Camp, Peterboro, N.H., 1945-60; former
trustee, Tuxedo Park School, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.; former associate trustee,
St. Mark’s School; advisory member, Independent Schools Foundation of
Massachusetts, since 1960; member, Joint Committee, First Parish Church
(Unitarian), Fitchburg; member, executive committee, former chairman,
Plastics Extrusion Coaters Group of the Special Paper and Board Affiliates,
1958-60; member, Membership Committee, Salesmen’s Association of the

Paper Industry (S.A.P.I.), since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Fly Club, Cambridge, Mass., Fay Club, Fitchburg, Mass.; St.
Anthony Club, New York City.

THE Class wants to know all about your career history, your
family, travels, hobbies.” That stops me cold — that word hobbies.
Sounds as though I am about to retire and am casting about for
something to whittle. Sorry, no hobbies for me. The minute one
is trapped by that word and uses it, the listener is all through; he
knows you only give “that portion of your non-working hours”
a superficial lip service. A hobby is to kill time; and to kill time —
the most valuable commodity next to love — is a sin. Well, I paint
water colors—some bad, some good, just like any famous artist;
only my successes are about 1/10 of 1% of my more miserable
efforts. That must be the reason I am not famous. I paint when |
can, and love it; would give my right arm to be better — only
then it would be tough on the skiing, bird shooting and sailing.

Four children and a politically active wife (Mrs. Republican of
Fitchburg) keep me pretty busy, too. All this without taking into
consideration a fascinating, challenging and demanding job trying
to develop new products and markets in the industrial and technical
paper manufacturing business.

As a student of English at Harvard and banking at Columbia
School of Business, as a stock boy in Lord & Taylor’s basement, a
thread salesman in Ohio, as commanding officer of a mine sweeper
in the China Sea, a plastic toy company’s sales manager, I am, in
my present position in technical paper sales, about as much like the
bee who didn’t realize he was aerodynamically unsound as anyone
can get. But oddly enough, it suits me to a “T.” My life appears
to be being lived in accordance with some inexorable plan, the
secret mysteries and purposes of which escape me completely.
Sometimes I land on the “take one extra turn” spot, and sometimes
it’s “go back five places and lose one turn.” But always the goal
is hidden. It seems that the basic rules are to be active, not passive;

[932]

257TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
to be in it, not watching it. I agree with James Thurber, whe wt

“When I found out at an early age that I was a human berg and

I didn’t panic — why should I now?”

I travel from coast to coast on an irregular schedule, which per:
mits a reasonable amount of time at home in Fitchburg where |
have a full seven minutes’ commute to my office, Asa tetuyee tram
New York and with a wife from Ohio, we are net vet New
Englanders, having been here only fifteen years, but P guce ong
children are. We live in a charming old New F nyvlind house, wun -
what reminiscent of Charles Addams’s New Yorker cartoons on
a hill overlooking the mature (euphemism) old muilltown of Patch.
burg, surrounded by the best of New England's country ade.

All dates in our house are fixed by clections: my wife moan
politics, remember? Douglas was born the year Ihe tnade at, Morgan
was born on the 4th of July (there must ‘be some politcal ugnin-
cance); we got our latest car the year Volpe became Gov crt of
Massachusetts; and so it goes. Actually, Mardic has been chairman
of our Republican City Committee, Stare Commuttcewoman, and
delegate to two Conventions. My own civic ctforts have been
necessarily curtailed of late as a result of our company's fecent
merger with the Weyerhaeuser Company and an attendant benoth.
ening of travel mileage. In the four years since ty¢8 | ateanie, b
pushed, cajoled, and spoke at every gathering thar would hear me
on the subject of Urban Renewal for Fitchburg. Ao pregtast is
now in the works and I am happy to have had a Part upat, nee thot

I think the present federal Urban Renewal program is the ance ct
to our older cities’ problems: it is merely a fint ctfort te counter
rapidly growing blight. Better answers can and must be found be
arrest the decay of our citics. Urban Renewal os all we hive as

But time doesn’t permit waiting for the bese cure.) oe betres
still, prevention. Like cancer, all we can dois hepe that frais
surgery will keep the patient alive, pending a greater untertastes
of the disease. I look for and find causes tn the autortulale, th«
railroad, outmoded real estate tax structures, in apathete anbibean
right stupid local politics, and in industry's failure po we te
blight it brings with jobs. Oh, T know all the questions nee ne
answers. Maybe that is why Tam a Unitanan.

Probably the most dangerous episodes int inv hfe aoe oe
can be described as follows: The first was suwcepior ations fron.
anti-submarine mine field off the west coast af Bornes is tg
[ was Task Unie Commander of a group af weet eae ee

[933]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Our unit successfully swept the entire field of 487 mines without
casualty to personnel, although the ships were knocked around
quite a bit. I have one souvenir: a piece of Japanese mine cable
which blew up onto our stern after a near miss. Our propeller
blades were folded over like flower petals, and every termite in
the hull was knocked unconscious; but otherwise, luck was with us.

The next most dangerous situation is a more or less continuing
one and occurs every spring as I drive down Storrow Drive in Bos-
ton and try to watch the crews working out on the river. As a
former crew man, my eyes seem to be pulled irresistibly off the
road, and the result is a stream of head-on collisions barely missed.

In the fall of the year, “Mr. Wilson” and I do our best to spend
every possible minute away from the marts of industry, up in New
Hampshire’s woodlands hunting the elusive grouse. Mr. Wilson
usually comes home quite disgusted with me for boring large
holes in the air behind our feathery targets, but then, he is a per-
fectionist. Mr. Wilson is my handsome, muscular English setter,
named after Engine-Charlie Wilson (“I'd rather be a bird dog than
a kennel-fed dog”).

Our eldest son, Malcolm, Jr., after St. Mark’s and Boston Uni-
versity, is studying at the Boston Architectural Center and earns
his keep at Ames and Graves, Boston architects. Morgan, a senior
at Darrow School, is a five-letter man and is holding his breath over
college entrance exams right now. Marcy is off for Dana Hall
next year. Douglas is still here at Applewild, our excellent day
school.

I am not going to tell you any more about Mardie, my politician,
except to say that we don’t have any more goats or parakeets and
are down to one cat and three dogs, plus a bunch of the world’s
unfortunates who call up or show up from time to time to get
scolded, loved, pushed, and encouraged to get back onto the track.
They gravitate to my hopelessly warmhearted, sympathetic Mardie
like flies to honey. How I have avoided running an orphanage I
sometimes wonder! I have learned to act like Basil Rathbone at
the front door, but it’s only a delaying tactic.

Roey and Bill Kemp (Harvard 1938) are our closest friends and
neighbors. He is executive vice-president of Crocker Hamilton
Papers, Inc., and they, too, have three boys and a girl; so our lives
—both at work and at home have become almost completely
homogenized.

For the future, I simply look ahead with great enthusiasm. I love

[934]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my family; my work is stimulating, New England is beaunful.
And although the world seems loaded with problems and crises —
social, political and economic — at least some of the carth’s human
beings still breathe free and there are still men who would rather
light a single candle than curse the darkness. 1 prefer to stand
with them and reject pessimism. Then, too, I have that wonderful
hobby: I mean, I like to paint water colors.

JOSEPH JOHN MAGURN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 3911 Virgilia St., Chevy Chase, Md.

ROBERT WILLIAM MAHAN

 

HOME Appress: R.R, 5, Columbus, Ind.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Mahan Ford Sales, Ine, aya Narional Rub, Cobuintac, bef

[93s]

____

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: Martinsville High School, Martinsville, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1946. DEGREE: A.B 1938(46).

marrieD: Theodosia Purinton, Feb. 19, 1943. CHILDREN: Margaret, May 1, 19473
Louise Elizabeth, Dec. 6, 1948; Robert William, Jr., Dec. 3, 1957-

occupation: New car dealer; president and principal stockholder, Mahan
Ford Sales, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Columbus Chamber of Commerce, Columbus Rotary
Club, associate director, Auto Dealers’ Association of Indiana; vestryman,
St. Paul’s Episcopal Church of Columbus.

MEMBER OF: Columbus Chamber of Commerce, Rotary, Harrison Lake Country
Club; Elks. '

AFTER my junior year I left school and started a trucking bust-
ness with twenty-five dollars borrowed capital and three repossessed
dump trucks, and lasted almost three months before really going
broke. Since that time, I have been an insurance agent, personnel
investigator, Air Force private, N.C.O., and officer, captain in
Military Intelligence, again a student at Harvard (A.B., 1946), an
accountant, a statistician, and a sales manager (automotive diesels).
The past fourteen years I have owned and operated a Ford deal-
ership.

My war bride and I celebrate our twentieth anniversary in Feb-
ruary. We have a little five-year-old son who seems sold on us,
and two teen-age daughters who think we are ancient closet types.
We live on one hundred rolling acres where we raise registered
Angus and children. By birth, I am a Republican; by marriage, an
Episcopalian.

We would be delighted to entertain any classmates who stray
this far inland.

[ 936 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

* FREDERIC HOLBROOK MAHIN, JR.

  

al

BORN: July 26, 1916, Buffalo, N.Y. Parents: Frederick Holbrook Mahal ‘ig,

Marjorie Tulley.
PREPARED AT: East High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1938(39).
Marrigp: Betty M. Andrews, 1944. cHitp: Susan Carol.
piep: March 5, 1946, Cambridge, England.

AFTER a short time with a telephone company, Mahn enhited
in the Royal Canadian Air Force in igygo. Hle was comttusuoned
a pilot-officer and sent to England in October, tggt. In June, toga.
while serving as a flight lieutenant, he crash-landed his damaged
torpedo bomber in the North Sea. He and two other members of
the crew were able to get into their life bear, bute after fourteen
days on the open sea, Mahn was the only one that survived. Ne a
result of this exposure, both his legs were amputated. After sven:
teen months in an English hospital he returned to duty ant beg on
training for a spitfire squadron but found he had too mush werhe
for these small fighter planes. In 1945 he was awarded a whelarship
at Trinity College, Cambridge University, where he wae studs ing
for a Master’s degree in engincering at the time of hie death He

was survived by his wife and d: aughter,

{37 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JACKSON TURNER MAIN

 

MAILING ApbRESs: 145 Potomac Drive, Los Gatos, Calif.

AA ERMERIEPTONRE

 

HOME ADbRESS: 5131 E. Falls View Drive, San Diego 15, Calif.
OFFICE appress: San Diego State College, San Diego 15, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 19393
pu, (Northwestern Univ.), 1948.
marrieD: Virginia Nunn, June 13, 1941 (divorced 1957); Jean P. Stinson, Aug.
23, 1958. CHILDREN: Bonnie, Nov. 28, 1945; Mary, Oct. 24, 1947; Judy,
April 26, 1950, David Scott, April 26, 1952; Douglas Garrard Stinson, Sept.
28, 1947 (stepson).
occupation: Coordinator of Guidance Studies and professor of education, San
Diego State College.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1956-60, member, board of directors, since 1956,
U.N. Day chairman (San Diego area), 1957, American Association for the

[938 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

United Nations, San Diego Chapter, executive board, member-at-large,
American Association of University Professors, San Diego Seate College
Chapter, 1957-59, vice-president and program chairman, Amerwan Crvil
Liberties Union, San Diego Chapter, 1957-58, president, Local ty (Wee
consin State College, Milwaukee), 1951-53, Local 1407 (San Dicgo State
College), since 1961, member, Standing Committee on Educanon, Wrco.
sin State Federation of Labor, 1950-53, American Federation of Teacher,
executive board, member-at-large, Association of California Seate College
Professors, San Diego State College Chapter, 1956-58; president-clect, Cale.
fornia Association of Counselor Educators and Supervisory since is,
executive board, member-at-large, California State Employees Awewre-
tion, San Diego State College Chapter, 1956-58; chairman, Schools and
Scholarships Committee, since 1955, Prize Book Committee, since sec
Harvard Club of San Diego; elected member-at-large, since tg¢@ (charter
member), executive committee, since 1962, San Diego State College Aca:
demic Senate.

MEMBER oF: American Association for the United Nations; Amencan Awocis
tion of University Professors; American Civil Liberties Union, Amerwan
Federation of Teachers; American Personnel and Guidance Awoiation,
Association of Counselor Educators and Supervisors; California Awocta-
tion of Counselor Educators and Supervisors; California Assoctanon af
School Psychologists and Psychometrists, California Counseling and
Guidance Association; California State Emplovees Association, Cab-
fornia Teachers Association, Harvard Club of San Dicgo, National Vo.
cational Guidance Association, San Diego Personnel and Guidance Awe
ciation.

PUBLICATIONS: Professional articles in A.A.UP. Bulletin, California Journal ef
Secondary Education, Education, ETC —A Review of Cieneral Scmesntiyt,
Journal of Educational Research, Personnel and Guidance Journal; mewel-
laneous book reviews in professional journals, feature articles an vanes
newspapers and miscellaneous editorial responsibilities,

IN 1948, the year of our Decennial Report, I was in the process of
completing studies for my Ph.D. at Northwestern Univeruty. I
was married and the proud father of two baby girl. That fall |
became assistant director of the Division of Secondary Fducanen
at the Wisconsin State College at Milwaukee where PE remained
for five years. During this period, my third daughter and) my
first son were born.

In the summer of 1953, I moved to San Dicgo to becume asust ant
professor of education at San Diego State College. The neve hall
dozen years saw me promoted to full profesor and appesnted to
my present position as Coordinator of Guidance Sanhes us which
job I am in charge of the programs for training high «hood guun:
selors, school psychologists, psychometrists, Visiting feschery ete.
These same years also saw me divorced and happaly cemuarried

[ 939 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DANA BRADFORD MALONE

 

Matting avpaess: Heath, Mass.

JOSEPH ALBERT MALONE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 208 Chapman St., Canton, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Draper & Co., Inc., 540 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

Marrigp: Leona M. Macdonnell, Sept. 9, 1950. CHILDREN: Anne, Aug. 21, 19513

Joseph Albert, Jr., April 19, 1953, Peter, Dec. 5, 1955; Mark, Oct. 15, 1956;
Mary, May 18, 1961,

occupaTion: Vice-president, director — wool merchant.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.
UNABLE to return to College for my sophomore year, | went to

work for a wool house on Summer Street in Boston. Twenty-eight
years later IT am still there.

[ 942 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After three to four years of apprenticeship I was sent to Wyo-
ming and Colorado to buy wool. Traveling the Rocky Mountain
States, following sheep, making friends, learning to bargain and
trade — these were happy, informative years. Well established as
a wool buyer, the war came along.

Commissioned at Fort Benning as an infantry lieutenant, most of
my war years were spent instructing at Camp Croft, South Caro-
lina, and Camp Blanding, Florida. Just as the war came to an end I
shipped out of Fort Ord for the Philippines.

At the suggestion of my firm — “During the war years wool has
undoubtedly piled up at the river ports and seaports in China” — 1
negotiated my discharge in Manila, with the intent of going to
China to buy wool for our carpet mills. During the war years our
carpet mills were permitted to make only blankets or other materials

on government specifications.

Getting into China in early 1946 was quite a problem. Shanghai
was off limits for all visiting personnel. However, these things do
get arranged but my arrival in China was quite inauspicious
Inflation in China became rampant, buying carpet wools became
impossible, so we sold South American apparel wools to the hungry
Chinese mills. We opened an office in Shanghai, agencies in Peiping

and Tientsin, brought out personnel from home. But all this lasted
less than two years, as the Communists — remember the Agrarian
Reform Movement? —ran us willingly out of China in May of
1948 for the last time.

But during those two years word of business opportunities began
to seep out of Japan. In August of 1947, I was one of the fine
twenty-one business men to land in Japan. For a period of four
years we bought wool for the Japanese Industry in Australia,
New Zealand, South America and South Africa. These are the
years I call “my commuting years,” constantly flying to these four
points and Japan, using Boston as my home base.

In 1950 I returned home to meet the lovely girl who is now my
wife. Our marriage brought on one more interesting and memorable
trip — this time around the world with another pair of eves to help

me see and enjoy it. By train to the West Coast, two weeks there
visiting old China hands in San Francisco and Los Angeles, and
then by boat to show off a new wife to old friends in Japan, Heong
Kong, the Philippines, Singapore, India and Pakistan. After a we-
veek lay-over we proceeded on through the Suez to Pyy pe, acess

[ 943 ]

____] L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

the Mediterranean to Italy for a week and home via the Straits of
Gibraltar.

Then a return to reality and the hard facts of making a living.
The children came along quickly and our time became mostly
their time. Today much less traveling — but still doing it, most
recently in South America and South Africa, two big wool produc-
ing areas. And finally, happy beyond words, but worried how to
afford an education for three sons and two daughters.

RICHARD HAMMOND MANDELL
— - perenne .

    

HOME ADDRESS: 12226 Richeon Ave., Downey, Calif,

oFFice appress: Russ Yerkes Realty Co., 12136 S. Downey Ave., Downey, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Northfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: $.B., 1938.

MarRieD: Christine Barnes, Sept. 23, 1939 (divorced 1950); Pauline Harlow,
Jan. 17, 1951. cuiLpreN: William Barnes, May 5, 1942; Marjorie Ellen,
July 1, 1945; Richard Harlow, June ig, 1953.

occupation: Real estate broker; branch office manager, Russ Yerkes Realty
Company.

RECOGNIZING that it is impossible for twenty-five years to have
elapsed since I left L-12 Kirkland House to face the cruel world,
I'll go along with the gag and try to account for the few years that
have gone by the board.

From 1941 to 1946, I devoted nearly all of my time to travel,
taking many of Uncle Sam’s all-expense-paid world tours to such
unlikely places as Cuba, Manila, Guam, Manus, etc. As most of our
classmates can attest, these were hardly pleasure trips, but for me the
fates were kind, and, by the simple expedient of staying alive and

[944 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

avoiding courts martial, I returned to civilization (?) not a hero but
a lieutenant, USNR. En route to Cambridge from Manus, f stubbed
my toe on Southern California and took time only to shovel my car
out of a New England snowdrift to join the mass migration to the
land of orange blossoms and sunshine (since replaced by housing
developments and smog). ~

Four years of employment as a retail store manager for a firm
which had also seen the light and migrated west, Rexall Drug Com
pany, and then suddenly Uncle offered another tour and in 1950 |
found myself in Sasebo, Japan, for a year. In January of 19st, I
wangled a thirty-day leave stateside and married the lovely lady
who still tolerates me, and we were off for a delightful year on Mid-
way Island where my glorious title was harbor operations officer,
but where my primary duty was being sure that the Officers’ Club
was open and the bar adequately stocked with sarsaparilla and orange
crush.

Back to civilian life, still not a hero but a lieutenant commander,
and another swing at the drug business. In 1955 came the earth-
shattering realization that I was not destined to become a captain of
industry and the decision to enter the real estate business — a most
happy decision. Now, as a broker and office manager for a young
and active firm specializing in residential and income property, 1
seem to have found my niche.

The active evidence of a uniquely happy eleven years of marnage
is nine-year-old son Richard who has risen to the dizzy heights of
technical sergeant at Southern California Military Academy in Long
Beach and who defies all known laws of inheritance by bringing
home report cards with nothing but A’s.

Our favorite pastime is making annual plans to make the trip to
Cambridge (neither wife nor son has ventured east of Colorado)
and annually deciding that the money can be better spent locally.
Maybe this year... .

And now having reread this, getting on the scales and looking in
the mirror, I believe it has been twenty-five years!

[ 945 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MORRIS GILTNER MANKER

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3000 Sheridan Rd., Chicago 14, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Copperweld Steel Co., 140 S. Dearborn, Chicago 3, Ill.

prepareD AT: Washington High School, East Chicago, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, 1940-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(q1).

MarrieD: Inez Maxcy, Sept. 5, 1942.

occupation: Chicago district manager, Copperweld Steel Company, steel
producer,

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Forgings and Heavy Machinery Division, Chicago
Crusade of Mercy, 1961; member, Admissions Committee, Medinah
Country Club, three years.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Knight Templars; Shriners, American Society for Metals;
American Iron and Steel Institute.

STEEL has been my business for twenty-five years, which included

a stint allocating alloy steel in War Production Board, Washington,

D.C., in 1943. We have an annual reunion in May each year at

Greenbrier and this is the most enjoyable and informative meeting
and/or convention that I attend and I attend many every year. Also
back in the ’4o’s, while peddling steel in New England, I was one of
the founders and member of board of directors of Pioneer Steel Ball,
Inc., Unionville, Connecticut, which we later sold to Pittsburgh
Steel Company and they made Pioneer a wholly-owned subsidiary.
It as still a thriving bearing ball plant. This experience has been
invaluable in later years as Copperweld Steel, my employer, is a
substantial quality producer of bearing steels.

Besides the most important thing in my life, marrying a wonderful
gal in 1942, and we are still happily married, I was chief of raw ma-
terials in War Department, Chicago, in 1942, and this led to my
going to Washington WPB in 1943. The influence there was that I

[946 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sat in every directive meeting for every stecl company in the U.
and as a result | know or knew all officials of same. Tsay that beet

many wonderful men have passed on. We're getting on oursely
you know.

Speaking personally, 1 am disgustingly healthy. If anvbedy r
members me they no doubt remember me as tall and skinnv. Nar
rally, Pm still tall but now weigh 180 pounds, Managed to get up 1
205 pounds two winters ago but by curtailing my love of peppe:

mint ice cream with chocolate sauce I keep fairly trim for the ay

bracket.

My hobby is work but more accurately my hobby is golf. M:
current handicap is eight and I acquired it on the number thre:
course at Medinah Country Club. You may have seen the Westers
Open on TV in the summer of ’62 at Medinah and have some ap
preciation of one of the greatest golf courses in the workd, Ous
customers are anxious to play here constantly and thus [ get an
opportunity to play more than the usual weekend golfer, which
accounts for the Class A handicap. I was Class A champion two
years ago but the steel business has been pretty sad plus other fiascos
of which you read in the papers, and together, I have problems that
take precedence over golf concentration. Also won the 1961 Amerie

can Society for Metals (Chicago and Chicago Western Chapters)
golf championship with low gross of 73.

Ralph Gibbon, my erstwhile roommate, is a lawyer in Cleveland
and | have the pleasure of seeing him on occasion when the National
Metal Congress is in Cleveland. Also get to see Frank Bosler, the
Wyoming cowpuncher and business tycoon, when he is in Chicago,
and, in fact, he was best man at my wedding in ‘42. I alva see, regu-
larly, Chet Legg, ’40, who is with Wisconsin Steel in Chicaga, Re-
gards to all,

{ 947 J

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT ANDREWS MANSFIELD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1314 Cisler Drive, Marietta, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: B. F, Goodrich Co., Marietta, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

marrigD: Ruth W. Dornan, Aug. 14, 1943. CHILDREN: Richard Douglas, Jan. 27,
1945; Robert Andrews, Nov. 17, 1946; David Wells, Feb. 9, 1949.

occupation: Technical manager, plastics manufacturing, B. F. Goodrich

Company,
MEMBER OF; American Chemical Society; Society of Plastics Engineers,
IN the twenty-five years since graduation my life has been a full
one spread over my family, work, community activities and recrea-
tion. My wife’s even temperament has been the leveling influence
between my impatience and our three boys’ desire to be just boys.
We have all worked through the Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts and
have participated together in YMCA and Little League baseball.
Two of the boys’ musical abilities have put them into the school band
program, so that we have become active not only in listening to
concerts and watching parades, but also in driving our boys and their
friends to practise sessions as well as the annual band camp.

Our church attendance has been regular with periods of activity
on the boards and as Sunday School teachers. I satisfy my interests
n singing as a member of the church choir.

As is the case in small towns one gets involved in as many activities
s he will allow. “United Appeals’ comes once a year but selling
opcorn at football games to raise money for the band is more fre-
uent. While past activities have been with the Kiwanis Club and
MCA, my more recent activity has been with the organizing of an
inual science fair for high school students.

[ 948 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have worked for the B. F. Goodrich Company since 1949, starting
in Akron, Ohio, and transferring to Marietta, Ohio, when the plastics
plant was built. All but four months of this company service has
been in vinyl plastics, working in both production and technical
capacities. The work is interesting but as with any other business
it is very competitive and at times becomes quite demanding. My
family puts up with my long working hours recognizing that the
income is rather necessary. I have been fortunate in taking two six-
week business trips to Europe. My wife’s accompanying me on the
latter one made the travel even more enjoyable. Any other travel
with the family has been limited to vacation trips to visit relatives in
Akron, Boston and Washington, D.C.

Even though my boys have recently interested me in playing
tennis, my favorite form of recreation and exercise is golf. Since the
summers in Marietta are hot, we also manage to swim quite fre-
quently.

In looking back I begin to realize how fortunate I am to have a
wonderful family around which my life has been woven. One bov’s
leaving for college has emphasized even more the importance of the
family unit to me.

LAWRENCE ELIOT MARCUS

ey Bee ~ woe _*

  

HOME ApprREss: 3525 Arrowhead Drive, Dallas 4, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Neiman-Marcus Co. Dallas 1, Texas.
PREPARED AT: Woodrow Wilson High School, Dallas, Texas
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES! A.B. 1938; M.B.A. toge.

marrigeD: Nancy Filgro, Jan, 21, 1942 (divorced 1964), courpars Jiely, Apel ¢,
1944; Cary, Feb. 12, 1946.

occuPaTIoN: Senior vice-president and sceretary, Nena. Marcus Company

[949]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Central Business District Association; director,
Dallas Crime Commission; president, Young Executive Group, Dallas
Council on World Affairs, member, Advisory Committee, United States
Travel Service.

MOST of my life since leaving college has been focused on my
business association, Neiman-Marcus Company. There are obvious
drawbacks to concentrating on one business venture early in one’s
career, the principal handicap being the threat to narrow one’s
vision. On the other hand there is the equally obvious comfort of
a warm and seemingly secure berth.

Through my college years I had thought that I wanted to be a
lawyer. When Harvard Law School turned me down because of
grades, I decided I would rather stay in Boston a couple of years
before pursuing my career and I entered Harvard Business School,
which was a good experience for me (I needed to age a bit before
going into “the store”), Then I had to mark time until I was
called up for active service in the Army. A Reserve officer,
trained in Field Artillery, I was assigned to tank destroyers and
we were the first ground troops sent to the European theatre. The
authorities vacillated between sending us to Norway, to Normandie,
or to North Africa, finally deciding on the latter. Shortly after
arriving in Algeria, my unit was attached to the French forces.
With them, my unit distinguished itself with its courage and enthusi-
asm for risk taking and I received two Croix de Guerre. During
one of the campaigns I became trapped behind the German lines
and was separated from my company for a couple of days. Later
I was wounded, spending seven months in the hospital. I taught in
the Tank Destroyer School before being mustered out. My war
experiences were an important part of my development.

In business, through seniority if nothing else, I have arrived at
a fairly high level. Continued expansion promises to keep me busy
for the future. Shopping the markets for our stores takes me to
Europe from one to three times every year and has recently taken
me around the world. I am in New York almost every month, out
of Dallas 40% of the time.

In civic life ] am happy, though not proud to report that I have
avoided fund-raising activities completely. Instead, I have worked
on action projects. The most interesting one was a movement I
initiated among a group of young executives that ended up as the
powerful Central Business Association under the leadership of our
senior citizens.

[950]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I occupy 4 position on the fringes of the art collecting set —1t
know what they are talking about, even if I don’t collect very
seriously myself. Occasionally, I help in the acquisitions made by
the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts.

In sports my likings go toward violent oncs — skiing and polo,
I shoot birds and fish with my teen-age son, who has taught me all
I know about that. He is an accomplished guitar player and folk
song singer, but so far hasn’t been able to teach me the chords, My
daughter, a student at Radcliffe, has taught me lots of things She
is talented enough in art and music that we debated at length
whether she should give priority to an academic schooling of ta an
artistic one. Nancy and I were recently divorced and ncither of
us has remarried. She sends her greetings to her friends.

Life in Dallas and in other parts of the world is a lively one fur
me, with little time uncommitted. This is a good excuse for not
doing much thinking, an activity I wasn’t terribly long on even in
college. I miss it, but I doubt that I am going to do much more of it.

FREDERICK WARREN MARSHALL, JR.

lie iS aa hk ihn be a Ra osteitis

 

HOME ApprEss: 8 Welwyn Rd., Wayne, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Marco Products, Inc. Bridgeport, Pa,

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Cann,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1936,

MARRIED: Pauline Foraker, Dee. a, 1938. citomns: Pauline FF Mow se, exer,
Carol, June 11, 1944; Julia Bundy, April aa, tgqa,

OCCUPATION: President, Marco Products, Inc, producers of mokiing coempenirabe
for the plastics industry.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Philadelphss, Phibote bptine € habs,
Gulph Mills Golf Club,

[950]

_—_____—_ =

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

IN looking back over it all it is quite obvious that a few grey hairs
could have been prevented had I not entertained the foolish notion
of setting up my own plastics manufacturing business. I have missed
a good bit of course, as once you get involved in the thing it’s like
the race horse with the eye blinkers. It’s not easy to get off the
track. Every now and then when you feel inclined to throw your
efforts into worthwhile things you find yourself either too busy
or you just think you are.

My four lovely ladies (wife and three daughters) have been my
greatest reward. The battle of the colleges has hit us and believe
it or not our two eldest daughters are now ensconced in the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania—a pretty hard pill for a Harvard man to
swallow! Number three can delay this decision for a few years,
but now has the problem of being the target for her elder sisters’
hand-me-downs.

Skiing has become an affliction with the whole tribe; however,
the girls still find time for a bit of education between runs, Pauline
having stopped in at Bradford College for a diploma, with a year
thrown in at that fascinating melting pot of students, the University
of Grenoble in France.

It is my hope that when we all meet again at our Fiftieth I can
say that I have been in orbit, ] have been to the moon, and please
look up my ten granddaughters — all in Harvard University!

THEODORE NEWTON VAIL MARSTERS

 

HOME appreEss: Madison, Conn,
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B. 1938,

[952]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRiED: Katherine Stillman, 1942 (divorced); Irene A. Lyman, comipass:
Pamela Chase, July 21, 1943; Deirdre Stillman, Oct. 9 1946. Theodore
Vail, Oct. 8, 1947; Abigail, 1957; Amy, 1959.

AFTER five years’ military service, I settled in Connecticut and
became interested in several small business enterprises. These led
eventually to politics. In 1954 I was elected to the Connecticue
General Assembly and served four consecutive terms the List of
which ended in January, 1963. For personal reasons I did net run for
office in the 1962 elections and am presently re-establishing mysclf in
private life on Long Island Sound.

ARTHUR JOSEPH MARTELLUCCI

 

HOME ADpREss: 43 Gore St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Belmont Senior High School, Belmont, Mas

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Masa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B, 1938; aM, (Renton Unow ), rnet.
ED.M. (ibid.), 1955.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Teacher of modern languages.

IF inordinate inertia and unrelenting resistance to change can be con:
sidered “guide-lines” in a way of life, then these, my fnemiy have
been mine for the past twenty-five years, Fven asa green grahiste,
I adopted this modus vivendi, showing (1) a tcluctance te pive up
the status of studene as I went through spas of averted poxe:
graduate study, and (2) an unwillingness, abetted by a recession,
to swap the pleasurable habit of spending money for that of earmog
same.

The fracas of the forties and the U.S, Army pave tiny cutlery

[953]

____ L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

resistance to change its first real jolt. For the three and a quarter
years following, I submitted with commendable grace to changes
from station to station, from Anti-Aircraft to Infantry, from the
American Theatre to the Pacific.

Upon my return to civilian life, my atavistic propensities
reasserted themselves and I found myself deep in the books
again. This familiar and comfortable activity somehow led to an
A.M. in French Lit, and thence to a job as language instructor and
later head of the English Department at a college prep school in
western Massachusetts. The two years I had planned as my stay
stretched into nine as I succumbed to the charm of the countryside,
the calm of the small town, and the warmth of friends I still hold
dear. In the meantime, I picked up a second Master’s degree and
the government picked up the tab.

My pleasures at the Academy were small but, alas, so was my
paycheck; so I returned reluctantly to the city and hopefully to a
bigger buck, A position as teacher of French and Spanish at the
Belmont Senior High School looked good to me and I have been
there since. In the last several years, I have rediscovered the
pleasures and pains of the metropolis, renewed old friendships and
made new ones, and redeveloped a tolerance for carbon monoxide.

My family status has undergone little change. I have clung
to celibacy with unwavering obstinacy (I will insist if asked) and
with the full cooperation (I will confess if pressed) of all the nubile
females of my acquaintance,

The speed with which tempus has fugited fills me with horror.
I shall therefore forego the customary but painful enumeration of
the frills of youth, like teeth and hair, that have gone their way.
The passage of time is a touchy subject with me, and I regard the
provision made in the Class Report questionnaire for the listing of
grandchildren as an unnecessary and unnerving harassment.

In the past quarter century, then, I have built no bridges, blasted
no bombs. My pleasures, like my accomplishments, have been
small, but both have been satisfying. Good friends, good conversa-
tion, good wines, and, above all, the printed page are still rich
sources of enjoyment. And while I love life-at-large too much to

consider myself “dedicated,” I find my work generally pleasant

and occasionally even rewarding. Need I say no changes are
imminent?

[954 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLARENCE DANIEL MARTIN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6001 Wilson Lane, Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of Commerce, Washington 25, D.C.; 1115 Wilshire Blvd.
Santa Monica, Calif. (permanent office address).

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

mMarrieD: Charlotte Mary Yeoman, April 9, 1944. cHILprex: Charlotte Diana,
Aug. 23, 1953; Clarence Daniel, Jr., March 17, 1956, Bradley Yeoman, Jan.
II, 1957.

occupation: Under Secretary of Commerce for Transportation,

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive board, Santa Monica Bay Council, Boy Scouts
of America, since 1955; president, Santa Monica Bay Council, to¢¢-$*,
California State president, 1956-57, national executive board, 1964-48, Navy
League of the United States; deputy chairman, Democratic Nanenal Com:
mittee, 1960-61; board of directors and member executive committce, unve
1961, Panama Canal Company; member, Alaska Railroad Highway Cem:
mission, 1961.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Scattle; Los Angeles Country Club, Santa
Monica Beach Club; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C.

THERE is a broken-down radio phonograph in our basement
recreation room that recalls my 1938-41 period — law school, wheat
sacks, country stands. There is a crated, warped model of a Navy
PBM flying boat, a box of moldy leather flight gear (after twenty
years the boots were aired in Maryland snow) that recalls my
war years — but business is my hobby, and it is everyman’s andes.
tion to have a hobby. A small opportunity in the export hehd bed
on to a greater opportunity, w hich moved us in tyso fron friendly,
rainy Seattle to Los Angeles.

Our first opinion of the sunny south ts somewhat unprintable,
but the business of selling Cadillacs in that postwar market was a

[955 ]

| L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

joy indeed. Considering the fantastic growth of California, a couple

of fliers in the real estate business scemed appropriate, too. After
all, California is the Number One State now, Rockefeller nocwith-
manding.

So, for ten years we sojourned in the Never-Never Land, with
occaonal sorucs to outer civilization. We were Heaven-sent three
beautiful children, two boys, now six and seven, an enigma girl,
now nine, Since my four years of tutored struggle with French
at Harvard do not permit me to comprehend a menu in Parts, New
York, or Oshkosh, the children consequently are all speaking
French, reading French, and sometimes, FP suspect, thinking French.

We are the proud owners of a beautiful island (Gooch) in the
San Juan Secaits of Boosh Columbia. Friends come by beat, the
telephone cannot ring, and one can sit and enjoy the most marvelous
wenery in North America, plus boating, fishing, clamming and
geoching, My desire was to rere here at the aye of forty-five.

The poliacal horizons of 160 placed a missile under the plans
for retirement. [hadn't taken an active interest in politics since
wy father retired as Governor of Washington, unal I joined John
F. Kennedy's campaign. My hobby is thriving, so I now have
tune to serve the country, The family regret giving up their habie
(sunshine), but all have adjusted. My job as Under Secretary of
Commerce has proved challenging, frustrating and sometimes re-
warding.

My political philosophy is solidly the middle-of-che-road variety
— mnt wary of the extremists — a Democrat by heritage, and
peoud of it, In rasa T decided that for these Martins, Jack Ken-
nly represented the best hope to save the country from another
Californian named Nixon. All of my time and energy since has

been spent in his service, a privilege and experience I value, second
to none,

[956 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

t+ HOWARD WILLIAMSON MARTIN

 

wax: July 10, 1916, Dormont, Pa. parents: James Stewart Martin, Anna
Stover.

purpareo at: Hlorace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1938.

masanien: Marjorie Johansen, June 3, 1944. CHILDREN: Bruce Robert, March 29,
1945; Richard Carl, Oct. 15, 1949; Craig Howard, Oct. 14, 1951; Douglas
Elhort, Jan. 13, 1953; James Willard, March 31, 1956; David Charles, June
% 1959-

ga: Nov. 23, 1962, Pittsburgh, Pa,

wwow: Mrs. Howard W. Martin, 5516 Liberty Rd., Bethel Park, Pa.

HOWARD WILLIAMSON MARTIN was an industrial engineer
with the U.S. Steel Corporation and held various types of positions
with U.S. Steel in the engineering field. He had previously been
an analyst of reports in the industrial engineers division of the
Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation.

[957 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RICHARD MARTIN

    

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 223, Casselberry, Fla.

prepareD AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., CU laude, 1938; a.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1939.

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTion: Technical translator.

puBLicaTIONS: U.S. Patent No. 2,861,390.

AFTER receiving the A.M. degree in Latin from Columbia Univer-
sity in December, 1939, I worked till late 1941 in the construction
business. Having been drafted into the Army Air Force in April,
1942, 1 was trained as a ground radio operator and mechanic and
served twenty-one months in both the zone of the interior and over-
seas. I was discharged in November, 1944, with a disability of sixty
per cent which has since fluctuated and is currently rated at thirty
per cent. As late as 1958 I spent three months in a V.A. Hospital.
Under these circumstances it has been impossible to pursue anything
in the nature of a steady career. As a technical translator I could be
earning a good deal more if I had studied engineering and Russian,
two of the most unpopular majors one could think of back in the
W.P.A. days of my undergraduate years.

That I am alive today with a roof over my head and food in my
mouth, I ascribe much more to the unswerving loyalty of my mother,
whose husband and other son died during the war, than to the good
offices of the Veterans Administration, hampered as they are by cut
budgets, red tape and public apathy, now that even the Korean War
is ancient history.

Oh yes — my philosophy and views: “The worst is yet to come.”
As I write this (October 22), the sky is thick with planes and the

[958 ]

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

President is going to induct us into the latest emergency tomighe |
wonder if this will ever sce print.

RICHARD MILTON MARTIN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 240 VV. 74th Se, New York 23. N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Geneva High School, Geneva, Ohio, New Frgland Comers steey
of Music, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: A.B, cus laude, tat, ane, (Colundue
Univ.); pH. (Yale Univ.), 1941.

marrieD: Marianne Winter, Oct. 23, 1948.

occupaTION: Professor of philosophy.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in mathematics, Princeton Univeruty, tet ge Une
versity of Chicago, 1944-46; assistant profesor of phikmaphy, Arya Vet
College, 1946-48; assistant and associate profesor, Univeruty of Penner h
vania, 1948-59.

MEMBER OF: Various learned socictics.

PUBLICATIONS: Truth and Denotation, University of Chavage Pres tgit, Tt
Notion of Analytic Truth, University of Ponnybana Prew anf Oefoed
University Press, 1959; “Toward A Systemane Pragmarm a” Neadice oe
Logic and the Foundations of Mathcomanes, North Pollan Babvaheng
Company, 1959; Intension and Decision, Prentwe- Tail, to appeat ov tt.
various papers in philosophical journals, volumes of eravy bea hofren,
etc,

DURING 1951-52, I had a fellowship from the John Sunen
Guggenheim Foundation, during 1955-546 one from the bund for
the Advancement of Education, from iy¢8% to sg4e DP had a new are
grant from the National Science Foundagon, taught fee two thot
of the academic year 1950-60 at the Universuty of Tease ard f«
a year was puest professor at the Univerurat Penn, Dhaene aytee 48
I had a fellowship from the American Cound of Lcaera d Sea tiet

(959 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

At present I am a Visiting Scholar at Columbia University work-
ing on a grant from the National Science Foundation,

EARL MARVIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Burton Ave., Woodmere, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 122 E, 42d St, New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cU7m laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.
marriéo: Helaine F. Kaplan, Nov. 2, 1941 (divorced 1962). CHILDREN: Peter

Frank, Jan. 29, 1946; Benjamin Andrew, Oct. 18, 1949; Elizabeth Carol,
Nov. 13, 1951.

occupation: Attorney,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, 1952, chairman, 1953, Five Towns Branch Ameri-
can Red Cross Drives; director, Five Towns Community Chest, 1952-55;
trustee, 1951-55, 1958-60, since 1961, treasurer, 1958-60, since 1961, Temple
Sinai of Long Island; director, 1954-60, since 1961, commodore, 1958-60,
Woodmere Bay Yacht Club.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers’ Association; Harvard Club of New
York, Woodmere Bay Yacht Club.

IT is difficult to believe — and even more difficult to acknowledge
— that twenty-five years have passed since the completion of our
undergraduate days at Harvard. The world in which we live today
has very little similarity to the world of 1938, when we burst out
of the Houses armed with an A.B., high principles, and even loftier
goals, | imagine that many of our class would say that they have
achieved their objectives — that they have established rapport with
themselves and the world, Yet, how many others of us must
ask, incredulously, “Where has the time gone? Twenty-five years

[ 960 ]

J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is a long time —a quarter of a century —and what have I done
—-where do I stand?”

Honesty compels me to put myself in the latter group. After
college there was Harvard Law; in 1941, marriage followed hard on
the heels of receipt of my LL.B. and admission to the bar. Three
years in Buffalo preceded two years in the Navy, thirteen months
of which were spent on an aircraft carrier in the Pacific and Atlantic.
My first son (now a senior at Andover) was born in 1946, another
son and daughter a few years later.

By now the pattern has become familiar — apartment, then house
in suburbia; children; local school, civic and charitable activities,
association with a large law firm, followed by individual private
practice; golf, tennis, sailing and sail-boating (a few trophics which
impress the children’s friends); etc., etc. And then, all of a sudden
(it seems), the Report for your Twenty-fifth stares you in the face
—and you pull up sharp, aghast at the speed of the years.

Where have they gone? Where have we gone? And, more
important, where do we go from here? Hopefully, in reply to the
last question, I say: to continue the never-ending trials and tribula-
tions, and deep and abiding satisfactions of bringing up children
who will be better than we are — and, without remaking the world,

so to adjust it that we may find some real meaning in our day-to-day
living.

FRANCIS EMIL MASER

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 7038 Oxford Ave. Philadelphia 24, Pa. (loae.)

(961 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FREDERICK DIKE MASON, JR.

    

HOME appress: 11 Pond St. Marblehead, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 221 Essex St., Salem, Mass,

prepareD AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: C.L.U., 1962.

marniep: Mary Hepburn Smith, Oct. 2, 1948 (died May 21, 1961). CHILDREN:
Frederick Dike, 3d, Jan. 21, 1951; Victoria Hepburn, April 12, 1953;
Johanna Smith, Nov, 21, 1958.

occupation: Life insurance salesman; district agent, Northwestern Mutual
Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, Marblehead Power Squadron, 1962-63; director,
1957-58, since 1961, president, 1959-61, Beverly-Salem Civic Music Asso-
ciation; chairman, Standing Committee, First Church in Salem, Unitarian,
1953-56, chairman for Marblehead, United Fund, 1960; chairman Marble-
head Red Cross, 1955; director of training, Greater Salem United Fund,
1962.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of North Shore, American Society of Chartered
Life Underwriters; National and Boston Associations of Life Under-
writers; Corinthian Yacht Club, Marblehead; Photographic Society of
America; Marblehead Frostbite Sailing Club; Marine Associates of the
Peabody Museum; Beverly-Salem Civic Music Association; Danvers Fish
and Game Club; Institute of Contemporary Art of Boston.

IN the twenty-five, or really twenty-eight, years that I have been
away from Harvard, so much seems to have happened, and most of
it really trivial, that it’s hard to make a coherent report. My affec-
tion for Harvard remains undimmed and my interest in its welfare
and prosperity increases with the passing years. With any luck, my
son may have the opportunity to go the whole road in another six
or seven years.

Today, with three young children to bring up alone, I feel a little
outnumbered by the world. Nonetheless, it’s an exciting time in

[ 962 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which to live and I look forward to a good many more years of

active work and steadily growing education. Some eight or nine

years ago I was introduced to my present occupation, that of repre-
senting the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, only to
find a classmate, Ernie Hazeltine, a practitioner in the same art in

Haverhill. He helped me a great deal in getting otf to a good start

and I still refer to many of the suggestions he made which have

helped me enormously.
My college career was interrupted by the economic upheaval of
the thirties — in fact, it almost never started at all for that reason,

A year of work in a cotton mill enabled me to save enough for my

first year’s tuition, but the egg route which I tried to run while

attending prevented any possible scholarships for continuation, From
that point I undertook the General Electric Apprentice Training

Program and graduated successfully to go on to work with that

company until the war came along. Then came four years in the

Army, most of it overseas in the European Theater. Six bartle stars

later, with a fairly substantial appreciation of French wines and

champagnes, I returned to civilian life to attempt to resume an
education.

This time, for a variety of reasons which seemed good on the
occasion, I went across the hill to Tufts and spent two years working
at a business administration course, only leaving to marry a very
charming young woman and start raising a family. Four years in
one of our North Shore department stores as a buy cr in the m ayer
appliance field gave me a general education very different fron
anything I had in college. A rather frustrating search for a buuness
of my own finally led me to the life insurance field. It's been a very
happy love affair and even more rewarding from a personal point of
view than from a financial one, although the latter scems to be con
ing along well now.

About three years ago I decided to branch out and become a
district agent for the company : and to start recruiting and traming
my own sales organization. At this point, my batting average fs
running about .667 and my successes have been dramatic, my failuees
relatively modest. Whether this average will hold up ast have more
exposure, it’s hard to say.

My family came along; a boy and then a girl, quite carefully
planned; and some years later another girl, detinitcly unplinne.£  \s

] suspect is often the case, the surprise turned out to be dle lybeful sad
she is quite the joy of our family. Little Johanna is very trict’

[ 963 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PAUL MASSIK

 

HOME Apress: 21 Rangely Rd., Brookline, Mass,

OFFICE appress: 67 Coddington St., Quincy 69, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1942.

marrigo: Enid Coleman Silk, July 12, 1959. CHILDREN: Robin, Feb. 2, 1953; Jody,
March 24, 1954 (by wife’s previous marriage); Andrew, July 31, 1960;
Peter, July 22, 1962.

occuPATION: Physician; specialty — radiology.

OFFICES HELD: Radiologist, Goddard Memorial Hospital, Stoughton, Mass., con-
sultant, V.A. Hospital, Brockton, Mass.; instructor in radiology, Boston
University School of Medicine, trustee, Goddard Hospital, Brockton,
1954-59, Goddard Memorial Hospital, Stoughton, 1959-61; past president,
Probus Club of Quincy.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Epsilon Graduate Club of Boston; American Board of
Radiology (diplomate); American College of Radiology; New England
Roentgen Ray Society; American Medical Association; Massachusetts
Medical Society; Radiological Society of North America.

PuBLications: Nfedical articles in various journals.

IN the 1934 Boston Latin School Yearbook, The Register, 1 was
referred to as a “Steam Engine in Pants.” Looking back over the
vears since then I can see how applicable that phrase is because
the problem has always been how to channel an enormous amount
of energy into a useful path.

Fortunately, for me, to quote that banal phrase, “I always wanted
to be a doctor,” and as soon as I started medical school at Tufts, I
steamed right ahead. Suddenly, all my difficulties disappeared and
I enjoyed my courses, and was content to work harder with better
results than ever before. I found that my Harvard premedical edu-
cation in the field of biochemistry stood me in good stead and I
sincerely think it was of superior quality. I was a “knife-happy”

[ 966 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

medical student and sought every opportunity to cut man or beast.

Upon graduation, I took an internship at Kings County Hospital | in
Brooklyn, New York, devoted primarily to surgery and its alhed
specialties. I did not learn to do very good surgery but I learned
how to take care of emergencies and sick people. During this
period I spent a good deal of time in the X-ray department looking
over the shoulders of the radiologists. Strange, wasn't it, because
subsequently I became a radiologist and not the surgeon I had
dreamed of becoming.

Living in Brooklyn while interning gave me an opportunity to
see New York and “live.” I had more fun and did more on the
eighteen dollars per month salary than ever before or since.

After my year of internship, I went into the Army as a MLO.G.
(Medical Officer General). On maneuvers in Tennessce I learned
to “hurry-up and wait,” to hold sick call, inspect latrines and kitchens
and to be a field officer. Then I went to Europe for a Five-Star
guided tour from England to Austria.

When I got back to the States in 1946, I was unsettled and a little
confused. I wanted to go into surgical training at once, but when
I found that what I wanted was not available, I decided on a detour
and took a six months’ residency in pathology. I followed this with
a second detour and switched into the radiological residency at the
Boston University School of Medicine — Massachusetts Memorial
Hospitals where Dr. George Levene, the chief and professor, guided
me through an impatient three years. Upon completion of my trains

ing, I took a six months’ locum tenens as radiologist at the Sturdy
Memorial Hospital in Attleboro, Massachusetts, where E learned and
earned enough to open up my own office in the practice of
radiology in Quincy, Massachusetts. I still have this office. Sunul-
taneously, I joined the staff of the Goddard Hospital in Brockton,
where I have continued to serve as junior and later as chicf radhole
gist through the present time. One of the most interesting des clop-
ments in this hospital over a twelve-year period is that our group
of physicians in various specialties ran the Goddard) Pfoxpital in
Brockton as a fully approved and accredited private hospital and
functioned as trustees, directors, administrators, supenntendents
and anything else required. Then, we contributed our equipment
and money and ran two fund-raising campaigns succesfully enough
to build the brand-new Goddard Memorial Hospital which tsa
community, non-profit institution and closed the old Cddard
Hospital in Brockton, We have retired from the non mets ol

[ 967 J

__| L—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

functions, leaving them to an administrator and a lay board of
trustees. Now we are expanding the bed capacity and facilities of
the hospital and putting in new equipment, such as daylight fluoros-
copy, X-ray moving pictures and radioactive isotopes. It has been
a busy life, but I wouldn’t swap for anything else. The greatest
virtues I have learned over these years are in “The Art of Medicine”
— patience, tolerance, kindness and availability.

I was a wide-ranging bachelor for many years until I finally had
my fill and four years ago married my beautiful wife, Enid, who is
vivacious, athletic and energetic. Like me, she likes to go and do.
We have added two boys to the two girls she already had by her
previous marriage. We do our best at togetherness with the children
and I play “squash” at the Harvard Club at Boston and enjoy other
sports in season. Family-wise, I am going through what most class-
mates went through many years ago. It keeps me young and
hopping.

I have collected a few paintings, original lithographs and statues,
one of Marilyn Monroe, and have an acquisitive nature for wordly
possessions of the usual variety. This summer the stock market
taught me that I'll never be rich and that it doesn’t mean a damn
whether you have a vault full of securities or not.

At the present time, the “Steam Engine” is going along a straight
track on level ground with a full cargo of wife, children, dog,
houses, cars, offices, hospital and conventional responsibilities. When
the kids grow up and I let up we will again travel and pursue the
byways and diversions that await us. The only trouble is that
time goes by so quickly and events happen so fast that it is hard to
appreciate the present sufficiently.

[ 968 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE WILLIAM MASTERTON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 8029 Anson Ct., West Springfield, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Board of Immigration Appeals, Dept. of Justice, First Sercet
and Indiana Avenue, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938, 11-3. (New York
Law School), 1954.

MarRIED: Jane Doreta Kesson, Aug. 19, 1950. cHILp: Elizabeth Dorcta, May 5,

1956.

occupaTION: Government service; attorney.

OFFICES HELD; Vestryman, senior warden, St. Christopher's Fpiscopal Church,
Springfield, Va.

MEMBER OF: New York and Federal Bar Associations.

IMMEDIATELY following graduation I skied, fished and hunted,
with a minimum of work on the side. Initial efforts in the hietce
direction were as a statistician, my last direct application of the
economics learned at Harvard. I then entered civilian government
service a few months before entering such service on the nulitary
side.

Skiing carried me into the 87th Mountain Infantry Regiment.
with which the Tenth Division later merged, becoming the Tenth
Mountain Division. I served in the Aleutians and Italy, and such
famous ski areas as Austin, Texas. With the end of the war | moved
from military service back into civilian government service.

I met my wife, an artist, in New York, where I also acquired my
law degree and admission to practice. We lived in Manhattan and
interspersed the usual metropolitan activities with occauonal week -
ends and vacations in the country. Much less skiing and fisting --
no hunting.

Overseas service in behalf of the Department of Justice inter:

[ 959 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

rupted graduate studies in the field of international law. We were
stationed at consular posts in Italy and Germany. Among the
high spots were the winter olympics at Cortina d’Ampezzo, some
skiing at Kitzbtihel in the Austrian Alps, basking in the sunshine
of the Italian Riviera and numerous visits to museums and galleries,
Our daughter was born while we were in Italy. She toured Europe
with us from the time she was ten days old, ending with our return
voyage on the SS United States.

We have since settled in one of the suburban areas being carved
out of the Virginia countryside. We recently purchased our second
home here and are involved in the usual activities of suburbia;
trying to raise blue grass instead of crab grass, commuting on
traffic-clogged highways (relief promised about in time for the
thirty-fifth), No skiing, no hunting and very little fishing. I have
been active in the Episcopal Church, and attend bar association and
civic association meetings.

While our life lacks some of the eventfulness which we knew
abroad, we live pleasantly. Our daughter is in a fine school. Our
politics are moderately conservative. Picnics on the Sky Line
Drive and other local family excursions, swimming and the projects
around home and grounds occupy most of my time not devoted to
career and related activities. Washington has a stimulation of its
own.

Shortly after our return from Europe I transferred to the Depart-
ment of State. I made another trip to Europe and South America
on official business. Recently I moved back to the Department of
Justice, where, of course, I am associated, but not directly, with
some other Harvard men. Three summers ago I returned to Harvard
for an all too brief session at the Law School in the Program of In-
struction for Lawyers.

My wife’s parents live in New Jersey and mine are in Massa-
chusetts. We usually head northward when we have free time.
We have shown our daughter the glass flowers and the Coop. At

this writing we are anticipating the football game with Yale and
Cambridge again in June.

[970 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILEY EDWARD MAYNE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2728 Jackson St., Sioux City, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shull, Marshall, Mayne, Marks & Vizintos, Badgcrow Bldg.
Sioux City, Iowa.

PREPARED AT: Sanborn High School, Sanborn, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: 8.B., cit laude, 1938; Jb. (Univ. of
Iowa), 1941.

MarRIED: Elizabeth Ellis Dodson, Jan. 5, 1942. cHILpREN: Martha Plizabeth,
March 4, 1943, Wiley Edward, Jr., Aug. 13, 1935; John Dodson, Now, 2a,
1947.

occuPATION: Lawyer, partner in law firm,

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, 1950-51, 1958-62, Vice-preudent
and president-elect, since 1962, lowa State Bar Association, member, EF veco-
tive Council representing 8th Judicial Circuit, Junior Bar Conference, teae-
52, state chairman, 1950-51, American Bar Association; fellow, since toes,
state chairman, 1961-62, American College of Trial Lawyer, member,
executive committee, International Association of Insurance Counsel, ame
1961; Commissioner of Uniform State Laws from lowa, t9¢4-40, natwnal
committeeman from Iowa, 1948-52, national vice-chairman, tyygo-¢t. Young
Republican National Federation, president, 1947-53, director, wwe toy
Sioux City Symphony Orchestra Association, dircetor, Sous Citw Civ
Music Association, since 1947; president, Sioux City Symphony | ound s-
tion, since 1954; deacon, 194851, trustee, since t9g2, Fire Preshytenen
Church; Scottish Rite Mason 32°, Knight Commander of Court af Hono,
since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Sioux City Boat Club; Elwood Golf Club, Harvard Club of New
York; Society of Former Special Agents of F.BL., Amemwan, state ancl
local bar associations,

AFTER four and one-half years in the F.B.1. and Navy, PE returned
to the Midwest in February, 1946. Livi Ingion both coast and atlost
had left me with a desire to take up peace-time hfe ina pore of the
country where Betty and I had more idenaty with the pat fon

[971]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Angeles and San Francisco had intrigued us but their entire popu-
lation seemed to be transients who were just passing through. Rarely
did we encounter anyone who had been there longer than we or
who had any real assurance of remaining. While many values under-
went considerable stress during the war years, family ties at least
had endured. Ourselves only children, we wanted our parents to
be able to see their grandchildren growing up during such time as
remained to them. We have found Sioux City, midway between
Betty’s home in Omaha and mine in Sanborn, to be a friendly
community with remarkable cultural vitality, and it still means a
great deal to have our parents within a hundred miles in times of
happiness and sorrow.

Careerwise, three older lawyers invited me and a friend from
Kirkland House (B. B. Marks, ’39) to join their firm when we
returned from service and we have been together ever since, adding
five more lawyers along the way. I am in general practice, but
up to now have been able to delude clients and opponents into
thinking I have some special competence as a trial lawyer. This
affords me the privilege of appearing in courtrooms throughout
northwest lowa before jurors whom I honestly believe are the
finest people in the world. It has also led me to such unlikely spots
as Fargo, North Dakota, and Albuquerque, New Mexico, where I
tried a case before a jury which included Geronimo’s granddaughter.
My firm was exclusively defense-oriented when I arrived, but I
enjoy trying an occasional case for plaintiffs as well, as it gives a
better understanding of the complex factors which go into the
making of any jury trial. By now I hope it is apparent that I love
being a trial lawyer and ask nothing better than to continue being
one until 1 drop in my tracks, which probably will happen before
long as it is considered an occupational hazard of the trial bar.

I am active in the organized bar and in line for the presidency
of my State Bar Association later this year. I have had a part in
persuading two legislatures and the electorate to achieve substantial
judicial reform by amending our lowa Constitution to remove the
selection and retention of all state judges from partisan politics.

Some classmates who pegged me for a politician may ask why I
am not Governor of Iowa. To paraphrase Nat Benchley’s illus-
trious father, in the twenty-five years since I left Harvard no one
has even mentioned it. I did get into politics early at the Young
Republican level, and enjoyed hobnobbing with the mighty as a
member of the National Committee and vice-chairman of the

[972]

I

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Young Republican National Federation. But since graduating to
the senior organization, my labors have been both routine and incon-
spicuous. This suits the Old Guard fine, as they still resent my com.
ing out for Eisenhower instead of Taft in 1952. Practising law is
more fun anyway, and has the advantage that I know what f am
doing, at least some of the time.

My hobbies continue to be golf, music and travel. Some of my
best trips have been to Class Reunions. Each ume I return I gee
a new perspective on our years in Cambridge and an unexpected
bonus in better acquaintance with men I barely knew in college.

We have a daughter who is a sophomore at Wellesley and two
boys in public high school in Sioux City. I am naturally hopeful
my sons will go to Harvard, but remembering that I had to over.
come considerable parental reluctance to get there mysclf, I am
paying at least lip service to the principle of self- determination.
Barring a last-minute insurrection, all of us will be present at the

Reunion.

ROBERT COLLIER MAYO

 

MAILING appress: % T, J. Lipton Co., Inc, 420 Lexington Ave, New York 0°.
N.Y.

[973]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CYRIL CHESNUT MEANS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 150 Riverside Drive, Apt. 1620, New York 24, N.Y.

OFFICE Appress: Technical Studies, Inc. 730 Fifth Ave., Suite 913, New York
19, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Eastern High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, cuz? laude, 1938; LL.B. (Wayne
Univ.), 1941; Lum, (Harvard Univ.), 1948.

MarRiED: Rosaline S, Linn, Nov. 8, 1958. cutLp: Elizabeth Rose, Aug. 29, 1960.

occupation: International lawyer and promoter of Channel Tunnel Project;
executive vice-president, International Legal Counsel and director, Tech-
nical Studies, Inc. (American participant in Channel Study Group).

oFFices HELD: Member, Michigan State bar, since 1941; Bar of the Supreme
Court of the United States, since 1946, Association of the Bar of the City
of New York, since 1955 (and its Committee on International Law, 1955-
58); legal adviser, American Church Union, since 1962; vice-chairman and
program director, New York Metropolitan Regional Branch, American
Church Union, since 1961.

PuBLications: “Estates of Disappeared Persons in Michigan,” Michigan State
Bar Journal, 1940; “Is Presidency Barred to Americans Born Abroad?”
US. News and World Report, December, 1955; “Historical Note of Legal
Precedents,” published, in condensed form, as chapter 8, “Tunnel Law,”
in Channel Underground, 1961; “The Judicial Grand Jury in Michigan,
Contempt of Court and Due Process of Law,” Harvard LL.M. thesis, 1948;
co-author with Richard N. Gardner, “The Constitutionality of American
Participation in the Proposed Organization for Trade Cooperation (OTC)

and in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT),” The
Record, 1956.

WRITING up one’s “life . . . points of view ... and... . social,
political, or religious convictions” for a Class Report can be a
perilous proceeding. Consider, for example, the following sentence
with which one member of the Class of 1940 ended his contribu-
tion to the Sexennial Report (1946), p. 212: “Iam pessimistic about

[974]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the future of the country.” Think of the campaign milcave his
opponents could have squeezed out of that quote in tose, had they
been astute enough to dig it up! It could have accounted for ten
additional pages in our Classmate Theodore White's The Mating
of the President 1960. Indeed, the election was so clove, it could
even have altered the result! The moral of all of which ix, T suppose,
that prophets and presidents are not cut from the same cloth.

The most important events in my life in the last quarter century

have been my marriage to a lovely girl and her presenting me with
a lively daughter. As of now (January 3, 1963), she ts twenty-
eight months old — about the age of some of our Classmates’ grand-
children — a clear case of retarded paternity on my part. My wife
has an impressive collection of degrees from universities in Manila
(where she grew up) and the United States (where T met hee).
We were born on opposite sides of the globe (she in Amov, tin
Philadelphia) and of the calendar (she at the summer solstice, Ff at
the winter); so our marriage might be called a union of oppowtes
In any case, we have been supremely happy.

My entries in our Decennial and Fighteenth Anniverury Re:
ports cover my career sufficiently up to that ume — law school
(1938-41), law secretaryship to a “Justice of the Supreme Court of
Michigan (1941-42), Navy (1942-46), teaching law in a smull
law school in Detroit (1946-47), graduate studies at the Harvard
Law School with a view to teaching as a career (1947-48), teach
ing law in a big law school (Stanford, 1948-50), four unforgettable
years on the legal staff of John Jay McCloy (L1..B. tgs) and
President Emeritus Conant, during their succesive high comic:
sionerships in Germany (1950-54), and two more as arbitration
director of the New York Stock Exchange (1955-54).

I resigned from the Exchange to undertake two long shot gam
bles. The first was a retainer by the entire song publishing inshasery
in New York to do the necessary research to write a bref te pse-
suade the United States Supreme Court to reopen, rehear and
reverse a unanimous decision it had just handed down (De Svlea
Ballentine, 351 U.S. 570, 1956), that had upset an tnmemeral copy
right practice of that industry. This was a fascinating ever in
historical research, that led all the w ay back to the faruity papres of
Noah Webster, the godfather of the Copyrighe Ace of e9pe, 0
the MSS. Division of the Yale Library. Inthe event, however, the
court refused to reopen the case, though the walter general ares

(975 ]

__——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

similar significance to, and in the long sweep of history probab|
more important than, the deStalinization of the USSR and its
satellites during the chairmanship of Nikita Khrushchev.

J think I was at one with most of my countrymen in approving
without reservation the way the present Administration handled
both the Mississippi and the Cuban crises of September—October,
1962. In both, a firm reliance on moral power, viz.: the willingness
to lay down our lives rather than capitulate to evil (which is the
essence, by the way, of martyrdom), infused the political mechanics
and diplomatic infighting, necessary as they were, with a grandeur
they seldom attain. Stalin once asked Roosevelt a rhetorical ques-
tion: “How many divisions has the Pope?” Khruschev put Ken-
nedy a non-rhetorical question, which might have been verbalized,
“How much is profile, how much courage?” He got his answer,

though I hardly think he liked it.

JOHN SLASON MECHEM

 

HOME AbpRESS: 239 High St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: 84 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B, 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Michigan),
1941.

marriep: Margaret C, White, Feb. 22, 1941. CHILDREN: John S., 2d, and Joseph
W., (twins), April 23, 1942; Whitney, Oct. 16, 1945.

occupation: Lawyer, partner, Goodwin, Procter & Hoar.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Bar Associations, Dedham Country and
Polo Club; Annisquam Yacht Club,

IN 1950, after about eight years in Cambridge, we moved to West-
wood and have been there ever since. In 1960, Peg and I undertook

[ 980 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a long-range renovation project on another house in Westwood —
a big and old one with lots to be done. Jack and Joe graduated from
St. Paul’s School in 1960 and are in the class of 1964 at Colby and
Hobart respectively. Molly graduates from the Winsor School in
1963. I have been with Goodwin, Procter & Hoar all my adult hfe,
having become a partner in 1955. Although the pace is rapid and
time is always of the essence, my family and friends and my partners
and business associates have made life very rewarding to me,

EDMUND WEBSTER MEISENHELDER, Hl

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3102 Acklen Ave., Nashville 12, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Public Administration Service, 1313 E, 60th Se, Chicago a7, Ul.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938, 3... (Syrause
Univ.), 1946.

Marriep: Trinidad C, Macariola, April 22, 1946. cutnoren: Gregory Falrand,
Feb, 1, 1948; Robert Thaddeus, Oct. 21, 1949; Maria Frances, Dew. ry ger,
John David, Aug. 28, 1954.

occUPATION: Management consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Deputy director of civilian personnel, Base “KR, US. Nerv,
Tacloban, Leyte, Philippines, 1945-46, rank of captain, city manager, ber:
nandina Beach, Fla., 1946-50, Park Forest, HL. r9gt—¢25 cesuleane eves evecare.
cipal management, Municipal Technical Advisory Scrviee, Univ. of Ten
nessee, 1952-55, 1958-61; chief Univ. of Tennessee Publie Adinuneets etsy
Contract Team and Public Administration Advece, US, Operinens Veo
sion to Panama, Panama City, Panama, 1999-58, city manager, Caches ice,
Tenn. 1961-62; management consultant, Public Adimmiverstern Seen e,
Chicago, Illinois, and Bangkok, Thailand, since aya.

MEMBER OF: International City Managers Awociation, Amerman Saiery foe
Public Administration,

[g8t J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

the family (for a mynah bird, and more plane rides), may we add
a general family wish that our being here may contribute to the
objective of the adoption of better methods of government, and,
further, to the spread of good will among peoples of our several
nations.

In summary, we count our riches not in dollars, balboas or bahts,
but primarily in a fine, healthy quartet of youngsters with whom

it has been a pleasure (most of the time) to relive the experiences of
growing up.

NORMAN MENDLESON

 

HOME AbpRESS: 312 N. Foothill Rd., Beverly Hills, Calif.

orrice appress: Ira Haupt & Co., 166 N. Canon Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.
PREPARED AT: The Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marrige: Lucille Peterson, June 21, 1942. CHILDREN: Joan, Dec. 21, 1946; Betty,
July 25, 1949.

occupation: Stockbroker, Ira Haupt & Co., Member Firm, New York Stock
Exchange,

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to the president, B. T. Babbitt, Inc., New York, N.Y.

IMMEDIATELY after college 1 jumped into the entertainment
field. First, a couple of stints in summer theatres — one with the
South Shore Players in Cohasset, Massachusetts, and the other at
Charles Coburn’s Mohawk Drama Festival in Schenectady. Various
interesting people such as Alexander Woollcott, Corneilia Otis Skin-
ner, Sinclair Lewis, Fay Wray and Coburn himself came and went.
To them I was the extra, dropping a spear on their toes, or the

[ 984]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

snarling Nazi storm trooper shoving the newspaper editor into

the basement in “It Can’t Happen Here.”

A year as an apprentice customer's man with a stock brokerage
firm only made the footlights scem more attractive, particularly,
I’m sure, since daily market volume dried up to a trickle soon after
Hitler moved against Poland. I became a professional singer, did ao
little radio work and sang in night clubs and supper clubs in Sara-
toga, Newark, and New York City.

The draft of January, 1941, ended all this and f landcd in the
Engineer Corps of the Army, probably because of an SB. degree
which actually meant “not enough Latin.” IT hardly knew a truw
from a trestle but somehow was sent to Engincer Othcers School at
Fort Belvoir, Virginia, and squeaked through. [ suspect an abslity
to bellow out commands in close order drill was more responuble
than any proclivity for figuring stresses and strains

Then came assignments all over this country and in France and
Germany with the roznd, 108th and 63rd Engincers ef the rth
33rd and 44th Divisions. My majoring in French finally bore fruit

just before the Nazis surrendered. An officer at oth Army Plead.
quarters was caught in a bit of hanky panky and 1 was called
back to relieve him. The job was to acquire, purchase and distribute
whiskey, wine, brandy and gin for the yoo-man headquarters and
other units of the Army. When the war ended Twas saddled with
the additional duties of supervising five cocktail lounges and niyghe
clubs in Heidelberg. It was too good to be truc and it so proved
itself to be, before long. The Mess Officer was jealous and olwerep-
erous, the east European girl waitresses were soon spuabbhivg wath
the French and German girls, American officers had me on the
carpet for chipped glassware and chinaware and insuthoenels
cooled champagne. It was a relicf to board the troomhip and wail
home in October of 1945.

From 1946 to 1958 I worked in the advertiung, manuf ss tury
and administrative departments of B.T. Babbitr, Inc, a manufacturer
of household cleaners. I checked the scripts aml commeryiote of
radio soap operas such as “David Plann,” “Lora Lawton,” and one
with the unbelievable title of “Nona From Nowhere.” Phece pacts
gems were soon replaced by television fare of muah the sane as,
ie. “The Kate Smith Show™ and the quickly defunct "Pee Carts
Named Smith.” Possibly fearing a Newton Minow pat aroun
the corner, IT moved to California in’ toqe ant monet & wos

$
factory for Babbite in Los Angeles until lite rg (4. Ne thee tie thers

[ 9%s ]

_|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

was an attractive opening in the company’s main offices in New
York and we moved back east to White Plains to take advantage
of it. California’s lure was too strong, however, so that about a year
later we returned to Southern California and I became a registered
representative with Bache and Company in Beverly Hills.

Family includes Lucille, whose transmogrification from a success-
ful musical career to the stresses and strains of successful domesticity
is remarkable; elder daughter Joan, whose improving high school
grades and proclivity for sound monetary judgment may yet land
her in the Business School; younger daughter, Betty, an even taller
blond, whose antipathy to schoolwork is preternatural (though her
propensity for volleyball is first rate), and two golden-haired dogs
whose popularity at home is only exceeded by their neighbors’
grudging acceptance of their over-zealous pretensions as watchdogs.

Our travel, which used to include Europe, Mexico, and Canada,
lately has dwindled to purely local meanderings. Avocation and
hobby interests have shifted from golf and chess to tennis and
swimming. All in all, since 1938 it’s been kaleidoscopic, variegated
and sometimes hectic. The “esprit gallois” and healthy skepticism,
both acquired at Harvard, have helped mightily to make the years
interesting, enjoyable and meaningful.

GORDON MYRON MESSING

Seri ii ainee: ser ee eee
Peers

     
 

EE TTT NE ARNIS Ae
ts

 

MAILING ADDRESS: American Embassy, Reykjavik, Iceland.
PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1938; A.M. 1940}
PH.D., 1942,

[ 986 ]

I

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrigp: Florence Evelyn Hope, March 16, 1946. Quivers: Hope Cartata

March 11, 1948; Faith Erica, Nov. 8, 1949; Daniel Peregrine, July ag twee,
Seth Jeremy, May 20, 1953.

occuPATION: Foreign service; attaché, American Embassy, Reykjavik, beclarndk

I CANNOT now recall whether my family numbered sv in the Lise
Class Report. At any rate, it does now: Spouse and four young
Messings, Hope Candida (born March 11, 1948 and now at an Eng.
lish school in darkest Yorkshire); Faith Erica, born Nevember a,
1949; Daniel Peregrine, born July 24, 1951; and Scth Jeremy, the
only one not born in Austria, born May 20, 1953. The batter three
are here in Iceland, where they attend a tiny Embassy-run school.

I am still in the Foreign Service of the Department of Sate. my
present job being that of Attaché. Previous assignments, all mene
enjoyable, have been in Vienna and Athens. In all of these I have
also had the opportunity to continue the classical and linyussne
studies initiated at Harvard. In 1955 the Classics Departinent of
Harvard entrusted me with the job of putting out a corrected esh-
tion of Smyth’s Greek grammar; this was published by the Harvard
University Press. Over the years, I have published a number of
learned articles and reviews, principally in Language, the journal of
the Linguistic Society of America.

+: GEORGE von LENGERKE MEYFR, JR.

“emma

  

eke
%
4

BORN: July 22, 1916, Hlamilton, Mass panesiy: George sun Dengerbe Vever.
"13, Frances Saltonstall,

PREPARED AT: Behmont Hill School, Belinont, \Vfaw.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DOGMEES: AB, Cla heeds. 4%, 66 o
piED: Killed in action, Nov, 84, 1943, try Sesbeserean belereh,

[ y#7 ]

+ eget

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

IN his senior year at college Meyer was captain of the 150-pound
varsity and treasurer of his class, After law school he joined the
Navy, was commissioned in September, 1941, and assigned as
assistant gunnery officer to the destroyer Barton. In the Savo Island

battle the Barton was hit three times, exploded and sank. Meyer was
survived by his parents.

MAX BERNHARDT MEYER

 

HOME apprEss: 69 Willow Rd., Woodmere, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 485 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Woodmere Academy, Woodmere, Long Island, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: AB., 1938.

Marriep: Edith Marjorie Meyers, March 16, 1941, cHtLprReN: Elizabeth Ann,
Nov. 11, 1947; Peter Bernhardt, June 29, 1951.

occupation: Cigar manufacturing; vice-president and director —in charge of
filler tobacco operations,

OFFICES HELD; Assistant buyer, R. H. Macy & Co., 1939-41; various positions
since 1941; U.S. Coast Guard, 1942-45; member of board, since 1949, presi-
dent, 1955-60, vice-president, since 1962, Woodmere Alumni Association;
member, board of trustees, Woodmere Academy, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Woodmere Bay Yacht Club; Light-
ning Class Association (district commodore, 1962).

SO much and yet so little has happened to me in the years since
graduation from Harvard that it is difficult to know what a thumb-
nail sketch of me or these twenty-five years should cover.

Let's start with me: the vital statistics tell most but not all of the
story. I find myself in a position of responsibility in a business
that is quite technical in nature and one in which constant shifts
can be expected. These will be due partly to technological changes

[ 988 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and partly to world events such as Fidel Castro. I find that keeping
up with all these changes as well as attempting to move our business
forward is a full-time occupation.

Though Edith and I were married in 1941, it was not unul t94>
that Betsy was born and it was 1951 before Peter put in an appear-
ance. Today Betsy is at that unpredictable age where she ts a part-
time mature, sophisticated young lady and a part-time “daddy's
little girl.” Peter, on the other hand, is at the stage where he has
made “independence” a watchword in our house. Between them,
they certainly keep Edith and me hopping, but I often regret the
amount of traveling that I have to do for business that keeps me
from “hopping” even more than I do.

All the free moments I can spare in the summertime are jealously
guarded for my favorite hobby, sailing. I own a Lightning Clas
sloop (for the benefit of you Jandlubbers, 19-foot open cockpit
racing sailboat) in which every winter I lay great plans for great
success in the summer. Thus far my success has been limited to a
few wins in our local “clam diggers” Yacht Club. Since I have
been reasonably closely associated with the activities in our district
of the Lightning Class Association, the district saw fit to name me
district commodore for the ensuing year.

Despite the fact that my family has to vie with business and
sailing for my attention and time, my schedule has permitted in
recent years a number of family trips which have included skiung,
camping and some combined business and vacation trips to Puerto
Rico, Pennsylvania and other nearby points of interest. [ase year
I took up squash again but not, I am afraid, where I lefe off at
Harvard. It is still a wonderful sport and a great condinonce, but
I am reaching the stage where I wonder if it is not for vounger men
than we are.

As for the high points in my twenty-five vears since graduation,
I started with some bouncing around in an attempt to find out what
business I wanted to go into. This led me temporanly inty the
grocery business and then to R. H. Macy & Company. [went with
General Cigar Company immediatcly after my marrage and had
a rough first year working on a tobacco farm and in tobacco pack:
ing plants. During this year our entrance into Workd War I shaped
my activities from May of to42 until my discharge in October of

1945. I enlisted in the U.S. Coast Guard Temporary Rewrve as @
Seaman First Class, serving until October of rggt. on seal boners
patrolling New York Elarbor and coastal arcay Ie was a type of

[ 989 ]

___|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

duty that was familiar to me and interesting — though winters on
a 40-foot boat can be cold and rough. In October, 1943, I received
an appointment to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy at New London,
graduating with an ensign’s commission in February, 1944. My
orders took me to Honolulu for a few months and eventually, in
the late summer of 1944, On to a seagoing tug headed for the far
reaches of the Pacific. The following year on the tug saw me
filling the post of executive officer and of skipper until my return
to the states for rotation in September, 1945. V-J day and my
arrival in San Francisco nearly coincided, and I was fortunate in
being one of the first to receive his discharge — by then as a lieu-
tenant (j.g.) —as a birthday present on October 8, 1945. During my
tour of duty on the tug it was my good fortune to see a good deal of
Australia, a country I found fascinating. It also gave me the oppor-
tunity to see a good deal of New Guinea, a country to which, as
far as I am concerned, the Indonesians are welcome.

My return to the cigar business catapulted me into a learning
period in Cuba and Puerto Rico, with a corollary need to learn
Spanish. I managed all three satisfactorily and in 1949 became vice-
president of General Cigar Company. Since then, attention to the
leaf tobacco end of our business has kept me hopping between
countries in South America and the Caribbean and stateside areas
such as Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and one or two
others. My last visit to Cuba was in May of 1960, by which time
I had been instrumental in accomplishing the removal of all of the
company’s tobacco that was stored there. My experiences in Cuba
ranged from pure drudgery to fascination. I saw the transformation
from Batista (during whose reign I had the unpleasant experience
of spending a few hours in one of his jails) to Fidel (whose advent
seemed to hold so much promise) to confirmed Communism.

Prior to Fidel, my travels in search of the right kind of tobacco
had taken me to Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico
and more recently, Brazil. These trips invariably take me off the
beaten path —I find that very little tobacco is grown in the tourist
traps! —so that I have seen, and continue to see, a good deal more
of these countries than the average traveler. The interest and
variety that these trips afford compensate to some extent for my
absence from home and family. However, there are many times
when I long for the settled home life of many of my commuter

friends.

As I read over this “thumbnail sketch,” I realize that I am back

[ 990 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where I started from: in many respects a great deal has happened
in twenty-five years that probably is different from the expenences
of many of my classmates, but I am sure in many others our ev-
periences have been very much the same.

ROBERT MACKNET MEYERS

 

HOME ApprEss: 95 N. Main St., Cranbury, NJ.

OFFICE ADDREss: Management Planning, Inc., Princeton, N_J.

PREPARED AT: South Side High School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. magna cur laude, 193%.

maRRIED: Dorothy Pierson Carpenter, Sept. 7, togo. cumpars: Linda Jean, Apel
17, 1945; Karen Lee, Feb. 26, 1949.

occupation: Financial consultant for corporations, executive vice -prowdent,

Management Planning, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1957-63, president, 1961-63, Board of Pducanon, Crean:
bury, N.J.; member, 1955-57, president, 1957, board of truvecsy chice, awe
1962, First Presbyterian Church, Cranbury, N.J.

MEMBER OF: New York Society of Security Analy, Peddhe Golf Club.

WHEN I went down to Wall Serect in 1938, the stock market
went down too. The investment counscl business was not cuctly
booming but the view of Manhattan from the 61s¢ Noor was wp.
posed to make up for the low pay, I guess. Pimuse adeue thae (0)
the view was good, and (2) the four years’ expericnve there was the
base on which | have built. The company was Fiduct wary Cannel,
Inc., go Wall Strect, New York City.

I suppose I would have stayed there, but wath “Greenays”
breathing at my back, an ensign’s commision looked beter and
back I went to Harvard for training. For three veary bowas Tathiat”
in Norfolk, Virginia, but the ship never left the deah. Ava ogrestin

[yge |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

officer on the staff of Commander Service Force, Atlantic Fleet,
I worked the hardest of my life, but never fired a shot in anger. I
was stationed at the Brooklyn Navy Yard (a garden spot) at the
war's end.

Fiduciary Counsel in the meantime had conceived and delivered
a subsidiary designed to give financial advice to corporations, and
I then went to work with that firm, with which I work to this
day. By 1950, my associates and [ had bought the subsidiary from
the parent and we go by the name Management Planning, Inc. In
rgs1, we moved from Wall Street to that Tiger’s den of iniquity,
Princeton, New Jersey, but we find the den to be very nice indeed.

Valuation of closely owned businesses is our forte: we think we
are the biggest in the field, but can’t prove it. The field is so narrow
that professionally it is somewhat lonesome. The Federal Trade
Commission to the contrary, we like mergers and have negotiated
several. Besides, small companies are getting big faster than they
are merging, and for that we are thankful.

Travel is an inherent evil of the business. So too are court
apperances as “expert witnesses.” I learned this the hard way in
the longest trial ever to have been heard by the U.S. District
Court, Washington, D.C.

On the personal side, I married Dorothy in 1940, and we mi-
grated as the war dictated. When Management Planning moved
to Princeton, we chose Cranbury, a country town of 2,000 people
about nine miles away. “I come from a town, the kind of town
where you live in a house ’til the house falls down, but if it stands
up you stay there. It’s funny, but that’s the way there.” Thanks to
Bob Merrill, from “Carnival.” We have been a part of Cranbury —
the church, the library, the Board of Education.

Does it sound provincial? Well, maybe it is. But I enjoy know-
ing most of the people and being known by them. Besides, there
is more going on in Princeton than we can possibly get to, and
we are just fifty miles from New York City and from Philadelphia.

My daughters are preparing to fly the roost. One goes to college
in the fall and the other to prep school. Obviously, our lives are
about to change. Dorothy became a librarian again two years ago,

this time at Miss Fine’s School in Princeton. We no longer worry
about fixing up the old house. Instead we play a lot of golf and
find that we actually have a chance to talk to each other.

Essentially, life has been good.

[ 992 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GARDNER MIDDLFEBROOK

eee rss te. oe rear r « meena

   

I ALGEMENE LILES A

HOME ADDRESS: 1520 E. Cornell Ave., Englewood, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Jewish Hospital, 3800 E. Colfax Ave. Denver 6 Colo.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cus laude, 1938; M.D, 1944.

MARRIED: Jane Machia, Nov. 26, 1948. CHILDREN: Timothy, Oct. 27, 1962; Peter
Clark, April 14, 1954; Anne and Alice (twins), Aug. 14, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Director, Division of Research and Laboratories of the Nanonal
Jewish Hospital, Denver.

OFFICES HELD: President, Colorado Tuberculosis Association, 1940-61, member,
Medical Advisory Committee, The Research Foundation; member of a
Study Section, NIH; Surgeon General’s TB Advisory Comm, USPHS,
Armed Forces Epidemiological Board.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Harvey Society of New Yar,
American Thoracic Society; American Socicty for Clinical Investigation,
Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine, Western Awocuton of
Physicians; The American Public Health Association.

PUBLICATIONS: More than too scientific publications, contnbutions to bucky
encyclopedias and author of one book.

Work, play, work, play,
Lack-a-day,

How to pay?

What to say?

Write a fable?
(Life is stable,

Like a two-legged table!)
Were I able

{ 993 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193 8

CHARLES DONALD MIETZELFELD

 

Ess: 117 Sunset, Ridgewood, N_J.

FLOYD HERMAN MIHILL

SRT A eR SS a ee
7 é

 

ton Ave, Richmond 26, Va.

1, of Highways, 1221 E. Broad St, Richmond, Va.
School, Windsor, Vi.

DEGREE: A.B, 1938,

ror of the Virginia Highway Bulletin, a monthly

g such a report as this, but if one has not
1.on one's time (though time itsclt may
¢ in return), at Jeast the task may be
brevity,

wvever, to justify one’s inadequacy Ot

O94

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to dream up some marvelous alibi: One has finally acheved that

perfect state of nirvana that absolves one from all trathe in the

world’s affairs. Or, if one can’t get away with that. one has been
laboring for years on a literary masterpicce that will firmly evab.
lish one in the roster of the Harvard Great.

Best stick to the facts. It should be obvious, however, that |
have not taken an absorbing interest in many matters that have ocvu-
pied my contemporaries. Not that I wish to take satisfaction im
what I am sure is a grave defect. As a would-be writer (consincedk
of course, that I am merely a Jate starter), I have been interested in
human beings, but my civic participation has not been as great ae
it should have been, nor my interest in politics (though Pam gid
to see that the government is now in such capable hands). | am
thrilled by the human achievement represented by the space pro-
gram, but here, too, my identification with the Zcitycive ta word |
learned as a freshman at Harvard and was much unpresed by)
has failed miserably. I cannot help thinking of what might be

achieved with a similar effort in the alleviation of various carthly

ills. But then, I would probably have taken a dim view of ( Ducen

Isabella’s putting up with all that Columbus nonsense,

I live, with my mother, in a modest, ranch-style house which |
acquired this summer, and I am “owncd” as pet lovers uv, bv a
blue-grey miniature poodle named Mr. Jasbo, who answer (when
he chooses) to BoBo. As might be expceted, I lead a rather weiter:
tary life — reading and doing just a little writing. My preferences un
the arts lean toward the deceptively simple — the w eng of Samer.
set Maugham, for example, or the art of Raoul Dufy. A projected
book on Maugham failed to materialize for various feawny but
my admiration of his work has dimmed little since EE "diwovered”
him in 1935 in Frank Wilson Cheney Here's execient amd fon ty
remembered course in English composiuon., Tain now trying, epee
modically, to publish a children’s book, written noe in the cuerene
fashion of basic-vocabulary books, but accerding to an ollee tea
dition which seems to me to offer children more wepe foe the

imagination.

I believe, optimistically, that there are as many hinds of ances
as there are of happiness; so I refuse to belicve that mice waerdes
to Harvard standards, lies merely ind such distincteme ae Phone
Who Went to Washington and Those Who Did Nee Gea te Wok
ington. (Actually I wene only a little farther wourh where te
climate for a Harvard man is occasionally seme hat beae thug seer

[ 99s ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

genial.) My chief regret is that I have not had the energy (or have
been too lazy) to do “much that I have wanted | to do, but of course
I hope there is much more to come.

I shall look forward to reading the Report, though in a sense it
is a morbid prospect. I can see myself now skipping over all the
important-looking “lives” until I have read the shorter ones — or
those like this, that should have been short. And I shall be intrigued
by any simply recorded name and address with no report at all.
Somewhere in the class there must be One Colossal Failure.

PHILIP MILLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3221 N.W. Ninth Ave., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

OFFICE Appress: Anaconda Realty Co., Home-Finding Service Division, 2760 N.
Federal Hwy., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1939.
UNMARRIED,

occuPaTION: Real estate — salesman.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Broward County; Delta Upsilon
Fraternity; former member, Eastern Yacht Club and Marblehead Harbor

Yacht Club.
PRAISES be for effective prodding by the Davis-Wight team and

also for my previous three reports! By condensing and using them

as a much-needed crutch for a dull memory my work was three-
quarters completed,

The records show that I worked with the Polaroid Corporation

for over a year, then went on to use my language major at the short-
wave radio station WRUL in Boston and New York.

Joining the Coast Guard in 1942 I saw duty in both the Atlantic
1 996 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Pacific theatres of activity. The years 1946 to 193§ found me
deeply engrossed as owner and manager of the Marblehead Elartese

Yacht Club, a truly gratifying experience.
In 1957 began an entirely new chapter in my life with the decison

to move to the sunny climate of Florida, where I am at presente amd
intend to remain far from the rigorous blizzards of the North, My
time has been fully occupied with the real estate profession as sales
man. And although the name on the door has been changed three
times by the powers that be from Causeway Realty to Home-Find-
ing Service Corporation to Anaconda Realty Company » Elome-
Finding Service Division, I have been warming the same scat at the
same desk throughout the various mergers and changes in mar-

agement.

On the domestic front I have managed to keep mysclf fairly much
in a state of constant upheaval with six changes of address within
the city of Fort Lauderdale. Utter confusion has resulted in the
records of the Internal Revenue Service, and address books of
loyal friends and classmates must be hopelessly unintelligible at this
point. Currently living in the outskirts of the city, an ideal spot
for my dogs, I am enjoying that rare and precious commedity in

Florida — privacy.

In retrospect, twenty-five years have treated me very kindly and
have endowed me with a rainbow of rich and rewarding evpencnces
contacts, and friendships which would noc have been possible with-
out the background and education for which I shall be eternally
thankful. I still have my hair, health and sense of humor, Now

: '

please pass me my glasses so I can sce what I have writtcn

[ 997 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

STANLEY ARTHUR MILLER

   

HOME AbDpRESS; 3044 N St, N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE AppREss; Voice of America, U.S, Information Agency, Washington 25,
DC.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marrigp: Alice Moore (died 1960); Elizabeth Wyatt Bell, 1961. cHitp: Camille
P. Bell, Nov. 29, 1951 (stepdaughter).

occupation: Government service; international broadcasting deputy chief,
Central Program Services Division, Voice of America, U.S. Information
Agency.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; National Press Club, Washington,
D.C.

IT was thoughtful of the Class Authorities to provide us with
“sample lives” for this Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report. I partic-
ularly enjoyed reading Mr. Sidney Carroll’s narrative but noted that
though he listed his gains and losses over the years, he did not men-
tion any of the things he had retained. So, with a bow to Mr. Car-
roll, let me state that I have retained not only my job but most of
my hair — and that’s all to the good since with the change of admin-
istration in Washington, where I work for the government, hair ts
definitely back in style again.

I’ve spent more of the last twenty years in radio than in any other
field. Since 1951, 1 have worked for the Voice of America, the
broadcasting arm of the U.S. Information Agency. My work belies
the popular conception of what a government bureaucrat does. Oh
yes, there’s a certain amount of integrating, implementing, coor-
dinating, finalizing and ad hocking but my job has to do with the
programs—and the VOA being like thirty-eight radio stations

[ 998 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

under one roof, the program side of things is always active, absorbing
and, in these times, a continual challenge. If you happen to be down
this way, we have guided studio tours which I promise you'll find
interesting and informative. The studios are located at 330 Indepen-
dence Avenue, S.W., near the Capitol.

When a man starts pushing fifty, I guess it’s time to look back, take
stock, look around and look forward — if his neck isn’t too satf by
that time. So perhaps this occasion calls for a small amount of phil-
osophical generalizing. As with many others, in the course of hving
to date there has been some happiness, some sadness, some hilanty,
some danger and perhaps some measure of accomplishment, but
never enough of the latter if you are a Sagittarian or concerned with
leaving an enduring monument. All in all, though, it’s good to be
around — still alive from natural causes — and to be working in an
area in which the country is involved.

My unofficial life has continued to be occupied a good deal with
music and my poor wife has to listen to it—the lucky girl. For
those of you who may have missed my last report, following a three-
and-a-half-year Army tour in a number of Mediterrancan countries
and a couple of years in the Foreign Service (one in our Fmbasy
in Rome, the second in the Near East for AIGM), I returned to New
York with a musical about a family in Paris, Missouri, and, sulse-

quently, worked on another about the Near East. Originally en-
titled “Galabeeah” after the long robe worn in that part of the work
this brief musical play became, with Paul Rilhiam’s help, “The Darl-
ing of the Desert or He Gave Her the Old Oil But She Was Tee
Refined.” As you surmise, it was presented at the Old Knick Muse
Hall which is still there on Second Avenue under its new name of
El] Morocco. Incidentally, the Aletropolitan Host, a New York rise
away publication, said our little show was “staggeringly good” ©
words to that effect. During this period of w restling with words and
music, I sold one little number to CBS. It was on eversbanty’s hips
at the time and I'll bet you never knew or cared who wrote it.
“Tune in, tune in this fall,” it rhymed, “For the shows that you hove
best of all. Listen carefully, here’s the address — It's CES, CES
There was a delightful arrangement of it by Ray Bloch in 4 4 tune
Ah, those were the salad days 2... about the turn of the half cen
tury when I turned out some fifty or sixty songs most of which have
already achieved oblivion. T here is one exception — a herle thurs {
did for Kellogg’s Corn Flakes. This song was intended fer the
Canadian market, so only those in the northern part of the Plea

[ 999 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

sphere ever heard it. I like to think that some of those lonely fur
trappers are still whistling my tune on cold nights up there in the
north woods near Hudson’s Bay. One other song, written shortly
after college when I teamed up for a year or so with Alan Jay
Lerner ’4o, got a fair hearing around the country, It was called
“Between Friends.” You see what can happen if you pick the right
collaborators.

All this music and not a hit. But you wait and see; we’re going
to set up a meeting next week to audition a song for (1) a very
important publisher who says he'll publish it if a record company
will record it and (2) a very important record company executive
who says he'll record it if a publisher will put up the money to plug
it. Hope springs.

In our time at college, I recall the smirks of some of us upon learn-
ing of the comments of our predecessors who had just written
their Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reports. Some of these gentlemen
shocked us by saying their ambition was to break ninety. At that
time, I thought they were referring to golf, but now that I think
about it perhaps they meant just living that long. Or in any case it
could be tied in with a resolve to write thirty more songs for a total
of ninety. But ninety may break me first.

I enjoy the extracurricular activites aforementioned and enjoy
working for the government, but I should make it clear that, regret-
fully, I have not been able to donate my salary to charity.

JOHN BRADFORD MILLET

tet 1 PRPS NIE C0 0

      

HOME appress: 2 Jordan Rd., New Hartford, N.Y,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1624 Genesee St. Utica 4, N.Y,

[ 1000 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B., 1938; MD, tggr.

MarRRIED: Elizabeth Burgess Watson, June 26, 1938. cHiipars: John Realtoed
Jr., March 22, 1942; David Francis, Aug 11, 1944.: Polly Watwn, June 4

1947.
HARVARD SONS: John Bradford Millet, Jr., 64; David Francis Millet, “6a.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Mohawk Valley, rocqe tere. twa
1959, 1960, Utica Medical Club, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Sadaquada Golf Club; Vahnundasis Country Club, Harvard Chib
of Mohawk Valley; Rotary Club of Utica, Liberty Lodge, Cova Dew ae
sion Group; American Medical Association, New York Sate and (mente
County Medical Societies; Utica Academy of Medicine, Amemwan Calls ge
of Surgeons; American Board of Surgery; American College of Obese
Physicians; American Thoracic Society; Pan Pacitic Surgwal Awe v2etmon,

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional journals, patent on a profcwunnal teaera:
ment.

JUNE, 1938, found me with marriage, a summer camp yob at Swath
Pond Cabins, and Harvard Medical School hanging in the balance,
Would I graduate having answered only five out of the ten ques
tions in the physical chemistry examination? Luckily PT was net
alone with problems on this examination and that glonous pasung
grade came through.

Betty and I were married June 26, 1938, and aftcr a dehyhtful
summer at camp, settled in for our four years in Harvard Meshsal
School on the day of the hurricane of 1938, We wondered why
our beds had not been delivered, where were our mattress? Out
table and chairs? Finally, the lights went out.

Medical School was followed by John Bradford. Jr. and then
came a year in surgery at the Mass. General Hospital The war
was in progress and I joined the Army. From Carlisle Rarracks
we went to Camp Picket, Virginia, and then to Camp Shelby,
Mississippi. Our 244th Station Hospital was enlarged to bevomne
the 129th General Hospital, and in 1944 we went ovcrass tee Walee

to form part of a general hospital group. David Frans came te
us at this time. After six months in Walley EP posned the teaieth
General Hospital in Brittany. After a tour at Cashing Pbepoch |
had the good fortune of returning to the Mans. General 60 qonip te te
my surgical training and father our Polly Watson.

In 1949, I joined the Slocum-Dicksen Cline in Unies, New Vert,
feeling that a clinic group had much to offer the pelvy wea nent al
patient. After five years with this group, my ernyinal feelings about
clinic practice were abruptly changed as internal Ctotiebtyevess forced

[ toot J

|_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

me to the law courts for my right to practice solo in this area.
Five years of legal battles, the Supreme Court, the Appellate
Division, and finally the Court of Appeals all upheld my position.

In the past eight years, I have increased my solo practice and my
so low girth. ] am now attempting anxiously to reduce both. The
former by looking for an associate, and the latter by increasing
my exercise in my newly-to-be-acquired spare time.

Spare time has become a word of the past, but my ideas for spare
time still plague Betty, as I accumulate projects faster than I finish
them. The family workshop boasts about every homecraftsman
tool made and a few besides. The children have become adept at
their use and we hope that they will have years of enjoyment in
thir own workshops of the future,

Skiing was indulged in to stimulate the younger generation, but
now they far surpass the older generation in ability and agility and
the skis are collecting dust. Trout and salmon fishing and duck
and goose hunting have continued to be spring and fall sports.
Tennis keeps us fit year around and the Caribbean has helped us to
shorten the snowy winters in the past few years.

Now Betty and I are again alone as we started except for faith-
ful Lynnie, our Labrador. John, twenty-one, is a unior at Harvard;
David, eighteen, is a freshman at Harvard; and Polly, sixteen, is at
Milton Academy.

OTIS NORTHROP MINOT

   

HOME ADDRESS; 22 Eliot Rd., Lexington 73, Mass.
OFFICE appREss: Minot Informatic Devices, Room 8, 1776 Massachusetts Ave.,
Lexington 73, Mass.

[ 1002 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Deane School, Santa Barbara, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1034-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1938(39); ED.D., 1954.

marriED: Louise Gross, June 10, 1944. CHILDREN: Edward Oris, March 4 tos,
Alfred Henry, July 17, 1950; David Thomas, Jan. 25, 1952.

occuPATION: Consultant, Minot Informatic Devices, research and consulnng

in electronics.
OFFICES HELD: Ensign to lieutenant commander USNR, 1946-48, assistant dean,

Harvard College, 1946-48, Harvard Business School, 1950-52.
MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa; Torch Club; Institute of Radio Fngincers, Aw

ciation for Computing Machinery.
puBLicaTIONs: U.S. patents in electronics, “Automatic Devices for Recognition
of ... Patterns,” U.S. Navy Electronics Laboratory, 1961, “Toward

Understanding by Device,” San Diego Symposium for Biomedical En.
gineering, 1962.
AFTER studies at Harvard’s School of Education, toward teaching
hysics, the Naval Reserve trained me as an engineering officer, and
I taught radar (1942~45) at Bowdoin College — where I met mv
wife. We have since bought some land on Casco Bay near there, and
go there as often as we can.

Then about eight years (1946-54) in Cambridge and Lexington
went toward: a doctorate degree in education, assistant deaning at
Harvard (College and Business School), research for U.S. Govern-
ment (1948-50), and acquiring three boys.

My work since that time with Minot Informatie Devices has been
more scientific than educatorish, Part of that time has been spent
on study and invention, centering around “automatic pattern recog -
nition,” or devices for reading print, recognizing shapes, and so on.
This has been a hobby as well as an occupation. “From 1957 to tof,
I worked in this field and others at the Navy Electronics Laboratory
in San Diego, and our family soaked up sun in the delightful cnviren-
ment of La Jolla. I worked there also with psychologists and human
engineers on that fascinating elusive field called ‘ ‘human engineer:
ing,” which has to do with the matching and articulating of man and
machine.

We can recommend La Jolla and San Diego as wonderful antidotes
for anyone who feels overawed, rushed, chilled, damp, thoomy or
tradition-bound in the east coast metropolis or ity suburbs, We left
many good friends there when we returned to our home in Leu:
ton in 1960, where the weather is ditferent, but friends are aloo proeed
and durable. There is, of course, tennis in both places, thetsh sen

need a snow shovel or indoor court here. And stranycly, the hoe ’

is about equally close in either case.

[ 1003 ]

___

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Now I’m finishing up a book on “Intelligent Devices”; Louise is
involved in the community and Browne and Nichols parents’ activ-
ity; while Ed, Hal and Dave are growing skyward, wrestling with
Latin, and playing the usual bone-shattering sports. We toured
Europe last summer and found as many wonderful people of all
kinds as we expected — even a classmate or two in the most unex-
pected spots,

ROBERT MARSHALL MITCHELL

  

hah

HOME appress: 68 Old Colony Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.
orrice appress: Howes Leather Co., Inc., 321 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Janet Sawyer, June 20, 1936. CHILDREN: Robert Marshall, Jr., June 1,
1938 (am, Susan K. Sydow, Dec. 1, 1962); Christopher L., Oct. 10, 1940 (72.
Susan L. Woods, Sept. 1, 1962).

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Howes Leather Company, Inc. manufacturers of
sole leather.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, W. W. Mooney & Sons Corpora-
tion, Stephenson & Osborne, Inc. Am-O-Krome Company, Tanners Cut
Sole Company, Michigan Tanning & Extract Company, West Hickory
Tanning Company, Ballston Spa Tanning Corporation, Pocahontas Tan-
ning Company, Franklin Tanning Company, Mount Jewett Tanning Com-
pany; treasurer and director, Leather Institute, 1946-62.

MY beginning and ending years in this Class Report have seemed
to me in retrospect to have involved most of the “commotion” in

this otherwise happy and reasonably successful twenty-five years of
my life. -

The whole thing started for me in the spring of 1938 with
[ 1004 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

five final exams, written and oral divisionals, my appendix being
taken out and my first son born, all in the space of three weeks,
and has ended this last year with a promotion to vice-president, an
automobile accident in which I broke only my jaw, but my lovely
wife was seriously injured (she’s fully recovered now, thank the
Lord), and the marriages of both my sons and the attendant con-

fusion.
The years in between, with the exception of a few high spots

I find hard to recall in detail. I can remember clearly, however, leav-
ing Harvard Business School in the middle of my first year (with
enough grades but not enough money) and going to work with my
present firm as a day laborer for the magnificent sum of thirtcen
dollars a week, which raised some serious doubts in my mind at
the time as to the value of a Harvard degree.

Within the next few years I found to my surprise that I was
involved in labor relations and industrial engineering for neither
of which was I particularly qualified by background, education or
previous intent, but both of which fascinated me and incidentally
provided me with the opportunity for extensive travel throughout
these United States and occasionally elsewhere. I don't believe
that I could take the travel now but I wouldn’t have missed it for
anything.

All of this, plus putting two sons through school and college
(not Harvard I am sorry to say), plus a hobby of coastwise cru
ing from Maine to the Chesapeake and the Virgin Islands and occa-
sional deep-sea ocean racing have left me little time to contemplate
my sins. It’s like an expense account — you know vou've spent
the years but it’s hard to account for them.

| 1005 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

+ ROGER CONANT MIXTER

 

porn: Oct. 21, 1915, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Galloupe Mixter, MD.,

06, Helen McIntosh.
PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. |
aretep: Elizabeth S, Long, July 29, 1939, Chattanooga, Tenn. CHILDREN: Joan

E,, April 21, 1941; Pamela W., Nov. 19, 1942; Roger Conant, Jr., 1949.
piep: April 3, 1959, Milwaukee, Wis,
wipow: Mrs. Roger C. Mixter, 3405 W. County Line Rd., Milwaukee 17, Wis.
ROGER CONANT MIXTER spent one year with our Class.
After leaving college he entered the manufacturing field and was
associated with Critall Federal, Inc., of Waukesha, Wisconsin, and
the Advance Spring Corporation of Chicago.

WILLIAM JASON MIXTER, JR.

 

HOME abpREss: 9 Marsh St., Dedham, Mass.

[ 1006 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADpREss: American Employment Exchange, Inc., 21 School Sc. Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

marrieD: Lewis Watson, June 2, 1939. CHILDREN: Dorothy Fay, April ts, to42,
William Jason, 3d, June 13, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Personnel consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Brook Molding Corporation, since
1955; treasurer and director, Piney Land Coking Corporation, since 1948,
director, Vincent Memorial Hospital, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Ordnance Society of Plastic Engineers, Dedham Country
and Polo Club.

IN 1939 when I moved to Cleveland, Ohio, with my bride, one of
my Boston aunts remarked, “I feel as though you two are Pioncers
setting out to build a new home in the West.” For a Boston bean it
was quite a problem keeping up with those “Pioncers.” We had
five stimulating, constructive years, acquiring many lasting friend-
ships and associations — not the least of which was our dauchter.

The company which gave us our daily bread was producing
lighting fixtures and when war broke out ‘immediately swung into
defense sub-contracts. In 1944 I was lucky enough to join a squadron
of P.T. boats in the Mediterranean, and, depending upon your point
of view, my most illustrious passenger was only Doug Fairbanks
Jr. During these years our son was born.

After the war the “Pioneers” started their slow return trip to
Boston, stopping for five years in Greenwich, Connecticut. Fortu-
nately, I was not a slave to the financial caverns of Wall Street and
the racing subways, but rather the questionable odors of a plastic
molding plant in Stamford. This life, regrettably, terminated by the
purchase of this company by outside interests. We returned finally
to Boston, and here we had the pleasant occupation of renewing
old friends and acquaintances.

Since the return of the “Pioneers” to New England, the oveu-
pational therapy has been in the area of manufacturing — culminat-
ing in the field of personnel consulting.

So, here we are, the latch string is always out and, believe me,
on the lighter side of life: the opportunity of seeking the striped
bass or ruffed grouse may be better in other areas but not in the
mind of a New Englander.

[ 1007 ]

id L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HERBERT MOHAN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Box 2040, Tulsa, Okla.
PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.
MARRIED, CHILDREN: Stephen, 1945; Harriet, 1947.
occupation: Administrative assistant, Production Department, Amerada Petro-

leum Corporation.

] AM presently living in Tulsa, with my wife, and our two chil-
dren, Stephen, eighteen, and Harriet, sixteen and a half. Since
1939 I have been employed by Amerada Petroleum Corporation.
In 1952 I was transferred to Tulsa, as an administrative assistant
in the production department. My military service was with the
Navy in World War II and Korea. My present reserve rank is
commander; my present billet is Staff, Naval Reserve Officers
School, Tulsa,

[ 1008 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK ATHERTON MONROE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Apthorp Rd., Melrose, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Revere Sugar Refinery, 333 Medford St. Charletown, flaw

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MaRRIED: Anna Noyes, Jan. 20, 1940. CHILDREN: Gail, Dec. 2, toga; Diane, Feb.
29, 1944; Jennifer, June 14, 1947; Stephen Noyes, Oct. 16, tg4gg, Amy, Oct.

4, 1951-
OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Operations, Revere Sugar Refinery.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Melrose High School P.T.A. since tof, Melrone
YMCA, since 1961; past president and member, board of directory Sugar
Industry Technicians.

MEMBER OF: Sugar Industry Technicians; American Chemical Socicty.

LOOKING back on twenty-five years certainly brings forth mived
feelings — where has the time gone, where have the noisy, growing
children gone, when am I going to find time to do the things f want
to do, to say nothing of the things I have to do!

At home, I have watched with satisfaction the coming of aye of
two of my children — one now an officer in the Waves, and another
in college. There are three still at home — one in high school and
two in grammar school. Friends find it hard to understand how at
can be possible for me to say that it is terribly quict at heme, with
two of the girls away from home and still three children at home.
Believe me, it is! Perhaps now my wife and T can find the nine to
at least do the things we have to do.

At work I am trying hard to cope with the problems of running
a large and growing organization. Little did Echink, as TP sse fiseenany
to the fascinating and spellbinding words of Louis Fiesee in Chem. 4.
and planning a wonderful carcer as a chemist, that the tine wold

[ 1009 ]

_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

come when I would be spending my time arguing with unions and
customers, convincing sales people that some things just can’t be
done, and justifying some things to the company president that were
at variance with what we did “thirty years ago.”

All in all, they have been an extremely happy twenty-five years,

a good and happy family, an interesting and demanding job, and a
look to the future with much anticipation.

CHARLES LOTHROP MOORE

   

HOME ApprEss: 24 Ledgewood, Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

marrigp: Alice Lyman, May 27, 1944. ceiLpren: Harrison Lyman, Oct. 25,
1946; Elizabeth Lothrop, Feb. 11, 1949; Charles Lothrop, Jr., May 23, 1952.

occupation: Banking; vice-president, loan officer, First National Bank of
Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Geartronics, General Drive-In Corporation; trustee,
Winchester Savings Bank, Winchester Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Winchester Country Club; Boothbay
Harbor Yacht Club.

THE years certainly have passed by quicker than ever anticipated so
that suddenly we are now faced with the realities of a Twenty-fifth
Reunion which back in 1938 was only a pleasant vista on the horizon
that some day we knew we would reach but really never expected to
do so. These years in passing have telescoped themselves into an
interesting existence consisting of Harvard Business School, the
Navy, marriage and children, which are all combined with the daily
problems of living so that they have become a somewhat blurred

[ 1010 ]

ee |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

memory of the past but which are here and there highlighted by an
occasional event of some magnitude. Fortunately, there have been
enough of these so that each succeeding year dawns with a fccling
of expectancy and excitement, and an uncertainty as to events to
come.

My career has settled around banking in Boston, but fortunately
is not as mundane as it might sound, and has proven exciting,
challenging and rewarding. This life coupled with a fine, patient
and understanding wife, who has borne three children who pro-
duce certain days of immense satisfaction as well as those of div-
appointment, has rewarded me with domestic tranquillity that is
most gratifying. Our summers are generally divided between Maine
and Annisquam with the relaxation of boating and occasionally
broken up by trips. These pleasures tend to strengthen our tics and
provide us memorable summers that we all look back upon with
satisfaction.

Winters are generally devoted to skiing, frequently as 2 a family,
with varying degrees of success and only the minor bumps and
bruises. My ever-faithful and long-suffering companion shares my
enthusiasm for golf where I am faced with both my weight and
handicap steadily mounting.

This rather nostalgic existence is gradually facing modifications
as the children grow older and develop their own intcrests, and
we in turn become more limited in our activites by age and
physical retrogression, which more than ever is emphasized by

this gala Reunion to which we are all looking forward with intense
anticipation.

{ t011 J

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ 38

JOHN ANDREW MOORE

 

HOME ADpRESS: 227 S. Pleasant St., Amherst, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Converse 305, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Clayton High School, Clayton, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1940;
AM. HON. (Amherst Coll.), 1958,

occuPaTION: Class of 1880 Professor of Greek, Amherst College.

member oF: ADA; American Philological Association; American Association
of University Professors; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Sophocles and Arete, 1939; Selections from the Greek Elegiac,
lambic, and Lyric Poets, 1947; translation of Sophocles’ Ajax in the Com-
plete Greek Drama, Lattimore and Grene, 1957.

ONE afternoon some years ago, I called on one of our classmates
in Cambridge. Another classmate, whom I hadn’t seen for some
time, was also present. He asked, “What is John doing now?” Our
host replied, “He is teaching Latin and Greek to the sons of the
American upper middle class at Amherst College, a noble but futile
undertaking.”

One recognizes my host’s rhetoric: it is pure Cicero, His descrip-
tion of my activities was factually correct; but I found that I
couldn’t in the least agree with his evaluation of them. I see what
I am doing as neither noble nor futile. Most good American
colleges, through courses variously described as Humanities or Gen-
eral Education, testify a belief in the continuing importance of
Greece. And if I teach these deeply original things in the original
words, perhaps not to many students but to very good ones, it
seems to me that I am touching reality, not turning my back on
it. The consequences of the enterprise are of course not easy to
estimate. One can’t be sure how the life of a public servant will

[ 1012 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be affected by having read the Republic in Greck, of how the
imagination of a poet may be stirred by having read Suppho. Bue
surely mine isn’t the only occupation in which we cast our bread
upon the waters.

I have been quite happy in my life as a teacher, though my
scholarly productions have been few. I am engaged now in wntang
a book on Homer. My interests are mainly in literature and es.
pecially in Greek poetry. I have not marricd, but I live as the we
occupant of an early nineteenth-century house, with a fine view of
some severe tall pine trees and the Amherst College clock-tower,
People ask me “how I can stand rattling around in that big horse,”
but somehow, with furniture, firelight, and music, and | fear I
should add with cooking smells, I do manage to fill it.

I’m not sure whether Amherst is typical, but T sccm to have
noticed a more daring spirit in our graduating students, a concern
to commit themselves to a life in which they can look forward to
more than superficial satisfactions. The world’s need for them was
never greater; and I have been thinking a good decal of Lite, met
(I must admit) very effectively, about ‘how this new impulse can
be turned to account and not dissipated and lost in frustranen,

WILLIAM JAMES MOORF.-

 

HOME aAporess: 971 Highland Ave. Pelham Manor, N.Y,

OFFICE AppRESS: Legal Dept. Dairymen’s League Cocoperstove News saeect, bow,
100 Park Ave. New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronwalle, NY,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1978. Decarves: am, top, bee aCe ll Uovee §, mpge
MarRIED: Constance Coughlan, Sept. 4, nygt. contpeny, Berreet Vacegactue, Ulev

{ tory ]

___ [_-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

30, 1943 (son); Mallory DuBois, April 17, 1947 (daughter); Schuyler M.
and Pell B. (twin sons), June 12, 1955,

occupation: Marketing counsel for Dairymen’s League Co-operative Associa-
tion, Inc,

oFFices HELD: Elder, Huguenot Memorial Presbyterian Church, Pelham Manor,
NY.

MEMBER OF: American and New York State Bar Associations; Huguenot Yacht
Club, New Rochelle, N.Y.

ABOUT a year ago my then eighteen-year-old son Barrett wrote
from England where he had just arrived as a member of our Air
Force that he wanted to invest in a mutual fund. To which my wife
Connie replied it was the first time any member of the Moore family
realized that the word was spelled with a “d.” Which tells you all
you need to know about my twenty-five years.

For it has been good fun. Connie is quite a gal. (Local papers
don’t necessarily have to copy.) I’m also blessed with a delightful
teen-aged daughter Mallory, despite her comment about the ac-
companying picture of Papa — “What a kindly old fink!” Then we
rounded out the family with twin boys — Schuyler and Pell, now
aged seven.

For the past ten years I’ve been one of the vocal champions of the
American dairy farmer as marketing counsel for the Dairymen’s
League Co-operative Association even though coming as I do from
Westchester County I hardly know one end of a cow from the
other. Contented cows— discontented farmers— how to get less
milk from the former and more money for the latter — that’s the
challenge.

One other story concerning Barrett which will show my continu-
ing interest in higher education. Three summers ago he was taking
a make-up course in English. Came the day of his final exam and I
came home that night most anxious to learn how he had made out.
Barrett came bursting out of the door— “Guess what, Dad,” he
said, “I got a 97 today!” Barrett seeing me stunned and awed by
this apparent academic achievement hurriedly told me, ‘Oh, no —
out on the golf course!” I’m glad to report he did get by in English
though later developments left a little something to be desired. As
for the golf, a couple of years later he was in the 70’s — who
should worry — maybe I have an Arnold Palmer in the family.

As for my own educational gaspings — for twelve years now we've
had a Great Books group in Pelham. We're only on the eleventh
year reading list, which shows we're a little mentally retarded. We

[1014 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

understand there’s only one other group in the New York metro.
politan area—in Greenwich — with equal longevity. One of the
wives in our group has suggested “a rumble” with the Greenwichers
to determine G.B supremacy.

Now a few jottings about Harvard. I think the Great Books baw.
ness described above shows that Harvard was not completely wasted
on me. Much of it was. When I wasn’t attending other schools of
higher learning, such as Wellesley, Smith and Radclitfe — in short
when I was actually in attendance at Harvard, I found some of the
most inspired teaching on the professorial level and some of the
poorest teaching on the instructor level, with notable exceptions of
course. The general level of teaching competence was inferior to
what I had experienced at high school in Bronxville. Instructors are
picked with greater care now, I’m sure. Academic recluscs just don’t
provide the spark necessary for great teaching. And great teaching
is certainly to be expected from Harvard.

Am I proud to be a Harvard man? Of course, | am. And I'm

looking forward eagerly to attending this Reunion to refresh the
memories of some very happy times.

CHARLES JOSEPH MOOS

    

HOME ADDRESS: 200 VV, 18th St. New York at, NY.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 551 Fifth Ave, New York 19, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Oak Lane Country Day School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.O. prnaena cere Lesete, 1 )%, 0h mw EC es
of Pennsylvania), 1941.

marriep: Alys Eiseman, July 2, 1944 (divorced ied, Vera Vogel Pye iA

1961. CHILDREN: Alan, June 14, tggg; John, July ® saga, Jock Aped pa
1954.

[ tors ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occuPaTIoN: Attorney, in general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Partner in law firm of Fink, Weinberger, Levin & Gottschalk,
since 1960; associate in law firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Hand-
ler, 1958-60; manager of talent administration, 1956-58; manager of labor
relations, 1954-56; labor attorney, 1950-54; National Broadcasting Com-
pany, labor attorney, R.C.A., 1947-50; Commissioner of Conciliation, U.S.

Dept. of Labor, 1946-47; historian, U.S. Army Air Force, 1943-46; medi-
ator, National War Labor Board, 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the City of
New York,

IT is, of course, impossible for twenty-five years to have slithered
by since we were undergraduates. The image of the Class of 1913
cavorting on Soldiers Field during our Class Day seems more like
five than twenty-five years ago. Surely, it was forced, if not ridicu-
lous, for men in their late middle age to behave so childishly. Would
we be equally ridiculous at our Twenty-fifth Reunion? Not a
chance! For one simple reason — Our Class knew we would never
be around.

The world had gone to hell; depression was a permanent way of
life, and Fascism was on the march. The next World War was in
the wings waiting eagerly for the chance to prove that the race
could not survive. However, with relatively few exceptions, we're
still alive; and with a quarter of a century behind us as Harvard
Alumni, we’re now asked to look backward without the peril of be-
ing turned into a pillar of salt.

But a recital of the “facts and ideas which have been important
. - - in these twenty-five years” does not come easily. For, like so
many others to whom I talk, or whose output I read, the turbulence
of change has buffeted my sense of values. . .

I left Harvard College with a massive anxiety over the problem of
getting a job and earning a living. Law School provided a double re-
lease by putting off the decision for three more years and ostensibly
giving me a trade which I could proffer to the labor movement (I
had learned during my senior year how mediocre were my talents
as a volunteer union organizer).

However, for over sixteen years following my admission to the
bar, I not only did not practise law, but my work in labor relations
was, with the exception of a couple of years in the government, ex-
clusively on the side of management. During this period, I entered
into an ill-advised marriage and fathered three sons, the last of whom
was seriously retarded by congenital brain damage.

All in all, the period was characterized by a mounting sense of

[ 1016 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

frustration and confusion. Both at home (suburban New York City)
and on the job (a broadcasting network), it became increaungly plan
that fundamental changes were in order.

Thus, at the age of forty, I began to practise law, learning for the
first time many of the things which legal cubs acquire in thers
twenties. In another few years, I had been divorced and remarned
a woman whom I had known for thirty years and who has proved
an even more delightful contrast to her predecessor than [could have
hoped for. The budgetary economics are far from simple and bie
is not trouble-free, but unlike its pre-1958 phase. the machine nm ne
longer flying on a collision course, hopelessly out of cont rol.

In short, if our Mr. K continues to keep his head, and their Me. K
doesn’t get pressured into psychotic behavior, I sce neo reason why
most of us should not be around to write similar pieces for our
Fiftieth.

JAMES HARRY MORAN, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 32 Mansion Rd., Wallingford, Conn,

OFFICE appRESS: Moran's Pharmacy, Wallingford, Cann,

PREPARED AT: Lyman Hall High School, \Wallingfosd, Cann.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. Denes: Aw, 19th

MarriED: Barbara Browning, June jo, 19¢}.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Moran's Pharmacy.

OFFICES HELD: Member, three terma, chasms, arc) tyten Mensed of Pre oes,
Wallingford.

MEMBER OF: Farms Country Club, Wallingford Ciaanery Chath, (enemy te of
Pharm, Association, Harvard Club of Southern Comms rn ut

PRESENTLY serving in fourteenth Seat ava member of tha Pooed
of Education in Wallingford. Democrat.

[ sor7

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CLIFTON WENTWORTH MOREY

 

HoME Appress: Morrison Court Apts., Apt. 33, 2311 Morrison, Tampa, Fla.
OFFICE ApDRESS: Townes Auto Rentals, Inc., 3404 Henderson Blvd., Tampa,

Fla,

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.; New Hampton Preparatory
School, New Hampton, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935+

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Manager, Townes Auto Rentals, Inc., of Tampa and St. Peters-
burg, Florida,

MEMBER of Harvard Freshman Hockey Team, position of goal,
and won all games including Yale. Transferred to Massachusetts
State College, was a nine-letter man in sports, football, hockey and
baseball, captaining football and hockey in senior year. After gradu-
ation, member of faculty of New Hampton Prep School, teaching
mathematics and coaching baseball and hockey and football. Took a
course for a commission in the Navy at Northwestern University and
received an ensign commission. Served the Navy through World
War II, and was honorably discharged with the commission of lieu-
tenant commander.

[ 1018 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

i RICHARD STUART MORGAN

 

BoRN: May 13, 1917, Rochester, N.H. parents: John Arthur Morgan, Catherine
Vallely.

PREPARED AT: Rochester High School, Rochester, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1938-1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1938( 39).

pDIED: July 29, 1950, Washington, D.C.

AFTER graduation Morgan spent a year in graduate study and
then entered government service in Washington, He was aceulen-

tally drowned in Washington, D.C.

FRANK GLENN MORRIS, JR.

 
     

/

MAILING ADDRESS; Stavid Engincering, Ine. Plainfichl, N. j.

-
ieee
weet"
ee es

{ torg )

__—/

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
JAMES LORD MORRISSON
perenne oe ten 7

 

d, Decatur, Ga.

t, Decatur, Ga.

y, Andover, Mass,

IEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.Dy 1942,

Oct, 17, 1942, cluLpReN: Anne Elizabeth, Dec.
1, 194; Harold Gleason, June 1, 1949, Eugenta

Emory Medical School, since 1950, prest
,19s5; student physician, Emory University,
jan Church; snember of stafl, Emory Unt
ral THoypntal, Georgia Baptist Hospital

1020 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: DeKalb Medical Society; Georgia Heart Awocration, Creongrs
Medical Association; Southern Medical Association; Decatur Rotary (hate,

University Yacht Club.

FOLLOWING graduation, Dick Keene, °38, and | bieycled through

Europe with a group of American students using the ‘veuth hintch

This experience improved our linguistic abilitics and led to @ yob as

town leader the next year. Medical school and the war broughe ary

abrupt halt to these summer activities. Harvard Medical School was
a real pull for me but what a revelation in new ficlds of know kaye
and what a stimulus to go on learning. After graduation [ spent a
year’s internship at Roosevelt in New York City. During this time
I married the girl I had met during my senior year at medical heel,
She supported me in a rather inadequate fashion unul the US. Ady
called. I was the surgeon for an Infantry battalion, alerted to duty
in the Normandy invasion, I got a real taste of war dunng my bref
fifty days’ combat about St. Lo. The enemy halted mv tulitary
career by capturing me along with my aid station and our chaplain,
Thereafter, thanks to deutsch-sprechen, 1 maintained an anf waten
for Americans during the German retreat. After this [ operated a
small hospital for wounded American prisoners of war, The slanty
Monthly published my memoirs in 1946.

Four years’ training in internal medicine followed our return to
civilian life. We settled by choice here in the deep South. Que town
is adjacent to a metropolis and to two colleges, It is a progresuve
community and a great place to raise our four soung Amerie sne
Practice is busy and exacting, life is full with children, church and
Civic activities. Born and raised in Masachusctty transplanted. tes
Georgia, I have become a more enthusiastic southernee than the
native sons.

froze |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PHILIP WEBER MORSE

pene cos et ge cr swynetie cet estat a

eA : m j
og 3

fo

“ee

}
:

or : .
&.

HOME appreEss: 2729 Derbyshire Rd., Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

OFFICE appress: The Weatherhead Co., 300 E. 131st St., Cleveland 8, Ohio.

prepared AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marrieD: Margaret Brooks, June 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Philip Stubler, March 19,
1943; Eleanor Lincoln, July 11, 1946; Alan Parker, May 19, 1951.

occupation: Director of market research, The Weatherhead Company, manu-
facturers of hydraulic components.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Shenendehowa Central School, Schenectady, N.Y.,
1948-55; trustee, Freedom Forum, Inc., 1953-55.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Metals; Cleveland Engineering Society;
Great Books; City Club of Cleveland.

PUBLICATIONS: “Ultra High Frequency Heating,” Electronics, 1948; articles on
the application of induction heat, Metal Progress, Iron Age; patents dealing
with various methods for using high frequency energy for heating.

> eta
. 4
4
i

 

LIFE for the Morse family during the first twenty-five years has
seemed close to what an academic brother-in-law describes as the
phenomenon of the “downward mobility” of American industry.
Because of decentralizations, acquisitions, incompatibility with the
boss, and a basic desire to advance, the average length of stay for us
at any one place has been about three years. All things considered
though, our nomadic existence has turned out surprisingly well.
Instead of returning to my prewar job in the advertising depart-
ment of the Cleveland Plain Dealer after deduction from the sub-
marine Navy in 1945, I joined the electronics department of the
General Electric Company in Syracuse, New York, as a member of
a research and development project to investigate ultra high fre-
quency of foods. Eighteen months later it was apparent that foods
could be heated by radio frequency, and that commercial success of

[ 1022 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the project was impossible. At this point, an offer of a position in
the General Electric Company, Schenectady, was gratefully re-
ceived and accepted.

The move to Schenectady took me out of electronics enginccring
and into apparatus sales department of the General Electric Com-
pany. Our stay at this location proved to be the longest of any —
nearly eight years. Wholehearted participation in the Schenectady
community life taught me how easy it is to obtain non-paying, pub-
lic-spirited jobs just about for the asking. Along with other school
board members, I stayed up nights for six years working out consoli-
dation of twenty-two school districts north of Schenectady, and
the construction of a large central school. The impact this project
had on the community was extraordinary. Next came a department
of adult education and consolidation of area churches. Our class was
well represented at the school dedication ceremony. Francis Keppel
gave the principal address.

One other extracurricular activity, Freedom Forum, produced an
amusing situation. Problem: To find a large auditorium for a lecture
by Owen Lattimore at the height of the McCarthy tral. This was
the emergency we faced when we were denied at the last minute the
use of the local college chapel. Fortunately, the Schencctady Public
School system was liberal enough to grant us the use of its facilities
and the show went on. A few months later, Senator Robert Taft,
as a speaker in the same lecture series, restored confidence in the
community that we were not going “red.”

In 1955 the decentralization program of the General Flcetrie
Company involved the industrial heating department where |
worked. By September, the Morse family turned Hoosier te take
part in the establishment of this newly formed department in Shelby-
ville, Indiana. The Hoosier hitch turned out poorly. Picture the
incongruous situation of a moderately technical department of the
General Electric Company trying to establish itself in the center of
the corn-hog conversion country, or the distaff side trying to inte.
grate into a small southern Indiana town. When the offer of the pera:
tion of general sales manager by a small company in Youngsrown,
Ohio, came around, we were ready to move.

My present connection with The Weatherhead Company in Cleve-
land came about after two years in Youngstown, Shortly after my
arrival there, it was apparent that the president of the company did
not really want to relinquish the job of general sales manayce which
he had been carrying for years along with the duties of cantrulles,

{ 1023 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

chief engineer and production manager, I found myself in the un-
enviable position of competing with the president-owner of the
company for the same position, At Weatherhead life has been
moderately interesting. My present position of director of market
research and product planning is a corporate staff activity. I have
been through the mill in several of the line sales management posi-
tions at Weatherhead, so things have been far from dull.

Our elder son is now at the University of Rochester; the next in
line is beginning to eye some of the eastern girls’ colleges. My wife
has finally kicked over the domestic traces and is on the teaching
staff of Western Reserve University Medical School. We both
sing in a church choir sans solo complex. Every other week Jack
Viets guides us ably through another installment of Great Books.
More often than not, I find myself defending the Kennedy adminis-

tration, but arguments fail me when I try to justify the man on the
moon.

WELLS MORSS

See PERNT ST,

> RRR DRYER ME POE

 

HOME appress: Jewell Street (South Hampton, N.H.), R.F.D. 1, Amesbury,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Middletown, R.L
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

Marriep: Nancy MacLean Rice, May 25, 1955. cup: Leslie Lyman, July 4,
1954 (adopted).

occupation: Private consultant and investor, small business.

MEMBER OF: Operations Research Society of America, Harvard Club of Boston,
Tennis & Racquet Club, Eastern Yacht Club, Cruising Club of America,
Portland Yacht Club, Royal Bermuda Yacht Club.

TAKING stock at this twenty-five-year point is not an easy task.

[ 1024 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have a fine and still growing family, also various maternal powes
sions. My convictions and philosophies of life are numerous, but any
overriding objective to give them substance presently is fleeung.

On leaving College in the summer of 1938, | moved down Masa.
chusetts Avenue to Central Square and the family business, With
time out only for a tour of duty in the Army's Transportation Corps,
I spent twenty years there, years which were good at ames frustrat-
ing at others. The advantage of relatively quick indoctrination inte
all the facets of business operation made life interesting. It was offset
ultimately by increasing concern over the nature of family respons-
bility to our employees and surrounding community. As so fre-
quently happens in family businesses, ditferences of opinion ainong
its members turned first into bitter argument and finally into come
plete chaos. The faction to which I belong was the fint to go, and |
confess I departed with a feeling of great relicf.

Feeling no urgency about carving mysclf a new niche in the bus-
ness world, I have since been engaged in a confusion of rather in-
consequential activities. There has been ample ume for taking part in
the affairs of small businesses: investigation, consulting and on ovca-
sion more direct participation. Most of all, these last few have been
years of considerable leisure, of enjoying the fruits of life. Although
my conscience has not let me forget that I was net wholly responu-
ble for these fruits, I have found this an ideal time for a rexpite fevers
the normal pressures and pace of life, if not an ideal ume for wnnung
about it.

Nancy, my exuberant and active wife, and I live in the country, a
suburb of no place in particular far removed from the intluenve of
Harvard. It makes an excellent base for our sortics into the more
strenuous world around us. We have one daughtce, alimne nine,
whom we adopted six years ago, and the Promise by an aboperen
agency of an infant son, provided that he ts allowed ne part on the
forthcoming reunion. For additional company we have any where
from two to seven dogs. For added pleasure we have Nancy's beau:
tiful singing voice, to which a talented teacher ts giving her atten:
tion. When there is nothing else to do, we are off crusung and ocean
racing, with the whole Atlantic Coast and outhing mlinde av sur
sailing province.

It is a good life, and when E find the business Fam booking foe and
settle down once again to more scrious pursuity it will be even bereee

{[ 1025 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

THOMAS MOTLEY
$I oe

    

HOME apprEss: 115 School St. (R.F.D.), South Acton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Field & Cowles, 40 Broad St., Boston 7, Mass.

pPrePARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRigD: Barbara Chandler, June 3, 1939. CHILDREN: Thomas, Jr., Feb. 7, 1942,
Katherine, Aug. 30, 1943; Warren, 2d, Nov. 18, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Motley, Jr., '63.

OccuPATION: Partner, Field & Cowles, insurance firm.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and corporator, Warren Institution for Savings, 1946-63;
trustee, National Braille Press, Inc., 1950-63, member, Republican Town
Committee, 1952-63; chairman, 1954-56, member, executive committee and
director, 1954-63, Boston Metropolitan Chapter, American Red Cross;
treasurer, Concord Chapter, American Field Service, 1959-62; director,
1957-63, vice-president, 1960-63, United Fund of Greater Boston.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club; Harvard Club in Concord (member,
Scholarship Committee); Concord Chorus.

IT is hard to believe that the time has come to report on twenty-five
years of activity. The normal humdrum of business life makes time
fly and it isn’t until you look at your children’s progress, tick off the
countless number of committees of town, charities, business associa-
tions and church on which one has served, that the passage of time
becomes a reality,

To recite in detail the many experiences of the period would be
impossible so that all I can do is to hit the high spots. The first seven
years centered around military activities and trying to establish a
family under war conditions.

V-J Day found me as C.O. of a destroyer, converted to a fleet
minesweeper; the day was particularly enjoyable since it immediately
halted plans for an unescorted cruise off the scenic coast of Japan.

[ 1026 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
A very happy family reunion was somewhat dampened by the real-
ization that I was worth only half as much as an insurance man as

I was as a sailor.
However, we did eat and enjoyed the years when the hids were

home and struggling to make their place in kindergarten and with

the kids on the street. The two elder ones survived this era with

considerable style and the usual number of fights and tears. Warren
came along in 1948 to act as a junior umpire, politician and object
of scorn, but above all recipient of most of the spoils (until he was

ten—-then Tommy and Katie got wise and relegated him to a

normal younger brother status).

All during this period I seemed to get more and more involved tn
what my former roommate, F. Bigelow, classifies as “good works.”
Initially these took the path of fund-raising for Red Cross and other
lesser causes, not the least of which was promoting the financial cause
of the Class of 1938. This period of service reached a peak in 19¢4
when I was elected chairman of the Boston Metropolitan Chapter
of the American National Red Cross. It was a more tune-consunung
assignment than I had expected since it involved a complete reorgan-
ization of the chapter management. In 1955 we were involved in
the Disaster operation resulting from the Eastern States Hoot, “This
was an exhilarating and exciting experience. In a matter of a few
weeks a small group backed by the national organization witnewed
the mobilization of the whole community to help victims from the
Pennsylvania mountains to Winsted, Connecticut, and Cape Cand.

The American people are really terrific when a real emergency
at hand. In this case we were asked to raise $80,000 for the job.
Using only a few letters, radio, newspapers and TV as a means of
soliciting we were forced to publicly call off the drive because in
three weeks we had exceeded $400,000. Quite a contrast to the
normal fund-raising effort.

By 1956 it was time for me to resign and mend my insurance
fences, which was not immediately successful, for in tgs, after nine
teen years with one firm, I moved to the insurance agency of Bich
& Cowles. Leaving old friends was difficult; transferring Libsurese wae
hard but well worth the effort. Now a partner of the firm, PE thenk
that I have reached relative security, but above all a pesition thot
allows for cooperative effort and growth.

The past five years have been a minture of happiness at werk and
sickness at home that has been very ditficule but at the sien toe
rewarding, because through Barbara's illness the whole fasiute hee

[ 1027 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

learned a sense of values that we probably would otherwise never
have attained. All of the children through these years have suffered
but have at the same time grown in stature and human understand-
ing beyond their years.

One of the highlights of the recent years has been the family par-
ticipation in the American Field Service program. Tommy got us
started when he spent an interesting summer in Western Germany
with a family, the father of which had just been released as a Russian
prisoner of war after fourteen years. Katie was anxious to have
similar experiences and hence involved me in setting up a local chap-
ter in her school. Three years later she did get an assignment of six
months in Milan, Italy. She lived with the family of Italy’s outstand-
ing nuclear physicist and attended the public high school. A fascinat-
ing experience for us all, because we have since met her Italian par-
ents and had their daughter with us for the better part of four months
in the summer of 1961. I cannot over-emphasize the importance of
this and other foreign student exchange programs.

In retrospect I think that the guiding influence in our family life
ever since the war has been the ever-increasing importance of our
life in the church. From a very nebulous influence it has become a
dominant force.

As I write this, the President is announcing the blockade of Cuba,
which may mark the end of another twenty-five-year-cycle between
wars. I hope not; but, if it does, I think that as a family we are better
prepared to face such a future than we were in circa 1938-41.

JULIAN KING MOWERY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 4009 Red Rock Lane, Sarasota, Fla.

[ 1028 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT FRED MOZLEY

    

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Cordova Ct., Portola Valley, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, Stanford, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.; Central Clasical Elgh
School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938, 8.M., pro. (Univ. of
California), 1950.

MarRIED: Alberta Jameson, 1945 (divorced 1952); Julia Buck, 1953. coatnarn:
Peter Snow, Dec. 23, 1958; John Cochran, June 7, 1960.

occuPATION: Professor, High Energy Physics Laboratory and Stanford Linear
Accelerator Center.

OFFICES HELD: Project engineer, Sperry Gyroscope Company, 1945, assistant
professor of physics, Princeton University, 1952; associate professor and
professor, Stanford University, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; American Civil Liberties Union, Sigma
Xi; N.A.A.C.P.; Federation of American Scientists; American Awsocianen
of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Electronic patents; publications in Meson Physics.

I LEFT Harvard with a degree in physics but no firm idca of what
I wanted to do. I had vague industrial, scientific and teaching ambs-
tions, but my main purpose was to save some moncy so as to be able
to travel.

My first job was as a teacher at Pomfret School, and although t
enjoyed the teaching, I found the pressure of enforcing clasrooim
discipline too great and was soon convinced that I would not make
a great secondary school teacher. After a year I left for Plawan
with my savings and unfortunately for all concerned ended up again
as a teacher, this time in a mission school to the horror of my more
religious acquaintances,

The year following this I spent in wandering about the Onent
This year was exciting and my present viewpoints are combtenes

[ 1029 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

by my memory of the warmth, intelligence and yet incredible
poverty of the people I met.

I returned to the United States shortly before Pearl Harbor and
went to work at Sperry Gyroscope Company as a laboratory engi-
neering assistant. Wartime electronics was very purposeful and I en-
joyed my life and work, but by 1945 the prospect of peacetime en-
gineering seemed dull and as a result as soon as the war was over I
went to the University of California at Berkeley to study physics.
To some extent by accident I ended up in nuclear physics and in
this ficld I have remained. Although the day to day operations of
this field do not differ very much from those of engineering, the
motivations are quite different. I can safely boast, and I do, that I
have discovered nothing useful for destroying people, and if my
present field of elementary particle physics threatens to become
“useful,” this would seem an excellent reason for leaving it.

Although I was tremendously impressed by the University of
California and the fine free education it provided, I was pleased after
obtaining my degree to take a job at Princeton since by that time,
1950, the loyalty oath was at Berkeley and McCarthy was in full
cry in the land, At such times private universities offer their staffs
more freedom of expression and dignity than the public universities
can offer.

My life at Princeton was most eventful. My first marriage ended
here in 1952 and in 1953 I met and married Julia Buck. After our
wedding we left for California where I had taken a research job at
Stanford University. Here I have remained since in a job which
allows me to spend half of my time on any research I may choose
and the remaining time in chores (partly administrative and partly
scientific) which relate to the construction and operation of high
energy particle accelerators.

In general I am pleased with the choices I have made. Although
I don’t feel that basic research is the only important way to spend
one’s life, I find it very pleasant. Academic life has many charms; in
particular one’s independence and the breadth of interests of one’s
associates and friends.

My wife and I find that we have changed considerably in most of
our ideas since our college days. We consider ourselves to be liberal
Democrats and wish that the differences between parties were more
clearly drawn. In our brief excursions from our academic circle we
are horrified at the anti-Negro and anti-Semitic feelings we find
throughout American society.

[ 1030 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jule and I have two young sons, Peter and Jack, aged four and
two and one-half, and I am still on oceasion involved in chores such
as diaper changing when most of my classmates are worrying about
college tuition payments. Our life is hectic and pleasant and threat-
ens to be more of both next spring when we Icave for Parts on a

sabbatical year.

ge eee

JAMES ABBERTON MULKERN, JR.

     

HOME ADDRESS: 5249 Apo Drive, Honolulu 16, Hawaii.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Factors, Ltd., Fort and Queen Ses, Honolulu, Paw ais.

PREPARED AT: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marriED: Margery Bailey, Dec. 7, 1946.
occupation: Manager, Fire-Marine Department, American Factory Inwerame

Division.
MEMBER OF: Waialae Country Club.

[ 1031 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

—— JAMES CORNELIUS MULLAN

 

———==5 Maple St., Needham 92, Mass.

———ANIEL CLIFFORD MULLONEY

 

———————4 Wagon Wheel Rd., Alexandria, Va.

[ 1032 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ CHARLES ALEXANDER MUNN, JR.

Se ROE SM

 

BORN: Oct. 25, 1913, Radnor, Pa. PARENTS: Charles Alexander Munn, ‘ra, Mary

Paul.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.
MarrieD: Loretta Philbin Strauff, March 18, 1950, Balcamore, Md. canrip:

Charles Alexander, 3d, Dec. 1954.

DIED: Sept. 5, 1957, Owings Mills, Md.

wipow: Mrs. Charles A. Munn, Jr., Caves Road, Owings Mills, Mid.

WHILE at college Munn was a resident of Kirkland House and a
member of the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770 and the A.D. Club.
Except for service as a Navy pilot during World War II, he had
been associated with the American Totalisator Company in Balo-
more since leaving college. He was survived by his wife and son.

JAMES STEWART MUNROE

et
”

      

HOME ADDRESS: 890 VV. Foothill Blvd., Arcadia, Calif,

[ 1033 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

orrice appress: J. V. Baldwin Motor Co., 1417 S. Figueroa St., Los Angeles 15,
Calif.

prepared at: Grosse Pointe High School, Grosse Pointe, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Michigan),
1941.

marrigp: Nancy Jane Baldwin, July 11, 1941. cHrtpren: James Stewart, Jr., Oct.
3, 1943. Laurie Richardson, April 22, 1947.

occupaTiON: President, J. V. Baldwin Motor Company, Chevrolet dealership,
Baldwin Agency, Inc. car financing and leasing, Munroe Agency, Inc,
insurance; secretary, Baldwin Land Company, real estate development
company; president, Impex International, Inc., importers and distributors.

MEMBER OF: California Club, Los Angeles, Annandale Golf Club, Pasadena,
Bohemian Club, San Francisco,

STILL doing the same things in the same places as I was at the last
Report — but not with the same alacrity.

HUGO MUNSTERBERG

f: nes nem Sg ony SR

    

HOME AppRESS: 48 Elting Ave. New Paltz, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State University College, New Paltz, N.Y.

prepareD at: Mommsen and Bismarck Gymnasiums, Berlin, Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; PH-D., 1941.

MARRIED: Marjorie Bowen, June 26, 1943. cHiLp: Marjorie, Nov. 26, 1952-

occupation: Professor of art history.

oFFices HELD: Vestry, All Saints Episcopal Church, East Lansing, Mich., St.
Andrew’s Episcopal Church, New Paltz, N.Y. .

MEMBER OF: College Art Association; Japan Society; Chinese Art Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Short History of Chinese Art; Twentieth Century Painting;
Landscape Painting of China and Japan; The Arts of Japan; The Folk Art

of Japan; The Art of the Chinese Sculptor, Japanese Ceramincs, Zen and
Art (in process of publication).

AFTER graduation my original ambition had been to get into the

[ 1034 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

publishing business, an endeavor in which I happily failed. So I went
back to Harvard and made my Ph.D. in art history, specializing in
the field of Oriental art under Professor Rowland. Since that time,
with the exception of the war years in the Army, I have been teach.
ing art history, first at Wellesley, then Michigan State Univernicy,
the International Christian University in Tokyo, Hunter College in
New York and, at present, at the New York State University College
at New Paltz. I have found my profession a deeply satisfying one,
for I enjoy the academic atmosphere, love teaching my classes and
find working with the young constantly refreshing and rewarding.

My other main interest, which especially in the last ten years has

engaged more and more of my time and energy, has been writing
on art. After eight books, numerous articles and a great deal of art
criticism, I have found this activity one which seems to fulfill an
inner need and gives me a great deal of satisfaction, as well as meets
with a surprising degree of success both critical and financial. As 1
am writing this, plans for my ninth and tenth books are taking shape
and the end is not yet in sight. The kind of book I am trying to
write is one which will combine the latest scholarship with aesthenie
insight and a simple and lively style.

My personal life has been a happy and fairly uneventful one.
During my first year of teaching at Wellesley, I met (in one of my
classes) and later married Peggy Bowen of Rehoboth, Massachusetts
and Providence, Rhode Island. We have one child, a daughter named
Marjorie who is ten years old and so far seems to be an attractive and
very bright youngster. My wife is a novelist and short story writer
who has published one novel and hopes to publish a second by the
time this goes to press. We have moved ten times in the twenty
years of our marriage; among other places, we have lived in Boston,
Cambridge, Tokyo and New York City. Now, however, we hope
that we are permanently settled in New Palez, a small Huguenot
town in the Hudson Valley which combines the joys of the country
with easy access to New York in an ideal manner. Both of us have
become quite active in community activities, with my wife current:
ly serving as a trustee of the local library and my being onthe vestry
of the local Episcopal church. My main hobby is collecting Japanese
ceramics, of which I have some two hundred outstanding spoaumens,
while my wife has in recent years taken up gardening with preset
passion. Although I think folly surrounds us and the outlook for the
world is rather bleak, I do have a good deal of contidence ia our

[ 1035 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

fellow Harvard man in the White House and in some measure of
sanity prevailing.

JOSEPH MURPHY

wen ee

   

HOME Appress: 225 W. 23d St. New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Church St, New York 7, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Pond School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

UN MARRIED.

occuPATION: Insurance broker,

oFFicEs HELD: Secretary, New York County Republican Committee, since 1959.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; numerous fraternal orders.

APPOINTED in 1959 by Governor Rockefeller to the Temporary
Committee to Study Rents and Rental Conditions in the State of
New York; still serving in this capacity as an appointee of the
Governor.

[ 1036 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT CUSHMAN MURPHY, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Waverly, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1938. DEGREES: S.B, 1938; Min. (Cornell
Univ.), 1942.

MarRRIED: Nathalie Hazard Osborn, Jan. 30, 1942. CHULDREN: Robin Maryore,
March 22, 1944; J. Shaun, Oct. 11, 1945; Jennifer S., Jan. 8, iyst-

OCCUPATION: Psychiatry.

MEMBER OF: American Psychiatry Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Many articles including: “Cross Disciplinary Fducation.” Pd tess
Relations IV, 1951; “Man Without a Conscience,” Northwest Med. Jar
uary, 1953; “Defenses of a Six-Year Old,” American Journal of Orrbe-
psychiatry, 1954; “McCarthyism,” The Nation, March, tosq: “Rev. Peale's
Panacea,” The Nation, May, 1955; “Psychotherapy Based on Eluman Long-
ing,” Pendle Hill Pamphlet 111, 1960; “A Suicidal Fmergeney.” Jot aad
of Existential Psychiatry Tl, 1961.

I AM a psychiatrist in private practice, in my home near Scranton,
Pennsylvania. Except for administering my own self -ciplos ment,
which I find burdensome, it is an adventurous and at the sume ume
effortless job. It is almost impossible to avoid helping people whe
seek self-understanding, if one will just take care not to try too hard.
I do so with patients as individuals, with couples and) often
whole families seen together, with psychotherapy groups and, ona
few rare and occasionally dramatic circumstances, by taking dhe
turbed patients to live briefly with us in our home. LT hhe all nV
patients, but the ones that really get under my shin are these whe are
schizophrenic. There is a quality abour schizophrenic people that
makes them almost universally lovable, at Icast in the realtively qo:
trolled setting of a psychothcrapceutic relationship,
A year ago at a meeting, a gentleman came Up to me amd ached

[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

“Didn't you take my course, L-----, at Harvard?” I looked at him
altogether blank, and he went on with gymnastic memory, to add:
“That was probably a quarter of a century ago.” After a long time
I remembered one symbol from the course, which I rather vacuously
wrote for him on a piece of paper. He was exceedingly kind and
even seemed appreciative of my symbol. The subject changed and
we had an enjoyable conversation.

The episode brought home to me the extent of my amnesia. It is
too bad; at Jeast it seems sort of sad, to me. I think I tend to romanti-
cize what I missed. I saw a picture of the area in front of the Wide-
ner steps—I think it was in “Harvard Today” — with the lights
reflecting at night from the snow, and it looked like a place I had
visited in a dream and could not go back to. I don’t think I can fill

in the interval between then and now either briefly or clearly; I’m
not sure how well I understand it.

WILLIAM MICHAEL MURPHY

Jom ee rem ot rng nea

     

HOME AbpREss: 1077 Glenwood Blvd., Schenectady 8, N.Y.

OFFICE Appress: Bailey Hall, Union College, Schenectady 8, N.Y.

prepared aT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1938; A.M. 1941;
PH.D. 1947.

Marrigp: Evelyn Harriet Doane, Sept. 2, 1939. cHmpren: David Timothy Mi-

chael, June 13, 1941, Susan Doane, March 4, 1943; Christopher Ten Broeck,
Jan, 28, 1946.

HARVARD SON; David Timothy Michael Murphy, ’63.

OCCUPATION: Professor of English, Union College.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in English, Harvard College, 1938-40, 1942-43; secre-
tary to the University Committee on Educational Relations, Harvard,
1940-42; assistant professor of English, 1946-48, associate professor, 1948-

[ 1038 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

60, professor, since 1960, Union College; visiting profewor of English
literature and American civilization, University of Freiburg im Brengay,
Germany, 1953-54; professor of American civilization, Seminar for Amer
can Studies, Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany, 1954; chairman, Muneipal
Housing Authority, Schenectady, 1951-52; supervisor, Schenectady Canney
Board of Supervisors, 1957; special advisor to Mayor Samuct S. Serarton,
1959, 1961-63; chairman, 1956-57, board of directors, since 194°, Free
dom Forum, Inc.; chairman, Schenectady Citizens Convention for the
Public Schools, 1960-61; president, Union College Chapter, Phi Reta
Kappa, 1955-57; president, 1960-62, vice president, 1950-40, since tytn,
Harvard Club of Eastern New York, member, New York State Advnory
Committee to U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, since 19432.

puBLicaTions: Aircraft Rockets in Anti-Submarine Warfare, with Davial
Worcester, U.S. Navy, 1944; Challenges to Thought, with Cart Nicmeves.
1952; David Worcester, 1907-1947; A Memorial, 1933, miscellaneous arte-
cles in periodicals.

I AM writing this one day before the deadline, spurred on by tcle-
grams and letters from Cambridge, Syracuse and New York. The
reason I have had such difficulty in getting down to the composition
of what should be a simple essay is that I have somchow always
thought of a Twenty-fifth Reunion Report as a summing-up, a hind
of final autobiography, a history of completed deeds and achieved
goals, a record of victory in the struggle with life.

But such concepts are utterly irrelevant to my story. As [try to
sum up I get only a series of sub-totals. Many of my deeds are in-
completed, all my goals not achieved, my contest with life a standl-
off at best. To put it more simply, I feel young and enthusiastic, |
like what I’m doing, and there is so much more [ wane to do that I
don’t feel like writing my own obituary just yet.

To satisfy my hungry classmates, however, here is a simple sum-
mary by the categories suggested on the report form:

CAREER HISTORY. I am a professor of English at Union Col-
lege. No higher title being available, I suppose [have reached the
top here. But I still feel like a novice in scholarship. T would give

much for a few extra years which I could spe nd exclusively on sendy ,
Chaucer and Shakespeare remain my favorites, but [have ‘ales fanny
a class in American Civilization for more than ten years anf et
the history of our country and our people endlewly fascinatins

FAMILY. We still survive strong and healthy, theush [often
wonder how much longer our luck will hold oe. Que eldest sen
David will graduate from Harvard in June on his twenty secu
birthday and will probably enter law school in the fall, Que dauot.
ter Susan, twenty, is in her second year at Stamens and heopaes tebe

[ 1039 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

NATHAN MYERS

 

HOME appRESS: 44 Woolson St., Mattapan, Mass.

orrice ADDRESS: U.S. Civil Service Commission, Post Office & Courthouse Bldg.,
Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938.
occupation: Placement specialist, U.S. Civil Service Commission.

RICHARD BOTUME MYRICK

 

HOME AbprEss: 4519 Ridge Rd., Dallas, Texas,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5635 Yale Blvd., Dallas, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938, M.L.A., 1940.

MARRIED: Jean Wolverton, Dec, 10, 1949. CHILDREN: Charles Bartlett, June 4,
1955; Anne Blair, Aug. 6, 1957.

occupation: Landscape architect, operating primarily in Dallas and the South-
west.

[ 1042 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORSE

MEMBER OF: American Society of Landscape Architects; Park Cites Roeary
Club; Preston Hollow Presbyterian Church.

ONCE the sobering fact of a Twenty-fifth Reunion is accepted,
we can settle back to a review of what we have donc. Lattle has
been spectacular or newsworthy and yet it has been a pleaunt and
rewarding twenty-five years. All of us, I’m sure, are troubled by
missed opportunities and wasted moments, but the whole picture
is a happy one.

After a childhood in eastern Canada (Prince Edward IMand) and
ten years of high school and college in Newton and Cambrilge. |
came to Texas— primarily because here was a job, and I found
the place delightful. Arid perhaps, for a landscape architect, but
bustling and filled with sincere, honest people, cager to mect you,
interested in what you do—certainly not the blatant, breesy,
newly rich type so constantly touted by the slick magazines,

War service consisted of three and a half years of Naval Intelh-
gence in Washington.

Married in 1949 to a delightful, intelligent, native Texan, we
have two children —a boy and girl, now eight and six years old
respectively. They both amaze us with their active brains and
most of our life seems to center around keeping them on an even

keel. We participate spasmodically in politics at the precinct level,
but with a liberal Republican background in the cast, UT find se
difficult to accept the liberal Democrats or conservative Republi.
cans of Texas. Such time as I have spent has been to help establish
a two-party system.

I have had my own professional office as a landscape architect
for eleven years and find that while some of the work is routine,
much of it is fascinating. The process of earning a mestest hviny
and at the same time being creative, occasionally doing something
that is quite different and of which you can be sceretly proud
add up to a satisfying way of life.

+ LEE SOUTHWELL NAF EZGER

BorN: Nov. 17, 1915, Wichita, Kans. pasesrs: Maurme (lift Seferges
Gwendolyn Houston. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

piED: Feb. 14, 1938, Wichita, Kans,

LEE SOUTHWELL NAFTZGER entercd Parsard as a reenter
[ 1043 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

of our Class in the fall of our sophomore year and was granted 4
leave of absence two months later.

LIONEL GEORGE NAMAY

 

HOME AND OFFICE AbpREsS: Route 120, Millbury, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1939.

MarrigD: Mabel Rita Shadan, Oct. 22, 1940. CHILDREN: Helen, Jan. 27, 1942;
George, April 28, 1943; Robert, July 6, 1944; Susan, June 26, 1946.

occuPATioN: Owner-manager, Greenbrier Motor Lodge.

LATE in the fall of 1938, 1 went to work as medical representative
for a chemical house. After two years in New York I was trans-
ferred back to New England and there ] remained for the next
thirteen years, It was during this period of time that the Golden
Hand of Opportunity knocked me down and I ignored her. While
safe stocks in which I indulged in moderately went nowhere fast,
the stock in my own company, which had been offered to me many
times, had a phenomenal growth and made several co-workers
independently wealthy.

In June of 1940, I offered my services to the Navy and in October
of the same year to the Army. Both services were doing well with-
out me at the time and continued to do so.

The next ten years passed quite fast and from this vantage point
only pleasant memories remain. If it had not been for the financial
pressure of providing a college education for four children born
within five years of one another, I probably would have stayed
in Massachusetts until it was time to turn me out to pasture. I liqui-

dated all my possessions and in 1955 moved my family to Ohio,

[ 1044 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where we built a home, a fifty-unit motel, swimming pool, ere.
and gave the whole thing the imposing name of Greenbrier after
its famous elegant cousin in West Virginia. We do have one feature
in common — smelly sulphur water.

Our elder daughter Helen is graduating from Bowling Green
this year with honors in her chosen field of English. The two bovs
George and Robert, are at Ohio University and are choouny
courses which show a leaning toward a life of medicine. The
younger daughter, Susan, has another year to go. We hope to werd
her east to a college of her choice. They are wonderful chillren
and their mother and I are very proud of them.

Our travel, usually as a family group, has been limited to the
eastern half of the United States and the Caribbean. We hope to
extend the scope of this part of our lives to wider horizons starting
this year.

Hobbies are good friends, reading, horses, s. frumenti, travel and
sports in order of decreasing importance. We usually go back
to Massachusetts two or three times a year and I sincerely hope that
the Twenty-fifth Reunion coincides with one of these trips

In politics, generally middle of the road, think that Kennedy ty
doing a fine job in his foreign policy and not so good domesacally,
Religion — Orthodox.

Feel good and optimistic about most all things. My one bey
frustration — inability to hold time back in the ‘slightest wave |

imagine that many classmates have much the same feeling at thee
particular time.

[ ross J

HARVARD CLASS OF I9 38

 

3s: 7662 Homewood Pl, La Mesa, Calif.

ss: Landing Force Training Unit, Pacific Fleet, US. Amphibious
ronado, San Diego 55, Calif.

Newton High School, Newton, Mass,

GE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

Schueller, Aug. 20, 1955. CHILDREN: Gordon Schueller, Feb. 23,
April 23, 1960; Katyna, Sept. 28, 1961.

itcnant colonel, U.S. Marine Corps; deputy director, Land-
fF Planning School.

on I joined the large circle of our classmates who

ung profession, but my experience in this pursuit

ear teaching fine arts and English history at Rox-

ears at Mount Prospect School teaching English
embarked on my career in the Marine Corps.
commission in January, 1942, I joined the 1st

| sailed overseas with them in May, 1942. |

an Infantry officer in various capacities until
V-J Day, taking part in the Guadalcanal,
perations.

5, until early in 1948, 1 was stationed in
ok, Virginia, at a retraining command 10-
in of general court-martial prisoners. This
irs, first as a student, then as an instructot
orps Schools, Quantico, Virginia, In the
¢ and Marine Division at Camp Lejeune,

a regimental and brigade operations

t Services Stat College in Raglan N

1046 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the U.S. Marine representative. This was a rewarding experience
and I made many good friends among the Commonwealth officers
in the course. Later in the year, I joined the staff of the Commander-
in-Chief, U.S. Forces, Europe, then General Grucnther, as the sale
Marine in the Military Assistant Division. Our headquarters were
situated in Frankfurt, but in 1954 we moved to St. Germain-en-
Laye, near Paris. This was a fascinating tour of duty, involving
considerable travel about Western Europe. The culmination of this
tour was my marriage in August of 1955, to Hleclla Schucllee of
Munich, Germany.

My next assignment was in Headquarters Marine Corps where
I headed the personnel research and classification activitics of the
Corps. After a year in the Senior School in Quantico, I reported
in 1959 to the rst Marine Division in California to command the
znd Battalion, Fifth Marines. I took them overseas to Okinawa to
join the 3rd Marine Division. I then became executive officer of
the gth Marine Regiment and Assistant Division G-3 for the re-
mainder of my tour.

Since January of 1961, I have been with the Landing Force Train-
ing Unit at Coronado, California, teaching and directing the instruc-
tion of United States and foreign officers, both here and at their
home bases.

I plan to retire in June and live in Europe for a few years. I would
like to find a suitable position with the overseas office of an Amen-
can firm, but as yet do not know what line I will be in. The
decision to retire has been taken quite recently and my job-hunting
is about to start. I hope by the time of the Reunion to give you
definite information on where I will be. In any event the welcome
mat will always be out in some corner of Europe for my colleagues
of 1938. ‘

[ 1047 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT VINCENT NEARY

 

HOME ApDRESS: 35 Lincoln St., Manchester, Mass.
OFFICE aDpress: Middlesex TB & Health Association, Burlington, Mass,
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

marriep: Yoshiko Nakano, Feb. 4, 1954. CHILDREN: Grace Marie, Jan. 16, 1957;
Joseph Patrick, July 6, 1959.

occupation: Public relations broker, Health Agency (Christmas Seals),

MEMBER OF: Tokyo National Guard; Tokyo American Club; Correspondents

Club.

WHEN Yoshiko and I decided to get married in Tokyo some eight
years ago we found that we had to go through it three times
(American Consulate, Japanese Registry Office, the Church). I
don’t cite this as evidence that things are three times more difficult
without a Harvard degree but, from a twenty-five-year perspective,
‘t may be that they have been three times as complicated. However,
t was a master stroke for me and the dividends, Grace, five and
me-half, and Joe, two and one-half, are proof that it was worth-
hile, notwithstanding a late start. |
The road to Tokyo and back has wandered up and down but
as hardly ever been dull. For example, ] am sure that not many
ft Harvard in recent memory to join a covered wagon caravan
tting out in the dead of winter on foot and horse for Marietta,
the Ohio Country. The Great Northwest Territory Expedition
is attacked by Harvard Indians en route but survived to make
> journey and tour 210 cities and towns in the Midwest. It was
hort jump from there to the old New York World’s Fair and a
on the New York Post. After a couple of years in magazine

tribution with Interborough News, I wound up on St. Patrick’s

[ 1048 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

day, 1941, bound for Fort Dix as an Infantry private. It took about

a year to manage a transfer to the Air Force (USAA Corps) and

via OCS to duty as a captain with the Foreign Cadet Training
Center. I have been lucky enough to run into many of these officers
in other parts of the world, including two who attended Harvard.
After the war even Texas looked good. A profitable year in book
publishing there financed a trade publication in Boston... and
some courses at B.U. Luncheon in New York with a client and
his friend, General McLure, resulted in my appointment as informa-
tion-education officer for SCAP and assignment to the chastened
millions in the seven Prefectures of Kyushu Island in Japan. It also
led to almost a decade of growth, intellectually, emotionally and
professionally. Inevitably it led to my wife and two children.

In the nine and one-half years that led up to the Peace Treaty
and beyond, to the time we boarded the SS Chusan of the P & O in
1959 to return to the States, a good many changes took place in
Japan and a few brushed off on me. There remains a degree of
satisfaction in having had a hand in a really successful land reform
program, in building strong fishing cooperatives, in contributing to
the start of a resurgent industry but particularly in helping t
establish one of the few examples of a free press in Asia, where it
can do so much for so many. A few equally satisfactory bonuscy
were working with the 24th Division during horea, studyi ing at
Sophia University, working on the city desk at Japan Times, head-
ing the Stars and Stripes Bureau in Formosa, publicizing the Reval
Greek Opera in Australia and New Zealand, operating an expert:
import business in Tokyo and acting as executive officer of the
Tokyo National Guard — the oldest Chowder & Marching Society
in Japan.

They have a saying in Nagasaki that in order to be a happy man
one needs a Japanese wife, a Chinese cook and an American house.
I’m taking lessons in cooking — anyone for Peking duck?

In retrospect it seems that wherever I met Harvard men they
were doing something in addition to their careers to contnbate
toward the community — and enjoving it. A good many were re-
cruiting talent in foreign lands as prospective students at Plaevard
and leaders at home. Bricf as my Harvard days were the v rendered
many boons and considerable mileage.

[ 1049 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOSEPH FRANCIS NEE

   

    

oN
Ay]

 

HOME appress: 10 Ellery Lane, Westport, Conn.
OFFICE appress: The National Foundation, 800 Second Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.
MarkiED: Marion Hill, June 24, 1944, CHILDREN: Leslie, Sept. 18, 1947; Jeffrey,

May 2, 1950.
OccuPATION: Senior vice-president, The National Health Council.
OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, National Health Council.
MEMBER OF: National Health Council; U.S. Public Health Association; New
York Touchdown Club; Harvard Club; New Canaan B.P.O.E.,; American

Legion; Patterson Club.

A TWENTY-FIFTH Reunion ought to be joyful occasion. I know.
T am an old hand at attending them. With invitation or without.
This time, though, I must admit my feelings are not of unmixed joy.
The reason is that this is my final attendance at a Twenty-fifth Re-
union. At the first three — 1935, 1936 and 1937 — my credentials
were a little thin, but that didn’t prevent me from being one of the
most enthusiastic participants.

Being rather short on cash at each of those earlier occasions, and
knowing that within a few days the tranquility of Adams House
would change to an ordeal of attempting to fill a twelve-foot dory
with Irish sea moss and lobsters, it seemed only proper that my un-
invited presence should grace the festivities of whatever class was
celebrating its Twenty-fifth. In other words, it never was a very
hard gate to crash,

Of course, the selection of the class was made only after a thorough
and painstaking survey. You see, the Twenty-fifth had had sufficient
time out of school to become affluent enough to afford me. Its

[ 1050 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
members were bound to have developed a taste for the better brands
of liquor. By that time their children (female) had reached an intee-
esting age and members of the class were so old they could net
interfere with my activities. In looking back, I often wonder does
all this still apply? Or will any old brand of liquor do these dayv

On leaving Harvard I decided to become another Dick Harlow or
Knute Rockne and immediately found myself employed as a teacher-
coach at Wooster School, Connecticut. After a couple of vear of
rising at six A.M., teaching five subjects during the day, coaching in
the afternoon and conducting a class in push-ups late in the evening
to exhaust the little angels so they would sleep without disturbing me,
I once again reeled in the umbilical cord and returned to Plarvarcd
as an assistant football coach. This was one of the happtese periwats
of my life. It was then that I realized that bosses weren't all wrong,
that the demanding Dick Harlow gave more of himyclf than he ever
asked of his players.

I believe coaching would have been my carcer had not the war
interfered with my plans and made a trav cling man out of me. For
five years, with bags packed, I was dragged by the Army through
twelve states, Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan and then hastily dumped
in California. If it had not been for Paul Doyle, my toomimute at
Adams House, I might still be there. Paul, through his connection
with the Union Oil Company, managed to secure uckets on * The
Chief” for me and a girl whom, incidentally, 1 had marricd sasme-
where along the line. Our destination was Boston, [often wonder
whether Paul did this out of the goodness of his heart or conudered
the State of California too small for the both of us

After this long interval and with the advent of the "1" formation,
which I still don’t understand, it was obvious that coaching a fost:
ball team would no longer satisfy. Although EP truly loved the game,
the decision to play on other fi elds turned out to be a ment happy
one.

In 1946 there was a preety good battle being fought ag sunset pole
myelitis and I wanted in. Fortunately, the March of Dimes was wore:
ly in need of organizers in Massachusetts, and from a total ticki ef one,
they selected me. All I could bring to them was wilhagnews and 4
host of good friends. The latter proved to be my why ation and with
the initial burst of bringing Russ Allen and Conme Dry le antes the
fold of voluntcers, we eventually made the March of Denes user at
ad hoc Harvard committee. In time, the Ofyanization peared the
great talent of my good friends and moved me to the harne ethic a

[ 1051 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

New York, where I still abide, in between brief trips of two months
duration throughout the country.

In reflection, it has been a wonderful life and I’ve enjoyed every
minute of it. I was given the opportunity of going to the school of
my choice, of finding a profession with meaning and the chance to
visit occasionally with old friends. My wife, fortunately, has lacked

the good sense to leave me and has managed to talk my two young-
sters into accepting me.

+k JOHN COLLIER NEEDHAM

 

BoRN: March 1, 1915, Chicago, Ill. parents: Maurice Henshaw Needham, Ray
Holtoff.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
pip: Killed in action, Jan. 9, 1945, at Takao, Formosa.

AFTER college Needham wrote advertising for Montgomery Ward
in Chicago until August, 1940, when he enlisted in the Navy. He
was commissioned as an ensign in February, 1941, and asked for
Asiatic fleet duty. In April, 1941, he arrived at Shanghai and took
up his duties on the USS Luzon, flagship of the Yangtse River
patrol. After the Luzon was sunk and abandoned he served aboard
the Mary Ann, a converted yacht, on patrol duty. From the
surrender of Corregidor, he was a prisoner of the Japanese at
Cabanatuan where he became a barracks leader. In December, 1944,
he was one of the American prisoners placed aboard a Japanese
transport en route to Japan. When this ship was bombed the sur-
vivors were recaptured and placed aboard another Japanese ship

[ 1052 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bound for Japan. Needham lost his life when this ship was bombed.
He was survived by his parents.

ARTHUR WILLIAM NELSON

 

HOME apprEss: 41 Fifth Ave, New York 3, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chemical Bank New York Trust Co, 20 Pine Se. New Voork.
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; tie. (St. John’s Caw, New
York), 1951.

MarRIED: Louise Kohl, Aug. 26, 1944 (divorced t951); Margaret Aleshire, 1944.
cHiLp: Lavenia, Jan. 7, 1947.

occupation: Assistant vice-president, Municipal Bond Department, Cherm ol
Bank New York Trust Company.

MEMBER OF: Quiet Birdmen; Richmond County Country Qub,

SPENT two years after graduation in airport operations in Reale.
hampton and Armonk, both in New York. Active duty in Aur
Corps, 1940-41. Civilian test pilot for Bell Aircrafe Corporation,
1941-48. Municipal bond business to date, with Banker Prune
Company, E. F. Hutton & Company and Chemical Bank. If we
could arrange it, nothing would please us more than to spemd the
rest of our years sailing and playing golf. We are active in Repub.
can politics at the neighborhood level and regret that more of our
contemporaries do not share our convictions and do smethiny
about it. More and more I am beginning to undertand my de.
parted father who turned purple at any mention of “Phae Mon is
the White House.”

[ 1053 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN NESMITH

Petree: PE OIA tS SNE RNS cage ef
i
t

  

  

Sime nige span

HOME ADDRESS: 3990 Club Drive, N.E., Atlanta 19, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Parks-Cramer Co., Inc., Box 1355, Atlanta, Ga,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M-B.A., 1940.

MARRIED: Jane Schaefer, 1942 (divorced 1953); Anne Patterson, April 11, 1953.
CHILDREN: Joanna Michelsen, Dec. 22, 1942 (72. Gerald Olson, 1961); Eliza-
beth Lea, Aug. 5, 1954; John Wiley, Aug. 8, 1955; Thomas Patterson, Sept.
3, 1957; James Hildreth, Aug. 25, 1961. GRANDCHILD: Kari Lynn Olson,
Jan. 31, 1962.

occupation: Sales manager, Parks-Cramer Company, Inc., engineering and
manufacturing of industrial air-conditioning and air handling equipment,
mainly for the textile industry.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Parks-Cramer (Great Britain), Ltd.

Member oF: Harvard Club of Acianta; Harvard Business School Club of
Atlanta; various textile manufacturing clubs and associations.

DURING the past brief quarter-century fate seems to have taken me
farther and farther from Cambridge and old friends, and deeper into
the deep South. First it was the Carolina sand hills as a G.I. mule-
skinner. Then many years in Washington and Virginia as a naval
desk skipper and in the retail business. After ten years in Charlotte,
North Carolina, we have moved to Atlanta and feel “this is it.” We
find Atlanta a gay, growing city and a stimulating place in which to
live.

With a Carolina wife and four small rebels in the household, and
a widespread clientele who were raised south of the line, in sclf-
defense I have lost my Harvard accent. I have a good many years
left to fondly hope that the boys will make the grade and Icarn to
speak Harvard English.

So far as travel is concerned, I have all one could possibly want

[ 1054 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

of it in the South, and manage occasional delightful tips to New
England, old England and the Continent.

My social, political and religious convictions have noe charged
since 38 — possibly are a little more tolerant, not much. My wite ss
the ardent Republican member of the family and the cry all over our
area is “Let’s Have Two Parties” (one tonight, one tomorrow}. We
find it rather exciting to help promote G.O.P. candalates inv tus
Democratic wasteland and have not been entirely unsuceestul, Que
religious affiliations remain Episco-byterian with strong dhwes of

Bible-belt schooling.

THOMAS NEWBOLD

 

HOME appress: Trapelo Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Carr Fastener Co. 31 Ames Se, Cambenige g2, Meee.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DFGRPES: AB, 1g, SEB 6, tegen

Marrigp: Mary Norecn Maxwell, Oct. 19, toat. enatpass:  Phewnag Je. fovea
1, 1947; Peter and John (twins), June 7, t9¢a, Sandy and Ha tee comms,
Aug. 1, 1954; Bobby, Aug. 24, tga,

occupation: New products manager, Care Fastcnce Company,

AS the years roll by, the hair and the prockcthenk Frew thanet,
but nevertheless, life grows fuller, with one excepts -~ Ven sell
working on my first million without arriving at the earting pest
Having made a magnificent succes of marnaye, my wife and ft
are managing six boys (or are they manaying wep amd, od cour,
we are greatly indebted to our bank.

Ac the Carr Fastener Company, | am responulle foe the ate we fps.
ment and sale of new products and EP find thee nless ace a aber

[ toss ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

a dozen, but putting them into action is something entirely different.
Independent inventors with whom we work are interesting people,
quite subjective as a whole and generally unrealistic. Most of them
don't have a chance, but their creative ability, no matter how mis-
applied, and their courage of individual initiative make me wonder
if our governmental and corporate systems haven't killed off the
very qualities upon which these great systems were built. Maybe
Jack will take care of this, too.

Living in Lincoln, as we do, in a semi-large, semi-comfortable,
and semi-rural area with semi-well-behaved children, I realize that
on the whole J have little to complain about and can happily devote
spare time to hobbies such as photography and horticulture, that
are, to me, most absorbing.

LEWIS HENRY NORCOTT, JR.

 

MAILING ADpREss: 400 Blue Hills Pkwy., Milton, Mass.

[ 1056 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALEXANDER CLERIHEW NORTHROP

re |

 
 

 

os

HOME ADDRESS: 1100 E. Stanford Ave., Englewood, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Air Lines, 348 Denver Club Bldg. Denver 3, Gabo

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Harriman, June, 1940 (divorced t945); Jean Ellsworth,
July 12, 1947. CHILDREN: Edward Harriman, July 8 1943. Ann Bliworth,
April 29, 1948, George Norton, 2d, Dee. 1, 1939; Alexander Clembew, Jr,
May 30, 1952; Scott Loomis, July 3, 1957.

occuPATION: Air transportation; special assistant to the prewdent and ergwenal
manager, community relations, United Air Lines.

MEMBER OF: Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; Harvard Club of Benren,

A RE-READING of contributions to our previous Claw Reports
gives me the uneasy feeling that comes in dreams where one tinds
himself walking naked down a city street. The sentuments scem dated
and fatuous. Possibly an attempt at brevity is the cure.

The statistics of family production and development are hsted
above. In cold print they in no way reflect the dominanny intlucoce
that home, wife and growing children play at this stage wn our byes
My eldest son, Ned, saw green and is a freshman at Dartmouth. “The
younger four are ensconced in various public and private taveitutions
(of learning) in the Denver area.

After three years with United Fruit in Panama anda year with
the U.S. Government in Washington, [settled down for ewenty
years with United Air Lines in Philadelphia, Moline, Hartford, Wat.
ington, Boston and presently Denver, “The work has ranged theouch
operations, administration, legislative and community tclations fields
Twenty years of amazing growth, unbelievable techie al devel
ments, increasingly hard-w rung profits Corer grasa ts Carer p me Breas ot anf

[ 1057 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

too much regulation. A lot of travel all over our system and a multi-
tude of friends and acquaintances in all parts of the country. We've
been in Denver a year and a half and in many respects find it the most
difficult move we've made. If you care much about salt water and
large, grimy, eastern cities, this western life takes some adapting to.

I play erratic golf whenever possible and drive my children to
the ski train at 7 A.M. Saturdays during the winter. We get involved
in the same charity drives, community projects, etc., as everybody
else and the months and years slip by. Jean is an avid toiler in the
Republican vineyards, I get intellectual stimulation by baiting her
on this score but will admit to registration in the same aggregation.
Always fighting lost causes! Seriously though, without her patient
and cheerful approach to frequent moves from pillar to post, I’m
sure my life would be a shambles.

This bare record tells little of the past twenty-five years. I can
only say that as compared to 1938, [ am a happier person and I hope
a little smarter, more at peace with the world, enjoying all the things

going on around us and looking forward to the next twenty-five
with relish.

FREDERICK CHARLES NOVELLO

 
 

camera
SRT REA REC REE FH ZTE ERT

commer str,

1a;

HOME appRESS; 786 Bair Rd., Berwyn, Pa.

orFice appress: Merck, Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories, West Point, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: 8.3. C47 laude, 1938; A.M. 1939; PH.D4
1941,

Marrigo: Sally Mickey, June 26, 1948. cHitpreN: Frederick Charles, Jr., Aug.
14, 1949; Barbara Anne, Feb. 16, 1952.
occupATION: Research chemist,

[ 1058 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Franklin Inseitute.
PUBLICATIONS: Papers on medical chemistry in professional pournats aval pateoes
LAST night, October 22, 1962, President Kennedy declared a bha hk.
ade of Cuba. I wonder if these few notes will appear in pene.

After obtaining my doctorate in 1941, [I staved on at Plarsand te
do some wartime research on incendiaries. In March, tyr. PE prned
Sharp & Dohme, now a division of Merck, where [have snce been
engaged in pharmaceutical research. One of the hich poets of me
research career was to have participated in the dieovery of a te
markable drug called chlorothiazide: a drug that has proved of great
value in treatment of hypertension, congestive heart failure and ether

conditions associated with edema.
In 1948 I married Sally Mickey, a fellow chemist, who has ame

deserted the sticky subject to dabble in oils and water colors — dhinen
good at it too! Our two children, plus a Kerry Blue and a cat, eon:
plete our happy household. Barbara, at age ten, yust loves homey
period! Fortunately, township zoning prohibits keeping a hore on
our acre lot. Freddie, at age thirteen, is presently engaged tna mus.

cle-building program to catch up to his buddies w ho Rave sudter!
started to spurt upwards.
PTA (once in a while), Scouts (for Barbara and Sally only), an
occasional Saturday night symphony at the Academy, a formal danse
I country auctions and sunnier

less occasionally, lots of gardening
vacations on Cape Cod round out our domestic life.
The last twenty-five years have been good to me. Phepe and pray

our children will be able to write the same for ther Twenty fists

Anniversary Report.

[ bosy |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ARTHUR OAKES, III

    

EEE RAR ec Ra ese
+,

<€

;

1

 
 

a ae

HOME AbprEss: Deepwood Drive, Chappaqua, N.Y.
prepaRED AT: Oak Park and River Forest Township High School, Oak Park,

Il,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Kent Coll.), 1941.
marrtep: Carol Pittenger, Nov. 23, 1946. CHILDREN: Sandra Lynne, July 26, 1951;
Barbara Anne, Feb. 8, 1954; Arthur, 4th, March 9, 1957.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Allstate Insurance Company.
MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Phi (legal fraternity); Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard

Club of New York; Pi Eta Club; Whippoorwill Club; Illinois bar; Chicago
Bar Association (inactive).

CARL SHEPARD OAKMAN, JR.

AGT ABA se SON. 0 “ORR emt ISIN ae De

   

AAILING abpRESS: 165 E. 72d St., New York 21, N.Y.

[ 1060 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM ARMSTRONG OATES

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.EIL.

PREPARED AT: Aberdeen High School, Aberdeen, S. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938, A.xt. toga.

MarRRIED: Margaret Eavey Nichols, March 27, 1940. crttoren: Wilham Arm
strong, Jr., July 27, 1942; James Maclay, May 31, 1946, Thomas Ne holay
Aug. 2, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Educational administration; administrative vice-rector, Se. Pauls

School,

JOHN HOLLAND OATIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Gould St., Melrose 76, Afass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Berkeley St., Boston 17, ALass,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.UL,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: $.B., 1938.

marrRiED: Ruth A. Ward, Sept. 2, 1939. camtpaes: John Pfolland, fe, bebo os
1941; Peter H., Aug. 2, 1943; Diane M March @ suge, Wilhort VEQ pce

9. 1949.
[ 1061 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occupation: Director of systems engineering, Electronic Data Processing De-
partment, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

orFices HELD: Member, 1957-61, chairman, 1960-61, Eastern Planning Commit-

tee, member, Automation Committee, 1957-61, Life Office Management
Association,

THE “moment of truth,” dictated by the requirements of a 25th
Anniversary, conveys to me an unshakable conviction that life, unlike
all Gaul, is divided into four parts for those who, through the be-
nevolence of the Almighty, are permitted to complete the course:

1) The preparation of the mind and body to contribute to society
culminating, in our cases, in the approbation of Harvard in the
form of an A.B. or S.B.

2) The acquisition of technical and human skills which enable
us to “blossom” as men of greater, or lesser, import. (Here’s where
we are today, fellers! )

3) The “unloading” period wherein we hope that our successors
are able to “fill our shoes” while all the time we are haunted by the
feeling “Thank God for the accident of my birth date — I couldn't
make it today!”

4) The “sunbasking” period wherein we can criticize everything
and everybody while longing for the “good old days.”

Fortunately, the world of “then” will pay us no heed. My life
since June of 1938 can be considered prosaic by virtually all since
I have been wedded to the same fine woman and company since that
momentous date. I like it that way, and can’t imagine how I would
choose differently with a second chance.

Active participation in World War II was not my lot, due to the
fact that my number was almost the last out of the goldfish bowl and
I had a severe case of ulcers which has since resulted in the removal
of most of my stomach. (I really didn’t plan it this way — believe
me.)

For the past eight years I have been deeply engrossed in the study,
planning and installation of automation in a large insurance company.
Never fear — these computers are nothing but tools (hardware) —
people are still the things that “makes the mare go.”

As of the moment, my biggest problem is to see my two eldest
sons through to a college degree, with my daughter involved in
this uneasy situation next fall.

What do I like to do? There’s nothing so beautiful to the eye of

yours truly than the sight of sleek thoroughbreds coming down the
stretch at Saratoga, Belmont or Hialeah!

[ 1062 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM PETER O'CONNOR. JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Chestnut Ave., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: McDonnell & Co., Inc., 120 Broadway, New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1034-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, M.B.A. 1940.

MARRIED: Dorothy Campbell, July 28, 1945. cHitpren: William Peter, yd. May
3, 1946; Diane Elizabeth, Sept. 25, 1948; Deborah Dorothy, March 1a, tats.

OCCUPATION: Securities — stockbrokerage, underwriting, dealers. directwr, vwe-
president and treasurer, McDonnell & Company, Ine.

OFFICES HELD: President, civic association, chairman, Scout Troop, presalent.
student aid fund, director, computer, electronic and a beer cumpany.

MEMBER OF: Financial Analysts Society; Larchmont Yache Club,

PUBLICATIONS: Extensive writings on economic and business subjects aliment all
issued or presented as product of business,

AFTER college, I entered Harvard Business School, Class of tage,
with the intention to prepare for a career in manufacturing. After
graduating I worked for almost a year for a textile manufacturing
company, which showed insufficient interest in mv ideas about
modernizing. Thereafter I was in house building unul January,
1942. Building houses for war workers proved to be a most useful
post-graduate course, covering almost every kind of buuness prot
lem. We had something known as a Cost-price sypuceze in the ne
days. The government already had influence on our sclhng praes
on one hand, and on the other you required a priority to pet me
terials required to build the houses,

Being an active F.A. Reserve second licutenant, ene of arty
three dozen in the Class of ’38, I was promptly ordered te bert
Bragg, North Carolina, where we were given a quick tefeedet
My group was divided in two sections, one sent ta Lasnwine and
one to South Carolina. I was assigned to the gsth Dhviseon beet

[ 1063 ]

1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Jackson, South Carolina. As the selective service recruits were
assigned to the division, it turned out to be a combination of close-
range fighters from northeastern cities, particularly New York, and
long-range marksmen from the southeast. We spent many months
training in pine woods, swamps, deserts and mountains. It seemed
that we trained for whatever kind of fighting was then going on.
Then we were loaded on trains and rushed to San Francisco, and
then shipped to Honolulu, which certainly was a wonderful place
to spend a war. Unfortunately, that episode did not last long, and
we were next landed on Guam with the Marines, who landed first
and did most of the work. After that we were shipped over to
Leyte, where we were sent around in back of the Island, and found
ourselves racing Japs to the beach. This was our first experience
with MacArthur methods, which involved a series of moves to make
the Japs attack us. After Leyte, we were convoyed north to capture
a number of islands around Okinawa, and finally became engaged
in the close fighting up and down cliffs on Okinawa, where a lot
of us became casualties, including me. By the time I was healed
the war ended.

At this time I got married to a most attractive girl, whom I had
met in Oklahoma City a couple of months before we shipped out.
This proved to be a very good move.

At this time the stock market seemed to be back in style; I be-
came a stockbroker, joining what was then called the New York
Curb Exchange. Six months later, they turned the water off and a
seat on the Curb felt almost as hard as the name implied; in time
I learned to make a living as an arbitrager, a secret business activity
not taught at Harvard Business School. This was the time when
electronics began and also when everyone seemed to think the
lakes in western Canada were flowing with oil. In the early 1950's
we decided that the firm should become a growth business with
research, and since I was the only one who had been to HBS, I was
elected to do the research, At the beginning it was not too difficult

with the blue chips paying six per cent cash dividends, and the
electronic stocks also having fairly generous cash dividends. The
mid ’sos were the happy times when everyone’s income temporarily
got ahead of their expenses. Thereafter, in addition to developing
schemes to discount future growth, something that became necessary
with the disappearance of bargains, Wall Street itself decided to

be a growth industry. As everyone knows, we have spent 1962
in what humorists call a consolidation phase.

[ 1064 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The period after 1956 has been a time when all emphaas has bern
on innovation and new things. In 1962 it scemed evident that
exploitation of the new technology would be the charactermtie of
the next few years. Those of you in big companies whe have been
struggling to get with all the new ideas should find that computerized

automation can work for you.
For those of you who became seriously upset when Y ale athle oe

teams upset Harvard teams, you might be interested to know that
Harvard victories seem to be related to bear market. Vou may
remember that Harvard’s Ivy League success in i961, inching the
rout of Yale, was followed by a violent bear market, When the
Harvard swimming team beat Yale for the first time since our senor
year, there ensued the worst stock market upset snee sgyt. The
summer stock market seems to be sensitive to the crew face. The
football correlation is not perfect, but Yale did win in ty:6 and
’27; in fact Yale had four wins and a tie: 1923-27. Plarvard won
three years in a row, 1928-30. There was a bull market the first
three years we were in college, and it only ended carly in eur
senior year as you may remember. In case you think this ts wine-
thing recent, the record shows that from 1910 to 1th Plarvard
scored 144 points to 17 for Yale. At the end the S& P stock average
was down seventeen per cent and there had been a war. The main
consolation we have is that Yale loses at football and in the stock

market at the same time; we at least get a consolation prise.

JOHN DAVID OGILBY

 
  

ER il ng il ag, Aft! Fe et ae

 

JOME ADpRESS: 306 Washington Se, Belmone, Vase,
FFICE ADDRESS: Philip Elano Co, Tne, Bo Boy haan S «Peat, Une

[ 1065 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1938.

Marrigp: Lydia Richardson Phippen, April 15, 1948. cHmpREN: Henry Mc-
Farlan, Jan. 24, 1950; John David, 2d, June 18, 1952; Clement Richardson,
April 14, 1955; Lydia Richardson, Feb, 2, 1957.

occupation: Sales and sales managership for a Holyoke manufacturer of busi-
ness data processing systems.

AFTER getting the coveted sheepskin in June of 1938, I bummed
around the country —on a shoestring, working in cotton fields,
diners, what not; quite different from Lowell House. Climbing and
fishing took priority when possible. In the short time before the
war, it was with a Danish steamship company in New York, after
the above tour; there it was long hours, low pay, but an interesting
experience as the company’s passenger agent.

Next was seaman 2nd in Uncle Sammy’s Navy; thanks to the
extraordinary expansion of amphibious warfare, which was my lot,
five years later I came out with a whole bunch of pretty ribbons,
three stripes and a most lovely sheepskin from Secretary Knox
(which I value almost as much as the one James Bryant gave me)
saying I was retired — and could go to pasture.

Since those war years, my time has been taken up with data
processing systems, primarily in the design, sales of systems and the
training of new men. My activities have been in eastern Massa-
chusetts. It is an exceedingly interesting and rapidly expanding field.

Clubs, lodges, what all have not interested me. Between Cub
Scouts, PTA’s, church, helping with a political campaign, there
has been little time for favorite hobbies — fishing, carpentry and
the raising of the best vegetables this side of somebody else’s garden.

As a PS. to this rather dull biography, I might add that some
time back; the wheels of our local savings bank decided to make
me a corporator — and perhaps thereby hangs my fame.

[ 1066 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ELPENOR RUDOLF OHLE

HOME AppREss: R.R. 5, Burnsville, N.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Celo Health Center, R.R. 5, Burnsville, N.C.
PREPARED AT: Schule Schloss Salem, Salem, Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREE: M.D., 1941.
MARRIED: Mary Wheeler, May 9, 1942. CHILDREN: Paul Walter, Feb. a+, tage.
Janet, July 8, 1946, Susan, Jan. 14, 1950; Charles B., Oct. 23, 192.

occupaTION: Physician.

TOOK the conventional path through medical school, three years
internship and assistant residency at the New Haven Hospital an
two and a half years in the U.S. Public Health Service. Then ac-
cepted an invitation to Celo Community in Yancey County, North
Carolina, where we gradually became firmly rooted, No clectnety
at first and, for sixteen idyllic years, no telephone.

EINAR WILLIAM OHLIN

SOOT eR

    

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Goden St., Belmont, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ohlin Bakery, Inc., Belmont, Mass.
PREPARED AT; Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.8., 1938.
MarRIED: Doris Steurer, Oct. 24, 1942. CHILDREN: Cynthia Jane, June iA toast.

David William, Oct. 21, 1948; Edward Arthur, Oct. ¢, rg¢a.
OCCUPATION: Owner and manager, Oblin Bakers, Inc, retail bakery.
OFFICES HELD: President, Master Baker's Association of Beaton, toe ta. ee
president, Assoc. Retail Bakers of America, since tyfe.
MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of Belmont, Beaver Laalge, APL A AME, Bean
Baker’s Club; Assoc, Retail Bakers of America, Maseer Bakers \ ewe ocr

of Boston.

MY life since graduation has been closely associated wath the feta!

[ 10467 |]

—__]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

bakery business, possibly mostly through the influence of family
background. During my college years I was active in the bakery
and with graduation hoped to utilize some of this training. National
Biscuit Company seemed to offer many opportunities where I
worked in a training program from production to sales from 1938 to
1942. My desire for my own business brought me back to Boston
and my family business when along came four years of war service
(1942-46) at Camp Lee, Virginia, in the food service program. On
my return to civilian life the opportunities and challenges in the
retail food business firmly convinced me that my original decision
had been a wise one.

My main motivation in life has been my wife Doris and three
children, Cynthia, David and Edward. Cindy is at present a sopho-
more at Bates, while my hopes are high for the two boys who are
still in junior high.

My relaxation during the summer months has been at my home,
formerly at Humarock, Massachusetts, and now at Duxbury. I
enjoy swimming and fishing, chasing the elusive striper, and water
skiing and baseball endeavors of my sons.

I have been active in association activities in the baking industry
and hope I can contribute to the success of the challenge of the
rapid change in our industry. Life the past twenty-five years has
been a busy one with a certain amount of satisfaction of material
results but with it there has also been a constant soul-searching for
the end and purpose of it all which I hope I shall come closer to
finding with advancing years.

[ 1068 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALAN PYLE O'KELLY

Freee AI I ror og

    
 

PEE DBE Le ita 0 SERRE ms ig

  

INLETS SRNR Se 68 te

 

HOME aAppreEss: W. 928 30th Ave., Spokane, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paine, Lowe, Coffin, Herman & O'Kelly, 602 Spokane & Eastern
Bldg., Spokane, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Butte High School, Butte, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: SB. 1938, Ib.e. (Univ. of California),
1941.

MARRIED: Patricia Geagan, March 3, 1942. CHILDREN: Katharine, Jan an tvet
(m. Rinaldo Keasal, 3d, 1960); Sharon, March 18, 1944; Judsth, Bebo 2@
1949; Elizabeth, May 8, 1953, Virginia, Jan. 20, 1956. casaNosnttt oes
Robert Keasal, 1961; Patricia Keasal, 1962.

occupaTION: Lawyer; partner in law firm; general counsel Washingt W aree
Power Company.

OFFICES HELD: District leader, Republican Party, 1948-0, presilent, Spark ane
Republican Club, 1950-51; committee chairman, t9¢3-40, member, beard
of trustees, since 1961, Spokane Chamber of Commerce, prevdere, J ay
Citizen’s Committee for Public Schools, since to¢¢.

MEMBER OF: Spokane Club; B.P.O.E.; Spokane Harvard Club, f secuewe Cheb,
American, Washington and Spokane County Bar Awewsatwome, Pha Ohh
Phi Legal Fraternity.

WHILE I have the usual number of complaints, [ have had hrele to
complain about. I married well shortly after finishing Law whol and
going on active duty as an ensign in the Navy. We priatuced one
child during the war, and shortly after I left the Nav Vava heutenane
commander, we produced another and then another and ¢hern ac:
other and then another. Shortly after that our chlese started posh:
ing and produced two in rapid succession,

After approximately a dozen years of gencral law prt whieh
kept me busy (and which involved about four seareol temticy ot
Gonzaga University night law school), I have settled down te tpecst

[ 106y ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ing nearly full time representing an electric and gas utility company
(serving eastern Washington, northern Idaho and a small fringe of
western Montana) which has kept me not only busy, but hopping
(via commercial and other airlines). In the last two years I have
been a member of the legal committee of the Edison Electric Insti-
tute (an organization composed of most of the major electric utility
companies in the U.S.), and more recently chairman of its hydro
projects subcommittee. Even more recently, I was appointed by the
Federal Power Commission to the legal committee for the National
Power Survey which is making a nationwide study of the problems of
interconnecting and coordinating the electric facilities of the US.

My family is always here when I get home. I only hope that it
continues that way.

PERSIFOR SMITH OLIVER

   

eae seman ra wet neem gene teen ramen tenance

 

HOME appress: P.O, Box 111, Ligonier, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 286, Ligonier, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938,

MaRrRIED: Eleanor McCook Maxwell, March 15, 1941. CHILDREN: Persifor
Smith, Jr., Oct. 31, 1942; Bradley C., Nov. 21, 1945; Gail M., June 17, 1947.

occuPATIoN: Manufacturer's agent, owner, selling steel and plastics.

MempeER OF: Rolling Rock Club, Ligonier, Pa.; Pittsburgh Golf Club, Pitts-
burgh, Pa,

SHORTLY after graduation I found employment as a gas attendant
for the Gulf Oil Corporation. Two years of such scemed sufficient,
and when the opportunity to be a midshipman in the United States
Naval Reserve arose, I jumped at it. Several months later [ was

[ 1070 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an ensign with very little nautical knowledge but a be of prite
After marrying in March of 1941, mv wife and PE sated for Pla eo
and duty with the Pacific Fleet. Four and one-half veare beter,
with service in destroyers, armed guard and submarines b owas che.

charged a lieutenant commander.
Life now became rather difficule with two children amd cutie

pay not quite up to submarine standards. For three veary P woke
for the Jones & Laughlin Stecl Corporation, then four vears with
the Rockwell Manufacturing Company. In 1952 J went But On my
own as a manufacturer’s agent, an occupation EF am sull enyes ing.

Two years ago we moved to Ligonicr, a beautful wnall town
fifty miles east of Pittsburgh, and are very pleased with the hte.
The sports available cover all from fox-hunting to skuny.

We have one son in Hobart College at Geneva, New York,
another boy at The Hill School at Pottstown, Penney bvama, and a
daughter at the Convent of the Sacred Hlecart in Norton, Con.

necticut.
Our regret — no Harvard men in the community.

J. WARREN OLMSTED

  

3 we ae e 4
Pw wet ge
P hb OF
Penis. ID atk a
HOME appress: Bedford Road, Lincoln, Maw
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Firse National Bank of Penton, A> Vile Se, Beene Ube
PREPARED AT: Phillips Excter Academy, Exeter, NEE.

1934-1938, Decmee: AB, IQ yh

YEARS IN COLLEGE:
(it pees pty

MARRIED: Harrice Atwoud, Sept. a tats.
1938 (wt. Dean Soule, June &, tytot, J Warren Jr. foo pt bee Pere
than, Aug. 27, 1942; Jennifer Towle, July aA ggg. Job Beetew BOS

1946, GRANDCINLD: Steffan Soule, Sepa. an, Ae.

[so7e]

Newewel Gepe re

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occupation: Senior vice-president in charge of international organizations, The
First National Bank of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Former positions: corporator, Suffolk Franklin Savings Bank;
commissioner of trust funds, Wayland, Mass., 1953-54, Wayland Republi-
can Town Committee, 1945-54, and finance chairman, Wayland, 1949;
Wayland Community Chest chairman, 1950, Wayland War Bond Drives
chairman, war years; Wayland Ration Board, war years; Wayland Vet-
erans Advisory Committee, 1945; president of Business Associates Club
of the Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce, 1953-54; United Com-
munity Services, Budgeting Division, 1958-59; trustees, Fenn School,
Concord, for three years and member of executive committee and presi-
dent, New England Alumni Association, Phillips Exeter Academy, 1959.
Present positions: senior vice-president, The First National Bank of Bos-
ton; charter trustee and vice-president, Phillips Exeter Academy; presi-
dent, member of executive committee, trustee, Concord Academy; member
of corporation, The Children’s Hospital Medical Center; trustee, The Leb-
ensfeld Foundation, New York; member, Harvard Fund Council; member,
Committee on the Happy Observation of Commencement, Harvard
College; director, The First Bank of Boston International, New York,
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, Massnat Corporation, Interna-
tional Factors, Ltd., International Factors Corporation, National Foreign
Trade Council, Inc. New York, Council for Independent School Aid,
New York.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Down Town Club
(board of governors); International House.

pusiications: “The Factor’s Lien Security Device as a Basis for Inventory
Financing,” Robert Morris Associates Bulletin, February, 1949; “Factor’s
Lien Financing,” Banking Journal of the American Bankers Association,
August, 1946.

ATTEMPTING to write an autobiography and to look back over
the past twenty-five years and try to assess one’s life, I find not
the easiest task. I suppose the first thing that comes to mind 1s
whether or not one feels he is a success. In today’s American
business world — of which I am a part — success seems to be based
mostly upon one’s salary and position in that world. Obviously,
this it not the true basis of evaluation.

What success I feel I have had is represented by my family.
Because it is somewhat larger than the average American family,
worldly goods have helped possibly to give my kids an education
both academic and in the way of travel that may make them better
people. I am not even sure that that is true, but certainly with the
right kind of upbringing, which their mother has given them, educa-
tion and travel should be of help. Each of my five, except my
youngest, has had at least one trip to Europe. My four eldest have
been graduated from high-ranking prep schools and one has suc-

[ 1072 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“ee,

ceeded in acquiring a degree from one of the seven sister eul's
Two are currently enrolled in the “Harvard of the West.” and « ety
some good fortune may take away a diploma in a few years. None
my eldest daughter is married to a school teacher in Seattle and
another two are in college in California, three-fifths of mv fart,
live as far away from their parents as they can and sell remain in
the Continental United States. My elder. son, who is at Paribas
College in Richmond, Indiana, and. my youngest daughter. a panier
at Concord Academy in Concord, Massachusetts, are the ently anes
temporarily at least, east of the Rockies. When I commented te
a friend one day that I couldn’t understand why mv childrery
seemed to migrate as far away from me as they possibly could, my

99

youngest said, “Isn’t the reason obvious?
As for my own life — as will be seen from the material above -

most of my time since 1938 has been spent at The First Nanenal
Bank of Boston, and my outside interests have been connected
chiefly with the educational institutions attended by my children,
including Harvard, where I had a son enrolled for two and one.
half years.

In spite of the fact that Iam now — after twenty vearsin dlomestie
banking — in charge of the International Division, I have done vers
little traveling outside of the country except to take a quick bowk
at our branches in South America and our offices in Purepe. Unidee
today’s conditions of stiff admissions requirements of colleges I
have visited some twenty-one colleges from Boston to Los Anes! len
and have found some pretty good places where the wv dees net
grow! In fact, my youngest is leaning toward Colorate Catece
(not to be confused with the university), which appeals ter urs wer
much.

Our family gets together occasionally once or twice a vear for
skiing, generally in Vermont, although one vear we tried oc
wilds of Colorado and spent spring vacation in Aspen. Ohher res
bers of the family have skied in various other parts of the wodlt, be t
I seem to be too tied down to join them.

To keep me from getting too “chubby" —- at which Poa re
terribly good — I installed a tennis court tw cuty-tive feet! free
front door, which is probably the grearese selt ih tavestree he Paes
ever made. This I use avidly every porsible weekemf wees aoe
group of Yale and Rutgers friends. Fach vear Pheep ite gee:
weekend too long, so that it gets covered with snow andres ns
is put to bed for the winter. This has happened are tat

[ 1073 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

but I am always hopeful that we shall be able to play after the
Yale game. However, I don’t think I shall ever be able to do so in
this climate.

Having been active in both Exeter and Harvard affairs, I am
fortunate in seeing some of my classmates from time to time. Once
our Twenty-fifth is over and we have raised the magic million
dollars, I think I shall retire from fund-raising, in which I seem to
have heen involved far coo Jong, not only for Harvard but for Exeter,
Concord Academy, the Republican Party and miscellaneous other
institutions, such as the Children’s Hospital Medical Center. Not
that I don’t enjoy it, but I think after awhile one’s welcome wears
out!

In conclusion I would say that the older I get, the more I appreci-
ate having been to both Exeter and Harvard, and the more I realize
the importance of such institutions, not simply because of the educa-

tional value derived therefrom, but because of the associations which
grow rather than diminish over the years. As a grandfather of
somewhat over a year, I don’t feel the way I always thought
grandfathers should feel. In fact, to be honest, I feel little different
than I did twenty-five years ago, except somewhat heavier, some-
what more confident, somewhat more affluent, and slightly more
mature.

FREDERICK IRVING OLSON

 

HOME appRESS: 2437 N. goth St, Wauwatosa 13, Wis.

orFice aporess: University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 3203 N
Milwaukee 11, Wis. 3 N. Downer

preparep at: West Division High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

[ 1074 ]

Ave,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938, A.M. tyt9,
PH.D., 1952.

maarRieD: Jane Marian Correll, June 8, 1946. cHiLpREN: David Frederick, Oct.
23, 1947; Donald Frank, July 25, 1950; Roger Alan, May 13, 1954-

occupation: Associate dean (Milwaukee), University Extension Division, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Milwaukee Public Museum, t951-52; director, since
1947, Vice-president, 1947-53, president, 1953-57, Milwaukee County His
torical Society; curator, since 1961, member, Book Publication Committee,
since 1960, member, board of editors for Dictionary of Wisconsin Biog-
rapby, 1950-60, State Historical Society of Wisconsin; member, Schools
Committee, Harvard Club of Wisconsin, since 1957; chairman, Local
Arrangements Committee, Mississippi Valley Historical Association con-
vention in Milwaukee, April 1962.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Alpha Theta (Delta Omicron Chapter),
American Historical Association, Mississippi Valley Historical Associa-
tion; American Studies Association, American Association of University
Professors; Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters; State His
torical Society of Wisconsin, Milwaukee County Historical Society,
Harvard Club of Wisconsin; Merrill Hills Country Club (Waukesha).

puBLicaTions: “The Socialist Party and the Union in Milwaukee, :goo-1yg13,”
Wisconsin Magazine of History, winter 1960-61; “Milwaukee's First Secial-
ist Administration, 1910-12: A Political Evaluation,” Mid-America, July,
1961; contributor to Dictionary of Wisconsin Biography, 1960, Encyclo-

pedia Britannica, 1962, World Book Encyclopedia, 1963, Ideas in Conflict,
1958, and, from time to time, to Wisconsin Magazine of History, Histovicad
Messenger (Milwaukee County Historical Society) and Milwaukee Jour.
nal.

NOT long after college graduation I scrapped plans to attend
Harvard Law School. I had already been admitted and entered
upon graduate study in history at Harvard, lured on by a tuition
scholarship and a rare set of illusions about the academic life. 1
obtained my Master’s degree after the normal year's study, but
almost nothing has gone on schedule since then. By spring, toyt.
I had struggled through language exams and prelims and was settling
down on a doctoral dissertation but the supposed imminence of
military service diverted me from very serious research.

In the summer of 1942, I finally became an army private, secure
from the nagging feeling that I wasn’t making proper progres
toward a Ph.D. After the most rudimentary training for spy-cateh-
ing I was inducted into the Counter Intelligence Corps, in which
I remained until my discharge in October, 1945. From February,
1943, to August, 1945, I was overseas — principally in west and
central Africa, Egypt and the eastern Mediterranean. U hewtate te
evaluate my contribution as a special agent for the CEC, for my

[ 1075 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

duties were mere routine than exciung and dealt with the enforce-
ment of security more often than the hot pursuit of enemy agents
through the Casbah. P never used a cent of my school entitlement
under the GA. bil after my discharge, but Uncle Sam owes me
rething, fue my two and a half vears abroad with the CLC. were
at heave educational, if not exactly academic. I traveled thousands
af tries by sea, air and land, always on legitimate army business
whah never precluded some form of tourism.

Late an iggy, once again a civilian, TP resumed work on my
hatogal disertanon. What had seemed like a minor amount of
gop Alleg for my deyrce when TE accepted a teaching position in
September, rygA, proved to be @ long-draw n-out process. I finally
turned in the final verwon and passed my oral exam in spring, 1952.
Conmbunng te my natural inchnauon not to buckle down to the
jeb was my marrage in June, 1046, followed by one child lace in
tyg? and a second in mid-tgsa. The third son postponed his
arrval unnl nearly two years after the degree was safely in hand.

Milwaukee Suace Teachers College, my employer and my wife's
alia mater, broadened its educational role in 1951 by offering a
liberal arty degree. Four years later the state legislature authorized
ity merger wath the Milwaukee Extension Division of the University
te form the Univeraty of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. The merger
procesas itelf in 1956 and the subsequent growth and development
have offered the most exciting challenge an academician could want.
We are still evolving sax years acer. In the course of a two-year
stint as chairman of the Department of History, I was asked to
aun tesponubility for reorganizing the University’s Extension
activites in relation te CWML, and I ain still at that task.

My wife. though vastly outnumbered by males, manages to
uphohd hee position in our household. In the early ’s0’s she mis-
takenly tried tw ply golf, a game I had once play ed well but had
abandoned for a decade. She liked what she tried, although she
aduuts that hee struggles to break 100 are more frustrating than
hee attermoons with duplicate bridge. David now beats her handily
(and threatens to beat me). Donnie is coming along fast, and even
Roger began w phy this last year. Summer is devoted mainly to
golt, with enough ame out each spring for a ten-day or two-week
trip to some new part of the USA.

I fcar that we are all so preoccupied with the routine of every-
day life that we give less actencon than we ought to the major
issucs af our ame. | like vo think that I make the sort of contribu-

[ 1076 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion to the Milwaukee community that a well-informed and public-
spirited citizen ought to, but this is more an article of faith than a
defensible position. Most of this contribution has been in the ficld
of local history, which forms a natural outlet for my continued
reaching in UWM.,

DANIEL ELLIOTT O'REILLY

   

HOME ADDRESS: 9054 Clayton Rd., St. Louis 17, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 950 Francis Pl., St. Louis 5, Mo.

PREPARED AT: St, Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.D. 1942; M. ORTHOPEDICS
(St. Louis Univ.), 1949.

marrRiED: Lucia King, May 21, 1948. CHILDREN: Elliott Howard, July 26, 1949;
Lucia Gregg, Oct. 31, 1951; Marian King, Jan. 29, 1954; Ann Warren,
Feb. 4, 1956.

occuPaTION: Orthopedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Missouri Society for Crippled Children and Adults — president,
1957-§9, trustee to National Society, 1962-63; chairman, Medical Advisory
Com., U.C.P.A. of Greater St. Louis; medical director, Rehabilitation Cen-
ter of St. Louis; secretary, Board of Registration of the Healing Arts for
the State of Missouri, since 1961; chairman, Committee of Rehabilitanon
of the Missouri State Medical Association; past president, St. Louis Rheu-
matism Society; assistant clinical professor of orthopedic surgery, S¢.
Louis University, since 1956; chief of Orthopedic Section, Cardinal Glen-
non Memorial Hospital for Children, since 1956; member of board, Guar-
anty Trust Co. of Missouri.

AEMBER OF: St. Louis Medical Society; American and Missouri State Medical
Associations; American College of Surgeons; American Academy of
Orthopaedic Surgery; American Academy for Cerebral Palsy; Clinical
Orthopedic Society; American Congress of Physical Medicine and Re-

habilitation; Industrial Medical Association; Southern Medical Awenia-
tion; Mid-Central States Orthopedic Society; St. Louis Orthopedic Ser

[ 1077 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ciety; St. Louis Rheumatism Society; St. Louis Surgical Society; University
Club; St. Louis Country Club: Society of Mayflower Descendants (deputy
governor); Society of Colonial Wars (surgeon); English Speaking Union;
Harvard Club of St. Louis.

PUBLICATIONS: Various papers on cerebral palsy and on rehabilitation.

FOLLOWING graduation from college, I was fortunate to be able
to go to the Harvard Medical School, receiving the M.D. degree
in June, 1942. A year as a surgical intern at Barnes Hospital was
followed by service in the Army — first as a battalion surgeon in
the 83d Division, interrupted by a shell fragment in the foot at
Normandy, and then as a ward officer in the O'Reilly General
Hospital in Springfield, Missouri. There was another year in
surgery at Barnes Hospital and the two and a half years in ortho-
pedic training at the St. Louis University Group of Hospitals, at
the end of which I received a Master’s degree in orthopedics in
June, 1949.

Before starting the practice of orthopedics I spent a year in
rehabilitation at the New York University — Bellevue Hospital
Center, Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. Since
October, 1950, I have been practising orthopedics in St. Louis at
the various hospitals of St. Louis University. When the children’s
hospital opened in July, 1956, I was chosen the chief of the ortho-
pedic section. I have been particularly interested in the problem of
cerebral palsy. The care of the crippled child has taken me into
various organizations such as the local, state and national Societies
for Crippled Children, and United Cerebral Palsy organizations. In
1959 a new licensing board was created in Missouri covering both
doctors of medicine and osteopathy, and I returned from a vacation
trip to find that I had been appointed to the board.

In May, 1948, while I was still in training, I married Lucia King,
the daughter and sister of Yale alumni. We now have four children;
the eldest is at the St. Louis Country Day School, and the three girls
are at the Mary Institute in St. Louis. 1 am getting practice again
in algebra, French history and other subjects. We have usually
spent our vacation at Biddeford Pool, Maine, but in 1959 my wife
and I went to Greece and this past summer we took the two older
children, where they spent 2 week excavating at Mycenae under Dr.
George Mylonas, the professor of archeology at Washington Uni-
versity. My wife is a member of the executive committee of the St.
Louis Chapter of the Archeological Institute of America.

I am still actively using the Contax camera which I bought in

[ 1078 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard Square while on the photo board of the Crromen. |
also use a movie camera. Other hobbies include hi-h, leaf eaking
(sixteen oak trees) and lawn mowing (144 acres). LT recently warted
to play golf, but I have a long way to go.

Although the Governor listed me as a Democrat when he ap.
pointed me to the licensing board, I have always conridered nny 0lf
as a Republican. I am very strongly opposed to Medeare. We
attend Christ Church Cathedral of the F piscopal Church regularity,
and our son takes his turn as an acolyte.

BERNARD ABRAHAM ORRIN

[ SREP Te RYO oR CO I ERREEN RE BL oe
ae :
é

i
&
:
I

  

HOME AppREsS: 146 Cherry Tree Lane, Cherry Hill, NJ.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Socony Mobil Oil Co., Research Laboratory, Paubbern NS )

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, Cte Lstade, 1yi8, AO, beer, PE,
1942.

MarRiED: Ruth A. Jefferies, Feb. 11, 1947. cautoees: Daval Rahand, July ©
1954; Linda Susan, Aug. 16, 1955.

occupation: Chemist, research associate, Socony Mobil Oh Caanpany, e-
search Laboratory.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Socicty; Catalyws Club of Philaleiphaa, Vided
Management Association,

PuBLICATIONS: About twelve patents and six pubbcatsame in tec hin ab pome rate,

I DID not choose to go to Harvard. T would have been costene
to attend any college. However, the fact remain U did go te ble.
vard and I have congratulated mysclf ever since on my unyulet
good fortune. Whenever ve been asked how much my wren
years’ residence cost me, I say *S$Ho.00.” My bank account in Sw pide ree:
ber, 1934, held all of $100.00. In June, iggt, after Ekle Convene

[ 1079 ]

Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Laboratory and the Bursar’s office, my cash assets were $40.00, so
out-of-pocket expenses were $60.00, which I still feel is a valid
account since no one else contributed.

Staying on at Graduate School wasn’t difficult. I couldn’t find
a job in ’38 and J didn’t have the money to look elsewhere. I just
hung around until I had completed the requirements for a Ph.D.

I worked out the war years as a research chemist for the Ansco
Division of General Aniline and Film in Binghamton, New York.
The company fought a continuous battle with my Selective Service
Board and successfully resisted their attempts to have me drafted.
My own individual efforts to get into the Service were similarly
thwarted. A major concern which haunted me at the time was —
what will I tell my children when they innocently inquire “What
did you do in the War, Daddy?”

Bored with a small town existence I left Ansco in December, 1945,
to accept a position with the Socony Mobil Oil Company in Pauls-
boro, New Jersey, a short sixteen miles from Philadelphia. This,
too, was a fortunate decision, for it was here that I met the most
beautiful girl for whom I gladly relinquished my bachelorhood.
We met fortuitously at a Saturday night dance in Philadelphia and
were married five months later.

There is an Old World expression to the effect that children and
money make for a joyful life. I never worried about the money
because I had learned to live without it — but I needed the children.
We have our children, David Richard, eight, fair and blue-eyed, a
redhead just like his mother, and Linda Susan, seven, who is dark,
brown-eyed, like her Daddy. They are special and merit more
than the usual trite parental expressions on their good looks. My
wife truly believes that they were heaven-sent.

As a chemist for Mobil Oil, I have been given the opportunity to
do the research I like. Project assignments have permitted me to
range through all phases of petroleum technology — petrochemicals,
additives, composition of petroleum, separation methods, hydro-
cracking, and catalysis. My early training in organic chemistry
served only as a springboard into other fields. For the most part
I have found myself working as a physical chemist, analyst, and
even an engineer. The company has me classified as a research
associate, which is two high rungs from the top of the technical

ladder. Perhaps, 1 am easily satisfied and I have set my sights too low.
I have relaxed and have been enjoying life for many years. I have
acquired many of the material things— the new split-level house

[ 1080 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the two-car garage and the two cars, the sccurity in my yob
and the pension plan with the company stock, and the comfortable
way of life including summer and winter vacations. | have tned to
fulfill my civic responsibilities by accepting community obbiy anens
but I have avoided the P.T.A., Little League, the Cub Scouts, ete,
I can be persuaded to do my share of door-to-door collecting and
canvassing for a worthy cause.

My awareness of myself as a link with Efarvard and its traditions
has never been lost upon me, although my associations with Plarvard
and Harvard men have been all too limited. The latter is my own
doing and in no way reflects my constant faith in Harvard and the
acknowledgement of my debt.

MARTIN GARSON ORLINS

 

HOME ADpRESS: 38 Shadetree Lane, Roslyn Heights N.Y.

PREPARED AT: James Monroe High School, New York, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREFS: 5.8. Clr Laude, igh, ose. (Cadumibes
Univ.), 1940.

MarRiED: Marie-Claire Scligman, June t, 1944. Cautpars: Daved, Aug tt. bee.
Stephen, Jan. 4, 1950; Phyllis, Oct. 6, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Student.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to executive vice-president, [. Sunnebeen Soo be,
New York City, 1941-46; general manager, tgy6-4t, manne g parte t,
1952-61, Emerald Manufacturing Company, Hrooklya, NOV. toen ae.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Beta Cams Sugita oe Alpha ed Naw
York; American Geographical Sovicty (hfe fellow ),

[ 1081)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CHESTER GEORGE ORMOND

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 293 Emerson St., South Boston, 27, Mass.

JAMES POORE OSBOURN

syne

  
  

  

HOME AbDpREsS: Sunnythorpe, Kimball Hill Road, Whitefield, N.H.
OFFICE ADDRESS: North Country Realty and Insurance, 86 King’s Sq., White-
field, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Germantown Academy. Philadelphia, Pa., Deerfield Academy,
Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938, 1939-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(4o).

MarrieD: Margaret O’Boyle Breener, Jan. 30, 1940 (divorced); Ann Buchanan
Clay, April 12, 1947.

occupation: President, general manager, North Country Realty and Insurance.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1960-61, director, 1958-Go, 1961-62, sceretary, since
1962, Whitefield Rotary Club; president, 1959-60, director, since 1960,
Whitefield Chamber of Commerce; Administrative officer, Civil Defense,

since 1958; member, Whitefield Executive Committee of the Republican
Party, since 1960.

{ 1082 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: University Club of \W ashington, DC. Mountam Veew (006 Ohi
Sigma Alpha Epsilon; National Ski Assocsatnen,

THE reflection on twenty-five years should bring a touch of mow
talgia— and it does. There have been so many chances at the
College and with its present entrance requirements | wonton iff
could get in at all. Over the years there have been wome hanes

with me I guess, alchough I'd hate to be asked to enumerate. I art
have my hair, however, most of it, anyway, and the same weight as
in ’38 — are there many others who can make the sane elann?

My accomplishments seem far too average to give me miu h
room for boasting. In 1941 IT entered government serve with the
Coordinator of Information (later the O.S.S.), and wath the eat.
break of war, shifted to the State Departinent foe the shirstion
except for a break (?) for basic training at Fort Brags, Neath
Carolina. By the end of the war I was in charge of the scat Gur,
trolling the departure of all non-U.S. citvvens from the United
States. It was a twenty-four hours a day, scven dave a week pot
and when I was not home or at my club, P had te keep the Neate
Department telephone operators informed as to where | gould te
reached. There was seldom a night that PE wasn't called at bast
once, more often than noc between midnight and us ase Bos |
enjoyed it.

Transferred to the Foreign Service and wav awagned te brank.
fort-am-Main, Germany, as vice consul in Pebruaty, raat Bevo
there I went to Bucharest to take charge of the esmulse we tee ef
the Legation. This period behind the Iron Curtain cenafemed my
dislike and distrust of Communisn and solsbitied my cries tics
that a modus vivendi with it is HNpewable.

In 1949 I was transferred to Wellington, New Zealanh ae ots ee
in charge of the consular section with supervisry tespemalaurs
for all the U.S. consular establishments in that country. Seavedt in
Wellington for four and a half vears evcepe for PIV 6 ae cers
at Auckland, New Zealand, and. Noumea, New Caleboeans, and 6
visit to Australia. Early in 1954, after home beave, Pow ae gouge Bite
Naples, Italy, attached to the Refuyce Relief Brewers Phe eave
I saw of this program in practice and the law as wreten by arte aw
distorted, the more dissatistied I became.

Late in 1956 T had had cnough Coovernment and baked foe paces
palatable ficlds. Finding the shang in northern New Pha: pobsre eae
good, [ settled in Whuitetichd where Po had bees gence gees

[rosy]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

since a tender age. Tried a fling at free-lance advertising and pro-
motion, and then went into the real estate and insurance business.
As small town life is beginning to pall, I don’t think that this is the
final chapter.

Both my wife and I are Episcopalians; my political beliefs are ad-
mirably set forth by Barry Goldwater in Conscience of a Conserva-
tive. My hobbies are skiing, at which I am perhaps a little better than
average, and golf (15 handicap). Sold the Hejian when I left Naples
and have not sailed since, but that has been solely because of the
distance to salt water. Still own, or am owned by, a Dachshund who
likes to see his name in print — Horst. I am probably more cynical
than I was, but still make a good stab at enjoying life. I shall be glad
to see any of ’38 who may be up this way —the golf and skiing
are both good in season and life in the north country has its moments.

EDWARD HOLYOKE OSGOOD

 

HOME appress: 615 Bay Rd., Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fiduciary Trust Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938,

MARRIED: Virginia Wilson Cook, April 12, 1947. cHiLpReEN: Edward Holyoke,
Jr., Aug. 1, 1948; Mary V. W., March 17, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Trustee, senior vice-president, Fiduciary Trust Company.

orFices HELD: Member, Board of Health, Town of Wenham, 1948-62; vice-
president and director, Fiduciary Trust Company; treasurer and director,
Harrisville Company; director, Fellows Gear Shaper Company, St. Croix
Paper Company, Spaulding Fiber Company, U.S. Smelting, Refining &
Mining Company, trustee, Provident Institution for Savings, Boston Lying-
In Hospital, Shore Country Day School; treasurer and trustee, June
Rockwell Levy Foundation, Spaulding-Potter Charitable Trusts, past

[ 1084 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

master, Lodge of St. Andrew, AF. & AML; past presntent, Corpoe sre Paks
ciaries Association of Boston.
MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Union Club, Mvopia Hunt Club, So huwseree Ske

Club.

FOR ease of reference, let's divide the Years into three roughly
equal parts — military service to 1946, learning my profesaen arn
to be a civilian, and finally the last ten years.

The first eight years were spent alinose entircly in the mulitars
service, with the exception of one year and two months at the
Business School in prewar 1939-40. I was fortunate beyond my
share in assignments and commanders and can truthfully say that
my army career was happy and constructive. [began upon gradus-
tion as a second lieutenant, Field Artillery at Fort Ethan Vilen,
Vermont, and ended a colonel, General Saif Corps on Pisenhow ce's
staff in Frankfurt, Germany. Assignments took me to Vermont,
Oklahoma (Field Artillery School as a student and Later an inseruc-
tor), Texas as an aid to two generals of widely ditfering permonsh-
ties, Massachusetts and Florida (as an instructor in the Amphilaous
Training Command), Kansas (Command and General Statl Sheol,
then to England and the planning headquarters (COSSAC) for the
Normandy landings with a side trip ta North Africa and the
Sicilian campaign on the staff of the Third Infantry Diviven, ar
finally to the continent with the G-3 operations section of General
Eisenhower’s staff (SHAEF). Tangible evidence — four battle wary
the Bronze Star Medal and the Belgian Croix de Guerre wath Palin.

The middle years were spent in Icarning to be a ciurhan, a trustee,
a husband and father. The only conncetion with the past veare rs
my wife, for we met in London in 1943 Where she was with the
American Red Cross Clubmobiles. (In fact she ended up i charge
of all personnel for northwest Europe and that's a story she cheat
write! )

I went to work for the Fiduciary Trust Company nag
Boston and after our marriage in 1947 to hive in Werte send ate
sequently Hamilton, Massachusetts. “The learning preg gee outs fe
of my company included a full schedule iv town atfaew warts

service as an elected member of the Boand of Pleath a neiter
of the School Building Committee, Civil Defense andthe Bad €pesa
Now that we live in Plamilton, the adpecnt town, atone Noo
England tradition they don’t talk to cach ether oo there ave ae tee
TOWN ACTIVITICS.

In 1952 my apprenticeship nt busines ented when P Pease 4

{ tos ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

vice-president of Fiduciary Trust Company. The past ten years
have been fascinating and busy. I enjoy my work, not only for
the company but also as a director of other corporations. Being
wound up in their problems is a stimulating process in our dynamic
economy. Of equal interest are the two charitable foundations on
which I serve. I believe we are making a real contribution to young
people in the field of education — at least our research tells us so
and this makes me feel pretty good.

Our boy is now at boarding school, an avid skier, and a budding
upland gunner and I look forward to enjoying both sports with him.
Our daughter Mary delights us on the piano and it will not be long
before she too will push the Old Man on the skis. I still have my
interest in photography and new-found loves in gardening, land-
scaping, carpentry and general maintenance/improvement of our
home.

The past twenty-five years have been wonderful and now it 1s
almost time to begin thinking about our successors, that all-important
problem of succession of management. I] have no worries at all
about the soundness of our sons’ generation. They look to me to be
a better proposition than the Class of 1938. I look forward to
watching them develop and take over from us.

GEORGE HAROLD OSHRY

 

HOME AppreEss: 60 Parkman St., Brookline 46, Mass.

oFFice appress: General Metals & Smelting Co., 47 Topeka St., Boston 18, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude 1938; 8.M., 1940.

MarriED: Miriam P, Mason, Nov. 2, 1941. CHILDREN: Jeanne Leslic, Aug. 9, 19435
Richard Mason, Aug. 8, 1946; Deborah Ann, Jan. 13, 1954.

{ 1086 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: President, General Metals & Smelting Company, metal dealers ond
smelter.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Secuty fue Vices,
Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; American Numismatic Socvety,

LIFE at best is a compromise of three factors: the happy event
the sad events and the routine. As I look back over the past twenty -
five years, I have the feeling of having lived rather actuvely. What
with a household consisting of three lively children and a dey. tu-
gether with the problems today of running one of more bisunewcsy
not to mention involvement in religious and social affairs — to say
the least there is always something doing. After graduation and a
most pleasant summer playing with an orchestra in the Adirondacks
I returned to the Graduate School of Engincering for two years
(together with courses at M.LT.), from w hich in sgyo I graduated
with a Master’s degree in physical metallurgy. My fit perunien
was at Watertown Arsenal where I worked in the laboratory urnlee
the late Dr. Horace Lester, a pioneer in the non-destructive testing
of metals particularly as related to army ordnance material In
the summer of 1941 I transferred to Aberdeen Provi ing Ground,
Maryland, returning to Boston in November of that vear to murty
Miriam Mason.

During the war years, I was head of an X-ray and metallurgy al
laboratory. Our group was charged with the dev clopinent of
specifications for the inspection, testing, dev clopment and cescarch
of army ordnance material, particularly armor plate and projectiles
The work also involved considerable travel to other installations fie
meetings and consultations. Thus in our small way we ava group
made our definite contribution to the war etfort.

Socially, life was not too unpleasant. We hved in a government:
built project — met some fine people, raiscd two of our children,
grew fine vegetables in our Victory garden, and by saving yas
coupons could on occasion take a trip to Baltimore or W ashany tent.

After the war ended, and believing we could have no otter, |
left government service and took a position on a rescarch projet
at M.I.T. In 1948, 1 purchased an old smclting plant and together
with one grand fellow — my Dad—we have for the pace pierces
or so years had the difficult but rew arding expenence of burlheng vp
a small but fairly successful metal procesuny and wne long Paracwe se
Unfortunately, Dad took ill and was forced to reare an My -

Socially, Iam fairly active in rchpious afar finding a a renal
ing experience to practise Judaism as aw av of Ite. bee relisarees

[ 1087 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

I enjoy a weekly visit to the health club, as well as bowling with
the boys or an occasional pinochle game. During summers I com-
mute weekends to our little shack at the beach at Ogunquit, Maine.
My chief hobby is collecting coins and trying to keep my tropical
fish alive.

I have but one small thought for recent graduates in the fields
of science and engineering. There is a great temptation today for
such graduates to accept positions with government services or large
corporations working mainly on government contracts. This is
often at the sacrifice of private initiative and cost of free enterprise.
I would like to point out that the establishment of one’s own busi-
ness—one that is productive in providing better processes and
jobs — is a most rewarding experience.

ALFONSO OSSORIO

 

HOME AND OFFICE AppREss: The Creeks, East Hampton, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory, Portsmouth, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
OCCUPATION: Artist.

LIVING and working in East Hampton, with occasional exhibj-
tions of my work in New York and elsewhere.

[ 1088 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

RICHARD JAMES O'TOOLE.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 46 Washington St., Ayer, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: O’Toole & Pillsbury, Inc., 46 Washington Se, Aver, Maw.
PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.
MARRIED: Kathryn A. Sullivan, Dec. 10, 1943. CGautames:; Noreen, Sept. tn, teat,

Richard K., Jan. 31, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Funeral director.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Democratic Town Comimuttce, unce tgio, dele yg see
to Democratic State Convention, past president, Rotary, Baseball Crt, sole
Association; Past Grand Knight, Past District Deputy, Neoghes af Coban.
bus; chairman, Red Cross Fund Drive, two yeary Cancer bust Deve,
four years; trustee, Community Memorial flovpital.

MEMBER OF: American Legion, Catholic Guild for the Blind.

LEFT class early to wrestle with finances aftce death of father - -
still wrestling — no decision. A bricf stint with US. Pose Orban an
Leominster, Massachusetts. E:njoved working for FL fo duBene on
the Chicago area for a few years before enlisting in Manne Corps
After boot camp a DI from PI, had a few months at beautiful bs: as
Beach before overseas. Wounded at Iwo, among fit troops ante
Japan and Tsu Jima. Discharged as captain. It has been a dictiet
pleasure to have been an area aid to J.P. 's hid brecheray JER.
and E.MLK. As well as running my own busines am the tran tree
urer. Still fortunate and happy to be very active in gece ysore
football officiating.

{ tody ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WAYNE PARKER

 

ss: 72 Crowley Rogers Way, South Boston, 27, Mass,

WILLIAM AINSWORTH PARKER

Freee eer mma Loses ep ete
2

  

raining Section, Box 32, APO 143, San Francisco,

“School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

DEGREE: A.B., cll laude, 1938.

une 21, 1947, CHILDREN: Elizabeth Avery, Nov. 1,
, 24, 1951; Donald Ainsworth, June 27, 1953.

for Agency for International Development 10

USOM in Saigon, South Vietnam, February,
at training officer, International Housing Setv-
mance Agency, Washington, D.C., August,
tary for fellowships, American Council of

1090 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

Learned Societies, Washington, D.C., 1947-56, US. Anny Sgoal Ceoeps,
served overseas in Italy, 1942-46; private school teacher, tuw at

EDUCATION since Harvard: Graduate-level courses at Genre se
Washington University and American University in Wastin ss,

D.C., 1946-52.

JOHN VAZE PARNELI, JR.

HOME aAppREss: 18 David Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Bay Community College, 3 Grartrernt Me, Beer ng,

Mass.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Memorial High School, Roxbury. Mas. Putoe Uo stes

School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936. DEGREES: S.B. (Boston Uniw.), tai. ai ited §,

1940; A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1946; PH.D. (ibid.), 19048.
MARRIED: Uarda Margaret McKinney, Jan. 2, 1932. Boston, Via critones
John Vaze, 3d, Oct. 4, 1944; Stephen Aubrey Charles Sept. 4 tuas, Nitred

Nicholas Royster, Nov. 19, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Professor of biology and Division Coordinator of Nrenee, Moths.

matics and Electronics, Massachusetts Bay Community College.

OFFICES HELD: President, Virginia State College Chapter, ANUP, yes ee.
vice-president, Lavalle Press, Boston, Mass., preudent, Nu Pal Chapees,
Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Petersburg, Va. 1948-sa, Pealanty Pl yh Sheed

P.T.A., Petersburg, Va., 1957-59.
MEMBER OF: A.A.A.S.; A.LB.S.; Soc. Study Devel. & Growth, Amer en Se

ciety of Zoologists; Beta Kappa Chi; Sigma Nig NON BLE Norges
Academy of Science; Omega Psi Phi; Club Twenty, Guartunes.
PUBLICATIONS: Publications in the fields of neurmembryology and taded-ack yy

AFTER graduation, I attended Boston Univerity and received the
A.M. degree in biology in 1940. My teaching carcee began at Vir:
ginia State College, Petersburg, Virginia, in September, tgpy as a9
instructor of biology, and I remained there until June, rap UD owae
lent to Bennett College the following year, as an awntant prow
fessor. I was recalled to Virginia State Colleye, as an awes sate por
fessor in September, 1944. Because my rapid re in acalenue pace
did not exactly please my associates in the department, | odeantet
early during the year to return to Harvard as a candidate for vl «
Doctor’s degree.

Between September, 1945, and August, i947, D spent nese ef pos
time in the biological laboratory, The A.M. andi PhD. hkeorcees wry
conferred by Harvard in June, 1946, and June, tygt, tespectine’
I returned to Virginia Stare College for the secomd tue ny Se pee
ber, 1947, but this time to a more pleaunt envireniest by nog:

[ ro9t J

fe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

I was made a professor and in 1952 Coordinator of the Department.

During the span of time above, Uarda McKinney of Boston, and
I were married in January, 1942. Our first child, a girl, was lost at
birth in January, 1943. I have often wondered just what effect an
elder daughter would have had on three younger sons. The dis-
appointment of the absence of a daughter was continuously allevi-
ated by the arrival of John Vaze, 3d, Stephen Aubrey Charles and
Alfred Nicholas Royster in 1944, 1948 and 1950.

I was fortunate enough during the school year 1955-56 to receive
a fellowship from the Fund for the Advancement of Education.
This grant enabled me to discover how many of our supposedly
finer institutions of higher learning were presenting undergraduate
biology courses. The grant also enabled my family and me to see
most of the United States, Western Canada and Northern Mexico.

In order to educate our three sons better, my wife and I decided
to resign our positions at Virginia State College in August, 1959,
and accept positions as teachers in the public school system of
Newton, Massachusetts. We believed that our sons had reached
the ages where they should not be over-exposed to a segregated
pattern of life. After three years of public schools, I decided to
return to college teaching. I accepted a position, beginning in Sept-
ember, 1963, as a professor of biology and Division Coordinator of
Science, Mathematics and Electronics at Massachusetts Bay Com-
munity College, Boston, a new State junior college which is now in
its second year. Months later, I learned that our director, John
Fitzgerald McKenzie, is a member of the Class of ’38.

As a college professor in Virginia, | was very active as a member
of various educational committees on the campus, some five
of which were at the State level. From time to time I was active
as a public speaker, and somewhat less active in the community.
More for excitement than making financial gains, from 1954 to 1959,
I operated Parnell’s Gulf Servicenter, Parnell’s Sandwiches, and was
a part-time auto salesman for the Cavalier Buick Company. During
this time, I served as vice-president of the Lavalle Press in Boston.
I was invited to present special lectures in neuroembryology and
radiobiology at U.C.L.A., the University of the British West Indies,
and at many Negro colleges.

My principal objectives for the remaining years of my life are:
to assist in the development of strong departments of the various
sciences, mathematics and electronics at Massachusetts Bay Com-
munity College which has an excellent future as a junior college,

[ 1092 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

especially after the college moves to its new campus in the ne et
future, and to educate my three sons to a level of specie stues
’ ' tus bee

where each of them will have the educational sccurty

happy and successful lives.

DAVID FISHER PARRY

 

HOME ApprEss: 160 S. June St., Los Angeles 4, Calif
OFFICE ADDRESS: 5657 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 34, Calif

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Fox Chapel, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. Ctert Latade, 1%
a), Sereare Vabve

MARRIED: Edith Nussbaum, Feb. 10, 1933 (divorced tesg)
Adams, Aug. I, 1960. CHILDREN: Lynn, Jan. 16, 1946, Diaved Mlahoel Moy
14, 1948; Richard Gwilym, June 18, 1949; Virginia Wileon, Oye. 4. rust

OCCUPATION: Public relations counsel.

[ 109} }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RICHARD PARRY

SSO CEE EI RE TNR PME EEE IEE 5

        

LIN PLEIN ALISON eA

: a

é ogy -
Fi
4 i

HOME ADpRESS: 8862 Towanda St., Philadelphia 18, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 616 Two Penn Center Plaza, Philadelphia 2, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Germantown Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarrieD; Nesta Irene Crozier, Oct. 2, 1946, CHILDREN: Perdita Buchan, Dec. 16,
1940 (stepdaughter); Rawdon, April 16, 1949; Valerie, May 12, 1950.

occuPaTion: Specialist, Central Intelligence Agency, U.S. Government, presi-
dent, Baird-Gatzmer Corporation, a land holding company.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Cricket Club; Society of Mayflower Descendants,
Sons of the Revolution; Society of the War of 1812; Loyal Legion; Har-
vard Club of Philadelphia; Library Co. of Philadelphia; Wissahickon
Skating Club.

AFTER graduation I worked for a Philadelphia bank and a New
York advertising agency, and spent four years plus in the Navy
during World War II, part of it in England. Upon getting out of
the Navy, I returned to England and got a job in London with the
US. Maritime Commission and married a girl | had met during
the war.

We returned to the United States in 1947 and I went to work for
a Philadelphia shipping company. In 1950 1 became a stockbroker
and in 1951 joined the Central Intelligence Agency where I finally
settled down. This work is sometimes very rewarding and some-
times very boring and that is about all I can say about it.

Last year we bought a huge old house with over thirty rooms
on which we have been spending a small fortune. This brings me
to my hobby which is the collecting of furniture, china and paint-
ings of the 18th century and earlier. This collection is a very
fluid one as I am constantly finding a sideboard or a table or a picture
which I like better than one I already have. If I can sell the one

[ 1094 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have without losing money, I consider myself free to buy the

second one. My most active collection at present is Fayhsh pottery

and porcelain figures of the 18th century. I have a few Chel
and Bow figures, but most are Georgian Staffordshire and Leeds

The third string to my bow, in addition to my job and my

collecting, is a land holding company which owns 5,000 acres of
coal land in West ‘Virginia. This land had been owned by ms
family and others since 1855, but it never produced any thing brut
taxes. About five years ago, using a small inheritance my wite had
received, I raised our interest from less than one per cent to over
thirty-six per cent by buying out a lot of disgruntled stochhalters
This has turned out to be the smartest thing I ever did, as in four
years we got back 120 per cent of the investment in dividends the
first the company had ever paid. Also a possible bonanza hes
ahead in that the Virginia Electric & Power Company has bought
the adjoining property of 9,000 acres for a pit-mouth powcr plant
and should use much of our coal in the ensuing years.

My stepdaughter is now a Radcliffe graduate and works in New
York. My son is a good student, who has also done well in athletes
My daughter is not a good student, but luckily inherits her mathee's
good looks. My English wife has had to make many adjustments
but she has been a fine partner for me the last sixteen years.

As I read what I have already written, I realize that E have prob.
ably given the very false impression that I am rich. Actually, |
am operating under a large loan from the bank, secured by ny
land holding company stock, and my house is mortgaged to the hilt

Essentially I am, I know, an escapist. My preoccupation with
the 18th century is a sign that I don’t like the seth century, ane
the more our leaders and the leaders of other countries behave es

ways I do not like, the deeper I immerse myself in the pace
firmly believe that Franklin Roosevelt caneclled out bis price ef
accomplishment in history, based on his domestic reformay by be
incredible pig-headedness and stupidity regarding the Racers
Due to this weakness six years of war, death and devastanes eats
succeeded in replacing a Hitler with a Stalin.

I would like to close by saying that IT plan to send my weenie
boarding school near Boston neat vear and, come quently, be)
to get back to Cambridge more often than Ehave up tel moe f
also hope that friends w ill remember that my house bas bees eb pees
and hospitality thar are available to them whenever they sere re

Philadelphia.
[ regs ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HOWARD ROLLIN PATCH, JR.

    

HOME appress: 98 Washburn Rd., Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, 120 Broadway, New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193§-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. 1943(47).

MarrieD: Margaret P. McGinn, Dec. 31, 1941. CHILDREN: Thomas Nathaniel,
April 24, 1943; Jonathan Howard, Dec. 4, 1944; Anthony Rollin, Nov. 10,
1947; Peter Barron, May 6, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Nathaniel Patch, ’65.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Westchester County Democratic Committee, 1947-56, Town
Leader and member, County Executive Committee, 1955-56; Briarcliff
Civic Association, 1950-60, Committee on Zoning and Village Planning,
1954-55, executive committee, 1955-56, president, 1956-57; Boy Scouts of
America, 1950-57, member and later chairman of troop committee for the
Village; U.S. Power Squadrons, since 1957 — instructor in advanced pilot-
ing, 1958-59; Legislation chairman for District 2, representing 16 squad-
rons, since 1959; member of National Legislation Committee, since 1960;
N.YS. Boating Safety Instructor, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American and New York State Bar Associations, New York
County Lawyers Association, Association of the Bar of the City of New
York (served on junior bar, foreign law, trust and estates and entertain-
ment committees); Shattemuc Yacht Club, Nyack Boat Club; Hudson
River Yacht Racing Association; Eastern Cruiser Association, West-
chester Power Squadron; Yacht Racing Association of Long Island Sound;
Corinthians (New York Fleet).

THESE twenty-five years have brought forth all that an education
in the liberal arts might lead one to expect — perhaps more. Defeat
and triumph, joys and sadness, tedium, excitement, losses, gains —
who could ask for a tapestry of greater richness and color?

Two years in off-Broadway Theatre (a generation before Variety
took note of any such domain) led to starvation. Two years in

[ 1096 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard Law School led to four years of war, a comnneuon i the

Army, and duty in India. A further year in Cambridge, and then
nearly sixteen years with a large New York Gity law fir have
brought challenge after challenge, met (sometimes) with due re-

sponse. Some of the by-products:
Four sons — one, enrolled with Harvard ‘65, has taken a vear's

leave of absence for a year at apprentice architecture and (he hopes)
travel in Europe and Asia; the others at school grow tn stature and

possibly in wisdom, they are hard at his heels.
Eight years at journeyman politics — From doorbell nnging anal

poll-watching to a County Execuuve Committee, with the diwevery
that disunities within one’s own party are harder to resolve than

sometimes appears from the daily press.
Ten years of civic activity — common to many of us — inchidhing
community theatrical, chanty

Boy Scout work, village planni
drives and participation in local school seminars on the Great bleas

which developed a striking volume of discussion and thoughtful

comment.

Seven years in, on and near sailboats — painting, rigging weap
ing, racing, teaching, cruising, navigating, even cookiny, and, above
all, away from the shrill jangle of telephones and the crashing dia

of the City.

And somehow — as all these numbers add to more than twenty:
five, the whole does seem greater than the sum of its parts Perhaps
it is. Clearly, without Harvard s gifts — philosophy, literature,
drama and then the law—it would have been a smaller thing
With them, it is hard to think of an age in all the teeming torts.
lence of history when it would have been better to have hved.

[ 10097 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OGLESBY PAUL

 

HOME appRESS: 274 Ridge Ave., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Passavant Memorial Hospital, 303 EF. Superior St., Chicago, Il.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938, M.D., cum laude,
1942.

MarrigpD: Marguerite Black, May 29, 1943. CHILDREN: Marguerite, Jan. 4, 1946;
Rodman Oglesby, April 18, 1948.

occupation: Physician, chief of the Division of Medicine, Passavant Memorial
Hospital, Chicago, and professor of medicine, Northwestern University
School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Attending staff, Presbyterian-St. Luke’s Hospital, Chicago, 1948-
62; faculty member, 1948-62, clinical professor of medicine, 1962, Uni-
versity of Illinois College of Medicine; president, American Heart Asso-
ciation, 1960-61; member, board of directors, International Society of
Cardiology Foundation, since 1960; member, board of trustees, Otho S. A.
Sprague Memorial Institute, since 1962; member, United States-United
Kingdom Board on Cardiorespiratory Diseases, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; University Club of Chicago; Society of
Sigma Xi, American College of Physicians (fellow); Institute of Medicine,
Chicago (fellow); Chicago Society of Internal Medicine; American Fed-
eration for Clinical Research.

puBLications: A number of scientific papers on the subject of heart and vascu-
lar disease; editor, Yearbook of Cardiovascular and Renal Diseases; associate
editor, Diseases of the Chest (journal).

THE advice of the great physician, William Osler, was to attend to
the business of the day and neither look back nor far ahead. He
did say, however, that once during a man’s life, he might pause
briefly and look behind him. Perhaps this is that pause.

My first four years after leaving College were devoted to obtain-
ing my M.D. degree at Harvard. I look on this as a most satisfactory

[ 1098 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

experience in every way, with a wonderful and varied group of

classmates and with the broad range of exposure to basic and chino al

medicine afforded by the multi-hospital Harvard Medheal Sched
structure. I stepped from this into an internship in medheine at the

Massachusetts General Hospital in 1942 where again PT was sanyo.

larly fortunate in being in on the era of some of the MGLEL grants

— Means, Albright, Cobb, P. D. Whire, and Chester Jones The

hospital was large enough to have a vast amount of material but noe

so large as to have become impersonal. During this interval, U mee

a beautiful young lady then volunteering at the Masachusetts F ve

and Ear Infirmary and we were married just at the conclusion of my

internship. After the leisure and luxury of a three-day honey neon,

I departed for sea duty on a destroyer then based in New foundiand

leaving my new bride to return to the care of the deaf and the

blind in Boston. It was not reassuring to find that my predcecewer
on the ship had been transferred off due to severe seavichnew.

My Navy experience was at first a period of ninctcen months on a
destroyer on which I was the medical officer. We had a poet
ship, a good crew, and a good skipper. I realize forcibly now how
much our esprit de corps and performance were dependent on our
good leadership. I saw other ships, unhappy in morale, in which the
disease of discontent stemmed from lack of confidence anf respect
for the men in command. We did a lot—started in the North
Atlantic, then traveled to the North Pacific, and finally spent a year
in the Southwest Pacific ending with the invasion of the Phibppines
and participation in the battle of Surigao Straus. My neve avon:
ment was to the training schools at Notre Dame Univeraty, where
my wife and I were finally able to set up housekeeping. This was
followed by a full and fruitful year ae the Naval Efpural at
Chelsea.

I was able on my discharge in 1946, aftce thirty-nine menthe of
duty, to return to the Massachusetts General Hospital as reacbone
in cardiology under Dr. Paul D. White. [Thad earlier beqeane as
admirer of this extraordinary, stimulating and tireless physieiia. |
spent two years with him as my mentor, a valuable and mene astro:
fying time in every way.

In 1948, I proceeded to take the drastic step of leaving the Pact
Coast and settling in Chicago where I became atfiliared wath ree
byterian Hospital and the Univ ersity of Minots Colleye of Me dare
How major this move was can be appreciated when | fecal Chat pew
wife had always said that the two things she would nese ale wees

[ 1o9y9 ]

ceed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

to marry a physician and live in the Middle West. Presbyterian
Hospital was then in the throes of reorganization and many diffi-
culties were at hand. Gradually, the Hospital adjusted to the require-
ments for a modern teaching institution, I found many wonderful
associates and had the privilege of building a practice from scratch
and participating in an active teaching program. I consider that
Chicago has treated me most generously and handsomely. I was
able to undertake an active research project in coronary heart
disease which is just now reaching fruition. This, in turn, brought
varying involvements including a trip to Great Britain in 1960.

During my early years in Chicago, I became active in the affairs
of the Chicago Heart Association and soon after in the American
Heart Association. Eventually in 1960, I was honored by being
elected to the position of president of the American Heart Associa-
tion. The year of my presidency was frantic, with the necessity of
keeping my practice, teaching and research going and at the same
time traveling all over the country. I became a firm believer in the
voluntary health association as one of the unique strengths in our
American way of life. This partnership of the scientist and the
layman, both volunteers, is extraordinary and productive and hard
to believe until one has seen it close at hand. I know of no finer
group of people than those I was able to work with.

Finally, as I write this, I am about to move after fourteen years
at the Presbyterian-St. Luke’s Hospital to become chief of the Divi-
sion of Medicine at Passavant Memorial Hospital in Chicago and
professor of medicine at the Northwestern University School of
Medicine. This will be a big and difficult and challenging job.

Our family consists of my wife, Margot, one daughter, Marnie,
aged sixteen, and one son, Rod, aged fourteen, plus two dachshunds.
Margot has a constant stream of activities in Winnetka where we
live and has been usually (but not invariably) wonderfully patient
with my many absences from home. We were fortunate in going
to Hawaii together last winter where I taught for two weeks. Marnie
attends a private school in Winnetka and Rod is now at Milton
Academy, and both seem to be coming along well. Thank heavens,
the dogs do not have any school tuition.

[ 1100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD PAULL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1853 Main Rd., Westport, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 558 Pleasant St., New Bedford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Barre High School, Barre, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cto laude, 1Qi%, LLB, teogt.

MaRRIED: Lucia B. Kerr, June 12, 1941. CHILpREN: Richard Carv, Dee. a4, tags,
Phoebe Anne, Jan. 20, 1944; Daniel Leonard, May 8, 1950, Charles Kere,
June 16, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Richard Cary Paull, ’63.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES 'HELD: Scoutmaster, Troop 66, Westport, 1950-$5; president, Harvard
Club of New Bedford, 1954-56; vice-president, Qld Dartmouth Eft of
Society, 1956-62; treasurer, Westport Republican Committee, tact 4,
assistant treasurer, New Bedford Port Society, 1958-63, sccectary, \V atee-
front Historic Area League, 1962.

MEMBER OF: New Bedford and Bristol County Bar Associations, New Bedford
Luncheon Club.

SINCE our last Class Report in 1956, my way of hfe has evolved
without substantial change. I have continued my law practice in
New Bedford and live with my wife and four children at Westperre
Point within view of the ocean in an area more rustic than suburtas.
My first son is in the Harvard Class of 1963 and my dauyhter bas
this fall entered Endicott in Beverly. In 1958 my wife dewyned anf
we constructed a considerable addition to our home. Our roses are
deep here but in our traveling and vacationing we have been ws
oriented westward to San Diego, where Lucia’s parents hee, that
our younger sons who have made five auto trips with us te Cau
fornia have never been to Cape Cod thirty-five nules te the est

In part from our proximity to Woodland and brooke and in port
from our several family trips through the Southwest our boys bare

[ 1101 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

become avid herpetologists. My concern that in a few years Lucia
and I shall rattle around in a house more than ample for our needs is
in some measure allayed by the realization that our second son,
Daniel, has taken his elder brother’s room to house his live collec-
tion which at last report includes over one hundred domestic and
foreign snakes, lizards, tarantulas and scorpions, with a forty-pound
snapping turtle in one bathtub. Our youngest son has yet to start
his collection. We frequently see an errant snake or lizard emerge
from a heating duct and doubt that we shall ever be alone.

Although association with such critters may give my boys an in-
sight into life from the ground up, I do not consider it a prerequisite
to their training for the general practice of law in this Common-
wealth, anything which you may have heard recently to the contrary
notwithstanding. God willing, I plan to continue my practice until
one of my sons may take over.

The vicarious postgraduate course I have been enjoying these past
three years has bolstered my willing belief that Harvard’s academic
standards, if not its disciplinary procedure, have improved since
1938. However, I somewhat regret that the public image of Harvard
has been distorted by numerous conspicuous figures rather to the left
in the foreground.

I am becoming progressively conservative in my political think-
ing and have almost convinced myself that this trend is not a mani-
festation of my incipient senility nor a result of any change in my
station in life, but rather the effect of a growing awareness of a
frightening decline in public morality as a concomitant of the wel-
fare state. You will not find me among the ranks clamoring for im-
peachment of certain high public officials. I do not know whether
any of my classmates would be encouraged to send their sons to
Harvard or deterred therefrom by my revealing that a Harvard
senior can occasionally express opinions to the right of Senator
Goldwater, Perhaps we should not underestimate the power of the
hand that rocks the cradle. Nor should we be unmindful of her con-
tribution over the years.

[ t102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL RUSSELL PAYSON

 

HOME ApprREss: 40 Cherry Brook Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bowker-Payson Insurance Agency, Inc., 1318 Beacon Se, Rewk-
line 46, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Ruth McWain, Jan. 3, 1951. cHiLo: Timothy Spencer, June 4, race.

occuPATION: Insurance; member of firm, Bowker-Payson Insurance Agemwy,
Inc., solicitation and servicing of accounts,

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting Member, Town of Brookline, 1939-48, toa4 t#,
chairman, Community Fund Campaign for Town of Weston, toca, clerk
of vestry, St. Peter’s Episcopal Church, Weston, 1956-s9, trustee, Meadow.
brook School of Weston, since 1961; member, board of directory Breck.
line Chamber of Commerce, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Insurance Brokers Association of Massachusetty, Sewccty of
Colonial Wars; Harvard Musical Association; Weston Golf Club, Perv ard
Club of Boston.

FOLLOWING a three-month automobile tour of Furope in the
summer of 1938, I chose insurance as a career. Up to the tine of
service with the 26th (Yankee) Division in 1941, T was situated in the
life department of Boit, Dalton & Church, general insurance ayents
in Boston. After my return from the European Theatre of Opens

tions in the fall of 1945, I joined the Boston branch of the Travelers
Insurance Company as an office agent, at first specializing in the bfe
and accident and health end of the business, then liter, Teraselen
being a multiple line company, adding casualty and fire howe In
the spring of 1961, the Bowker-Payson Insurance Agenes, Ine. of
Brookline, Massachusetts, came into being. Our first year bas been @
success and we look forward to the future with Optinisin. byae ane

has been an interesting and challenging carcee marked by quectane

[ 1103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

changes since 1938, and it has been a real job keeping up to date and
alerting customers to these changes.

Aude from business, my interests have been widely diversified.

Asa bachelor, I continued my interest in music, playi ing the violin
in the Harvard Musical Association Orchestra, and singing in local
Gilbert & Sullivan Operettas, Brookline town affairs interested me
comiderably, and [ served as a Town Meeting Member for several
vears, both before and after World War II,
" Following our marriage, Ruth and I settled in Weston, Massa-
chuvetts, and then came a shift in interests to those of a “do-it-your-
self" nature and gardening. With Timmy on the scene, the intrica-
cies of modern educanon have been an added interest.

Wishing to justify my existence in the community in which we
live, I have spent much time in church work, and what used to be
known as "Red Feather” (Community Fund) campaigns. Our local
Weston Friendly Society has afforded me the pleasure of dancing in
three of its original musical productions — a most stimulating pas-
tine.

Our latest acquisition has been land in East Orleans, Massachusetts,
where we have recently built a summer place. This enterprise was
paracularly fun, because we designed it ourselves, locating it in a
grove of pine trees overlooking water,

My interest in Harvard and what it stands for remains strong, and
it always will give me pleasure to join in Class functions and follow
the activities of the undergraduate body.

JACK BEREN PERLIS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 310 West End Ave., New York, N.Y.

[ t104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prePARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1938, 1940-1941. DEGREE: A.B. 1938(41).
marriep: Mildred Grotenstein, Aug. 30, 1942.

occupation: Consultant on public relations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; National Rifle Association.

AS I sit here taking my ease beside a mountain-top pool overlooking
the improbably beautiful harbor of St. Thomas, vague stirrings
prompt me to seek out paper and quill for the Twenty-fifth Anni-
versary Class Report. For, if I do not do it now, while on a bricf
respite from the frenetic demands of a frantic profession, it will
simply not get done.

My thoughts, warmed by the Caribbean sun, go back to a certain
cold day some twenty-odd years ago when I was summoned into
the presence of a high official of a giant company based in Boston.
This colossus, with commendable corporate sagacity, had reasoned
that a recent Harvard graduate who had been toiling in Washing-
ton’s O.P.A. and W.P.B. might be just the chap to serve it as
priorities counsel at a time when the controlled materials plan was
in operation.

The aforementioned executive moved me deeply by explaining
that his company had such a high regard for my potential and was
so reluctant to hamper its full growth that he had decided to fire
me immediately, there being no further need for steel priorities.

Following this unilaterally induced leisure-provocative reward
for two years’ dedicated work and low pay, I decided that the role
I could most fruitfully play was that of a rugged individual in a
corporate jungle. For I was obviously not meant to be an organiza-
tion man. Packing our “lares and penates” (and my diploma), my
bride of two years and I headed for her home town, New York City.
The former Mildred Grotenstein, a Brooklyn College graduate and
daughter of a distinguished Brooklyn physician, this beautiful girl
has been the most important influence in my life.

In 1946, I set up shop as a public relations specialist in the broad-
casting industry and for the past sixteen years have guided the
public relations policies of such programs as “American Forum of
the Air,” ‘Meet the Press,” “Omnibus,” “Leonard Bernstein and the
New York Philharmonic,” TV-Radio Workshop of the Ford
Foundation,” “Festival of the Performing Arts.”

Ours is an arcane craft, rich in recondite ritual and predisposed
to a pluralistic vision of the nature of truth, Te is not suthcently
understood by the general public that public relations and pubharn

T rr9e ]

—___]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

techniques are neutral and that they can be employed on behalf of
the worthwhile or the meretricious be they companies, programs,
singers or countries. I take much satisfaction from the fact that the
programs and people with whom it has been my privilege to work
have set standards of quality.

I am especially proud to have been able to contribute to the Fund
for Harvard College by publicizing globally its highly successful
radio program. And I treasure a letter from Dr. Nathan Pusey
acknowledging the effectiveness of the promotion. And in the
same context of public service, I serve the Police Department of
the City of New York as its consultant on televisual procedures —
utilizing the sight and sound medium to train recruits and enlighten
the public.

It occurs to me that I have also been fortunate to have had as
clients such Harvardmen as Robert Saudek (’32) and David Susskind
(42), the latter president of Talent Associates-Paramount, Ltd., of
which I am the public relations and publicity director.

To conclude this progress report I should like to quote a sentence
that appeared in a story printed years ago in a Manhattan news-
paper of impressive circulation and dealing with Boston Latin
School. It read: “Boston Latin School graduates include five signers
of the Declaration of Independence, pianist-conductor-composer
Leonard Bernstein, and (ahem) television-radio public relations
specialist Jack Perlis.”

The parenthetical disclaimer in the above quotation seems a fitting
assessment of my contribution thus far to our social heritage. A
coincidental sidelight: Not long after that item had appeared I had
to decline an invitation to be guest speaker at a Boston Latin School
Annual Dinner. And the reason was that I had to be in New York
City in connection with a television program starring Leonard
Bernstein.

[ 1106 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORE

HENRY HAINES PERRY, JR.

Rerrerercese, Tees age yes etaegegwenbeattten 2 gaee Ri orn

roo
: we nd . 4
; :
« en. ‘ ‘
é :
: j
f° a =
° . |
a 3?
eine f
- *
2.
‘

 

HOME ADDRESS: 209 Gun Club Rd., Richmond, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 N. Sixth St., Richmond, Va.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

mMarRiED: Marjorie Frazier, Sept. 16, 1944. Coitoars: Patrura Praswe, Deb. oe,
1946; Anne Moseley, Dec. 31, 1947; Elizabeth Stokex June a teat.

OCCUPATION: Sales work.

SINCE past events have been pretty well covered in carler clas
ublications, I won’t take the space here to elaborate further, bat
will briefly comment on the current situation.

To begin with, I am still engaged in sules work repecwntng
textile mills as well as converters here in the Southeass.

The family status remains basically the same with the cverpaend
of one very important difference. Where vestenday inv wile and
I were bringing up little girls, today we suddenly find enaree tees
with a household of young ladies, in all their female samuaticateny
attempting to bring us up — or is it “up-to-date”? Being the bow
male (parakeet excepted) in this more-than-ever predoniunanely fs-
male environment places me in a strong minority pesinen Cb heey
telling myself), and where the ground rules are often anything feoe
clear, I have found that playing it by car is frequently the beter
part of valor.

To round out the current picture, politically Drenden be a Bie
Democrat and a Goldwater Republican, noe an onyinal phiseg ts,
but, I believe, a sound one. Religion-wise, we are menihers of M4
Stephen’s Episcopal Church here, where my wife and 0 ace as
active as time will permit.

[ t107 }

__|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Club membership, in addition to the Harvard Club, includes
The Fishing Bay Yacht Club, which is a predominantly sailing
group and encompasses a goodly assortment of crusing, as well as
One-Designs such as Mobjacks, Jollies, Penguins and assorted Ca-
tamarans, Hobbies, other than working around the place, include
occasional golf, where I’m still happy to break ninety, tennis at
which my daughters can give me a darned good workout, and sail-
boat racing in the fast-growing Mobjack class.

FRANKLIN ALLEN PETERS, JR.

 

HOME appress: P.O, Box 30200, Nairobi, Kenya, East Africa.

OFFICE appress: Fsso Standard (E.A.), Ltd., P.O. Box 30200, Nairobi, Kenya,
East Africa.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936. DEGREE: $.8, (Columbia Univ.).

MarRigD: Jane Hand, January, 1946. cHILDREN: Paul Bird, Jr., Sept. 21, 1940
(stepson); William Peters, Feb. 16, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Director, Esso Standard (E.A.), Ltd.

MEMBER oF: Nairobi Club; United Kenya Club; Mount Kenya Safari Club;
Muthaica Golf Club.

AFTER finishing sophomore class at Harvard, where I was majoring
in anthropology I became frightened at the prospect of having to
earn a living during the depression, so I transferred to Columbia
Business School where I also majored in a subject beginning with
“A” — namely accounting. Upon graduation, still obsessed with the
idea to earn a living combined with travel opportunities, I went to
work for Standard-Vacuum Oil Company. Four months later I
was sent to the Far East and served there until war broke out. After

[ 1108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

a brief spell of body slimming and brain development undet J ipanese
supervision, I managed to return to the U.S.A. and for the rest ef the
war served with the Office of Strategic Services in Past China. Afiee
the war I rejoined Standard-Vacuum, married my “one amt onty*
and served under her supervision in various countries throug hut the
Far East, until 1958. At that time I was considered sutherently grey
and experienced to be appointed director of Standand- Vacuum Ont
Company (East Africa) Ltd., now rechristened (fot reasons best on.
explained here) Esso Standard (East Africa), Led.

My son, William Peters, is attending Montclair Academy in New
Jersey, and son Paul Bird, Jr., is in the U.S. Air Forve statwoned on

the United Kingdom.
Looking back at my life since leaving Harvard 1 muse wll.

defensively say that for the most part I would not have had at any
different. The inward knowledge that I could have done bertce wn

not shared by others.

FRANK GEORGE PETFRSON, JR.

 

MAILING ApbREsS: 1621 S, Woodlawn Rd. Spokane 64, Wash.

f Baar 2

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WINSLOW LOCKWOOD PETTINGELL

 

HOME AbprESs: 309 Park Ave., Highland Park, Ill.

OFFICE appress: Cushion Pak, Inc., 329 W. 18th St., Chicago 16, IIl.

prepared aT: Amesbury High School, Amesbury, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, 1945-1946. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(46).

MARRIED: Jean Whitbeck, Aug. 18, 1940. CHILDREN: Judith Aline, July 4, 1941;
John Winslow, Dec. 17, 1943; Jean Graham, Sept. 12, 1945.

occupation: President, Cushion Pak, Inc., fabricators of urethane foam.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, USNR (Ret.); member, Board of Edu-
cation, School District No. 5, Levittown, N.Y. 1951-53; sales manager,
Chicago Curled Hair Company, 1955-58, Urethane Industries International,

1961,

WITH the game of life perhaps half over and a look at the proof,
my “25th” picture, I’m calling time out.

It is not that the game of life is going badly; my wife Jean and I
have had our share of good plays— even provided a team for next
generation’s schedule, It’s just that two players away at school at
once leave you financially winded. What is more, our girl-boy-girl
spacing is close enough to mean no half-time. We'll be merely substi-
tuting new names on the term bills.

How did I get in this predicament? Briefly this way. In the summer
of 1938, Naval Aviation claimed me for nearly eight years. These
Were exciting, productive times. I met my wife in Key West well
before the Truman Summer White House invasion when it was still
a sleepy fishing paradise enjoying Hemingway’s visits. Married in
1940, the little ones started appearing a year later and seemed to be
spaced with just about the same frequency as is causing me the
financial anemia referred to above.

[ 1110 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

With the war over, I resigned from the Nav y and entered the we
called business world. Broke, no definite job in mind, the job incee-
viewers considered me a freak. Eight years out of college, no buw-
ness experience, yet with the built-in expenses which came with
three children, a wife, a car and a home mortgage, these interviewers
considered me incompatible with all realities of business.

I found a job. Have since moved from sales in textiles to sales
work in chemical textiles. If you don’t have chemistry on your
side today you rate with the capitalists in Cuba — obsolete. If thes
report appears to some to have a pessimistic overtone, take heart.
In February of this year, a dozen hardy stockholders joined me to
form Cushion Pak Inc., a business baby which my associates, my wife
and I hope will grow and grow and grow.

For those of you who think you have heard the last of my con-
fusion let me close by saying that while most of you may be con.
templating undivided attention to your Twenty-Fifth, I shall be
covering (1) the high school graduation of my youngest in Dhnow
(2) the Phillips Exeter graduation of my son at Excter, (3) the
graduation of my daughter from Skidmore College, Saratoga Spangs
New York, and (4) my own Twenty-fifth. All this in the space of

ten days. Could life be more exhaustingly rewarding?

WILLIAM STANWOOD PIER

-

  

;
.

Cop
HOME ApprREss: Los Gatos, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., 2151 S. Firse Se, San fome, Caf
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.EL

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938, ttm, age

MARRIED: Reinette Plimpton, 1940 (divorced tyyy), Jos Dek, Pbeceeter,

(tei ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

1950. CHILDREN: Phoebe Gardiner, April 6, 1941; William Stanwood, Jr.
June 9, 1943; Margaret Snow, May 7, 1947; Virginia Lee, March 20, 1954.

occupaTION: Attorney; Atomic Power Equipment Dept. General Electic
Company.

HARVARD Law School, 1938-41. New York law firm, 1941-42.
US. Army Air Force, 1942-45. New York law firm, 1945-46. Bos-
ton law firm, 1946-49. Marshall Plan, Washington, D.C., 1949-50;
Marshall Plan, London, 1950-53. Attorney, construction and mining
company, San Francisco, 1953-1960. Attorney, G.E. atomic power
department, San Jose, California, 1960 to present.

Married, divorced, remarried. Four children. No spectaculars,
Enjoying life as a critical participant and spectator with left of center
inclinations.

WALLACE ROGERS PIERSON, JR.

   

DB Ae ARI aa UR SASS

HOME apprEss: 8 Wallace St., Cromwell, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: A, N. Pierson, Inc., Cromwell, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarriED: Jane Louise Kingsbury, June 22, 1940. CHILDREN: Roslynn K., June 20,

1942; Lou Claire, April 29, 1944; Jane M., Jan. 15, 1949; Wallace Rogers,
3d, June 6, 1951.

occupation: Wholesale florist,
OFFICES HELD: Various offices in.trade associations.

LIFE has been uneventful, pleasant, not too boring, and it still seems
incredible that twenty-five years have passed since days at Harvard.

[im],

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH WILLIAM PINKOS

 

HOME ApprEss: 87 Upton Ave., Providence, RI.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Blue Ribbon Textile Corp. Box 94. Pawtucket, RL

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Via

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Betty Barna, March 27, 1955. cautpaeN: Filen Susan, Feb. 6, tye,
John Lewis, Aug. 31, 1960.

OCCUPATION: President, Blue Ribbon Textile Corporation, narrow (ibew wees:
ing company.

MEMBER OF: Highridge Swim and Tennis Club; Southern New Englond Peace
Club; Harvard Club of Rhode Island.

SINCE our Eighteenth Anniversary Report, the two outstanfing
events in my life have been the arrival of Ellen in 1y¢8 and Jona
in 1960. Ellen is already quite an advanced student, being a pone.
graduate in nursery school, while Johnny is rather an unusual two
year-old, walking around the house with a pipe in his mech, there h
still far from toilet trained. Scanning my 1956 litcrary lula fo we
that I painted a rosy picture of Berry's future as a shice, Welk
two babies have set that project back indefinitely and one weeker|
a winter up north is our current average. We talk abeut shir ng
“togetherness” when the kids are a few ycars older, but, kee we
now, how old will that make me then? Despite the adv anciny veer
I have gone counter-clockwise and given up golf foe tensug but
must admit leaning more and more to doubles

Business-wise, I'm still weaving non-clastic cotton tapes anf
webbings, though the task of maintaining an ctficsent ery scat sta on
of forty to sixty people in an industry as depressed av esse es ese te ie
ingly serious. Our constantly increaung comperion feos noe
southern mills keeps reminding me of the paper Dwenee hog Prete cae

(ary ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Slichter in Ec. 181 about “The Decline and Fall of the New England
Textile Industry” —and sets me daydreaming about how nice it
might all have been if I had taken my own advice! Envious though
I often am of my professional and salaried executive friends, I like
to feel that perhaps there has been some compensation for all the
pressure and aggravation because of the many people and families
to whose livelihood I have contributed, and the many teen-age tape
boys over the years who earned their first wages from me and to
whom J always imparted words of wisdom on how to conduct
themselves in the world of making a living.

Since 1959 we have been living within earshot of the Brown
Stadium but it seems unlikely that the Brunonia teams will soon
be filling it to capacity, thus enabling Johnny to “pahk the cahs” in
our driveway!

Summarizing the past twenty-five years, I feel that I certainly
have been a very lucky lad—lucky in good health, good friends
and, most important of all, so lucky in finding —just when it
seemed my single blessedness die was irrevocably cast — such a

lovely wife and children.

ELMER DAVIS PIPER

   

HOME ADDRESS: 124 Midwood Rd. Glen Rock, N.J.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. 90 Delaware Ave., Paterson,
NJ.

PREPARED AT; Brewster Free Academy, Wolfeboro, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MareleD: Kathryn Kulin, April 8, 1944, Bogota, N.J. cumtn: Stephen Edward,
Dec. 17, 1952.

[114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

OCCUPATION: Assistant personnel manager, Great Athinow A Paste Tee
Company, retail food stores.

THEODORE PLOTKIN

 

HOME appreEss: 180 Clark Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Plycraft, Inc., 39 S. Canal Se, Lawrence, Maw

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Maw.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MARRIED: Edna Hibel, Jan. 7, 1940. CHILDREN: Jon, Apes. tues. Aebeew, Np
27, 1947; Richard, April 17, tgso.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to president, Plycraft, Inc, furmture manuf turers

PUBLICATIONS: Patent on improved paper stapling machine.

DOUBTS about my abilities in my chosen ficld of study amd the hore
of an easy living in the family business led me to spend an arrernee:
able quarter-century pursuing the vagaries of fashion in women's
clothing and accessories at retail. At best my heart was never init
while the family fortune waned and waned so that the “caw” byes
was only temporary.

In compensation for forsaking my interests iv cme A phy ons
was my major), my marriage has led to an equal interest my the arts
because of the prowess of my wife in painting and drawing Pesan
take credit for her outstanding accomphshinents and fenos in, bet es
contribution of encouragement and a symputhetw atinenplere pre
sented no obstacles to her pursuit of the tue. Wer ares aed
personality and boundless ability have caused our ward hfe sent
activities to be largely oriented around there center of peavey whet
ever we get loose from the busy life of a farmly with there bey a

Outside of their capacity to enjoy gaines and sporty the bev e ars

{ tres )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

as much alike as a cocker spaniel, a boxer and a whippet. As a re-
sult our home is well furnished with paintings, frames, telescopes,
xylophone, piano, cello, guitar, ukes, tuba, potted violets and
azaleas, ancient Greek, Roman and Egyptian objets d’art, birds,
butterflies, ping-pong table, footballs, gloves, bats, baseballs, tennis
racquets, stamp and coin collections . . . all in a constant state of
flux. It may not be formal but it sure is home.

Jon at twenty-one is a senior at Cornell majoring in math, with an
eye to meteorology for graduate study, and engaged to be married
right after graduation next June. Andy is grappling with sophomor-
itis at Brookline High School, while Dicky resists doing homework
from Edward Devotion School — the very grade and school where
fate put his parents together in the same room thirty-three years
ago. As you can see, we never wandered far, having made our home
in or near Brookline all our lives.

A tour of arc welding, successfully conquering a shaky hand, and
then working at the Harvard School of Public Health doing re-
search for the Chemical Warfare Service was my contribution to
the war effort.

I am convinced that the mixed blessings of capitalism and de-
mocracy are the best way to organize human society. But the frail-
ties of our public servants have led me to believe that it is prudent
always to vote against the “ins,” let the chips fall where they may.
The only thing we have to fear is entrenched power.

Now at the tender age of forty-five I am forsaking the retail busi-
ness to try my hand at controlling, purchasing, research and develop-
ment in the manufacture of contemporary furniture for a fast-grow-
ing company. These are the type of problems closer to my center of
interest and I am anticipating the challenge with much eagerness.

[ 1116 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

MARTIN JACOB POLLAK

 

BORN: April 13, 1916, Vienna, Austria. paments: Alfred Pollak, Waerasee
Sobotka.

PREPARED AT: Woodmere Academy, Woodmere, Long Wand, NY.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938; amt. (John Hopkin Une,

1953-
MARRIED: Elizabeth Hall. cuitp: Thomas Hall, tgs.

DIED: June 5, 1960, La Jolla, Calif.
wivow: Mrs. Martin J. Pollak, 2726 Azul Se. La Jolla, Cab,

MARTIN JACOB POLLAK spent four vears with our Clie and
was a member of Adams House football and Seti te sri,
Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770 and the John Reed Mmrcty. After
college he spent a short time with an acrial photography frm, «
term and a half as an assistant at the Elarvard Univeruty Inieirvre
of Geographical Exploration and did graduate work in metcurnbey
at New York University. From 1941 to 1951 he was a menibae ey,
the staff of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Insarunon at Wests
Hole, Massachusetts. He then joined the research staf of the
Chesapeake Bay Institute, a small oceanographic research Lbatatery
of the Johns Hopkins University, and in 19¢3 Was appormeed bea tures
in oceanography at the university. During Work! War Hl he served
in the Navy aboard one of the hydrographic survey stipe atras fet
to the Pacific Fleet. He was survived by his wife and wert.

[ e1t7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CLYDE FRANKLIN POOLE

     

HOME AppREss: 702 Washington St., Abington, Mass.

oFFIcE ADDRESS: Rockland Trust Company, Rockland, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Abington High School, Abington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

marrigp: Doris Greatorex Ball, Feb. 21, 1941. cHmtpren: Robert William, July
3, 1942; Douglas Richard, Oct. 29, 1945.

occupation: Commercial banking; assistant treasurer, Rockland Trust Com-

any.
onmces veo: Trustee, 1951-54, auditor, 1956-62, First Congregational Church
of Abington; treasurer, 1956-62, John Cutler Lodge A.F. & A.M.,; treasurer,
1956-60, Abington Council R. & S.M.; treasurer, 1961-63, March of Dimes.
MEMBER OF: John Cutler Lodge AF. & A.M.; Pilgrim Royal Arch Chapter;
Abington Council R. & S.M.

AFTER being forced to give up my college education because of
financial difficulties, I availed myself of the opportunity to handle
other people’s money by accepting a position with the Abington
Savings Bank. I discovered after a short time that age and gray
hair were necessary requisites to inspire confidence in both the
general public and the top officers of the bank. After seven years
of experience and three years of night school, I decided that it was
time to make a change, and accepted a position as assistant treasurer
of the Industrial Machine Works. The owner, Joseph S. Sylvester,
Jr.,’25, and the local draft board both felt that my best contribution
to the war effort was to remain in private industry, and I attempted
to justify their judgment.

In 1955, having acquired both age and gray hair, I accepted a
position with the Rockland Trust Company, and was made an
assistant treasurer in 1958. This last change of jobs has provided
a real challenge since fortunately I was placed in charge of our

[1118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

automation program and system changes. The change over te
automation in our bookkeeping department entailed hog heaes
and continual problems, but finally resulted in many aslvant wees he
the bank, and considerable personal satisfaction.

It seems that my family and home have been my primary interest
throughout the years. I have devoted many hours to Masones, and
have gone through all the “chairs” to Master, and am at present
treasurer of this fraternal organization. It scems that anvone who
is employed in a bank is considered an ideal person to be eather
treasurer or auditor of every conceivable type of organisation and
fund-raising campaign. I have been no exception, [have followed
our children through all of their various activitics in Cub Scouty
Boy Scouts, Little League, Pony League, and High School, but alse
at the price of being a so-called “active parent.” which, PE muse
confess in retrospect, was quite enjoyable. I had always asuned
that both boys would enter Harvard, and graduate, thereby fuloiley

in a sense my own ambition. Children, however, have ‘ther own
ideas and opinions, and they frequently differ from these of ther

par ents.

RALPH LINDER POPE, JR.

 

HOME ApbRESS: 794 Canton Ave. Milton 8&4, Mas,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hornblower & Weeks 75 Federal Se, Renton oa, Uae.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Misa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, t95%.

marrieD: Thelma Morales, July 35, 1942. cates, Ralph Paolee ph Jooa re
1943; Albert Augustus, July 12, to44, Frank Moruey Uy @ teas, Geena?
Henry, May 15, 1949; Victoria Elizabeth, March pa pyee, Veneto
Evangeline, Aug. 13, 1956, Maria Cristina, Now, a8, yee

[ st19)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OCCUPATION: Investment securities; general partner, New England branch office
manager; corporate finance, Hornblower & Weeks,

MEMBER OF: Milton-Hoosic Club; Pan American Society; Sons of the Revolu-
tion, Veteran Motor Car Club of America.

AS I recall, I made a fairly conscientious attempt to record my
activities when the occasion last arose in 1956, or thereabouts.
It’s amazing, but I have no idea what I wrote! Starting from there,
I will continue my sparkling narrative.

First, we have two daughters added to the family since “then,”
one born in August of ’56, one in November of 757. They have
been, and still are, bringing a strong (navy lingo) “ripple movement
from the rear,” which threatens to engulf all the rest of us in one
stern-wake after another. But Thelma and I feel that it will be very
exciting to have marriage-age girls swirling around the atmosphere
when we’re still trying to learn how to behave at sixty! The four
boys and eldest girl are already expressing concern, although more
derisive than genuine.

In 1958, the leather tanning company I had worked for since
college was liquidated, and I then became associated with Horn-
blower & Weeks, in Boston. I was very fortunate, after starting a
new career at age forty-two (shades of Grandma Moses!), to be
part of an organization which was not only modernizing its securities
business in an aggressive way, but expanding its operations so widely
that it offered me a wonderful opportunity, as well.

Our eldest son is a sophomore at Williams, and our second boy
is wondering if he can make it to Harvard, and if not, oh where?
The other two boys are still “formative,” in the full sense.

We all know that Harvard is a much different college than we
attended, but we should all be able to accept and understand that
fact. Most important, we should interpret this change, based on our
previous acquaintance, and help the college to maintain its equi-
librium in the gyrating development of advanced learning.

[1120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD HERBERT PORTER

 

HOME AppREss: 13 Glidden St., Beverly, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MaRRIED: Martha Little, 1941; Polly Brooks, 1949; Roberta tolimes
1957. CHILDREN: Gayle, 1942; Edward Thomas, 1936, Peter Brooks tga,
Brooks Scott, 1955; Anne, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Construction business.

OFFICES HELD: Former president, Leslie R. Porter Company, Inc. Beverly, Vlaw,
Decco Corporation, Hamilton, Mass., Merl Corporation, Beverly, Maw

AFTER leaving Harvard I attended the London School of Fen
nomics, London, England, for a year. Traveled extensively through
the British Isles and through the Continent. Returned to the States
and entered the construction business where I remained unal thes
drew that first number out of the hat down there in Wastungten,
Entered the Army in March, 1941, as a private in the Field Arnilery,
was commissioned second lieutenant on May 6, 1942, at Fort Sal,
Oklahoma; went overseas to the Pacific; saw action on Guadalcanal
and others; returned in 1945 and got out after Japan surremlcred.

Since 1945 I have had quite an interesting ame although § muse
admit that it has rather depleted my funds. I have been married
three times and have five children. I tried my hand at racing horves
on the side line and that didn’t work out very well either. A few
years ago I sold my interest in a very nice businew and that was
a mistake too.

At the present time I am considering another change (net mantal,
because I have had it there) but ina slightly duferent hne of bua:
ness. If it works out, I'll be visiting some of my old cloamates to
renew our acquaintances and peddle my wares

[ trae)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

 

HOME abprEss: Owl’s Nest Road, Greenville, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 220 Delaware Trust Bldg., Wilmington, Del.

prePARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: S.B., 1938; LL.B. 1941.

Marriep: Elizabeth Jane Hadley, May 7, 1947, cuiLpreN: Helen Hadley, April
14, 1949; Josephine Thatcher, May 13, 1951; Edward Hyatt, 3d, March 23,

1954.

occupation; Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Minguadale Home, Unidel Foundation.

MEMBER OF: American and Delaware State Bar Associations; Aurora Gun Club,
DuPont and Greenville Country Clubs; Harvard Club of Delaware.

MY wife, Pokey, my two daughters, Helen and Josephine, my
son Edward, 3d (he was born on my birthday) and I are looking
forward to June when we shall join you in Cambridge. Pokey and
I have attended the Tenth, Fifteenth and Twentieth Reunions. She
now considers herself part of the Class.

We started married life in 1947 by remodeling an eighteenth-
century stone farmhouse without thinking too much about space
for a hoped-for family. Within five years we had outgrown our
prized possession. My father, who had as one of his hobbies “the
creation of something from nothing,” purchased a prefabricated
sample house at a local lumber yard and moved it to the country.
The three of us worked together using the interior from a late
nineteenth-century house. The finished structure was a Cape Cod
cottage with an old interior. Both Pokey and I are lovers of early
American furniture. To display our ever growing collection we
added six years ago the “body to the tail,” and the result was a full
two-story Georgian house. We are proud of our home and its

[ 1122 ]

ed

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

furnishings. Best of all, we have been able to do this together.
With plenty of room to spread outdoors we are constantly secking
unusual trees and shrubs. Much of the planting has come from a
nursery which I started after an illness in 1943. Some of the hve-
inch seedlings are now towering thirty-footers. Instead of golf
I care for the four-acre lawn with the help of, as Pokey sayy mv

second love, the Gravely.
As you Can see, we are country folk within an casy twenty -nunute
Atv

drive of my law office in the Delaware Trust Building.

father and I were associated until his death in 1955; since then my
brother, David, ’45, has returned from the Los Angcles areca to
assist me —a source of much happiness for both of us) Miy law
practice is primarily of a fiduciary nature, assisting clients with their
tax, estate and investment problems. I am very fortunate to have

the confidence and trust of the persons for whom I work.
In recent years Pokey and I have found much relaxation in travel.

Little did we realize that a three-week trip to Mexico would create

a new interest — the ancient cultures of the Western Hemisphere.

What we saw in Yucatan whetted our appetites. Since then we
have journeyed down the coasts of South America on two occa:
sions, always returning to our beloved Machu Picchu. We enjoy
the Indian villages on the slopes of the Andes and along the Amazon,
the damp jungles of Ecuador and the reflective mountain lakes of
Chile and Argentina. Two years ago we flew to Japan, Taiwan
and Hong Kong. The highlight of the trip was a visit with a
Japanese friend and his family on the island of Shikoku. Again new
vistas have opened and plans are afoot for another venture to the

Orient.
For many years we have been the hosts for the Elarvard Chib ef

Delaware annual picnics, Two classmates are regular atrenlers -

Jud Wells and Henry Sherman. In fact the three of ux Lunde stant,
are the unofficial Delaware Reunion Committee. The prone
generally in July and all Harvard men (and wives) are invited
tasty food and tempting .beverages. If you are unable te make a
Harvard lunch (first Monday cach month) or other Pbary ard atfases
in Wilmington, give me a call or just drop into the offic. Tbe

Porters will welcome you,

f seve l

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RICHARD GORDON POWELL

OPAL LAN

    

HOME appress: 236 Glenwood Rd., Englewood, N.J.

orFice appress: Sullivan & Cromwell, 48 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941,

MarrieD: DonEden I. Olsen, April 30, 1941. CHILDREN: Karen Anne, June 5, 1944;
Christine Lee, Aug. 25, 1946.

occupaTION: Partner, Sullivan & Cromwell, law firm.

oFFices HELD: Member of board, National Missions, United Presbyterian
Church; director, various business corporations, member, various bar
associations,

MEMBER OF: Field Club, Englewood, N.J.; Lunch Club, New York City.

VIEWING the past twenty-five years in retrospect convinces me
of the truth of the aphorism that travel is broadening — for certain
in a physical sense and, hopefully, also in social and intellectual un-
derstanding. I missed the 1938 graduation ceremonies in order to
join my parents on a summer tour of Scandinavia and spent a fair
part of this past summer introducing my two teen-age daughters to
much of the same area. In between, courtesy of Uncle Sam during
World War II, and of a series of clients thereafter, I have visited
various parts of all five continents and would gladly add Australasia
if the occasion should develop.

For the past several years one of my principal preoccupations has
been the development of a major iron ore project in Liberia — an
opportunity to observe at first hand the requirements and demands
of a burgeoning continent and to become convinced that the pres-
ervation of the social and economic structure to which we are more
or less dedicated will depend ultimately on the successful propaga-
tion of the faith of our forefathers,

[1124 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Over the course of the years this rolling stone has added a few
wisps of moss which permit the education of the progeny, the en-
joyment of the creature comforts of suburban life and occauenal
sorties into the cultural life of the city. It is dificule to measure in
finite terms the contribution to all of this of the four vears at Elir-
vard, but the debt is clearly there and gratefully acknowledged.

STEPHEN VAN NEST POWELSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 149 Blvd. Haussmann, Paris 8, France.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Amstan Overseas Ltd., 36 Rue de Labonle, Parn a Pram,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-38. DEGREES: A.B. Ct laude, 1938, Maa. (New Vock
Univ.), 1942; c.p.a. (New York State), 1943.

MARRIED: Esther Williams, Sept. 1, 1941. cumpren: Rebecca Lourne, Sepe 4,
1946; Anne Williams, March 14, 1950; Stephen Willams June at, teee.
Sara Van Nest, Sept. 10, 1954; John Abram, Dee. 6, 196.

occupation: Chief auditor for European subsidiaries of Amery as Searebor
manufacturers of plumbing and heating equipment amd sanitary w ore

OFFICES HELD: Member of staff, Haskins & Sells; New York and Philadstpbea,
1940-44, 1946-47; service with American Friends Serve, tse at. cho
auditor for Europe, director of CARE Sales Ottice for Cecemany, Sever:
gart, CARE, Inc., 1947-1948; Deputy Controller, Miwon to brane, Caer
troller, Mission to Sweden, Deputy Controller, Misaon te Nuria, (ea
troller, Mission to Austria, Controller, Mision to Turkey, forerngeesel
Cooperation Administration and predecessor agenetey tag 04. be pry
comptroller, Panama Canal Company and Canal Zone Coaveransnert, me
cluding service as controller, Canal Zone United Fund, 1gq4 qy. barre on
chief auditor, American-Standard, since tgsy.

MEMBER OF: American Club of Paris.

IN 1940 I decided to follow in my father's footsteps by eneenns the
profession of public accounting. For the neat two yeaty | weakest

[s125]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ligious Society of Friends. It is my earnest hope that this religious
experience and association will help to inculcate in my children the
same pacifist ideals which have motivated me since my early child-
hood.

As a family we are fond of outdoor sports. Esther, the children
and I play tennis at a British athletic club in the Forest of Meudon
to which we belong; in the summer we enjoy water-skiing on the
Wirthersee, our favorite lake, in the Austrian province of Carinthia,
in the winter I keep fit playing squash.

Every three years we return to the United States for two months
of home leave, as we did this past summer, when we enjoyed a few
weeks of swimming, water-skiing, hiking and mountain-climbing in
the Adirondacks, Now, as 1962 draws to a close, Esther and I look
eagerly forward to our next trip to the States to attend the Twenty-

fifth Reunion.

MILTON SIGMUND PRATT

 

MAILING appress: P.O. Box 313, Laurel, Fla,

[ 1128 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN PRESTON

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 11, New Ipswich, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Tilton School, Tilton, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MARRIED: Dorothea A. Delyannis, Dec. 10, 1949. CHILDREN: Flisabeth Fy Bets 0a,
1951; Katharine, Jan. 14, 1953 (died Aug. 26, 1959); Sarah Wy Now, 14,
1953; George F., Sept. 14, 1955.

occupation: Title abstractor, self-employed. Preparation of alatrace of ttle
for lawyers and banks from searches of records in County Regrtres of
deeds and probate, and other sources.

OFFICES HELD: Member of the corporation of the New Ipswich Library Ca coe:
poration which operates a free public library) since tosg, clerk, me Ae,
president since 1961; member of the corporation of the Mawnan Villoge
Savings Bank of Greenville, New Hampshire, since tyc8, trustee ame
1960; trustee, Monadnock Community Hospital, since tgs, truace, New
Ipswich Appleton Academy, since 1962; member, New Ipswich Fire De-
partment, since 1949, clerk and treasurer, since 19$}3.

IN the fall of 1938 I entered the Graduate School of Puducatien,
where I stayed a year and a half, leaving without a deyrce to enter
the Army. I served initially for a year with the Birt Corps of
Cadets in Texas, and then after discharge and recall, with varwoue
units until 1945, after the end of the war. During nine of my
service J was a staff sergeant and my duty was as a radar tee hana tars.

Subsequent to the war, I spent a year in New York, amd then
a short period in a local radio station. In 1946 amd tyg? a stranye
chain of circumstances led to my presente carcer, which hae onae:
pied my time now for fifteen ycars. It all began when my yrand.
father bought a timber lot in 1870! An attempt to bwate this bet,
after the death of my father, led me to employ a ttle euanunet ts
search the records of deeds. My apparent bhing for thie wee of

[ ttag ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

work, in turn, led the examiner to employ me to work for him!
Later still, [ spent several years in the legal department of a savings
and loan association. Since 1955 I have had my own business, which
involves chiefly preparing abstracts and reports for lawyers, banks,
timber companies, contractors and land surveyors. Occasionally I
serve as a witness in a Court case involving real estate, and once
in a while I do a little genealogical work.

During all these years since the war, my home has been the town
where I was born and grew up, and from which I went to school,
college and the war. During these years, it has been a source of
great satisfaction to be able to do many of the “public jobs” in
the community, which have also been previously held by other
members of my family. I have been particularly glad to succeed my
father, William A. Preston, ’95, as town moderator (my only venture
in politics), a position I have held since 1952, and to follow my
uncle, Herbert F. Preston, ’o4, as clerk of the local public library
corporation. Farly this year I was asked to become a trustee of
the local Academy, an institution with which various members of
my family have been concerned since its founding in 1787.

My experience in four privately owned corporations leads me
to make only one semi-political observation, which is, that this
method of providing certain public services is an excellent antidote
to the frightful growth of state socialism which we have seen be-
come the curse of our country ever since 1932.

 

HOME appREss: 41 Ormsbee Ave., Proctor, Vt.
oFFice ADDRESS: Vermont Marble Co., Proctor, Vt.

[1130 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1938; M-¥-A. (Princeton
Univ.), 1942.

marriED: Sara Conklin Brown, Nov. 16, 1940. cHILDREN: Anne Dutton, Aug.
21, 1941; Redfield Dutton, Aug. 25, 1942; Sara Dutton, June 15, 1945, Rob-
ert Dutton, Jr., Feb. 17, 1947; George Gilbert, Nov. 7, 1950; Fletcher
Dutton, Nov. 29, 1952.

OccUPATION: First vice-president and treasurer, Vermont Marble Company,
vice-president, Proctor Trust Company; president and treasurer, White
Pigment Corporation, Proctor, Vermont.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee (life), Middlebury College, since 1955; former director
and vice-president, 1952-58, 1960-62, Associated Industries of Vermont,
director, New England Council, 1956-59; past president, director and
clerk, since 1948, Vermont Tuberculosis & Health Association, former
chairman, Brandon (Vt.) Graded School District, Otter Valley (Vt)
Union School District; former trustee, Proctor and Porter Hospitals, Na-
tional Tuberculosis Association, Vermont Association for the Crippled,
Vermont Council on World Affairs.

MEMBER OF: Vermont Association of Architects, Vermont Engineering So-
ciety; Vermont Historical Society: Newcomen Society of England;
Harvard Club of Boston; Pittsford Country Club, Proctor, Vt.; Neshobe
Country Club, Brandon, Vt.; Lake Dunmore (Vt.) Sailing Club (com-
modore).

AFTER graduating from Harvard, I took some engineering courses
at M.I.T. summer school, and entered the School of Architecture at
Princeton to qualify for my intended profession. When Pearl Har-
bor broke, I was ordered to the naval architecture course at the
Naval Academy, having barely time enough to complete my Master's
degree thesis in architecture. I spent four years as a naval construc-
tor, mostly at Fore River in Quincy, Massachusetts, and ended a
lieutenant commander, USNR, since retired.

Personal circumstances indicated that I apply for a job in my
family’s marble business; that means we had too many children by
then to live on a beginning architect’s income. We stayed fifteen
years in a towering old Roman Revival palazzo in Brandon, a few
miles north of here, and have recently moved to Proctor.

Here are a couple of comments that may interest some readers:
tural living has several good features; for onc, we've had every
opportunity to participate in local politics and government, and in
local, state and occasionally even national health and educational
improvement. People interested in such things don’t get lose in the
ranks in Vermont as they might in urban arcas; only turn your head
away to spit, and you'll be elected chairman. For another, oll
friends often like to come visiting in the country, and, believe ic or

[ 1131 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

not, we still have good reliable help to leave in charge of the chil-
dren when we want to go on trips ourselves. In a small town there
is no chance to be lonesome; in fact, the summer people can stop
asking what we'll possibly find to amuse us until they come back
next spring; we shall need a vacation then, too.

Perhaps the principal drawback is that rural public schools, as
many of you must know, don’t maintain the standards nor breadth
of opportunity we used to take for granted, so country parents may
find they are faced with sending at least those of their children who
have educational aptitude away to boarding school pretty young.

As to the business “climate,” I'd like to urge new graduates to
start their own enterprises or get into smaller firms where they
won't be departmentalized for long. In its small industry, the Ver-
mont Marble Company is a considerable factor, with many branches
and subsidiaries in the United States and Canada — including the
White Pigment Corporation whose market was almost undeveloped
before World War II. We have, perhaps, all the problems of a
pint-sized General Motors without the specialized staffs that handle
theirs; being a manager under such conditions is especially interest-
ing.

1 could say a lot more about my wife and children and gardening
and sailing and so on; it would be pleasant, but only a repetition of
your own story.

BERTRAM PROMBOIN

 

HOME apprEsS: 4 Placid Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Cambridge Paper Company, Inc,, 495 Windsor St., Cambridge
41, Mass.

[ 1132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

marRiED: Helen R. Sternberg, Jan. 18, 1942. cHrpren: Ronald Lewis, July 23,
1945; Gail Betsy, April 19, 1949.

occuPaTION: Paperboard distribution; president of family firm of brokers and
jobbers of paperboard,

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Pack 72, Cub Scouts, Norumbecga Council, Boy
Scouts of America, 1955-57; president, Oak Hill School P.T-A, 1957~$%,
director, Oak Hill District Improvement Association, 1958-61, organucer
and director, Newton South High School P.T.S.A., 1960-62, axsoviate
member, Republican Committee, 1962, finance chairman, Republican Party,
1962, Ward 8, Newton; member, school committee, Temple Mishkan
Tefila, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Several groups aimed at civic, charitable, educational or polinwal
activity.

AFTER reviewing my history in the 18th Anniversary Report of

the Class of 1938, I find that the same set of facts apply — same

wonderful wife, same two children, same home address and same
position with the same firm.

However, though life is the same, life is different. As we com-
plete our first quarter-century after Commencement, I realize I
tend to be less a doer and more a philosopher; in other words, | am
getting lazy. Nevertheless, having admitted that fact, I shall assutne

the privilege of looking back over the past seven years and reporting

the events of those years as I now see them.

After repairing my son’s homemade radio (as I was about to do at
the conclusion of my report seven years ago) I intensified my
P.T.A. activities and served as president of the Oak Hill School
(elementary) P.T.A. The major accomplishment of that and sev-
eral succeeding years was the establishment, growth and evpan-
sion (in both size and utility) of a children’s circulating library,
planned, financed and operated by the P.T.A.

The activities of that year have left a lasting mark on out home
life. Helen, as one of the founders and developers of the library,
has found her major extra-curricular activity. After sceing what
such a library can mean to both children and faculty, she helped
organize and was a very active member of the “F. ‘lementary School
Library Committee of the Newton Council of P.T.A.'s.”) This com:
mittee studied operations and uses of school libraries in other com
munities and made many recommendations to the Newton School
Committee which has since adopted several of the perelummary
recommendations. Helen is now in her third year as consultant on
the School Library Department, advising on the establishment, ale:

[ 1133]

__]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

velopment and operation of elementary school libraries. This is a
“part-time” position that occupies a larger part of our thoughts
throughout the year.

] helped plan and organize a Parent-Teacher-Student Association
for Newton South High School before its opening in September,
1960, and served two years on its executive committee. This com-
mittee had a Harvard ’38 color— Jerry Grossman was an active
member in those days also. It seems that as the years pass, my
interest in education grows apace. As above, my P.T.A. activities
have been numerous. I have also been an active member of the
Religious School Committee of our Temple and have surprised
myself, at times, with my determined stand against dilution of school
efforts,

In the municipal election of 1961, I made an unsuccessful run
for a seat on the Newton School Committee. I was soundly de-
feated by the incumbent in the city-wide totals, though I did
gather more votes than he in our home ward. I made the attempt,
and hope to try again in 1963 because I sincerely believe I can make
a positive contribution to the administration of the Newton Schools.

In January, 1961, largely on the advice and recommendation of
Classmate Joe Franklin (a quondam Dudley Hall football player
and currently purveyor of pills and prescriptions for the Prom-
boins), 1 had a heart valve repair job done and my physical capa-
bilities have rebounded beyond any level of recent years.

Of course, children grow up and mature. Son, Ronald, is now a
freshman at Williams College; he preferred the campus of a good,
small school to the proferred open arms of Fair Harvard. How-
ever, he hopes to be able to take advantage of the intellectual clime
of Harvard Square as a graduate student. Gail, on the verge of
high school, is looking ahead with apprehension and enthusiasm to
the problems of college admission. Frankly, we expect her to have
as free a choice and be as academically successful as her brother.

So, on the eve of the 1962 H-Y football game and under the
earnest but good-natured pressures of an active Class Committee,
I can summarize by saying that our family is larger in size but not
in numbers; that physically I am in better condition than in many,
many years; that financially I am no worse off than for many years
and that I feel much closer to Harvard, through my aroused interests

in education, than at any time in all the years away from her
sheltering cloak. Ave!

[ 1134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD PROUTY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 67 Border St., North Scituate, Mass.

OFFICE ApDpREss: Allied Carbon & Ribbon Manufacturing Corp, New York 14.
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N-H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MarriED: Gertrude M. Marsters, July 20, 1938. CHILDREN: Verna Jane, May 19
1945; Donna Marie, April 24, 1940 (7. William F. Bailey, March 23. toto).
GRANDCHILDREN: Donna Marie Bailey, Jan. 8, 1960; Susan Lee Bailey, May
11, 1961; Scott Frederick Bailey, Aug. 27, 1962.

occupation: New England representative, Allied Carbon & Ribbon Manufsc-
turing Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Lions Club, Scituate Couples Club.

MEMBER OF: Cohasset Golf Club; Satuit Lodge AF. & AM.

VERY happy with life. Have kept ambitions within reach. Won.
derful wife, two wonderful daughters, three wonderful grand-
children. Enjoy good health; enjoy golf, boating, fishing, etc. with
wife. Never will earn enough, but manage to have nice home and go
south once in a while.

[1135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

THEODORE NEIL PULLMAN

       
 

TRE RNS

oe

       

HOME AbprEss: 5407 S. Greenwood, Chicago 15, IIL.
OFFICE AppRESS: University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
PREPARED AT: James Madison High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938; M.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1943.

MareieD: Marjorie Schlytter Sperry, Aug. 7, 1948.

occupation: Physician; associate professor of medicine and chief, Section on
Renal and Electrolyte Disorders.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Hypertension Committee, Chicago Heart Association,
since 1955; member, Medical Advisory Board, Council on Circulation,
American Heart Association, since 1957; president, Central Clinical Re-
search Club, 1959-60, Society for Experimental Biology & Medicine, Illi-
nois Section, 1962-63; member, Medical Advisory Board, Kidney Disease
Foundation of Illinois.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Illinois and Chicago Medical So-
cieties; American Heart Association; American Society for Clinical In-
vestigation; American Physiological Society; American Association for the
Advancement of Science, American Federation for Clinical Research;
Central Clinical Research Club; Central Society for Clinical Research,
Chicago Society of Internal Medicine; Chicago Heart Association; Chaos
Club; American Board of Internal Medicine (certified); Endocrine So-
ciety; Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; Renal Club of
Chicago; Tetrakaidecahedron Club.

PuBLicaTions: Approximately fifty articles on clinical and research medicine in
medical journals.

AFTER some further training in physical chemistry at the Columbia
University Graduate School, I entered the College of Physicians
and Surgeons at Columbia in 1939. Ours was the first P & S class
to feel the impact of the accelerated training imposed by World
War Il. We received our doctorates in March 1943. Almost
immediately after graduation I started my internship in Internal

[ 1136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Medicine at Yale, where, under Dr. John P. Peters, many of my
future interests were shaped. My initial interest in physical chemis-
try had been sparked by E. B. Wilson at Harvard and the notion of
living organisms as physicochemical systems nurtured by I. J. Hen-
derson. The Peters influence supplemented rather than supplanted
those of my Harvard teachers.

I received a commission in the medical corps of the U.S. Army
early in 1944. There immediately followed six wecks of training at
the Military Service School at Carlisle Barracks, Pa. To a man
just out of an internship, six weeks of wintering in the Pennsylvania
mountains were a glorious vacation. Regular hours, good food
and uninterrupted sleep made the ugly rumblings of war sccm
distant and remote.

At about this time, an intense effort was being made to solve the
malaria problem by both military and civilian agencies. Our supply
of quinine had been cut off by the war in the Pacific and a substitute
had to be found. A large cooperative effort had been set into
motion in which chemists, pharmacologists, parasitologists and phys-
cians synthesized, studied and tested new drugs. The Army assigned
a small number of officers to work with several universitics in study-
ing the chemotherapy of malaria. I was assigned to work under
Dr. Alf S. Alving at the University of Chicago. At that tme Dr.
Alving was an associate professor of medicine and best known for
his work on renal physiology and hypertensive discase. Hle was
Jater to achieve distinction for his discoveries of enzyme deficiencies
in primaquine-sensitivity and other hemolytic anemias. But in carly
1944 we were both malariologists by Act of Congress, so to speak.

Dr. Alving’s influence was a profound one. He had worked with
Newburgh at Michigan and later spent five years with Van Sivke
at the Rockefeller Institute. He had shared in the great advances
made in the 1930’s involving the use of chemical methods and their
application to physiology and medicine. Although he was a “neoma-
lariologist” like myself, he sparked the small group with infectious
enthusiasm, humor and broadly applied curiosity. We made foray

into the areas of drug metabolism, renal physiology, circulatory
hemodynamics and biostatistics. I was discharged from the Nev
late in 1946 as a major and considerably richer for my expenences
in quantitative medicine. |

During the war years I had frequent contact with the Univeruty
of Chicago through Dr. Alving. I decided to take my readers
training there. Hastings had already left to become profesor of

[ 1137]

__]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

biochemistry at Harvard, but remaining were such scholars as
McLean, Geiling, Carlson, Gerard, Robertson, Miller, Kenyon,
Huggins and Phemister. The clinical experience was rich and
varied. It was a vigorous and exciting academic atmosphere and
I was fortunate to become part of it. I was even more fortunate
the day that Marjorie suffered a lapse of her usual good judgment
and consented to marry me. There followed a succession of tiny
apartments and tiny salaries as I decided to stay on full-time at the
University after completing my residency.

The following years were busy ones. I was trying to devote
about so per cent of my time to medical and physiological research,
another 50 per cent to the teaching of medicine and an extra 50
per cent to caring for patients. The combustion products of
oil oxidized around midnight became familiar companions. My
interests in the metabolism of fluid and electrolytes, kidney disease
and hypertension, endocrinology and renal physiology were in
their exponential phase of growth. In recent years I have come to
appreciate more and more the importance of developing young
people for investigative careers. Perhaps many of these men, as
they approach their 25th reunions, will also realize the necessity of
developing still another generation of investigators. It is only by
such iterative efforts that cumulative progress can occur and one
generation can stand upon the shoulders of the preceding.

I have not neglected my vices. I still play squash with my more
debilitated colleagues, although I have had to learn to play left-
handed for several months at a time because of a little arthritis.
Summers we have plied the waters of Lake Michigan in a small
sloop. In the last several years we have been making extended canoe
trips into the Canadian Quetico out of the sight and sound of
Man and his works. In the winter my spare time is claimed by
carpentry, electronics as applied to a hi-fi rig that is not the best
in the world but is certainly one of the most expensive, photography,
chess, reading and Italian Opera. I still play the piano a bit, but not
as well as I would like to think I did twenty-five years ago. We
live in a large comfortable old house with a power saw in the
basement, one hundred very clean watts in the living room that
easily gets outside any normal human audiogram and a quiet study

upstairs. Marjorie tends a lush polychromatic garden in the yard
and seems to grow lovelier every year.

[ 1138 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS PURCELL

 

HOME apprEss: 14 Evans Drive, Cranbury, NJ.

OFFICE ADDRESS: TIME, Inc., Rockefeller Center, New York 20, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Canterbury School, New Milford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

Marrigp: Elizabeth Hurst, 1943 (divorced 1949); Margaret Luening, ty¢e.
CHILDREN: Meg, June 6, 1953; John, April 15, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Project editor, Book Division, TIME, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Managing director, Editorial Services, Ltd., since tys7_ (products
including Jail Keys Made Here, Meridian, 1959, A Sense of Nature,
Doubleday, 1962; A Book of Clichés, Vanguard, 1963); editorial advice,
Natural History Magazine, since 1961; member, board of directory Cell-
worth, Inc., 1960-62.

MEMBER OF: Signet Associates, Cambridge, Harvard Club of New York, Colum-
bia Country Club, Shanghai; History of Science Society (Metropolitan
New York Section); American Anthropological Associaton, 191% 49,
Aviation Writers’ Association, 1940-44.

PUBLICATIONS: Flights to Glory, Vanguard, 1943; Class Report, Vanguard, ta.

I FOUND employment with TIME, Inc., shortly after graduation
as a trainee (traditional mail-room and, later, pencil-sharpening
detail) and was fortunate enough to advance to editorial research, 4
weighty responsibility for which my Crimson training proved to
be an indifferent asset. Thence, gradually, through powibly the
best general edit training school in America (as example, wome
genuinely illustrious earlier grads are Classmate T. Ef White, ‘14's
Joseph Thorndike, of Heritage, °37’s Gerard Picl, of Screntific
American, etc.). Departed the Luce enterprises, following tours
of duty as a correspondent in SoWesPac (first marriage), Weal se
and postwar China, in 1948. Spent a sorely needed and tne arree:
able interlude with ’30’s Ralph Crews and Clasmate Jineph Valen.

[ 1139]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

tine in a mixed party (some wives) pursuing the great Salmo salar
near the Quebec-Labrador border. Thence, thanks to D. W.

Lockard (A.M. Anthropology, 39), I joined the Central Intelli-
gence Agency for a variety of assignments. This agreeable vine-
yard —in which I was delighted to apply the lessons of factual
verification I had learned earlier — proved unchanged in atmosphere
(high praise, indeed) under three directors and successive Demo-
cratic and Republican Administrations (may all this delicate organi-
zation’s mistakes remain, as I believe they have in the past, honest
ones! ).

In 1957, Scientific American’s Piel, presented with a sticky prob-
lem by ’27’s Alexander White, president of The American Museum,
was able to find no better solution than to offer me the editorship
of that notable institution’s popular journal, Nateral History. ‘This
proved a challenging and altogether enjoyable assignment, in the
course of which I and a group of able and imaginative associates —
Piel not least among them — managed to recruit the all-important
support of the museum’s scientific staff for its neglected periodicals
and, with the invaluable assistance of some former Luce enterprise
colleagues, turn Natural History into a viable editorial property.
Between 1957 and 1961, for example, the magazine’s paid circula-
tion nearly doubled, while the contents were twice awarded the
considerable accolade of honorable mention, and once first place
in the annual Westinghouse-AAAS science writing awards. During
this same period, I found that a number of individuals — among
them Classmate John Hay — were genuinely in need of aid in prob-
lems of styling, layout and general editorial counsel for works of
their own. Almost by accident, as a result, my second wife and I
established Editorial Services, Ltd.—on a far from exclusively
classmate (or fellow-Harvardman) basis—as a stimulating extra
activity. Currently, two interesting chores engage our attention.

Meanwhile, late in 1961, the Luce enterprises had achieved a sub-
stantial success with a book venture offering an audience not
normally in range of conventional book sales a variety of volumes in
the natural sciences, It was with much pleasure that I discovered
there was a place for me, after a lapse of more than fifteen years,
in this vigorous educational program, Thus, for the past year (to
date of writing, 1962) I have had the pleasure of joining a number
of old associates — and working with new colleagues — in the most
stimulating task of producing popular books in fields as various as
a blend of historical geology and geophysics (The Earth); a

[ 1140 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wrap-up of historical astronomy and the knowledge of the cosims
today (The Universe), and such systematic titles in roology as
Insects — to date, the Luce enterprises’ solitary nod to the inverte-
brates — Fishes and Reptiles (the poor amphibians seem, currently,
doomed to occupy the same watery vacuum as the marine inverte-
brates). In brief, if my classmates’ children — or, for that matter,
their parents, sisters, cousins, aunts and grandparents — find ther
selves deluged with suggestions for books that will make them more
familiar with the world around them, I must be prepared to shouller
a portion of the blame (and a portion, however small, of the reward
that so important an effort may possibly harvest by drawing a
few eyes away from the banal to the wonders of all our lives).

DAVID LAWRENCE PUTNAM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3738 Ranleigh Rd., McLean, Va.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938; 1951-1952. DEGREE: A.B. IQihegz).
MARRIED: Marion Glennon, June 14, 1944.

occuPATION: Government service analyst,

MEMBER OF: East Asian Association,

FOLLOWING the “go West, young man” advice for petnng ahest,
I went West after 1938 —as far as Pirsburgh. “There | worked for
the Aluminum Company of America, in the adv crtiung de partine ne
As pleasant as life and work were in Pittsburgh, prewures arise aftet
December 7, 1941, to commence negotianng with the armed ferics
for a new job. This was not long in aking shape and led te new
travels not part of my personal plan. The Navy reapronted be fice
the Army to my suggestion that the acral surveying coure teed

( rege ]

___—_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

at the Institute of Geographical Exploration might be useful, so I
was made an ensign and automatically a gentleman for the duration,
In the course of “ninety days” I was introduced to the wonders of
the Navy and rushed off in the direction of the Southwest Pacific.
While rushing there I spent two months in San Francisco awaiting
transportation, and became one of many who learned that San
Francisco is a worthy place. Southwest Pacific duty was mostly
at Port Moresby with the Air Force following Japanese shipping.
Ten months duty in Washington followed, and then to Pearl
Harbor. This turned out to be especially memorable, because I
met Marion Glennon, a Wave stationed at JICPOA. We were
married in June, 1946, in Honolulu. This important event followed
my return from Japan where I went after the surrender to pick up
Japanese documents. I had enjoyed my stay in Japan and made
a few friends among the Japanese. By now I had adjusted to “going
West,” even beyond Pittsburgh, so it was back to Japan — this
time with Marion. We expected to stay about a year before return-
ing home and deciding what I should do when I grew up. I stayed
in Japan for five years and found out. My job in Japan concerned
learning about Japanese activities in scientific research — what role
science played in rehabilitating the country and how scientific
affairs could be organized and operated. The general subject has
been of growing interest as science has become more and more
significant in national affairs. This continues to be my area of
interest, but with focus since transferred back home. You are
lucky, dear reader, that my current project is classified, so you are
spared further details.

Life in Japan we enjoyed to the fullest. We lived in Tokyo,
made some lasting friendships among both the Japanese and the
Americans there. We toured up and down the country seeking out
the fascinating facets and places of that extraordinary land. Back
in the U.S. in 1951 Marion and I spent one of our best years — it
was in Cambridge as students again. We both worked harder than
ever before or since, and got a lot out of the privilege of having
another chance to savor the academic life. Most of my attention
went to the Japanese language and the rest to physics and other
aspects of science. The year hardly made me a learned man, but I
drank from the cup more earnestly than in former days in Cam-
bridge as a youth.

We moved to Washington in February, 1953. For the last several
years most off-job time has been devoted to getting a house built.

[ 1142]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ic is of modern design in redwood with lots of glass and shding

doors. I do a lot of woodworking and enjoy it very much. Manon

takes to gardening and is an adventurous reader. Religion gets its

share of talk from time to time, but our faith and belicfs tend to
become more agnostic. In politics we are active only to the catent
of doing our duty as interested citizens, but living in the Washing.
ton area, the interest is never exactly lagging. We enjoy it here
in Washington and plan to stay. Drop by when around these
parts and don’t be scared off by “o noble dog,” the poodle — he's
just man’s best friend around here.

HUGH THEODORE PUTNAM

 

HOME apprEss: 6 N. Russell St., Milton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cosa Corp. of New England, 6 N. Russell St. Milton, Maw.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.

MarrigeD: Anne Reed Gallagher, Oct. 22, 1940. CHitores: Hugh Theealore, Jr.
Aug. 3, 1941; Anne Reed, Oct. 13, 1943; Mary Reed, May 6, 194°.

HARVARD SON: Hugh Theodore Putnam, Jr., 63.

OCCUPATION: Sales, machine tools.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1959-61, disaster chairman, since tySt, Amerwan Red

Cross, Milton Chapter.

THANKS to a good wife and three nice kids, hfe since colleye
has been happy, filled often with excitement for those concemed,
but of a nature that would make dull reading. Efugh, Je, 1 at
Harvard, Anne is at Mills College and Mary at Mileon Agadery,

{ 1143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ARTHUR JOSEPH QUINCY

 

ine aporess: # Aerial St., Lexington 73, Mass.

JOHN SYMONDS RADWAY

 

aporess: Oyster Bay Road, Locust Valley, N.Y.
apprrss: Art Metal Inc. 41 E. 42d St, New York 17, N.Y.
"pat: St, Paul's School, Concord, N.H.
N COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. C17 laude, 1938; M.B.A., 1940.
9: Joanna Mitchell, Sept. 14, 1940 (died Oct. 16, 1941); Judith Lawson,
V, 2, 1946 (divorced 1960); Placidia Knowlton, June 8, 1962. CHILDREN:
n Maller, Aug. 16, 1950; Diana Dear, May 10, 1952.
lon: Assistant to vice-president, market development, Art Metal Inc.
¢ equipment manufacturers.
or: Harvard Business School Club of New York; Harvard Club of
’ York, Devon Yacht Club; Beaver Dam Winter Sports Club.

with hope some twenty-three years ago, after staying on

[ 1144 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Cambridge for the two-year business school course, I left for a
life which, as for many, held many changes. First a desirable steel-
mill job in Baltimore, then marriage, all too quickly followed by
widowerhood; war, mine being in the U.S. Marine Corps, Pacific,
a year’s hospitalization and then wonderful recovery!

‘After the war, remarriage; four years with an office equipment
manufacturer in Cincinnati; relocation in the same business to subur-
ban New York City and two fine children. Divorce; matriculation
in a four-year course on “How to be a bachelor in New York
City and stay healthy”; a change to a highly regarded firm in the
same industry; then last June, a most desired bride.

Wee live in Locust Valley and have six intelligent, capable children
ranging from seven to thirteen years old. Life is most happy, en-
grossing and busy.

For many things, I am thankful. Life, health and happiness. High
in my appreciation lies my Harvard education and particularly
the friendships so excellently confirmed there. Would that they
could all be with us for this T'wenty-fifth Reunion.

EDWARD NEAL RAILSBACK

 

HOME AppREsS: 8 Ingersoll Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Road Machinery Co, 141 Walnut Se, Dorchester,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marriED: Barbara S. Varney, Aug. §, 1938, Rochester, NEL ciitpars: Alan
Neal, June 18, 1941; John Stuart, May 25, 1946; Judith Belle, April 1% $944

f r145 ]

_—1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

occupation: Manufacturing; president and treasurer, New England Road Ma-
chinery Company, sand and stone processing equipment.
OFFICES HELD: President and treasurer, R. and S. Machine Company.

AFTER graduation as an English major, | instinctively took two
illogical but soul-satisfying steps into marriage and a small manu-
facturing business, operated at the time by my uncle and father.
Both steps have proved to be right and permanent with a lasting
effect on my past twenty-five years.

] departed for a brief interim in the South Pacific with the U.S.
Navy in October of 1943, serving on the USS Ward (APD-attack
transport), as boat officer in a series of landings along the New
Guinea coast and in the Philippines. On December 7, 1941, our
ship and several others were put out of action at Ormoc Bay, Leyte,
in the first concerted Kamikaze attack of the war. This was a fateful
date for the Ward, whose crew had fired the first shot of the
Pacific War as they sank a submarine at Pearl Harbor one hour
before the main action.

I returned to Miami for further training, which was certainly in
order, since I had been damage control officer, first lieutenant, and
officer of the deck at the time of our sinking. After my refresher
course, I was relegated to the Atlantic coast for the balance of the
war in command of Sub Chaser 449, with the hazardous duty of
towing targets for PT boats off Newport, Rhode Island.

Since the war, I have waged a continuous battle against discourag-
ing odds to keep a small, non-union, low profit, heavy manufactur-
ing business from foundering. Some progress is being made at this
time, although I may be able to say this with more assurance after
another twenty-five years. My brother and I have recently reno-
vated a former shipyard building (also once a railroad station in
Mobile, Alabama) at the mouth of the Neponset River in Dor-
chester, where greatly enlarged working space should enable us
to produce more economically.

Any claim I may have to fame I am afraid will have to await the
careers of the three Railsback prodigies, who luckily have inherited
some of their mother’s intelligence and charm: Alan who is a senior
at the University of Michigan concentrating in wild life manage-
ment in the Forestry Department, John, a junior at Wellesley High
School, concentrating on girls and the use of his new driver’s license;
and fourteen-year-old Judy, the apple of her old man’s eye, born
by pure coincidence on his birthday.

The hobbies to which I am inclined have been sadly neglected

[ 1146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

due to business pressures, but this condition is gradually being
corrected. Most of my surplus energy in the past fifteen years has
gone into support of our nearby Unitarian-Universalist Church, its
Sunday school, choir and parish committee.

LAURENCE KERR RAINSFORD

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 7 Payne St., Hamilton, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M1.D. (Columbia Cai), tyes,
M.P.H. (Yale Univ.), 1953.

MARRIED: Lydia Frances Cowell, May 30, 1959.

‘OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES 'HELD: Postgraduate association in medicine: Columbia, Johm Bhesp here
and Harvard Universities, University of Pennsylvania, Unneruty of
Toronto and University of Syracuse; member, medical staff (interne amd
cardiologist), Community Memorial Hospital, Hamilton, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Local, state and national medical socictics, Society of Ineernal
Medicine; Mohawk Valley Harvard Club; Harvard Club of New York,
PusLications: Articles on child health and communicable divave published in
professional journals; an essay on community organization and meds of
care administration at Yale in 1953; a thesis on respiratory ankmie of

Pennsylvania in 1956.

THESE years since college have been used mostly for ec ducanen
and training inspired by family and by curiosity aroused at college,
thanks to a generous mother. Medical school and an invteerslispy af
Roosevelt Hospital were followed by three Years inv shi treegey as
company commander in the medical battalion in Caolorade and es
Italy. In 1957, I started practice in internal medheine ia Pbaeneleoes,
New York, a small, rural community. Colgate Univeruty hot at
interesting faculty here, over twenty Plarvard Univeruty alum,

[1147 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

their program is excellent. The American Management Associa-
tion has been expanding here in preference to Saranac Lake, putting
in an air strip this summer. Active intelligent people are retiring
here.

Since the war, 1 have been trying to do for medicine what my
grandfather did for religion in New York City and my father did
for medicine in the suburbs— Rye, namely, clarify, simplify and
apply, In deciding Hamilton could support an internist, I made a
truly good move. One of my first patients was kind enough to
introduce me to his attractive, bright, conscientious and loving
niece, Lydia, who went to college with Pete Brook’s wife. Married
in 1959, together with an adorable dachshund, Lottie, we are happily
located in an attractive home overlooking the town green, doing
most of the jobs we are asked to do. Already we have seen results
of some of our efforts. Our community hospital is being accredited
this fall. Much work still needs to be done before I will be satisfied
that minimal adequate medical care is being practiced and made
available in this region of Upstate New York. Medicine as an applied
discipline is in a transitional stage, much needs to be done to apply
this art scientifically with understanding. With the assistance of
a dedicated, loving wife and above average medical secretary, I am
doing what I can to be dutiful and responsible and map the way
for the progress that needs to be made. We enjoy our families and
our friends. Visitors are always welcome, Colgate Inn right next
door for overfiow.

CHARLES LEE RANDOL

ae LUGE OLE OLN ETON LE SE TB IIE. LED

a

  
 

so asc oma nite Sate otc EE BB al oe

  

HOME appress: Owings Mills, Md,

[1148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Foley Lane, Pikesville, Md.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; ato. (Johns Elophins U mv 5,

1943-
marRIED: Judith Paterson, 1951. CHILDREN: Betsy Paternon, Nov. ta tute,

Lucinda Lee, June 28, 1954; Christopher Arthur, June t& tse. Careline

Terhune, 1959.
OCCUPATION: Pediatrician,
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Baltimore County Medical Association, 1936-44.
MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics.

IN the nine years after graduation I got enough training in pedhatrics
via work at Hopkins and Bellevue and the U.S. Navy to qualify as
a general practitioner in Damascus, Maryland. After a year or two
with the cows and chicks, I fled to New York to practise on hits
again; married and with child, I looked for the greence tichts of
home. Now with four, I’m keeping up with my patients.

JOSEPH RANSOHOFF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 140 Riverside Drive, New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York University Medical Center, ¢90 Birse Ave, New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnani, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B, 1938, Mop. (U'niv, of Cha aged. teat

MaRRIED: Rita Mayer, 1937. CHILDREN: Joan, 1993, Joe, tugs.

occuPATION: Neurological surgeon; professor and chairman, Depo of Neuere
surgery, New York University School of Mediine, Directut ad Seewee
New York University — Bellevue Medical Center.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in surgery, University of Cincirnaty Se teed of Vite
cine, 1943-44; instructor in Neurosurgery, tygy, ter gem nate pore dome od
neurosurgery, since 1961, College of Physicians and Surgeon (ediidos

[ 1149 ]

_—1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

University; professor of neurosurgery, New York University School of
Medicine, since 1961; vice-president, New York Neurosurgical Society,
memeer OF: Local, national and international societies in fields of neurology,

neurosurgery and related sciences (nine in this category); International
Oceanographic Foundation; New York University Club.

pusicattons: Several dozen articles and one monograph in the field of the
neurological sciences.

IT scems difficult and strange to attempt an autobiographical re-
view of the past twenty-five years, living so acutely in the present
as we all do. During my wanderings through various educational
institutions my good and lovely wife obtained for herself a graduate
degree in American history, switched her interest to the social
sciences, re-trained herself as a psychiatric social worker and is now
a member of the department at the Albert Einstein School of
Medicine.

My nineteen-year-old daughter, a philosophy major at Sarah
Lawrence, has on this Thanksgiving Day just announced her engage-
ment to a bright young physicist, Steve Lewis, Yale ’63. My
seventecn-year-old son, a senior at Fieldston School, is thriving on
the intcllectually rich dict New York offers to teen-agers. We
live in an old penthouse on Riverside Drive and the whole city
and harbor are spread out in front of my study window as I write
this account. We travel a moderate amount, are modest collectors
of art and such, and occasionally I get dragged off to an on-or
off-Broadway theatre. My own great passion, however, other than
my family and my work consists in hunting for fish bigger than
I am along the Adantic Coast from Key West to Block Island.
From May to November, our sport-fisherman rides tantalizingly
on her mooring at the 79th Street Basin in front of our apartment.
She gets serious use during the month of August, mostly off
Montauk Point, Long Island.

So much for life as it exists other than my work. For those of
our class who are stall with me, I will attempt a more sequential
summary of my travels from probation to professorship.

Following graduation I spent three accelerated years at the
University of Chicago Medical School where I gained an interest
in surgery and research and lost one in politics. The next three
were spent in the surgical training program at the University of
Cincinnati, in the shadows of my father and grandfather, both of
whom had held professorships in that department.

In January of 1944, the Army of the United States not only

[1150 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

put me in uniform but also told me that from that date forever
more I was to be known as a neurosurgeon, and I believed! I was
fortunate enough to be assigned to a training program under Dr.
Francis Grant at the University of Pennsylvania, a learning experi-
ence of great value. Then followed three very full years in both
the E.T.O. and the States. Following discharge and a decision to
remain in the field, formal training in neurology under H. H. Merritt
and neurosurgery under L. M. Davidoff was happily my lot at
Montefiore Hospital in New York.

The next decade flew by as a member of the staff at the New
York Neurological Institute on the service of J. L. Pool. Here,
as in the past, my friends, peers, and superiors continued the thank-
less job of attempting to stuff knowledge into my resistant skull.

July 1, 1961, on my 46th birthday, I accepted my present position
as chairman of the Department of Neurosurgery at the New York
University — Bellevue Medical Center. The experience of working
in this vigorous medical community, blessed with great wealth of
clinical material, a blossoming physical plant and learned body of

students and faculty, has been a great privilege.

TIMOTHY JAMES REARDON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3134 Dumbarton Ave., N.W.,, Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The White House, Washington, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.; Phillips [weve
Academy, Exeter, N.H.; Pond School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938,
MARRIED: Betty Jane Paden, Oct. 2, 1943. cHitp: Timothy Jamey ah Joly a

1944.
fare: ]

___

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
OCCUPATION: Special Assistant to the President of the United States.

AFTER graduating from college, I had hoped to enter law school,
but circumstances prevented that and my first job was with an
advertising agency in Boston. A couple of years later, I became
national advertising manager of the Lowell Sun newspaper in
Lowell, Massachusetts. .

I entered the service in May, 1942, as a private in the Army
Air Force. 1 was commissioned later in the year at Signal Corps
OCS at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, and then attended an ad-
vanced Officers School in Dayton, Ohio. Upon completing the
course, I joined the staff and faculty of the school. After about a
year and a half of this duty, I was assigned to the Air Service
Command at Wright-Patterson Field in Dayton, Ohio. I served at
Wright-Patterson until May, 1946, at which time I was separated
from the service as a captain in the Army Air Force.

Although I intended to remain in the midwest where business
opportunities had beckoned, I returned to Massachusetts to spend
part of my terminal leave. In May, 1946, while showing my wife
some of the famous Boston sights, I stopped by his Boston Head-
quarters to extend my best wishes to Joe Kennedy’s brother Jack,
who at the time was running for Congress from the 12th Congres-
sional District in Massachusetts. He asked me to help in his cam-
paign, I agreed and thus started my career in the political arena.
After his nomination, I ran his Boston office and subsequently after
his election went to Washington with him in January, 1947.

Since then, I have served as Administrative Assistant to Congress-
man John F, Kennedy from 1947 to 1952, and as Administrative
Assistant to the first Senator Kennedy of Massachusetts from 1953
to 1960.

Since his inauguration, I have been a member of the President’s
staff, and I am currently serving as a Special Assistant to the Presi-
dent.

In the fall of 1943, I married Betty Jane Paden of Bellefontaine,
Ohio. We have one son, Timothy, 3d. Tim is currently attending
Phillips Exeter Academy and hopes to enter Harvard next fall, He
tells me he thinks that

(a) President Kennedy will rank with the country’s greatest

Presidents, and

(b) Harvard is the greatest educational institution in the country.
I agree with him.

[i152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES SIMONDS REDER

 

HOME ApprEss: River Road, Scarborough, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 487, Suffern, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Bayonne High School, Bayonne, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1935-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: ‘Theresa E. Milette, March 26, 1943. CHILDREN: Janet Ann, Sept. 3,
1945; Jeffrey Robert, Nov. 26, 1947; David Phillip, Feb. 17, tgs0; Nancy
Ellen, Aug. 3, 1954.

occupation: Hotel-restaurant operator, executive vice-president, operators

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1954, chairman, 1958-60, board of truacey
Scarborough Country Day School.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Mason — Mystic Lodge,

A.F. & A.M.; Taconic Golf Club.

THE year 1938 was not a particularly good time to go job hunt-
ing as many of us in the Class will remember. However, I was deter-
mined to get into the business world. Jobs were not casy to come
by in those days, but through contacts I made while in college, J
went to work for a Boston-based rubber firm. After two years
with this firm, primarily in sales, an opportunity arose for me to
join R. H. Macy & Company in New York City, where I progresed
through their training program and into merchandising.
Meanwhile in 1939, possessing more courage than know ledye, and
while still with the rubber company, I invested what small capital
I had, along with my brother, in an old barn on tio acres of al
in Williamstown, Massachusetts, which we converted into a restau-
rant, calling it The 1896 House, since that was the year the barn was
built. I might add we knew nothing about the restaurant buunces
Since the restaurant was too small to support us both, and was
struggling to keep its head above water, T continued my athhanens
in the mercantile world until 1942, at which time, hhe many others

( 1153]

____|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

I was given a leave of absence by Macy’s to join the U.S. Navy.
Some seven or eight months later my brother followed suit and the
1896 House was closed for the duration.

I received my navy training at Dartmouth, was commissioned
and in March of 1943 married Theresa Milette of North Adams,
Massachusetts. Two weeks after our marriage I was in the Medi-
terranean. Most of my time in service was spent in the Mediterra-
nean area and English Channel. Our first child, Janet, was born in
September of 1945, while I was on staff duty in Norfolk, Virginia,
and in February of 1946, I was separated from the Navy and re-
joined R. H. Macy & Company.

After the war our restaurant in Williamstown was re-opened and
proceeded to grow rapidly. By 1957 we opened a second restaurant,
this one in the Metropolitan area, called the Restaurant on the Moun-
tain. I was still not taking an active part in the firm, but it was
becoming apparent that I must soon make a decision to come into
the business full time. We continued to expand and I joined our
own company as an active partner in 1960. We have now expanded
the operation to Philadelphia and Rochester, New York, where
last July we opened Rochester’s newest, The Midtown ‘Tower
Hotel.

In November of 1947, our second child and first son was born,
Jeffrey Robert, now a student at Deerfield. In February of 1950,
David Phillip arrived and in August of 1954, Nancy Ellen was
born. Janet, David and Nancy are at Scarborough Country Day
School. Janet hopes to enter Wellesley in the fall and David looks
forward to joining Jeff at Deerfield in the fall of °64.

Due to the growth which we have enjoyed in the past ten years
and the nature of our business — it’s seven days a week —I spend
much too little time with my family but as we develop able manage-
ment this should change. Meanwhile it’s work, work, work.

[1154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ALFRED CLARE REED, JR.

 

BORN: Dec. 24, 1915, Camaguey, Cuba. parents: Alfred Clare Reed, Barbara

Hubbard.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: M.E. (Georgia School of Technology),

1939.
MARRIED: Frances T. Jernigan, July 13, 1938, Bunnell, Fla. (divorced toce?s

Jacquelyn Girrard, 1958, San Juan, Puerto Rico. critore~N: Frances Jerne-
gan, Nov. 20, 1939; Laurie Clare, March 21, 1941.
DIED: June 30, 1959, San Juan, Puerto Rico,

DURING 1939-40 Reed was an inspector for Glen L. Martin Aie-
craft Company in Baltimore, Maryland, and in 1940 was a designee
for Babcock Aircraft Company, in Deland, Florida, From rggo te
1949 he was on active duty with the U.S. Navy. Ele attended
Submarine School in New London, Connecticut, and served as
engineering officer on the S-12, executive officer on the S-12 in the
Atlantic and Caribbean areas and as commanding ofhcer on the
USS Brackett in the Pacific area. He was detached from active
duty with the rank of lieutenant commander in tgyq. at Machiyan
University where he was inspector-instructor of the Naval Traimung
Center.

During 1949-50, he was employed as estimator by the Southern
Manufacturing Company i in Daytona Beach, Florida, and the fallow -
ing year was chief engineer for Harrison & W nvhe Poaginceriny
Company, constructing a complete monitoring station for the US
Navy, near San Juan, Puerto Rico, He then became a partner ao
the firm of Harrison & Associates and was latce employed as chief
engineer for an engineering firm in the construction of Whe lus
Field for the U.S. Army in Tripoli, Libya. In ig¢4 he see up his
own business, in Santurce, Puerto Rico,

[ 1155 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

GEORGE HALL REED

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3426 N. Bentley Ave., Tucson, Ariz.

oFFice appress: Hughes Aircraft Co., Tucson Engineering Laboratory, Tucson,
Ariz,

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass; Berkshire School, Shef-
ficld, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MargiED: Louise S, Davis, Dec. 29, 1938. CHILD: Sylvia Louise, Feb. 7, 1943.

occupation: Head, Administrative Services, Tucson Engineering Laboratory.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Opera Guild of Southern Arizona, 1960-62.

MEMBER OF; Opera Guild of Southern Arizona; Tucson Civic Chorus,

LOOKING back on the past twenty-five years I find the change in
times typified by the fact that when I started looking for a job in
1938 — hoping to become a teacher —I was told that no one in
those days wanted a teacher without experience. At the same time
no one could tell me how one could get experience under these cir-
cumstances, How times have changed!!

Perhaps the above actually did me a favor —had I been able to
start teaching at that time I might never have made the many moves
which have led to the permanent transplanting of a “dyed-in-the-
wool” New Englander. Moving from classified advertising to
merchandising and then into time and motion study work started
us on the move in 1943. During the next nine years there were
many moves — but always in New England. Unfortunately, poor
eyes kept me from joining so many of my classmates in the deadly
gambits of the early forties. This was when the move to industry
was made.

Early in the spring of 1952, after buying a house in Lexington,
Massachusetts, and considering the possibility that maybe, at long

[ 1156 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

last, We were putting down some roots, we received a very uncy-
pected phone call from California. Thus began the biggest change
in the life of the family.

Four years in Los Angeles—that fabulous hodge-podge of
traffic, smog and people for whom the old “grass is always greener”
philosophy is almost a byword — was a far cry from the wavs
of old New England. It was an experience — w ith apologies to any
classmates in Los Angeles — which I am glad to have had but hope
not to repeat. In 1956 a transfer to Tucson. Live in the desert?
we thought, but gave it a try. We were happily surprised. Tuc-
son is a melting pot where most of the people you meet are from
somewhere else but with a different attitude from the Calhiforniany’.
Perhaps we feel at home in Arizona because it seems to have the
honest, outspoken type of people who can support a Udall on the
one hand and a Goldwater on the other. The choice is clear-cut as
it is between a Lodge and a Kennedy. We are fortunate, too, in
that this is a university town with all the associated advantages. The
plays and concerts may not be up to New York standards, but they
are good and there is plenty of opportunity for participation in the
fine arts. Obviously, I feel that the years have been good and my
only regret is that we are a bit too far from Cambridge to make it
back for occasional visits.

As for the future, we hope to see our daughter safely through
college and perhaps see more of this great country of ours, Some
people say it is useless to plan or even dream a little with the werk!
affairs as they are, but we believe that without such thoughts mun-
kind would indeed be lost. Dreams generate plans which Iead tw
action and only in this way can civilization work its way out of ity
present dilemma.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HENRY HOPE REED, JR.

    

wy 8

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 227 E. soth St.. New York 22, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1938.

MarRiED: Joan Phillips, July 23, 1959.

occupATION: Writer.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in city planning, School of Architecture, Yale Uni-
versity, 1950-53; secretary-treasurer, New York Branch, Society of Archi-
tectural Historians, 1953-57; in charge of walking tours of Museum of the
City of New York, since 1959; director, Municipal Art Society of New
York, since 1958; instructor in History of New York, Adult School of
Montclair, N.J., 1962.

MEMBER OF: New York Historical Society; Metropolitan Museum of Art, New
York Botanical Society; The Renaissance Society of America; Society of
Architectural Historians.

STUDIED at Ecole du Louvre, 1948-49. Arnold Brunner Award
of the Architectural League, 1956-57. Fellowship from the Guggen-
heim Foundation, 1960.

Organized the following exhibitions: “Monuments of Manhattan”
in 1955, under the sponsorship of the Municipal Art Society of
New York and the University Club. Held at the University Club.
“Classical Brooklyn: Its Architecture and Sculpture” in 1956, under
the sponsorship of the Municipal Art Society of New York and
the Long Island Historical Society. Held at the Long Island His-
torical Society. “New York — City of Art. Seventy-five Years of
the Architectural League” in 1957, at the Architectural League.

Conduct the walking tours of the Municipal Art Society, 1956-

Written articles for the New York Times Magazine, Thought,
Liturgical Arts, Harpers Magazine, Journal of the American lusti-
tute of Architects, Art in America, Architectural Review (London),

[1158 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Show, Landscape, National Sculpture Review, Architectural Ree-
ord, Handweaver & Craftsman. Biography of the painter Fdwin
Howland Blashfield, for the Second Supplement of the Dictionary

of American Biography.
Author of a weekly column, “Discover New York,” for the New

York Herald Tribune Sunday Magazine, 1962-
Books: Co-author with Christopher Tunnard, American Skyline

(Houghton Mifflin, 1955; New American Library of World Litera-
ture — Mentor Series, 1956). The Golden City (Doubleday, tgsg).
Co-editor with William A. Coles, Architecture in America: A Rattle
of Styles (Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1961). Walks in New Fork

(Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1963).
Certificate of Honor received in 1961 from Mavor Robert F.

Wagner of the City of New York for “originating and guiding
tours of the city’s historic neighborhoods for the Museum of the
City of New York and the Municipal Art Society, and through his
writings about the architecture of the city, has created an enthus-
astic awareness and appreciation of the history, traditions and archi-
tectural heritage of the City of New York. ” ~
I look forward to the day when the visual nihilism which goes
by the name of “Modern Art” is banished from Harvard Univeraty,

That also applies to its sponsors and perpetrators.

JOHN ALLEN REED, JR.

 

OME ADDRESS: 1320 Fann St, Anaheim, Calif.
‘FICE AppRESS: EF, I, duPont de Nemours & Cow Ine, ggg Bevithood Nee, bes

Angeles 58, Calif.
-EPARED AT: Pembroke Country Day School, Kansas City, Veo.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1938.

marriED: Barbara Alice Hale, Feb. 28, 1948. cHiLprReEN: Suzanne, Nov. 1, 1953;
Elizabeth, Aug. 1, 1956; John Allen, 3d, March 18, 1959.

occupaTION: Marketing representative, Film Department, duPont Company.

Member oF: Harvard Club of Orange County; California Packaging Associa-
tion; Symphony Association of Orange County.

FOR two years after graduation was employed by Interstate Baker-
ies Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri.

Went with the film department of the duPont Company in Wil-
mington, Delaware, in 1941. Early in 1942 I was moved to Harris-
burg, Pennsylvania, where the War Department, showing unusual
perspicacity, selected me from among thousands of young adult
males and eventually bestowed on me, with appropriate ceremony,
the rank of private. Despite this signal beginning, I was able to
wangle a commission, and aided one side or the other as an air
intelligence officer with the 8th Air Force in England.

After the war, returned to duPont and went to Cleveland, where
I met Barbara Hale. We were married one day and left the next
for Seattle, where we lived for twelve years, during which time
Suzanne, Elizabeth and Johnny were born. Moved to southern
California in 1960, where we are now living the bucolic freeway
existence among orange groves, mushrooming shopping centers and
a few automobiles.

Active in the Congregational Church, the Symphony Associa-
tion, and the local Band-Aid Society, the last because of three chil-
dren and my most recent hobby, a home workshop.

The result of twenty-five years? The usual number of minor
problems and concerns, I guess, but over all a deep appreciation
and thankfulness for what these years have brought to me.

Probably my biggest accomplishment in these twenty-five years is
getting this report back to Dick Davis, in the Class Report Office,
just in time to beat the deadline.

[ 1160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STEPHEN ALEXANDER RFED, JR.

gr SE EE mE ea

  

MAILING AppREss: Country Club Drive, Hilo, Hawaii.

PAUL LEWIS REGAL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Pontiac Rd., Waban, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Mass. Dept. of Public Works-Highw ayy, Boston, Vw
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938,

MARRIED: Esther Krall, Ep.m., 58.

occupaTion: Civil engineer.

THE Declaration of War found me a member of the r4rh Canml-at
Engineers, up to my waist in an icy Kentucky river, construatny
a bridge. Little did I think that I w vould have the same job twenty

years later, although in a more comfortable supervisory Capacity in
Massachusetts.

[ 1161]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

That Easter Sunday the First Armored Division left Fort Knox
for the Embarkation Center at Dix, thence to County Down, North
Ireland, when G.I.’s were a rarity. After stopping briefly in Scot-
land and England, we landed in Algeria. Then to the war in Tunisia
with the 68th Field Artillery. After North Africa we engaged in
the Italian and Anzio campaigns.

I came home early on rotation, Election Day, 1944, and received
a cushy position at the War College, Washington, D.C. Before the
war ended I was a civilian again, in good health and good spirits.

Like most veterans I can look back with nostalgia, forgetting the
hardships and boring times and remembering the good ones. We
should learn to think that way about the present.

After the war I worked as a salesman here and in California,
where I hope to return. Then I taught school and married a girl
who was also a teacher and Harvard grad (School of Education). I
left teaching for a profession in which I can be happier.

Spring, summer and fall, Esther and I practise our favorite hobby
—camping, usually in different locale each time. We have camped
in many parts of this country and Canada and are constantly discov-
ering new and interesting places and people.

Unfortunately, I find that my job as civil engineer with the High-
way Department often conflicts with my love of nature, since our
roads do not improve the scenery, if they leave any.

Iam convinced we cannot build highways as fast as Detroit manu-
factures cars nor can we build them indefinitely. There may be a
population explosion and an auto explosion but never an explosion in
the amount of land, which is absolutely limited. If we continue, at
the present rate, our cities will be largely composed of parking lots
or overpasses and ramps like a spaghetti factory, while the country
scenery will disappear.

Certainly we have the talent available to plan a coordinated sys-
tem of cities and suburbs preserving large areas as parks and utilizing
rail transport for commuting,

Unfortunately, there is no money to be made in rail transportation
or preserving the beauties of nature. In order to change the present
destructive system it is necessary for a large number of people to
organize and battle incessantly. Hopefully, our grandchildren will
still sing “America The Beautiful.”

My next small ambition for my own family is to have a year
*round house on a lake.

[ 1162}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN REID, Ill

 

LAST KNOWN ApprREsS: Calle 78, 8-oz, Bogota, Colombia. (Lost).

JOHN JOSEPH REIDY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6728 Nevius St., Falls Church, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the Secretary of Defense, International Security
Agency, Washington 25, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum latude, 1938, 11.8. (Goorge
Washington Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Patricia Ann Harrington, Nov. 7, 1942. cutLpreNn: Jay Paul, July 3,
1945; Peter James, June 4, 1947; Bethel Margaret, Feb. 6, tg¢t; Michael

Harrington, July 28, 1954; John Patrick, March 26, 1958.
occuPaTiIon: Captain, U.S, Navy.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.

A FEW years ago I had command of a destroyer awiyned to the

{ 1163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Taiwan Straits patrol. Shortly after leaving Kaohsiung one day, and
after exposure to the full brunt of a go-knot monsoon right out of
Siberia, we got word that a small Republic of China man-of-war
was in distress to the north. We reached it after nightfall. After
four hours of violent maneuvering and bilingual swearing we got
a line aboard and started to tow it to the Pescadores. By three in
the morning, soaking wet, and slightly seasick, I found that we
could not steer adequately at the speeds we had to make and con-
cluded that by seven o'clock we were due either to end up on a
reef or miss the Pescadores altogether and be committed to a course
that could only end up on the coast of communist China. Simul-
taneously | got word of a typhoon approaching from the south.
At this point I could not help asking myself, “Reidy, what in the
world are you doing out here anyway?”

This is a question I have asked myself from time to time with
varying degrees of intensity, and I have never gotten a really satis-
factory answer. Perhaps there is none. In the meantime I continue
to regard life with the pleased anticipation of a small boy at his
first circus — it’s all wonderful, but wasn’t this on television last
week?

My main interests in life are the Navy and my family which
includes five children of both sexes ranging in ages from seventeen
to four and, of course, their harried mother. The family would
argue that I have listed my interests in the priority I accord them,
and I am left with the rather limp argument that the time and
effort I spend on each is not the true measure of the importance
I attach to them.

At the present time I am working in the Office of the Secretary
of Defense with responsibility for politico-military affairs in Thai-
land, SEATO, Australia, and New Zealand. Thus, my range of
interests varies necessarily from problems associated with the sta-
tioning of troops in Southeast Asia to the difficulties in stemming
the smuggling of beer into teen-age parties; the philosophy of Ayn
Rand as interpreted by an adolescent; the niggling allowance
granted an eleven-year-old as compared with the princely sums
her contemporaries receive; the Cub Scouts; and the location of one
certain blanket which must be found before bed can even be
contemplated by a four-year-old. Such problems, ranging from
the ridiculous to the subliminal, make for a full day, and I find

myself getting tired rather early in the evening.

Looking back, which I almost never do, over the past twenty-five

[1164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ears I can count as my accomplishments twenty ycars of marriage,
which like our car may not be this year’s model but still runs;
command of half a dozen ships and units, the most recent a destroyer
division, with no certifiable disasters; graduation from law school
and admission to the D.C. bar with the resultant determination
never to be a lawyer; residence up and down both coasts and a
consequent conviction that what is in between is all Texas, is all dull,
and is just something to be gotten through as fast as possible — or in
the case of the South something to be gotten out of as fast as possible,
the above-mentioned offspring who are healthy, cheerful, and at
times even give vague glimmerings of intelligence, and the previ-
ously mentioned wife, Patricia, who has done such a remarkable job
of keeping the home fires burning during my frequent and lengthy
absences.

Looking forward I hope for command of more ships and perhaps
eventually a fleet; more Democratic presidents and rising stock
markets — not necessarily inconsistent dreams, I suggest; a house
in which my share exceeds the bank’s, and perhaps even a bathtub
not always cluttered up with little boats and floating animals.

Oh yes —if anyone is worried — the tide turned, we missed the
reef by 500 yards and got into port, and briefly I was a hero. So
far the tide has always turned in time.

ERVIN DEMMON REMICk, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 164 Puritan Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Humble Oil & Refining Co., Boston, Mass
PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Maw.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

[116s ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MARRIED: Jeanne McPhetres, Sept. 21, 1946. CHILDREN: Carl D., Jan. 29, 1950;
Sarah E., May 11, 1952.

occupation: Petroleum—- New England sales area employee and public rela-
tions assistant for Humble Oil & Refining Company.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting Representative, Town of Swampscott, 1952-62;
member of vestry, 1959-62, chairman, Finance Committee, 1961-62, Church
of the Holy Name— Episcopal, Swampscott; member of board, Council

for Better Schools, Swampscott, 1959-61; treasurer, Clarendon Club,
Boston, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Beach Club, Swampscott; Clarendon Club, Boston.

FOR many reasons I decided to leave Harvard at the end of my
freshman year, and prepare for a career in business as rapidly as
possible. In 1937 I graduated, cum laude, from Burdett College,
and went to work in the accounting department of the then
Colonial Beacon Oil Company. Through subsequent mergers it
has now become a part of the Humble Oil & Refining Company.

After three years in the service during World War IL with the
Air Corps, primarily in this country and Italy, I returned to Colonial
Beacon Oil Company and soon after became responsible for the
administration of Company Benefit Plans. In the years since then,
[have enjoyed my contacts in employment, public relations, recruit-
ing and shareholder relations for the Standard Oil Company (N.]J.),
parent company of Humble Oil & Refining Company.

During the last twelve years I have been reasonably active in
civic affairs in Swampscott, and feel that at least to some degree
I have helped mold the future of a town which, perhaps, has the
most ideal location of any town in Massachusetts.

Looking back over twenty-five years, there are some things that
all of us might want to change if we had our lives to live again. On
the whole, however, I will not complain. I am blessed with two
things in life of major importance. First, a happy marriage with
two wonderful children, and secondly, an assignment with a major

oil company which has always interested and fascinated me.
During the twenty-five years | have had my share of traveling,
and some years ago found the Island of Bermuda. If I live to retire
it will be retirement in Bermuda for me. In the meantime, Jeanne

and I have spent our vacation there for several years, and hope
to continue for many more.

{ 1166 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

iC. ERIC REPPUN

Yertere cuneate ¢ RYT da REI OE
: a

      

porn: Nov. 13, 1915, Tyrlian, Russia. parents: Carl Frederick Reppun, Emily

Lewis.
PREPARED AT: Punahou Academy, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938.
marriED: Molly Grounds, June 3, 1941, Honolulu, Hawaii. cHiLpreN: Karen
Mary, June 23, 1944; Carl Eric, Jr., July 6, 1946; Nina, Oct. 16, 1948; Ricky,

May 4, 1952.
piep: Dec. 4, 1959, Hilo, Hawai.
wow: Mrs. C. Eric Reppun, 2874 Komaia Drive, Honolulu 54, Hawaii.

C. ERIC REPPUN left college during his senior year and returned
to Hawaii. While an undergraduate he was a member of Lowell
House football team and held a Price Greenleaf scholarship. From
1938 to 1945 he was associated with the Dole Pineapple Company
and then founded the Pacific Pineapple Company, of which he was
vice-president and manager. In 1955 he was named manager of
Robert Hind, Ltd., which has cattle ranches and a coffee com-
pany in Kona, Hawaii. He was president of the Board of Agri-
culture and Forestry since July, 1956, and in August, 1959, was
appointed Commissioner of Public Lands for the Stare of Hawaii.
He was survived by his wife and children.

[ 1167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

+ DENIS RHODES

 

BORN: Jan. 16, 1915, Brookline, Mass, parents: Daniel Pomeroy Rhodes, ’95,
Bertha Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936,

pep: Aug. 17, 1941, Wells, Maine.

AFTER two years with our Class, Rhodes transferred to Black
Mountain College from which he graduated in 1938. He worked
as an apprentice school teacher at the Little Red School House
and as a teacher in various grades at the Arnold School. In 1940
he returned to Harvard to work toward a Master’s degree in the
Graduate School of Education. Just prior to his death he had
completed a course at the Woodbury Ross Art School at Wells,
Maine.

[ 1168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH ANTHONY RICH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1905 Townsend Rd., Schenectady, N.Y.

orFice apprEss: General Electric Research Laboratory, Schenectady, N.Y.

prePARED AT: Enfield High School, Thompsonville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B., cum laude, 1938; s.M. (Brown
Univ.), 1939; PH.D. (Yale Univ.), 1950.

MarrieD: Xaviera Anne Yankus, June 4, 1945. CHILDREN: Sally Ann, April 12,
1951; Patricia Ann, Feb. 18, 1955.

occupation: Physicist, General Physics Department, General Electric Com-

pany.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Art Committee, Schenectady Museum, 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Institute of Radio Engineers, Mathe-
matical Association of America; Sigma Xi, Edison Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Nine papers; four patents.

WHEN I left Harvard twenty-five years ago I was offered the
chance to go teach at the University of Beirut. This was my call to
lead the adventurous life in some far country. The call went un-
heeded. Instead, I studied mathematics at Brown and physics at
Yale. The war years were spent in Dayton, Ohio, at Monsanto's Cen-
tral Research Laboratory. Several years after war’s end I returned to
Yale to finish my studies. Now I am in Schenectady and General
Electric where I am rounding out my fourteenth year. Adventure?
Books are not written about travels such as these.

Sometimes a man builds better than he knows. In the twenty-five
years that have passed, science has become the path to adventure.
Meetings are held in faraway places. Visitors from all over the world
pass through our laboratory. Close friends are now Germans, Nor-
wegians, Canadians and Australians who have come here to work.
Any excitement found necessary comes from the intense struggle for
a place on the research frontier.

[ 1169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Though upper New York State is no Shangri-La my family and

I love this area, The countryside is wild and beautiful. We are
bounded by mountains on all sides: the Adirondacks on the north
and west; the Green Mountains and the Berkshires to the east; the
Catskills and the Helderbergs to the south. We can reach Tangle-
wood and the Boston Symphony in exactly one hour; Lake George
in two hours, Lake Winnipesaukee and the White Mountains in
four hours. Large lakes, mountains and the ocean have a special
attraction for us and it is to these that we go for our long weekends
and our vacations.

Not only have the major decisions turned out well for me (mar-
riage and career) but the small things have added up to a substan-
tial plus, The whole family has been in good health. There have
been few crises; no serious losses. The children have an enthusiasm
for learning due in great part to a remarkable school system. (A
former superintendent of schools in Niskayuna has just been ap-
pointed head of the New York City School System.) I count it a
definite plus that I live ten minutes away from my work. The com-
munity is lively intellectually and there is a wealth of talent.

My interests have narrowed and deepened. Tennis is out, chess
is gone. Painting, music and reading remain. Working on the lawn
and swimming provide exercise. (I report with mixed sadness and
joy that my eldest daughter can now swim better than I can.) Din-
her parties are a favorite activity.

My connections with Harvard since leaving have been almost
nonexistent, partly because of remoteness from the large centers and
partly because of attendance at other schools. (The last was Prince-
ton where I spent the past summer.) My last remaining tie with the
Class of °38 is Bill Murphy.

Still, there remains a belief in Harvard, and I try to do what I can
in her behalf. Right now I am battling unbelievers here who claim
that Harvard does not really exist: an institution so perfect must be
merely an idea in our heads. (It may be that a slight modification of
St. Anselm’s argument for the existence of God can be applied here.)
] remain unshaken in the faith and I close my ears to those whisperers

who claim that men such as McGeorge Bundy, Andrew Gleason
and Harvey Brooks, who have been raised to pinnacles of eminence
by our institution, are not Harvard men at all, but come from that
peculiar sect of unbelievers located in New Haven.

[1170 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RANDALL WESTON RICHARDS, JR.

 

HOME abDpRESS: “Harmony Hall,” Riverton P.O., N_J.

OFFICE aAppRESS: Berman Leasing Co., Castor Avenue and Bath Street, Phila-
delphia 34, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

marriEeD: Helen Audrey Sutherland, Aug. 11, 1939. CHILDREN: Randall Weston,
3d, Dec. 24, 1940; David William, Oct. 8, 1943: Laurentine Alice, Feb. 15,

1948.

occupation: Delaware Valley area manager, Berman Leasing Company, lessors
of motor vehicles specialties in heavy duty trucks, tractors and trailers,

MEMBER OF: Society of Automotive Engineers; Harvard Club of New York;
Pensylvania Motor Truck Association; Submarine Veterans of \orld
War II,

puBLicaTions: “The Dollars and Sense of Vehicle Leasing,” 1961; “The ABC's
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,” 1958; “Lease or Buy,” 1959.

THE economics of motor vehicle leasing is based on “time and
mileage.” The twenty-five years of time since June, 1938, have
also meant a lot of mileage for me (and my good wife and patient
children) during this portion of my lease on life.

From A-21 Adams House, I went directly to the New York
metropolitan area as a very junior sales representative for Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Company. There I met and a year and a half later
married Helen. Before the wedding gifts were even all opened
and acknowledged, I was transferred to Los Angeles, California.
Christmas in 1940 was blessed by the arrival of Randall, 3, on
Christmas Eve in Santa Monica, California. The “three of us”
greeted Christmas, 1941, in Pacific Palisades, California, with black-
out curtains on our windows, snow on the ground, and the world
at war.

[rizr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

World War II was spent as a Naval Reserve officer, first in Wash-
ington, D.C., and then in the Submarine Service, Pacific Theatre.
“Number Two Son,” David, arrived in October, 1943, while my
address was USS S-18, % Postmaster, San Francisco. Our daughter
Laurie arrived during the motor-truck loan year of 1948, while
business was keeping me “on the go” on the east and west coasts,

1952's motor truck leasing mergers meant our leaving California
for the east coast — first Philadelphia, then New York City and
finally, in 1960, back to the Philadelphia area. Here we are settled
in our 10-year-old manor house, “Harmony Hall,” in south Jersey,
surrounded by five-plus acres of lush crabgrass and shaded by the
huge old trees with the biggest and “fallingest” leaves in the state.

When Helen found “Harmony Hall” was for sale, like the
Mormon Prophet, she said, “This is it’ —and two years later, I
fully and finally agree.

Although Randy at Montclair State College and David at Prince-
ton are only home on occasion, they too feel we are permanently
settled at long last. Laurie at Moorestown Friends School concurs.
Even this traveling salesman is happy to be off the ““Touraine Travel-
Go-Round.” Evenings are now spent on pleasant redecorating
projects and weekends either gardening or “antique-ing,” a pleasant
change from nights at “expense-account” restaurants and weekends
in out-of-town hotels or motels.

The future? Even more time available for “Harmony Hall”,
and mileage — as much as possible within the five-plus acres only.

TUDOR RICHARDS

va os 15 :
2

  

HOME appress: Dublin, N.H.

[1172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Mechanic St., Keene, N.H.

prepareD at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; S.B. FORESTRY & MASTER OF
WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT (Univ. of Michigan).

marriEeD: Barbara Day, 1949. CHILDREN: Francis Tudor, Feb. 15, 1952; Victoria
Day, Nov. 18, 1956; Robert Gardner, Nov. 7, 1960.

occuPaTION: County forester, Cheshire and Sullivan Counties, New Hamp-
shire (Cooperative Extension Service, University of New Hampshire).

oFFICES HELD: President, New Hampshire Academy of Science, about 1955;
vice-chairman, New Hampshire Natural Resources Council, about 1954;
president, Audubon Society of New Hampshire, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Foresters; Wildlife Society; American Orni-
thologists Union; Wilson Ornithological Club; National Audubon Society;
Rotary Club, Keene, New Hampshire.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various conservation magazines; list of the birds of
New Hampshire, a booklet; a chapter in a soon to be published book by
many authors, The Bird Watcher's America, or something of the sort, on
the bird life of northern New Hampshire.

BACK in 34, I was all set to major in ornithology, imagining myself
someday discovering new species of birds along the Amazon while
working for some museum. Actually there was only one course in
ornithology, which I managed to take and pass despite having
flunked the prerequisite zoology course and so spoiled my chances
of majoring even in that field. Majoring instead in geography was
pleasant and even interesting, but after graduation I was at enough
of a loss to go down to the Yale Forestry School, forestry at the
time seeming the closest thing to ornithology still attainable. How-
ever, the discovery that there was a combined forestry and wildlife
course at Michigan resulted in a transfer after a year.

The war interrupted my education and did little to prepare me
for the years since. Nevertheless, it was exciting flying a dive
bomber over the Florida Everglades, San Francisco Bay, “Hawaii's
volcanoes and eventually Iwo Jima, Okinawa, Honshu and Kyushu,
but what a contrast to that sinking feeling immediately following
take-off was the welcome pull of the plane’s tail hook as, upon one's
return to the ship, it caught a wire and brought one to a sudden,
but safe stop!

After the war and another semester at Michigan I worked for a
year and a half for the U.S. Forest Service, at first on New Hamp-
shire’s White Mountain National Forest, and then on a forest survey
that took me all over the state. Then came nearly four years with
the New Hampshire Fish and Game Department investigating
methods of improving the winter habitat of deer and making vear-

[1173 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

round inventories of ducks. This was followed by another year at

Michigan and two at St. Paul’s School, Concord, New Hampshire,

in charge of conservation activities.

My present job as county forester for Cheshire and Sullivan
Counties, New Hampshire, began in 1954, and consists of advisin
private woodlot owners how to grow more and especially better
timber. It has involved meeting hundreds of people, from almost
every conceivable walk of life, and visiting an infinite variety of
woodlots. Actually, trying to decide what is best for any one
particular situation may even be something of a challenge. Mass
media are also at my disposal. All of this is part of a national effort
to improve management and, in the long run, production on the in-
numerable small, private woodlots that in the aggregate make up the
greater part of the commercial timber Jand of this country. I have,
at least, converted myself and like few things better than taking a
busman’s holiday in my own woods.

Much time outdoors has enabled me to keep up my interest in
birds. For some fifteen years I have been making a serious study of
the distribution of bird life in New Hampshire, and for going on
ten, I have been president of the State Audubon Society, a 600-
member organization. Helping to guide its active program, with
its quarterly magazine, numerous field trips, summer nature
center and wildlife refuges has been a wonderful experience. I
have also worked closely with a group that is interested in preserving
natural areas in the state that are of outstanding ecological interest
and have done a bit of nature photography. Sometimes I yearn to
expand my conservation activities to faraway places, as Henry Ker-
nan, the only other ’38 forester, has done, but these things are not
easily arranged.

Members of the second generation are still pretty young to size
up accurately, but, judging from my wife’s talents (in connection
with puppet shows), they have a chance.

[174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARLETON RUBIRA RICHMOND, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 Follen St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938(41); B-ARCH., 1942.

MARRIED: Evelyn Adams Brown, 1946; Senath T. Richmond, 1958. cHiLp:
Benjamin I. G.

occuPaTIon: Architecture.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, New England Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Boston Society of Architects,

Little Compton Golf Club.

AS the war had begun before I graduated from the Harvard School
of Design I immediately joined the American Field Service and
was soon on my way for a two-year tour of Africa, Syria and Italy.
I returned to Cambridge after spending the last war year with the
Quartermaster’s Research and Development group in Washington.

Following approximately a year of designing industrial buildings,
I entered into a partnership for the more general practice of archi-
tecture with emphasis on schools. In 1952 I became the sole principal
of my present firm. Again the work is assorted but due to chance
emphasis has shifted back to industrial buildings.

[1175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CARROLL RIKERT, JR.

4

 

HOME ADDRESS: 45 South St., Middlebury, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Chapel Bldg., Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940; C.P.A. (New
York), 1945.

Marriep: Jane Ryerson Wilson, June 5, 1943. CHILDREN: David Carroll, May
25, 1945; Rachel Jane, Feb. 26, 1947; Hannah Bigelow, Nov. 9, 1948;
Jonathan Wilson, Aug. 4, 1951.

occuPaTIoN: Business manager, Middlebury College; assistant treasurer, assistant
secretary, The President and Fellows of Middlebury College.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Porter Hospital, 1952-55, vice-president, 1951-56, presi-
dent, 1956-61, Mount Hermon Alumni Association; alumni trustee, North-
field Schools, 1956-61; life trustee, Northfield and Mount Hermon Schools,
since 1962,

MEMBER OF: National Association of Educational Buyers, Eastern Association
of College and University Business Officers, Rotary.

PuBLications: Articles on accounting and business management in professional
magazines,

IN retrospect the twenty-five years which have passed since Com-
mencement in 1938 seem a brief interval indeed. Yet reviewing even
superficially the events which come quickly to mind brings the
realization that these years have been filled with experiences of the
most happy and rewarding sort. There is a temptation in starting to
set them down to speak of the highlights without regard for the
order or sequence of their happening. A more orderly exercise and
result are doubtless intended by those under whose persistent ex-
hortations | am, after numberless reminders, finally putting pen to
paper; and I shall therefore attempt a more or less chronological
monograph, No adequate beginning can be made, however, without

[1176]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

recognizing that everything which is of lasting significance has

grown out of a happy marriage.

Moving across the Charles for two years at the Business School
following college proved, by comparison with the College, to be an
almost other-worldly experience. More cosmopolitan in its student
body, more demanding in class assignments, but most of all different
in orientation and approach, Harvard Business School had an impact
which has been more influential in the years that have followed.
The Charles proved indeed to be a sort of Rubicon, inducing a com-
mitment which has persisted, but without replacing the loyalty to
or diminishing affection for the College.

Five years (interrupted by commission in and discharge from
USNR Supply Corps) of public accounting with Haskins & Sells in
New York and Newark, becoming certified in the course of it,
proved to be valuable experience, and produced a taste for varicty.
The semi-nomadic life which variety-producing changes in assign-

ment made inevitable, however, held much less appeal after taking
a bride than it had while sharing a bachelor apartment with two
Harvard Business School classmates on Brooklyn Heights. Hence the
decision to take the position offered at Brown University in 1946,
where I served as controller until 1952. This was during the tenure
of President Henry M. Wriston, whose dynamic leadership provided
a stimulus to set increasingly high goals of achievement and still re-
mains a dominant source of inspiration. This was a period of ad-
justment and growth in the University, and the responsibilities and
challenges of the job kept pace.

Advancement in accounting seemed to lie, however, in positions
in the larger universities, located for the most part in urban centers.
Since Jane and I preferred to live and bring up our children in
rural surroundings, I took the opportunity offered by broader re-
sponsibilities in a smaller institution, and came to Middlebury as
business manager in 1952. Here also opportunities and responsibili-
ties have multiplied in a challenging and rewarding manner. Varicty
is rampant and the satisfactions enormous.

Although “far from the madding crowd” (which is where we
want to be), inseparable from our panoramic view of the Green
Mountains and the Adirondacks, we are not free of the omnipresent
rat race. Jane carries the family burden of local church and civie re-
sponsibilities, having served as treasurer and president of A.A.ULW
deaconess and religious education chairman at church, and member
of a public school evaluation committee. I find the increasing de-

[1177 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

mands of my work at the college increasingly irresistible, My chi

preoccupation outside Middlebury College has been with North feta
and Mount Hermon Schools, where | have served a term 28 preg
dent of the Alumni Association and Alumni trustee, and am no a

\ife trustee. ;

On the relatively few occasions when it has been possible to et
away for as much as a month, we have taken camping trips as a
family to the National Parks in Colorado, the Northwest, ang the

Canadian Rockies, Otherwise we vacation and spend week-ends at

a summer home in the Berkshires. Winter weekends are given over

entirely to skiing at Middlebury College Snow Bowl and to attend.

ing prep school regional and national ski meets in which our eldest
son David is a competitor. He is a senior at Mount Hermon; Rache]
is in her sophomore year at Northfield, Hannah, a Middlebury
Union High freshman, and Jonathan in sixth grade. All are a source

of joy and occasional amazement to their rapidly aging parents.

There have been occasions when we have been where history is
being made— living in Brooklyn in 1941 when the Dodgers won
their first pennant in twenty-five years, or now in Vermont with its
first Democratic governor since 1853 (we didn’t vote for him).
Harvard has produced many pleasant associations through the years,

not the least of which is our marriage. We met at the Twenty-fifth
Reunion of the Class of 1917, of which Jane’s father and mine were

members, This makes the Twenty-fifth Reunion of the Class of

1938 a matter of varied conjecture among the members of this
family.

[1178]

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWIN FISHER RINGER

   

HOME ADDRESS: 325 Highcroft Lane, Wayzata, Minn.

orrice Appress: Foley Manufacturing Co., 3300 N.E. Fifth St, Minneape
Minn.

prepareD AT: Blake School, Hopkins, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1938; 1.3. (
of Minnesota), 1941.

marniED: Nancy Darby, May 10, 1947, Troy, N.Y, cucpren: Ruth Darby,
24, 1949; Edwin Fisher, Jr., Feb. 15, 1952; Elinor Fisher, June 19, 1956.

occupation: Executive vice-president and treasurer, F. oley Manufacn:
Company; president, Goodall Manufacturing Corporation, Winona, 3

orFices HELD: Member, board of directors, Associated Industries of Minneap.
Minn., since 1960, Minnesota Employers’ Association, St. Paul, Minn., s#
1959, Northeast Neighborhood House, Minneapolis, since 1959; treasu
and member, board of trustees, Northrop Collegiate School, Minneapa
since 1958; member, board of governors, Minneapolis Club, since 19
vice-chairman, Governmental Officers Committee, 1955, chairman, Manag
ment Development Committee, 1962, Minneapolis Chamber of Cor:
merce; vice-chairman, Community Chest (Northeast Division), Mis
neapolis, 1955,

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Minneapolis Club; Woodhill Country Clut:
Wayzata, Minn.; St. Mark’s Episcopal Church, Minneapolis.

1 LOOK back over the twenty-five years since graduation most
Singerly. An uneasy awareness exists that so much time has slipped
by, Despite the fact that in one sense life at Harvard seems only ves
terday, an attempt recently to play squash again brought an aching

‘alization that this was, in fact, rwenty-five years and forty peunds
ay. .

As colle

Nesg ge years came to a close, I had planned to go inte busi-

ov well prepared by Harvard courses in economics and history.
Wever, the cold plunge into the unknown was rejected at that

[1179]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

time for continuation of academic life. The next three years were
spent at the University of Minnesota Law School with torts, con-
tracts and work on Law Review. In July, 1941, I joined one of the
larger law firms in Minneapolis, and at the liberal starting rate at that
time of fifty dollars per month served a busy and stimulating appren-
ticeship in the general practice of law for the next eighteen months,
In 1942 I was securely attached to a defense industry, but the calls
of World War II were too strong, and I enlisted in the then Air
Corps.

After some eleven months as an enlisted man, I was assigned to
Harvard Business School for training as a statistical control officer
in the AAF. For the next two and one-half years as a statistical con-
trol officer in the Air Transport Command, I toured the southwest
Pacific on the circuit of California, Hawaii, New Guinea, Australia
and the Philippines.

Upon discharge from the service in 1946, I returned to Minneapo-
lis and resumed the general practice of law with my former firm.
In 1947, after a protracted courtship of some weeks, Nancy Darby
of Troy, New York, forsook a career of Red Cross, Waves and
journalism, and finally agreed to marry me. We have lived quietly in
Minneapolis, increasingly involved in the concerns of a growing
family of a teen-age daughter, eleven-year-old hockey player and a
first grade daughter.

In 1950 I left the practice of law and joined my father and two
brothers in the operation of a family business which reaches for
diversification in the manufacture and distribution of kitchen uten-
sils, machine tools, clothing, and powered lawn and garden equip-
ment. For the past twelve years I have been increasingly fascinated
by and active with the problems, fluctuations and growth of our
small manufacturing businesses. With good fortune the next twenty-
five will find me similarly occupied.

[ 1180 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* EDWARD HAMMOND RISLEY, JR.

 

BorN: Aug. 6, 1917, Boston, Mass, parents: Edward Hammond Risley, Ada

Simpson.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.
HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Simpson Risley, ’37.
pDiED: Sept. 4, 1943, near Fountain, Colo,

AFTER graduation Risley taught at Fountain Valley School in
Colorado Springs for three years. In June, 1941, he enlisted in the
Army Air Forces as aviation cadet and was commissioned as pilot in
March, 1942. He was made captain in April, 1943, and commanded
the 26th Squadron of the 6th Photo Group, and later was promoted
to group operations officer. He was stationed at Peterson Field,
Colorado, awaiting overseas orders, when he was killed in a plane
crash. He was survived by his parents.

[118t J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MARTIN RITVO

   

HOME ADDRESS: 5013 Euclid Drive, Kensington, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Solicitor’s Office, Dept. of the Interior, Washington, D.C,

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941.

marrieD: Zelma Weiss, July 31, 1945. CHILDREN: Harriet Nancy, Sept. 19, 1946;
Kenneth James, Aug. 7, 1949; Elizabeth Ann, July 14, 1951-

occupation: Lawyer; attorney-adviser (general), Branch of Land Appeals,
Office of the Solicitor, U.S, Department of the Interior.

SAMUEL RITVO

 

HOME appaess: Race Brook Road, Woodbridge, New Haven 15, Conn.

oFFIce avpress: Yale University Child Study Center, 33 Cedar St.. New Haven,
Conn,

preparep at: Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREFS; A.B., 1938, M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1942,

[1182 ]

Nhe a arnt abbey

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Lucille Bernstein, Sept, 7, 1941. CHILDREN: Jonathan Izaak, Jan. 20,
1948; David Zvi, March 16, 1949; Rachel Susan, May 8, 195".

occupation: Associate clinical professor of psychiatry, Child Study Center and
Dept. of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, chief psychia-
trist, Yale Child Study Center, member of faculty, N.Y. Psychoanalytic
Institute, WNEPI; director, Psychoanalytic Clinic, WNEPI.

oFFIcEs HELD: Member, board of trustees, since 1957, president, 1959-61,
WNEPI; secretary, Board on Professional Standards, American Psychiatric
Association, 1958-61; member of council, AAPCC, 1957-60; member, edi-
torial board, Journal of American Psychoanalytic Association, 1961-64.

MEMBER OF: American Psychoanalytic Association; American Psychiatric Asso-
ciation; American Orthopsychiatric Association, American Academy of
Child Psychiatry; New York Psychoanalytic Society; Western New Eng-
land Psychoanalytic Society.

PUBLICATIONS: ‘Review of Recent Literature on Tics in Children,” Nerv. Ch.
1945; “Form Perception and Imitation in Some Autistic Children,” with
Sally Provence, M.D., The Psychoanalytic Study of the Child, 1953; “In-
fluences of Early Mother-Child Interaction on Identification Processes,”
with Albert J. Solnit, M.D., Psychoanalytic Study of the Child, 1958; “The
Relationship of Early Ego Identifications to Superego Formations,” with
Albert J. Solnit, M.D., International Journal of Psychoanalysis, 1940;
“Effects of Deprivation on Institutionalized Infants: Disturbances in De-
velopment of Relationship to Inanimate Objects,” with Sally Provence,
M.D., Psychoanalytic Study of the Child, 1961; “Object Relations,” Jour-
nal of American Psychoanalytic Association, 1962.

AS reality, like beauty, is very much in the eye and mind of the
beholder, I am sure there are as many Harvards as there are Elarvard
men. Regrettably, my Harvard was in the days of insufficient room
in the Houses for impecunious students without redeeming virtues.
I look back with neither nostalgia nor pleasure on years lived in
dilapidated buildings in odd corners of the College amid the aca-
demic casualties and Harvard’s own delightful delinquents. We
were, to use a phrase I believe I coined, the “Out-House Men.” The
Harvard I knew was long on the humanities and short on human
values. My years there taught me patience, fortitude and the long-
range point of view — life could only get better and twenty-five
years later it probably would make no difference how I lived of felt
in college.

Fortunately, both points of view proved not only sustaining, but
also correct. Little more than a year after graduation life really
began when I met Lucille who infected me with her love of life
and people, My next exciting encounter came a ycar after graduat-
ing from medical school at Yale when I found psychoanalysis and
with it a new understanding of myself and a life work,

[ 1183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

After the years of training in New York we returned to New
Haven to join a group of colleagues at the Yale Child Study Center
in research and teaching in child development, child psychiatry and
family relationships. My work on the educational committee of the
Western New England Psychoanalytic Institute and as director of
the newly founded Psychoanalytic Clinic of the Institute involves
me deeply in the teaching and training of psychoanalysts and in the
effort to establish a resource in the region for low-fee psychoanalytic
treatment.

Three wonderful children bring life to a full measure of happi-
ness I would not have dreamed possible on some of those melan-
choly college days. Would I send my sons to Harvard? Yes, 1 am
sure their experience would be vastly different from mine even if
Harvard were the same.

FRANCIS MARKOE RIVINUS

AO EERE RRENS ca

   

HOME ADDRESS: 131 Rex Ave., Philadelphia 18, Pa.
oFFice appress: Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, 1500 Spring Garden St,,
Philadelphia, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
marrieD: Anne Lowndes Hutchins, June 25, 1938. CHILDREN: Timothy Markoe,
Sept. 1, 1939; Sarah Lowndes, Oct. 28, 1941, Susanna, May 11, 1943; Judith
Anne, July 2, 1946, Mark Caldwell, April 15, 1949, Mary Hutchins, Nov. 1,
1951; Michael Amory, July 28, 1954.
HARVARD SON: Timothy Markoe Rivinus, ’61.
occuPATION: Vice-president, in charge of International Division, Smith, Kline &
French Laboratories, prescription pharmaceutical manufacturers.
orrices HELD: Chairman, board of managers, Hospital of the University of
Pennsylvania, ;

[ 1184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club, Racquet Club, Philadelphia Cricket Club, Penl-
lyn Club, all of Philadelphia; Woods Hole Yacht Club, Woods Hole,
Mass.; The Seventeen Club, New York City.

WITHIN a week of graduation I married Anne Lowndes Hutchins,
a daughter of C. Hutchins, ’o5, and was commissioned ensign, USNR,
Because of the 1938 depression, the Pennsylvania Railroad could not
employ me as I had expected.

Using a counselling arrangement set up by Harvard graduates
established in Philadelphia businesses, I had the chance to explore
several companies, one of which was my present employer. At that
time — June 1938 — no jobs were offered me, and with the hope of
later joining an uncle’s insurance brokerage firm, I set about trying
to sell life insurance for the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company.
This was definitely not my kind of work, so when I was offered a
job as a “Rover Boy” at Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, a versa-
tile type of training job, I took it with alacrity.

This proved to be a piece of both luck and wisdom. When the
Navy called me to active duty in May, 1941, we had a son, two dogs,
a car and a large rented house. Anne went back to Needham, while
I was in the Blue Jay, a minesweeper, Mine Warfare School, Ad-
vanced Mine School and an observer officer in Mine Disposal Work
attached to the Admiralty in England. Later I taught in Washing-
ton, became executive of the Underwater Demolition Teams at Port
Fierce, Florida, and finally C.O. of Mobile Explosives Investigation
Unit No. 1, with two and one-half stripes. This final junket took me
from Brisbane to Manila via Hollandia, Leyte and Angeles (Pam-
pagna). —

In Manila in May, 1945, a Harvard friend told me about the Man-
hattan Project and predicted the war’s end in mid-August. I trans-
ferred to a desk in Chief of Naval Operations office ull the war re-
leased me to the pill business and to the ranks of house hunters. Un-
like many, I had a fun war with no real hardship, considerable ad-
venture and useful experience. I was decorated by the British
(O.B.E.) for helping take apart a German mine in Belfast.

The pharmaceutical business, to which I returned, was in a growth
period and I prospered with it. My boss, F. Boyer (Harvard Claw of
1916), placed me in the International Division against my wishes
Within three years, by luck and attrition, E had become eperations
head of Smith, Kline & French’s overseas operations which were
then small. In 1950, I was made a vice-president and director of the

[ 1185}

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

parent company. The chunk of business I run has multiplied more

than twenty times since I joined it, and I have.over 1 500 employees
scattered in more than twenty-three countries. It is an intriguing
job, turning chemical ideas into pharmaceutical products that may
relieve or eliminate a human or animal illness.

Family growth has been equally explosive and satisfying. Seven
attractive (we agree with their admirers) children, each dramatically
different from the other, keep us occupied twenty hours a day and
provide economic stimulus. ‘Tim, Groton ’57, entered Harvard with
the Class of ’61 but left college to enlist in the Artillery. He has
learned good German in Ansbach and should re-enter college in
September. Sally, Foxcroft ’59, spent a year in Italy from which I
took her in 1960 down to the Cape of Good Hope and into Kruger
National Park. She is a junior at the Philadelphia Museum College
of Art and an intriguing artist. Susy, Foxcroft ’61, then Sorbonne,
is a freshman at Sarah Lawrence and an enthusiastic student of
French and Spanish. Judy, Milton ’64 (Judy et Deo volente), is an
excellent piano player and is an animal lover. Mark, who at fourteen
is rapidly becoming the tallest of us all, is the sports encyclopedia
and oracle. He and I saw Johanssen flatten Patterson and watched
Liston do the same on TV later. Mary and Michael, the “little
people,” are growing up too quickly to suit Anne and me, but there
is NO stopping it.

Aside from happy summers in our rambling summer house on
Little Harbor in Woods Hole, we have twice camped across the
continent in station wagon and sleeping bags. Tim and I have
climbed Ixtaccihauatl (17,288 feet) in Mexico. I enjoy physical labor
out of doors, splitting firewood, walking and beagling.

To keep occupied, I am chairman of the board of managers of the
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, a 1,000-bed teaching
hospital. This is satisfying (to me at least), and around 1985 I hope
to have learned enough to do the job adequately, if I cannot escape
it sooner.

What more? We have more than our share of this world’s goods
but no great reverence for them. The best education they can ab-
sorb is all we hope or desire to leave our children. Politically, I have
tended toward liberalism and belief in civil rights but usually voted
Republican.

Having done business in quite a few countries, I observe that
governments never relax controls, only increase them, and that such
controls seldom, if ever, help the controlled business. The direct

[ 1186 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

benefit to the public is often questionable. I find it hard to reconcile
the term “liberals” with their predilection for increased regulation.

 

HOME ApDpREsS: 131 Randolph Ave., Milton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. 200 Berkeley Se.

Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarrieD: Mark Byron, 1943 (divorced 1958); Joan Jacoby Scullin, tgs58.
CHILDREN: Diana Byron, Aug. 22, 1944; George French, Jr. Aug. 29, 1947;
Cameron B., Aug. 21, 1953; Lucy C,, July 6, 1959; Judy Scullin (step-
daughter), Feb. 4, 1940 (a. Hugh H. Tilson, June 10, 1961); Mare Scullin,

July 17, 1943 (stepson).
occupation: Real estate management; assistant director, John Hancock Mutual

Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Co-chairman Blood Committee, 1957-59, treasurer, since t94o,
Milton Chapter, American Red Cross; member, Admissions Committee,
Harvard Club of New York, 1948, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Milton Hoosic Club,

WITH the exception of five years in the Naval Reserve as a supply
officer and four years (1951-54) at an Ordnance Plant in Texarkana,
Texas, as a civilian stores and transportation executive, E have been
primarily associated with the life insurance business; fint in sales
administration and more recently in real estate management. As a
vocation and hobby during 1950-51, I coached the Harvard Fresh-
man hockey team.

My remarriage in 1958 is the most important event. “The “Phy”
“Hers” and “Ours” is not just an intimate martini set but a wonder:

[ 1187]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ful wife and six children. One daughter has graduated from Wash-
ington University (St. Louis), another has just entered the same
college, and one son is at the University of Missouri. Thus I have
learned to accept the fact that unanimously coeducation comes first,
Harvard second, and Massachusetts Republicans last.

IRVING BURTON ROBERTS

 

HOME apprEss: 77 Westchester Rd., Newton 58, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Chilton Co., 10 High St., Boston 10, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Miriam J. Walker, May 5, 1943. CHILDREN: Jane E., Sept. 2, 19485
Lynne S., Nov. 16, 1950; Debra L., May 6, 1952.

occupation: Field editor, Boot and Shoe Recorder, a Chilton publication.

PusLications: Articles on many different subjects in business and professional
publications,

NOW that the Big 25th is finally here, after all these recent years of
hearsay, anticipation and promotional build-up, it seems a perfect
occasion to renew strength, as well as fond memories and acquain-
tances, before plunging hopefully towards the soth. I confess the
so-year Reunion lads are looking sprightlier each year — and much

closer to our age group than did the 25-year Class when we gradu-
ated one June day in 1938.

For the record, since our Jast Class Report, most of my more re-
warding moments (as well as more hectic) have been focused on my
three growing and red-headed daughters wending their way through
the paths of schooling (in Newton, thus far) and the various chemi-
cal and physical changes that eventually make little girls into teen-

{ 1188 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

agers. It’s a process I would recommend only for the young. Of
course, the presence of the beauteous, wise and patient girl 1 mar-
ried helps keep everything fairly sane as well as satisfying.

In the matter of worldly endeavor, I have continued to make
some progress as a writer and editor in the business magazine ficld,
currently as field (which means ‘on the road”) editor of the Boot
and Shoe Recorder, a star member of the big Chilton chain which 1!
joined recently. Chilton is second largest publisher of business
papers in the U.S. When not occupied too strenuously here, | try
my hand on occasion (and for profit) in public relations for a
variety of firms and projects.

Where all this is heading, it’s too early to say. Perhaps by the
soth, I'll have a better idea. Somehow or other, despite the current
missile-waving vogue, and the constant admonitions to rebuild the
caves (or is it bomb shelters) of our club-swinging ancestors, I still
have faith that many of us will be back in Cambridge come 1988 —
provided we're not on an extended visit to the Moon, Venus, or
some other uninhabitable planet. At that, a trip into space would
hardly compensate for the many rare and pleasurable experiences,
all down to earth, which are traditional whenever men of ’38 get
together.

LORIMER ROBEY

 

HOME ApprEss: 3341 E, Monmouth Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Obie.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hawken School, Lyndhurst, Cleveland 24, Ohio,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, Cteme latade, tg

MarrigeD: Anne Elizabcth Reese, Jan. 17, 1ygo. Cait paES: Bryant, New, §. br?

[1189 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

(m. Susan Elizabeth Hays, Sept. 1, 1962); Christopher, Jan. 10, 1942; Dan-
iel, Sept. 28, 1944; Richard Keene, March 23, 1946.

HARVARD soN: Bryant Robey, Harvard Grad, Sch. of Ed., 1962-63.

occupation: Teacher of classics.

OFFICES HELD: Independent School Education Board, Latin Examiners, 1950-56;
secretary-treasurer, Ohio Classical Conference, 1960-62; treasurer, Cleve-
land Classical Club, 1958-o.

MEMBER oF: American Philological Association; Classical Association of the
Middle West and South; Ohio Classical Conference, Vergilian Society of
America; Cleveland Classical Club.

FOLLOWING my graduation from college, ] taught Latin for
two years at the Park School in Baltimore. It was there that I met
my wife and we were married. After this introduction to teaching I
returned to Harvard on a Fellowship to continue my studies in
classics and philosophy. I regret to say that my preoccupation with
my new family detracted from the attention I gave to my courses,
and I did not take an advanced degree. I then came to Hawken
School in Cleveland, Ohio, where I have been for the past twenty-
one years. Here I have taught mainly Latin but also at times New
Testament and Greek. Until two years ago Hawken was an ele-
mentary school ending at the ninth grade, and all my teaching was
done at the junior high school level. Now Hawken, under a new
headmaster, is expanding to become a college preparatory school.
Thus new courses are opening up to me and I find myself for the
first time in twenty years teaching Virgil and other advanced
courses.

For a number of years I served as head of the upper school at
Hawken. At the time these duties did not interfere with my teach-
ing, but as the school grew, these administrative duties threatened
to occupy most of my time and to draw me away from the class-
room. Since teaching was my real love, I gave up my administrative
duties and remained in the classroom.

Hawken is a country day school for boys and fortunately I have
had four sons. They have thus been able to attend my school. Only
the youngest now remains at Hawken. The eldest is now married
and is studying at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, while
his wife supports him by teaching. My second son is a senior at
Oberlin and the third entered Wittenberg this fall, With four sons
and a position as Latin teacher in a boys’ school, my life has been

fully occupied with boys and with the classics. It has been an
agreeable combination.

[ 1190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

*r THEODORE PARKS ROBIE

 

BorN: Aug. 15, 1917, Copper Cliff, Ont., Canada. parents: Edward Hodges

Robie, Agnes Parks.
PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cu772 laude, 1938; M.D. cum laude,

1942.
MARRIED: Natalie L. Atwill, June 13, 1942.

pieD: Killed in action, Sept. 19, 1944, in France.

AFTER a year’s internship at the Massachusetts General Hospital
in Boston, Robie was called to active duty as a first lieutenant in the
Army Medical Corps. He was later promoted to captain and went
overseas with the 35th Division. He served as assistant battalion
surgeon, participated in the Normandy invasion and was with Pat-
ton’s Third Army in its dash across France. Robie was killed when
the jeep in which he was riding during the drive on Metz hit a land
mine. He was posthumously awarded the Silver Star for gallantry
in action. He was survived by his wife.

[arr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
HARVEY ADRIAN ROBINSON

 

MAILING AbpRESs: University Hospital, Psychiatric Inst., Baltimore 1, Md.

ROBERT EDMUND ROGERS

 

HOME AppRESS: 1209 Besley Rd., N.E., Vienna, Va.

oFFicE appress: Systems Manufacturing Corp., Binghamton, N.Y., 11 Broad-
way, New York, N.Y, 820 13th St, N.W., Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Senn High School, Chicago, II].

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 64772 laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MarrigD: Priscilla Alden Blackett, Wellesley ’42. comtpren: Hillary Alden, May
13, 1950; Priscilla Ann, Jan. 14, 1954.

occupation: President, Systems Manufacturing Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Binghamton Club; Binghamton Chamber of Commerce; Jefferson
Islands Club; United Hunts Racing Association; Aircraft Owners & Pilots

Association; National Machine Accountants Association; Harvard Club of
New York, The Fairfax Hunt,

NOTHING spectacular seems to have happened to me since our

[1192 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tenth Reunion, unless it can be my relatively complete transition
from a disorganized bachelor to an equally disorganized family man.

The business I started at the end of the war has continued to
grow. Ihe company manufactures and sells accessories and com-
ponents for punch-card and electronic data-processing installations,
with a plant in Binghamton, New York, and sales outlets throughout
the country.

I have also continued to build a small family: one lovely wife,
two charming daughters, a dog and cat (both female), a mare, and
two geldings (neuter). They all tell me they are devoted to me,
except the cat, who seems to have no flair for female deception.

After enduring a decade of dreadful weather in upper New York
State, we have moved to Virginia, where we have found many more
of the “compensations” this life is supposed to provide. Nearby
Washington furnishes a constant source of entertainment, partic-
ularly political, and the rolling Virginia countryside is for us. We
think we will stay, at least until the flight to suburbia starts rolling
over us. .

And after that? Well, I have two immediate goals: 1) to make
the business bigger and more prosperous, and 2) to find an entirely
acceptable son-in-law who wants to take it over —so I can join the
mob — and write a book!

*k HENRY PARISH ROOSEVELT

 

BorN: April 11, 1915, Dawson City, Yukon Territory. parents: Gracie Hall
Roosevelt, ’13, Margaret Richardson,
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H,

[ 1193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, 1944-1945. DEGREE: S.B., 1938(45).

piep: Aug. 17, 1946, Limerick, Maine.

WHILE at college Roosevelt was on the Crimson and the News
Board and was a member of the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770
and the Signet Society. After college he spent most of his time
farming at Limerick, Maine,

JOHN ASPINWALL ROOSEVELT

 

HOME apprEss: Hyde Park, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bache & Co., 36 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

marrieD: Anne Clark, June 18, 1938. cHitprEN: Haven Clark, June 5, 1940
Anne Sturgis, Dec. 15, 1942; Sally Delano, Dec. 6, 1946 (died Aug. 12,
1960); Joan Lindsey, Aug. 25, 1952.

HARVARD SON: Haven Clark Roosevelt, ’62.

occuPaTion: Investment broker, partner, Bache & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, President's Committee on Government Contracts, 1953-
60; trustee, State University of New York, since 1959, Eisenhower Fellow-
ship Foundation, since 1954, Carnegié Hall Corporation, since 1960, Na-
tional Conference of Christians and Jews, since 1955, National Urban
League, 1958-62; director, New York World’s Fair Corporation, since
1961, Balsa Hotels Corporation, since 1961, St, Regis Hotel Corporation,
since 1961; vice-president, Roosevelt, Lee, Magee, since 1955; chairman,
Members’ Council, Commerce & Industry Association of New York
City, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: The Pilgrims of the United States, Racquet and Tennis Club, The
Leash and The Bankers’ Club, all New York City.

[TWENTY-FIVE years in retrospect seems so short a time. It
seems but a few years ago that I started my business career in Filene’s

[1194]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Basement. My first tangible evidence of the value of a Harvard
degree was that I received two dollars more a week than those who
did not possess a college degree. From merchandising to five years
in the Navy, with service in the South Pacific, an experience that,
at the time, seemed rather unpleasant. With the passage of years,
however, it was an experience which I would not have missed.

After returning to civilian life, my wife and then three children
spent five years in California. Despite the climate and the smog of
Pasadena, the call to return to New York became increasingly loud
and clear. Since 1951, I have been in the world of finance full time
and a farmer part time. New York would not be bearable if it were
not for the fact that we can get to the farm for weekends.

Our youngest daughter was born in Hyde Park, a year after our
return. The small toddler that we took west with us in September
of 1941 (my first assignment to duty at the Naval Air Station at
Coronado, California) has now graduated from Harvard — cum
laude (unlike his old man) — and presently is teaching at the Unt-
versity of Dar es Salaam in Tanganyika for a period of one year be-
fore entering the Harvard Law School. Our eldest daughter is now a
junior at the University of Michigan and our youngest, now ten,
keeps me in shape riding each weekend.

In 1952, I broke with a certain amount of tradition and cam-
paigned vigorously for General Eisenhower for the Presidency.
Since then, political activity has taken a certain amount of time but,
due to Anne’s restraining hand, I have resisted thus far all tempta-
tion to run for political office. Contrary to many reports, my
mother, my brothers and my sister still talked to me when I be-
came a Republican; the only difference was that our discussions be-
came a bit livelier. I still have a few very favorite Democrats.

With my mother’s passing, Anne and I have taken over the Elyde

Park place, or at least that part of the original place that we have
not given to the Federal Government.

We look forward to the years ahead with confidence i in our insti-
tutions and faith in our fellow man.

[ 1195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ELLIOT EDWIN ROSENBERG

 

HOME AppreEss: 42 Morse Rd., Newtonville 60, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1946.

MarRIED: Lenore Eastman, April 9, 1949. CHILDREN: Joan E., Jan. 10, 1952; Paul
L,, Dec. 9, 1954; Andrew A., May 27, 1956.

occuPaTION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Ritvo, Gordon & Rosenberg, Boston, since 1954; vice-
president, New England Sinai Hospital, 1953-63; secretary and director,
The Psychiatric Centre, Inc., 1962.

IN thinking back over the last twenty-five years I am mostly amazed
at how long a time a quarter century appeared in 1938 and how short
it seems in retrospect. And then again the years stretch out as I
catalogue the happenings. In truth, though, I feel neither old enough
nor wise enough to account for the years, only enough heavier.
Perhaps it is because recapitulation is simple, dividing easily into
four stages. First the years between graduation and the war. Four
years of market research during the day and law school at night
left little time for troubles. This period ended abruptly a few
months short of law school commencement when I surprised
myself donning the uniform of a private in the Marine Corps. Some
four years later, all of which except for six months were spent over-
seas, | was even more amazed to find myself exchanging the garb of
captain, USMCR for civilian clothes, and mostly all in one piece at
that.
Some twelve months later, after a refresher period at law school
and the torment of the Massachusetts bar examination, my life
turned into the pleasant road it has followed ever since. I joined the

[ 1198 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

law firm of which I am now a partner and embarked on the universal
undertaking of accumulating family and property. A couple of
years of bachelorhood, then marriage in 1949, a home, a daughter, a
larger home, two sons, a larger home and here we are.

All this has left not quite enough time for the many things I want
to do. But the rewards have not been small. I am at this mid-point
of life unable to imagine myself in any but my chosen vocation, or
surrounded by any but that group of friends with whom I shared
college days and all these swiftly running years. And the pleasantest
sound of all is to hear the family argument as to which of the
children will supplant dad as skipper of the family sailboat next
summer. I’ve made it, from private, to captain, to private.

ORRIN PHILIP ROSENBERG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Cricket Lane, West Roxbury 32, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. C471 laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941.

MARRIED: Leah H. Sieve, June 22, 1947. CHILDREN: Susan Ruth, July 27, t9§#3
William Asa, April 7, 1955.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

[ 1199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOSEPH ROSENTHAL

 

HOME ApprEss: 75 Lewis Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 156 Broad St., Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarrieD: Esta S. Markowitz. cHipren: Sandra J., Jan. 2, 1943; Marla F., Oct.
5s 1943.

occuPATION: Certified public accountant; independent practitioner.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Campfire Girls Council of Lynn, 1956-58, president,
Jewish Community Center of Greater Lynn, since 1961, Secretary, Temple
Beth El, Lynn, Mass., since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of C.P.A.’s; Hays Lodge No. 195, AF, &
AM.

PuBLicaTions: Letter to Westbrook Pegler published in Boston Globe, May,
1943, resulting in intensive investigation by Army Intelligence — especially
those “Harvard Left-wing years.”

BENTLEY School of Accounting — 1951.

[ 1200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP NORMAN ROSS

 

SRN Remo RENN EPS RENEE MRC AONE REM K,  Sael wn s

Boe

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2605 Bethel Church Rd., Bethel Park, Pa.

oFFIcE appREss: Westinghouse Electric Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Sudbury High School, Sudbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cts7 laude, 1938; S.M~ 19%9.

marriED: Norma Shipley, May 2, 1953. cuitpren: Philip Norman, Jr, Oct. 31,
19433 Keith A., Aug. 11, 1949 (both by previous marriage), Laraine S.

Jan. 4, 1955.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Bettis Atomic Power Lab-

oratory, Westinghouse Electric Corporation.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; American Nuclear
Society; Atomic Industrial Forum; Mount Lebanon Golf Club, Civie Light
Opera Association.

FOLLOWING one year of graduate study at the Gordon McKay
Engineering School culminating in an S.M. degree, I was employed
by Westinghouse Electric Corporation in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
as an engineer, specializing in electric power transmission and dis
tribution. In September, 1941, 1 was sent to Washington, D.C. oa
a year’s leave of absence to the U.S. Navy's BuShips to aid in
modernizing the electric systems on naval v essels. The year stretched
into four years of involuntary servitude ending in August, toys, with
the surrender of the Japanese. During this “period the Navy was
“electrified” and I developed a deep and abiding dishke for govern:
ment bureaucracy in all its forms and tyrannics — and a great bhing
for sailboats.

IT returned to Pittsburgh and Westinghouse in tg4¢ but left after a
year on leave of absence again, this time to Ouk Ridge, Tennewee,
to participate in the first effort to develop a nuclear power plant for
the gencration of electricity. In 1948 this ctfort was redirected te

[ rz01]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

developing nuclear power for submarine propulsion and responsi-
bility was assigned to Westinghouse at the Bettis Atomic Power
Laboratory in Pittsburgh. I returned to Pittsburgh and joined the
Laboratory as assistant director of research.

After four years of very hard work, the prototype power plant
was completed and successfully tested in Idaho. Two years later
the world’s first nuclear powered submarine, USS Nautilus, went to
sea, From there the laboratory went on to develop and build the
Shippingport Atomic Power Station, the nation’s first atomic elec-
tric power plant; the fleet of nuclear powered Polaris missile firing
submarines; the USS Long Beach, nuclear powered cruiser; and the
USS Enterprise, nuclear powered aircraft carrier.

I had the privilege of working on each of these projects and need-
less to say found the experience totally absorbing, extremely chal-
lenging and very satisfying. Fortunately, too, I progressed through
successively increasing management responsibilities, becoming gen-
eral manager of the laboratory in 1959 and a vice-president of West-
inghouse in 1960.

Thus I have had the good fortune of being in the forefront of one
of the major developments of this century, i.e. atomic power. This
has been the central experience of my life since graduation. It has
been made doubly stimulating, incidentally, by bringing me into
close association with one of the most controversial men of our times,
Admiral H. G. Rickover. On the other hand, the combination has
been so demanding of time and energy as to result in a life less well-
rounded than I had hoped for and I look forward to correcting this
in the next twenty-five years.

[ 1202 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ RICHARD RAYMOND ROSS

 

Born: April 29, 1916, Deer Lodge, Mont. parents: Ralph Woods Ross, Caroline
Leibrock.

PREPARED AT: Powell County High School, Deer Lodge, Mont.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; MD. (Marquette Univ.), to42.
Marrtep: Margaret Jane Middleton, Nov. 17, 1942, San Diego, Calif. cuiness:

Richard Raymond, Jr., Dec. 4, 1945; Ralph, Dee. 1, 1946.
pieD: May 18, 1954, Phoenix, Ariz.

AFTER graduation from medical school Ross went on active duty
with the U.S. Medical Corps, served overseas as battalion surgeon
with the Second Marine Division in the Marianas and took part in
the invasion of Saipan. He was honorably discharged in January,

1947, and since then had engaged in the general practice of medicine
at Canova, South Dakota.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 8251 Ponce de Leon Rd Miami 93, Fla.

[ 1203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

BENJAMIN ROTH

fe
e
&
Hg
i

PAE Lom

 

HOME AbpreEss: 1140 Lay Rd., St. Louis 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Burroughs School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Cu7# laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941.
MargieD: Elizabeth Phelan, March 11, 1955. CHILDREN: Sidney T. Mullen, 1946,
Peter S, Mullen, 1949 (stepchildren); Janet T., 1956; Stephen F., 1958.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1961, president, board of directors, 1962, Com-
munity School, St. Louis, Mo.; chairman, various committees, St. Louis Bar
Association, various times; director, Health & Welfare Council, St. Louis,
since 1958.

AFTER graduation in 1938 I went on to the Law School, finishing
in 1941. From there I went to Washington and the Department of
Justice. In the spring of 1942 I changed government jobs, the new
one being by request and paying twenty-one dollars a month. After
the usual vicissitudes of lost papers, boredom and luck, I ended up
as a combat intelligence officer in the Marianas, doubling as wing
legal officer. In the latter capacity I examined the files of all person-
nel in the Wing organizations to draw up a roster of experienced
trial lawyers for appointment as defense counsels in Court Martials.
Since I acted as prosecutor, and I’d never tried a case in my life, there
was no railroading in our command.

After the war | commenced practice in St. Louis, and I’m still at
it. Civic activities have had their time-consuming but rewarding
part in my life. Right now I’m president of the board of Community
School, where my younger children are at school. There are also
various Bar Association committees and welfare organizations which
take attention.

Betsy and I were married in 1955, and I took on her two children

[ 1204 ]

aad eal

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as my Own, to my continuing joy. Janet and Stephen have come
along since, and will, when this is published, have attained the ripe old
ages of six and five. Anyone else from ’38 planning to attend Com-
mencement in 1976?

STANLEY DEXTER ROTHENBERG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Prescott St., Brookline, Mass.

oFFicE AppREsS: Garland Knitting Mills, 117 Bickford St. Jamaica Plain, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Ruth Walper, Oct. 13, 1940. cHILp: Betty Jane, March 25, 1948.

OccUPATION: Executive in product control, Sweater Division, Garland Knitting
Mills.

MEMBER OF: Variety Club of New England; Motion Picture Pioncers.

AFTER graduation I went into the motion picture business. During
the war, I operated a non-ferrous foundry, specializing in bronze,
brass and aluminum castings. After the war, I returned to the motion
picture business and became president and general manager of a
chain of motion picture theatres, located throughout New England,
New York State and New Jersey.

I continued in this field up to a few years azo when I became
associated with the Garland Knitting Mills,

[ 1205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN CARTER ROWLEY, JR.

     

  
   

: oe é : 2 3

JL: dew hence all

HOME ADDRESS: 2583 Hillsden Drive, Salt Lake City 17, Utah.

OFFICE abpRESS: J. C. Rowley & Co., 955 Folsom Ave., Salt Lake City 4, Utah.

PREPARED AT: Kingswood School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MARRIED: Joy Foster, 1942 (divorced 1955); Jean Sodergren, 1956. CHILDREN:
John Carter, 3d, Oct. 26, 1944, Katharine McNeely, June 9, 1947; Karen,
Aug. 28, 1950.

occupaTion: Manufacturer’s representative, own business, J. C. Rowley &
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Society for Non Destructive Testing, Utah.

MEMBER OF: Society for Experimental Stress Analysis, Utah; Art Barn; Salt
Lake City Art Center.

pusLications: Responsible for patent on Culbertson Card Shuffler while em-
ployed by Wallin Foster Associates, Denver, Colo., 1949.

. ee
we

  

I HAVE found one of the great delights in life is the very uncer-
tainty of the future. Perhaps coming unscathed from World War
II with Halsey’s Fleet has helped in this attitude. Accepting an
engineering position in Denver, Colorado, drew me to the West in
1946. Several years ago some friends, of questionable capability in
the matter of advice, suggested I go into sales. I did. Whole hog.

My wife Jean and I gathered up all our belongings and moved to
Salt Lake City, Utah, and started our own business as manufacturers
representatives. We chose Utah because of the missile programs
beginning at the time.

The first year was a horror of grasping the essentials of a new
field, learning the highly specialized needs of the missile industry,
particularly of solid propellants here, and then mastering the tech-
nology of the products of those manufacturers who entrust the sale
of their equipment to me.

[ 1206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It is no coincidence our home is but twenty-five minutes from
Alta, which offers some of the finest skiing in the West. I am
currently attempting to organize a sailing group to race dinghies on
some of our lakes. It has been an uphill battle, as sailing is practically
an unknown sport here and looked upon with a certain amount of
distrust.

Our great family goal is the day we can throw all to the winds and
cruise our coastline from Alaska to Maine, under sail, needless to say!

* CHARLES DESMOND RUCH

 

BoRN: Aug. 15, 1917, Providence, R.I. parents: Emile Hauck Ruch, "to, Mary
Desmond.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE! A.B. 1938.

piep: April 23, 1945, of wounds received in action on Okinawa.

AFTER graduation Ruch worked for a year in the engineering de-
partment of the State of Rhode Island, a year in the insurance busi-
ness, and then joined the Federal Products Company in Providence
where he became a production efficiency engineer. In December,
1942, he volunteered for the Marine Corps and went overseas to the
Pacific theatre in January, 1944. He attained the rank of first licu-
tenant and served at Guam, the Marshall Islands and Guadalcanal.
He took part in the battle for Okinawa with the Third A mphibious
Corps. He died as a result of wounds received when ambushed by
enemy snipers on Okinawa. He was survived by his parents.

[ 1207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MAJER RUDENSEY

   

HOME AbpRESS: 252 Kinderkamack Rd., Hillsdale, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Eisen Brothers, Inc.

prePARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1938(39).

marrigp: Lillian Kuritzky, March 29, 1953. CHmLDREN: Terry Alan, March 22,
1954; Lyle Martin, Sept. 13, 1955.
occupation: Production planning manager for multiplant furniture manager.

WANDERLUST claimed my soul upon graduation, and I spent
thirty relaxing days at sea bound for Southeast Africa on a rusty
American freighter, performing the exacting duties required of a
crew’s messman. Upon returning three months later, I took a giant
step forward as first-class waiter on a British cruise ship sailing to
Buenos Aires. Thence to the jungles of Dutch Guiana on a freighter
whose return cargo consisted of bauxite. One night after a year or
so of this, I found myself on the deck of a tanker ready to depart for
Haiti, when through the rainy darkness, the sickeningly sweet smell
of molasses hit me. I turned back down the gangplank, my wander-
lust cured.

Shortly thereafter 1 was employed by the Western Electric Com-
pany at Kearny, New Jersey, and Burlington, North Carolina. I
worked there for nine years in the field of production control and
production results.

The following two years were occupied in the fascinating but
financially unrewarding occupation of mink ranching in the Cat-
skills. Within a month after our marriage in 1953, my lovely wife

and I decided that a more prosaic occupation would be more re-
munerative.

[ 1208 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I returned to industry as production manager of a textile dycing
firm, Colgate Piece Dye Works in Hawthorne, New Jersey. After
two years the company went out of business due to competition
from the South.

For the past five years I have been production planning manager
of Eisen Brothers, Inc., a furniture manufacturer with plants located
in New Jersey, Indiana, Kentucky and Texas.

As for the life away from work, we live in a quict suburban
Bergen County, New Jersey, community occupied with raising two
sons, ages seven and eight. Our activities are almost entirely local —
Cub Scouts, Cancer Fund Drives, Temple Emanuel, puttering
around the house, and taking our summer recreation in Bear Moun-
tain.

As for the future, we hope to temper with wisdom the more bois-
terous teen-age and college years of our sons.

HYMAN RUDNICK

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 136 Lake Ave., Yonkers, N.Y. (Lost.)

[ 1209 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

SPENCER WILLIS RUDNICK

& %
ho.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 N.E. 102d St., Miami Shores 38, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Justine Ruth Hyman, Aug. 17, 1941. cHILD: Carl Stacy, March 6,

1955-

OCCUPATION: Realtor, self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Miami Shores Planning Board, 1955-57; Councilman,
Miami Shores, 1957-63; member, Finance and Nominating Committees,
1953-55, director, 1955-57, Miami Shores Chamber of Commerce; presi-
dent, Miami Shores Citizens Civic Association, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Miami Shores Men’s Club, Miami Shores Country Club; Harvard
Club of Miami; Fuclid Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Miami Board of Realtors;
Florida Association of Realtors.

PRIOR to Pearl Harbor and the outbreak of World War II, I
entered the theatre business, as assistant manager of the Detroit,
Michigan, theatres of what is now known as General Drive-In Cor-
poration. After the war broke out, I joined the staff of the Office of
Price Administration as assistant state personnel officer for the State
of Michigan. In February, 1943, | transferred to the Regional War
Labor Board of the State of Michigan, as chief of the technical sec-
tion, My duties were primarily to help increase the use of wage in-
centive systems for direct and indirect labor in the thousands of war
plants throughout Michigan. I worked in close collaboration with
the War Production Board and with Army and Navy Ordnance to
develop sound wage incentive systems in plants where increased
production per man-hour was vitally needed to insure adequate sup-
plies of war material reaching the armed forces.

In May, 1945, I resigned from the War Labor Board in order to
form an industrial engineering company in Detroit, in partnership

[ 1210 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the chief of the Management Consultant Division of the Michi-
gan War Production Board. Our company installed wage incentive
systems and cost controls in several Michigan plants, as well as com-
pleting plant-wide job evaluations and handling contract negotia-
tions. Because of the severe illness of my partner, the business was
discontinued in the fall of 1946.

Shortly thereafter (January, 1947), I joined the staff of the Pitts-
burgh Plate Glass Company, as industrial engineer. I was sent to the
Baltimore Brush plant to help complete a wage incentive installation
there for all direct and indirect production employees. The installa-
tion was completed in October, 1947. During the following year,
however, my health took a drastic turn for the worse! Arthritis
began to rear its painful head much too often, especially during the
frigid northern winters. My wife and I finally decided to relocate in
Florida; and so in October, 1949, we made the break and came to
Miami. We built our new home in Miami Shores and moved in on
April 3, 1950.

Since then, I have been actively engaged in the general practice of
real estate in this area. In addition, local civic affairs have occupied
much of my time during the past twelve years. In 1957, after having
served for two years on the Miami Shores Planning Board, I decided
to run for the office of City Councilman. I was very fortunate to
win the race on my first attempt at an elective office. In 1959, I
ran for re-election and again was successful, this time for a four-year
term. Miami Shores is one of the finest residential communites in
Florida. To keep it that way and to provide the utmost in public
services (police protection, recreational facilities, cultural activitics,
etc.), with no increase in taxes year after year, is a constant chal-
lenge. Despite the never-ending increase (not to mention waste) in
government spending on state and national levels, our Council is de-
termined to keep Miami Shores in the forefront as a shining example
of efficient management.

The only —and most welcome — addition to our family arrived
on March 6, 1955. Naturally, our lives have never been the same
since! With an eight-year-old “all boy” around the house, there's
never a dull moment. The “joint” is always jumping!

I have enjoyed keeping in touch with many classmates through
our local Harvard Club and have served on the Schools Committee
for the past few years.

The mild Florida climate has exerted a beneficial intluence on my

[rat]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

health, and I hope the years to come will be as good to me as have
the past thirteen here in Miami Shores.

KENNETH CAPON RUSSELL

 

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: New Utrecht High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marriep: Marian E. Laird, June 24, 1944. CHILDREN: Kenneth Laird, March
13, 1946; Craig Laird, Jan. 6, 1949; Barry Laird, April 26, 1951; Barbara Jane,
Jan. 27, 1961.

occuPATION: Exporter; president, Kenneth C. Russell, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Veterans of the Seventh Regiment,
New York State Guard.

HAVING decided as far back as High School that I wanted to be
an international trader, I took my B.A. degree in Economics, special-
izing in International Trade and Money and Banking. But after
several months of peddling this knowledge in the canyons of Wall
Street, I found out there is apparently no substitute for experience
in this line, so I finally decided to follow the old adage and “start
from the bottom and work my way up.” I took a job as office boy in
the import department of the U.S. Rubber Company and got my
hands stained on the ditto machine and wore out my shoes traveling
downtown to the banks, Custom House, piers and U.S. Appraiser’s
Stores. After a year and a half, having absorbed what knowledge
was to be learned there about import procedures and paper work, I
asked for and received a transfer to the exporting organization, the
US. Rubber Export Co., Ltd.

By the time the Second World War came round and we were at

[ 1212 } |

etna a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

war in 1941, I had achieved some success and had become an assist-
ant department manager and was looking forward to a good future
with this company. The war, as it did in many other cases, inter-
rupted this progress. Having volunteered and been rejected for mili-
tarv duty, I sought employment in government work to help in
some other way than active duty. I found satisfaction in becoming
associated with the Netherlands Purchasing Commission and there
used my knowledge of foreign trade to good advantage, helping in
the procurement and shipment overseas of many of the essentials of
war for this gallant ally of ours.

It was during this time that I met Marian Laird, who was first
my secretary, then my sweetheart and finally my wife. (She likes to
be called by her nickname “Nan” and refers to Marian as her “check-
signing” name). Nan is now not only the proud mother of our four
children but one of the officers in our corporation, still helping me
in my career. During those war years, even though I could not serve
with the armed forces, I found I could perform some semi-military
service by enlisting in the New York State Guard. I enlisted in the
7th Regiment and served there until the war’s end.

In the years following the war, I worked for various exporting
and importing firms, handling many different products and learning
all the ins and outs of this fascinating game. My first trip abroad was
taken in 1946 and was supposed to be for two weeks. It lasted three
months and was the first of many that took me to various countries
in Europe and Central and South America and the Caribbean Islands.

During these travels I found my studies in college of French and
Spanish came in handy and, although far from fluent, the basic
knowledge I acquired helped me over the first rough spots in learn-
ing to make myself understood in these languages.

At long last, early in 1961, the golden opportunity came to start
my own business and since then I have devoted my every effort to
establish Kenneth C. Russell, Inc., as one of the best in its specialized
field of supplying raw materials to paint factories around the world.
Even now, Nan pitches in and helps when we have an overabun-
dance of work in the office and I take dictation home for transcrip-
tion as well as other odd jobs. In addition, our eldest son, Kennic,
puts in time at the office during vacation and holidays and is “start-
ing at the bottom and working his way up. ”

When the pressure of work allows it we relax by working on our

stamp collection which already fills two good- sized volumes and
threatens to double in the near future.

[ 1213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Our second son, Craig, has started a coin collection and I’m hop-
ing he doesn’t just stick to rare coins but will also be able eventually
to collect a goodly supply of the ordinary paper variety.

Though Barry, our youngest son, is only twelve and Barbara Jane
two years old, we have plans for them both and, by the time they
can contribute, there will be a spot for them in our business. Thus,
after twenty-five years, I look back over the past and find it filled
with a great variety of memories, some sad, but, for the most part,
glad — and the future stands out before me full of promise and hope.

RENOUF RUSSELL

4
i
a
F
4

  

Po
Ps uy %

HOME abpress: 18 Sea St., Manchester, Mass.

OFFicE appress: F. S. Moseley & Co., 50 Congress St., Boston 2, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

Marriep: Lily Warren, June 8, 1940. cHitpreN: Lily, May 22, 1941; Susan,
Oct. 3, 1942; Bayard Warren, Feb. 16, 1946; Peter Renouf, July 14, 1947.

occuPATION: Investment banking; general partner, F. S. Moseley & Company.
OFFICES HELD: Overseer, Boys Clubs of Boston.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt Club; Tennis and Racquet Club.
pustications: Mike Eaton’s One Way Trip South.

I SUPPOSE every one of our classmates, after repeated requests for
submission of his class life, has tried to avoid saying that twenty-five
years is a short or a long span, and that it has been an interesting,
exciting, fruitful, productive, satisfying, happy, rewarding, stimulat-
ing period. I have had a wonderful time growing a bit older in a
full and active life. Let's face it— Harvard prepared us well and
with the help of a remarkably understanding and patient wife, fine

[1214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

children, and occasional divine Episcopal guidance, these have been
good years.

Right after we graduated I went to work with Senator Leverett
Saltonstall, as secretary-chauffeur in his campaign for governor against
James Michael Curley. This was an eye-opening experience and
ever since I have had an abiding interest in politics as a hobby, and
the welfare of the Republican party. Mr. Curley helped to build
this interest on one off-night at a Boston night spot by saying, “Have
another brandy with me, young man, so you may see the light. The
Democratic Party is your only hope.” Anyway, I am a liberal Re-
publican violently opposed to fiscal debauchery.

After Mr. Saltonstall beat Mr. Curley, I entered the investment
banking business for three years. It’s a remarkable thing how a
young trainee can suddenly find himself competent to solve all our
financial problems and to assess the ability of corporate manage-
ments.

In the summer of 1941, I felt that we were in the war anyway. I
went on active duty in Washington as an ensign in the Chief of
Naval Operations Office, Convoy and Routing section. This was a
sensitive spot—-so much so that my enduring memory is being
“chewed out” by the admiral each morning after I had given him
the summary of the previous night’s shipping losses. ‘That’s the
trouble with being at the bottom of the command ladder.

I spent three years at sea in the USS Massachusetts in the Atlantic
and Pacific. Sure it was boring at times but it was awfully good fun
too, particularly Noumea, Efati, Mog Mog and Pearl with friends
and classmates.

Law school after the war was out —a growing family required
gainful employment. I had a fascinating eight years in the Gillette
Company which involved a year in England and constant travel
here and in Latin America. I hated to leave but with four children
settled in school I decided to return to investment banking in F. S.
Moseley & Company. Very few people realize what an extremely
interesting, stimulating, and rewarding business this is.

As for hobbies in general I admit to being an enthusiastic chance
taker at bridge and backgammon. I delight in winning from friends
at golf but I prefer best to shoot upland birds and duck. For read-
ing I can’t stay in one particular area except naval history.

That's it — off to the cage before the H-Y game, to see how gray
er hair is — if any; or how your hay belly is progressing. See you
in June.

[1215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RICHARD MANNING RYAN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 296 E. Eighth St., Boston 27, Mass

JOHN LAWRENCE SABINE

 

HOME appress: 18 Westway Rd., Wayland, Mass

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Co., Boston, Mass
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

Marriep: Elizabeth K, Albers, April 29, 1939 (divorced 1941); Priscilla N
Owens, Feb. 15, 1958.

occupation: Bank clerk.

IF this summary of my life throughout the past twenty-five years is
supposed to be a success story, you may stop reading right now. My

life, which 1 am lucky to have, has been a mixed-up hodgepodge
with a little bit of this and a lot of that, or vice versa.

[ 1216

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When I got through with my college career, I went to work in
the wool business in Boston on July 25, 1938, at a salary of $11.00
a week. I continued at that job, having great visions of becoming a
buyer and going to Australia and New Zealand for the purchase of
wool. Having majored in the geological sciences, | thought it would
be a good opportunity to use my education.

During the process, I fell in love (or so I thought) with the
prettiest and most popular debutante of that time. As she was so
very popular, I took it as a challenge to win her hand in marriage.
With the assistance of six members of the Harvard Class of 1938,
E. F. Davis, R. B. Trainer, F. J. T. Baker, Fred Keppell, T. V.
Marsters and Tudor Richards, the deb and I became wife and hus-
band in April, 1939. The marriage was of very short duration, be-
cause on November 11, 1939, I was in a bad automobile accident
during which I received a fractured skull. I was out, like a light, for
three weeks and it was a question of whether I would pull through
or not. Fortunately my wife’s godmother got hold of Dr. Gilbert
Horrax, the outstanding neurosurgeon at that time. After periods
of being in the hospital from November 11, 1939, to July 17, 1942,
and a bunch of various operations, he brought me through in good
condition. I have been slowly improving, I hope, since then.

Because of my physical condition I was unable to do any kind of
work. During the early part of my stays in the hospital, my wife
packed up and went out to Reno. There a divorce was finally ob-
tained, and I was left holding my own. When I was able to, I went
out and stayed with my parents in Groton where I was born and
brought up.

During this period I received orders for a physical exam for the
U.S. Navy because I was still in the Naval Reserve. I was unable to
pass the physical because of a hole in my head, which I still have.
Because of that I received an honorable discharge from the U.S.
Navy. After that, I did some volunteer work for the Red Cross in
Boston before having a fling at working at the PN at Fort Devens in
Ayer. After about seven weeks there, the major in charge and I
disagreed, so I went back to working (with pay this time) for the
Red Cross. Toward the end of the war I left the Red Cross and was
unable to get another job because I had not received my official re-
lease. I finally decided to work at photography, which has been mv
hobby throughout my life. I finally received a job working as a
messenger and general handy man for a commercial photographer.

I stuck to that job for fourteen and one-half years because I did not

[1217]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

feel that I had the necessary training or equipment to try anything

else.
During my later years at that job I met and aided one of his

secretaries with his filing system, This secretary and I seemed to get
along very well together, so I found every opportunity that I could
to help her out.

As I was in the habit at that time, while living j in a rooming house
on Gloucester Street, of walking down to the Union Oyster House
on Union Street, I would occasionally see this secretary out walking
her dog in the Public Garden. After several such meetings, I found
out that she lived right nearby and started to call on her. After a
period of calling on her at her apartment, she consented to become
my wife. The trouble with that was that she had no family left, and
I have a good-size one. She was scared stiff of meeting my parents
and all the other members of my family, but after the first meeting
everything went along happily and smoothly for us both. She be-
came my wife on February 15, 1958. I started to live with her in her
apartment, but being rather small for the two of us and her dog, we
finally decided to pool our resources and buy a small house in Way-
land. We have been happily living there since, and I was fortunate
enough to get a job at the Boston Safe Deposit and ‘Trust Company
in October, 1959, so now it seems that I am settling down with a
permanent job and a permanent wife.

The secretary who caused all this to happen in my life is Priscilla
Owens, great-niece of Dr. William Councilman, former Dean of
Pathology at Harvard for many years, now long since gone.

[ 1218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ERNEST SACHS, JR.

ee eee oS a Rom

  

sk RET AA EAS.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Spencer Rd., Hanover, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hitchcock Clinic, Hanover, N.H.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, M.D., 1942.

MarRiIED; Jeanne O’Sullivan, April 3, 1943. CHILDREN: Ernest Paul, May 7, 1944;
Ann Elizabeth, Jan. 23, 1947; Agnes Patricia, March 10, 1951; Christopher
Michael, June 30, 1952; James B., Jan. 22, 1955; Robert Donal, Feb. 10, 1961.

HARVARD SON: Ernest Paul Sachs, ’66.

OCCUPATION: Neurological surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of neurosurgery and neurology, Tulane Uni-
versity, 1951-52; member of staff, Dartmouth Medical School, Hitchcock
Clinic, Mary Hitchcock Memorial Hospital, since 1952; assistant profes-
sor of neurosurgery; consultant on neurosurgery, Veterans Administra-
tion Hospital.

MEMBER OF: D.U.; American Medical Association; New Hampshire and Grafton
County Medical Societies; New England Neurosurgical Society (trustee);
Harvey Cushing Society: Northeast Medical Society; American Association
of Automotive Medicine; Neurological Surgeons; Royal Society of Medi-
cine, London (fellow); American College of Surgeons.

PUBLICATIONS: I wenty-five scientific papers on surgical, neurological and neuro-
surgical subjects in medical journals,

MEMORY is a wonderful and convenient thing — something |
never cease to marvel at and grapple with in my work of diagnosing
and operating upon patients with varying disorders of the brain.
What is the anatomy of memory? And what is the mechanism of
recall? Where does one store the picture of “Frisky” Merriman,
for instance? Memory is kind when it helps us forget the more pain-
ful times in the past twenty-five years such as the loss of classmates
— Ted Robie, an usher at my wedding, Joe Kennedy, close friend
from the first day of the freshman year till I saw him in London

[ 1219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

termed “professional growth and development.” My associate, Bob
Fisher (Rutgers — University of Pennsylvania— Hopkins) and I
are the only two qualified neurosurgeons in New Hampshire. We
have seen the growth of our department many, many fold in terms
of patients, buildings, personnel, students, medical school growth,
new operations — new, new techniques — new vistas — new dreams!
This last ten years, age 35-45 (after fifteen years of post-college
study! ), means the first third of my useful professional life is over —
ie, only twenty years to go before enforced retirement! If it goes as
fast as the last twenty-five, I'll be in the ground before I get off it.
With this magnificently stimulating medical career, the most im-
portant thing of all has been the most wonderful wife God ever
gavea man. Through her beauty, brains, and musical talent, our six
children are developing into fine, substantial citizens: Rusty, major-
ing in mathematics at Harvard, spent last year at the University of
Grenoble, is a fabulous skier, and has directed his own Gilbert and
Sullivan repertory company; “Anni-Lauri” at fifteen is a fine
violinist, and promising actress and singer; Patsy, eleven, with her
long blonde hair and brown eyes is a competent little flutist, and the
apple of her own or any father’s eye; Chris, ten, a kindly and
thoughtful lictle giant, humorist, enthusiastic trumpeter, skier, and
mountain climber; Jimmy, seven, nimble mind and nimble feet, artist,
and elfish punster; Bobby, two, happy combination of all the above
so far.
I defy anyone to have a happier, more satisfying life!

But I’m not prejudiced!

[ 1222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EUGENE LANGE SAENGER

    

HOME appress: 175 Linden Drive, Wyoming 15, Ohio.

orrice appress: Cincinnati General Hospital, Radioisotope Laboratory, Cin-
cinnati 29, Ohio.

prepareD AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; M.D. (Univ. of
Cincinnati), 1942.

MARRIED: Sue Reis, Jan. 18, 1941. CHILDREN: Katherine C., March 26, 1943, Eu-
gene Lange, Jr., Jan. 23, 1946.

occupaTION: Professor of radiology, director, Radioisotope Laboratory, Uni-
versity of Cincinnati College of Medicine; radiation therapist, Children’s
Hospital, Cincinnati; attending radiologist, Cincinnati General Hospital;
work in radiology, nuclear medicine, epidemiology, computer applica-
tions in medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant to Atomic Energy Commission, Brooke General
Hospital, Lackland Air Force Base Hospital; associate editor, Journal of
Nuclear Medicine; chairman, Cancer Control Council, Cincinnati; treas-
urer, Cincinnati Eyebank for Sight Restoration, member, executive board,
Public Health Federation, Cincinnati; member, National Committee on
Radiation Protection and Measurements.

MEMBER oF: American Roentgen Ray Society; Radiological Society of North
America; Society of Nuclear Medicine, Cincinnati Academy of Medi-
cine; American Medical Association; Society for Pediatric Radiology;
Alpha Omega Alpha.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in scientific and professional journals.

SINCE leaving the delightful academic world of Harvard, I have
directed many of my efforts toward returning to a similar environ-
ment. After the usual years of medical school and residency train-
ing, I spent about seven years in the clinical practice of medicine
finding that it took a considerable effort to render services in such
a way that patients would pay for this service not only willingly but
gladly. "

[ 1223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

In 1950, becoming fascinated with the problems of radioactivity,
I spent some time at Oak Ridge and then started the Radioisotope
Laboratory at the College of Medicine in Cincinnati. This effort
has gradually grown to be a full-time occupation and hobby to the
extent that I gave up my practice about a year ago. Unfortunately,
the academic life in a medical school does not seem as leisurely as
my probable naive view when a college student. Fortunately, how-
ever, the days are never dull and most of the time are rather exciting.

For relaxation my wife and I enjoy raising dogs, traveling, sailing
and of all recreations I find fishing the best.

Twenty-five years later | have reached a few firm conclusions.
Parkinson has provided some very practical laws for guaranteed
success and senescence. A Harvard education properly utilized pro-
vides self-confidence, a more than average level of training for tack-
ling most any job and a good background in gamesmanship.

STUART ARNOLD SAFDI

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1322 Avon Drive, Cincinnati 29, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 229 Doctors Bldg. Cincinnati, 2, Ohio,
PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ, of Cincinnati), 1938; M.D.
(ibid.), 1941.
Maraiep: Ann Leslie Moses, March 6, 1944. cuitpren: Linda Jean, Dec. 28, 1946;
Michael Andrew, Oct. 27, 1949; Alan Victor, Feb. 26, 1953.
occupation: Physician, internal medicine and gastroenterology.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of medicine, University of Cincinnati.
MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians, American Board of Internal
Medicine (certified); Cincinnati Club, Losantville Country Club; Phi
Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega Alpha; Pi Kappa Epsilon,

[1224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Several scientific articles on needle biopsy of the liver and liver
function tests.

MY Harvard sojourn was a brief one, allowing only the appetizer
without entree or dessert. I transferred to the University of Cincin-
nati where my Harvard experience made Phi Beta Kappa and num-
ber one standing in my medical college class a much easier ac-
complishment. After an internship and a few months of residency
at Cincinnati General Hospital, the Army Medical Corps became
my career for the next forty-two months. I was fortunate to be
assigned to an excellent general hospital in England, after courses in
tropical medicine in Puerto Rico, Walter Reed and Johns Hopkins
Medical School. My chief gain from this exposure was a Baltimore
belle, my lovely wife, who had to tolerate me for only six weeks be-
fore my overseas tour.

Upon my return I continued my residency in internal medicine
and gastroenterology. In 1948 I entered private practice in Cincin-
nati and have kept sufficiently busy since then to avoid most other
community responsibilities. As assistant clinical professor of medi-
cine I contribute some part-time effort to teaching at the medical
school. My hobbies are golf, bridge and spectator sports, particularly
basketball.

In these twenty-five years I hope that I have gained some sense of
the values in life — the material, the moral and the ethical — with a
degree of ability to pass these on to my children and to all those with
whom I have contact in my daily work.

ROBERT HAROLD SALK

     

HOME ApprEss: 10 Innes Rd, Scarsdale, N.Y.

[ 1225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

oFFice apprEss: Corinthian Broadcasting Corp., Time-Life Bldg., New York,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1938.

marrigp: Evelyn Lois Kaufman, June 17, 1944. cHitpren: Susan Ellen, April
23, 1945; Stephen Richard, Dec. 22, 1946.

occupation: Television; director of programming, Corinthian Broadcasting
Corporation.

oFFices HELD: Director of program sales, Katz Agency, 1951-53; president,
Station Films, 1953-55; director of sales, Screen Gems, 1955-57, all in New
York City.

MEMBER OF: International Radio and Television Society: Academy of Television
Arts and Sciences; Harvard Club of Westchester.

JOHN LEE SALTONSTALL, JR.

    

HOME apprEss: 79 Pinckney St., Boston, Mass.
OFFICE ADDREss: Main Street, Edgartown, Mass., and Hill, Barlow, Goodale &
Adams, 53 State St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,
N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LLB. (Yale Univ.), 1941.
MarRiED: Margaret Louise Bonnell, Jan. 9, 1943. CHILDREN: Stephen, April 14,
1944; Sarah Bonnell, June 8, 1946; Thomas Lee, April 30, 1948.
occupation: Lawyer; partner, Hill, Barlow, Goodale & Adams, since 19493
general practice, but with emphasis on public law and appellate litigation.
OFFICES HELD: Attorney, Office of Under Secretary of War, 1941-42; attorney
and principal mediation officer, National War Labor Board, 1942-453
deputy general counsel (procurement), Department of the Army, 1952-533
member, Democratic State Committee, 1952; president, Brookline Demo-
cratic Club, 1956-58; Democratic nominee to U.S. Congress, 10th C.D.,
1958; delegate-at-large, Democratic National Convention, 1960; member of
council, 1959-62, and chairman, Committee on Land Use, since 1959,

[ 1226 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Boston Bar Association; member and chairman, Subcommittee on Pro-
cedure, Committee on Administration of Justice, Massachusetts Bar Asso-
ciation, since 1961; director, Henry Thayer Company, First Realty Com-
pany of Boston; general chairman, Brookline, Massachusetts, Red Cross
Campaign, 1957; general chairman, Greater Boston Chapter, Girl Scouts
Capital Fund Campaign, 1956; member of Advisory Committee, Greater
Boston Council of United World Federalists, since 1955, chairman,
Governor’s Commission on Civil Rights, 1958; chairman, 1959-61, member,
executive committee, since 1959, Massachusetts Council on Civil Rights,
general counsel, 1946-48, director, 1946-56, Civil Liberties Union of Massa-
chusetts; member, Overseers’ Committee to Visit the Department of
Government, Harvard University, since 1962; member, Friends of the
Arts of Boston University, since 1955; member, Religious Education Com-
mittee, First Church (Unitarian) in Chestnut Hill, 1957-59.
MEMBER OF: Badminton and Tennis Club; Longwood Cricket Club; Harvard
Club of Boston; Quansoo Yacht Club.

MY main career interests have been and are the law, government
and politics. Occasionally these interests have happily combined,
as when I took a one-year leave of absence from my firm to join
the Secretary of the Army’s staff as Deputy General Counsel or,
more recently, as a consultant to Governor Endicott Peabody of
Massachusetts.

I am also interested in tennis, writing, squash racquets, music,
bridge, sailing and duck hunting. The last two sports I indulge in,
whenever possible, on Martha’s Vineyard, where we have an all-
season house and where my law firm has recently established a
small branch office. The members of my immediate family are all
healthy at present writing and seem reasonably satisfied with their
respective lots. The kids continue to shoot up (Steve, the eldest, ts
now six foot one), but Peg and I merely spread.

I am a Joyal (but not an automatic) Democrat. I believe strongly
in the philosophy of the Bill of Rights. I think President Kennedy
is doing a pretty good job for one so young. I am a little resentful
that the T'wenty-fifth has come upon us so soon.

[ 1229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HARRY BROOKS SANDERSON

 

LAST KNOWN abpress: Chestnut Hill Rd., Norwalk, Conn. (Lost.)

PETER JOHN SANDERSON

 

HOME appress: 27 Governor Belcher Lane, East Milton 86, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical High School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

Makaiep: Susan I. Conrad, April 19, 1941. cHitoren: Peter John, Jr., April 25,
1952; Susan A., Dec. 25, 1954.

occupation: Standards engineer, Electrical Wire & Cable Company.

I MARRIED Susan Conrad on April 19, 1941. On October 22,
1944, 1 entered the Army and served in the combat engineers in the
European Theatre until May 6, 1946. My battalion “traveled” ex-
tensively in France, Holland and Germany — earning a few battle
stars, At the end of the war I enrolled at Biarritz University in

{ 1228 j

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

southern France. Returned home to Milton, in May, 1946.

Our son Peter was born in 1952. Susan was born two years later
on December 25— a memorable Christmas day! My hobbies are
music (hi-fi) and photography. My son has informed me that he
definitely is going to Harvard — this makes me very happy!

CHARLES MARTIN SARGEANT

 

HOME AppRESS: 3304 Mathieson Drive, N.E., Atlanta 5, Ga.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Book Co., 55 Fifth Ave, New York 3, N.Y.
occuPATION: College traveler for book publisher.

FITZWILLIAM SARGENT, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: Cruzada 4, Madrid 13, Spain,
OFFICE AppRESs: Hillyer Associates, % Recenza, Marques de Valdenleuae &

Madrid, Spain.
[ 1229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1941.

Marriep: Beatrice Butler, July 1, 1939 (divorced 1961). CHILDREN: Beatrice,
Sept. 5, 1940; Susan, Sept. 6, 1942, Pauline, Dec. 17, 1944; Fitzwilliam, 3d,

June 23, 1947.
occupation: Industrial financing.
MEMBER OF: India House, New York.

IN 1963, having practised law in New York, Massachusetts and
New Mexico, having spent four years in the Navy, having been in
the lumber business in the Southwest and in the sugar business in
Cuba and having done over a couple of old farmhouses in Hamil-
ton, Massachusetts, I find myself in Madrid, hoping my standard
of living will go up along with that of the other Spaniards. I seem
to have gathered quite a few rosebuds but very little moss, and
my plans for the next twenty-five years are rather indefinite.

LENNOX LEDYARD SARGENT

 

HOME AppRESS: Clark Point Road, Southwest Harbor, Maine.

OFFICE appREss: Southwest Boat Corp., Southwest Harbor, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MarrieD: Mary A. Harkins, 1942, CHILDREN: David L., 1943; Duane L., 1947;
Daniel L,, 1950.

occupation: Designer and builder of yachts; owner and manager, Southwest
Boat Corporation.

memMoer oF: Harvard Club of Boston, Odd Fellows; Knights of Pythias.

[ 1230]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NICHOLAS SATTERLEE

    

sical fs: é iii

HOME ADDRESS: 3021 Q St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Satterlee & Smith, Architects, 3 Dupont Circle, N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; B.ARCH., 194}.

MARRIED: Sarah Meecham Hitchcock, June 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Nicholas, Jr.
Jan. 27, 1943 (died March 9, 1948); Sarah, Jan, 29, 1946; Catherine Tavlor,
June 9, 1949; Amos Hitchcock, June 4, 1953.

occupation: Architecture; partner, Satterlee & Smith.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Washington Metropolitan Chapter, American Insti-
tute of Architects; vice-chairman, Urban Design Committee, A.1.A., 1960
(now corresponding member), chairman, Octagon Gallery Committee,
A.LA., 1959-60; vice-chairman, Programming Committee, Commissioners
Urban Renewal Council, 1961, 1962; first vice-president, chairman, Build-
ings & Grounds Committee, Barney Neighborhood Settlement House,
since 1960; assistant treasurer, executive committee and a founding member,
Washington Gallery of Modern Art, 1961, 1962; member, Shipstead-Luce
Panel, Fine Arts Commission, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Cosmos Club; City Tavern; Ant-
eaters Club; Digressionists; Acoaxet Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Firm awards by American Institute of Architects, Washington
Board of Trade and Evening Star newspaper. Projects published in
Architectural Record, Architectural Forum, House & Home, Progresnme
Architecture, Good Housekeeping, House & Garden, House Beautiful,
Horizon and Life.

I AM an architect, a partner in a “general practice” firm, which
means that we design any kind of project we can lay our hands on
— houses, redevelopment projects, community and city plans, ottice
buildings, an embassy, a synagogue, a mental health center, a fire
house, youth center and, now and then, a small but very demanding
alteration for a close friend.

[ 1231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

I have a wife, Sally, whom I was first taken by as she stood on
the corner in front of the Harvard Trust, waiting for the light
to change. J have three children (our first, Nicky, died of leukemia
when he was five), Sarah, sixteen, in her second year at Milton;
Cathy, thirteen, in the eighth grade at Potomac, across the river
in Virginia; and Amos, nine, in his first year at St. Albans in the
Cathedral School complex, who prowls around the house in a
hooded outergarment hugging an imaginary football. We have
two dogs —a “Jones (or Norwich) terrier of increasingly uncertain
temper, and a black cocker, who piddles with emotion at the merest
suggestion of attention. Finally, two birds, strikingly marked, the
likes of which we first saw in the bird market in Barcelona, and
subsequently bought at our local Five and Ten. My wife Sally
graduated from the Harvard School of Design during the war and

is now a partner in a landscape architectural firm with the wife of
an architect friend.

Being both modern architects, we live in a Victorian house, as
often seems to happen, in “Federal” Georgetown, and decry the
efforts of the reproductionists around us (as distinct from the
preservationists, whose efforts we respect). In the summer, Sally
and the children go up to Westport Harbor, Massachusetts (not
to be confused with Westport, Connecticut), where we bought a
largish summer hotel, which was quite reasonable as a single-family
summer place because it was such an odd commodity. It is also
Victorian, also has a cupola, from which we can see Gay Head
on a clear day. We sail in little boats, play tennis and have just
lately taken up golf. I bird-watch sporadically, having taken an
interest when I worked for my birds merit badge in the Allendale
School troup in Rochester. My study (and the children’s record-
playing room) is quite full of stuffed birds (gull, crow, owl,
European Kingfisher and others). In it, as on most available wall
spaces in the house, are modern paintings, in a wide range of styles,
many of which are waiting to be “discovered.” The grandparent
portraits have had to move to the third floor. I also putter in the
basement, making things with a wheezy table saw and spending
the rest of my workshop time looking for the tools, which are
always missing from the silhouette board in spite of dire warnings
of drastic action to be taken.

From the spring of 1938, when I changed abruptly from law
to architecture as a result of a searing experience at a law club
debate, to the present, I have traveled from Cambridge (I finished

[ 1232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my thesis in the late summer of 1941, having taken a wife in June
of that year) to a first job in St. Louis, thence to Oklahoma City,
then to Cleveland to await naval orders. The Navy (aircraft gun-
nery officer) took us to Jacksonville, Pensacola, Yorktown, Santa
Rosa (California) and San Diego, where I left Sally to go out to
Honolulu and finally to the (new) carrier Hornet, for a bricf
action in the Pacific, centering around Mog Mog Island. I finished
the war in Washington in the Naval Special Devices Division, run
as a completely independent entity by Luis de Flores. And, joined
by Sally, here we have stayed, and, being sedentarily inclined,
here we intend to stay, getting excited about and sometimes em-
broiled in such causes as the F.D.R. Memorial, Jacqueline Kennedy's
Lafayette Square plan, the prospect of a parking lot on Roosevelt
Island, Home Rule, and now the National Cultural Center (which
draws less on our enthusiasm than do the Washington Opera
Society or the Washington Gallery of Modern Art), on each of
which causes we hold strong views.

We like Washington as a place to live — the city and surrounding
countryside and our friends and roving (State Department) ac-
quaintances. Drop in on us when you bring your youngest to sce
the Washington Monument in the spring.

LEWIS SAVITSKY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Union St, Shelton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wolf Savitsky & Sons, Inc, Foot of White Serect, Shelter,
Conn,

PREPARED AT: Shelton High School, Shelton, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938,

[ 1233]

oe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

marrieD: Frances Wovsaniker, Jan. 28, 1945. CHILDREN: Elaine Rebecca, July
6, 1946; Gerald Samuel, Jan. 14, 1949.

occupaTION: Treasurer, Wolf Savitsky & Sons, Inc., manufacturers of dairy
and poultry feeds.

orFices HELD: Director, Beth Israel Synagogue, since 1950, Shelton High
School Fathers’ Club; vice-president, Shelton Little League, 1958-61;
chairman, 1962 Derby-Shelton Community Chest Campaign.

MEMBER OF: King Hiram Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Harvard Club of Southern
Connecticut; B'nai B'rith Community Lodge; Shelton High School
Fathers’ Club.

I WONDER how many of my classmates have spent the quarter-
century since graduation working for the same firm and living in
the same town. This was not very hard for me to do. I came home
to the family feed business and am still in it. There is nothing spec-
tacular about selling feed, but the problems that arise are the same
that arise in most other businesses, Perhaps our most pressing prob-
lem is the one that we can do the least about, i.e., the transformation
of upper Fairfield County from a rural farming area into an ever-
growing urban and suburban community. Where once cows grazed
and corn grew, houses sprout as if from seeds. Unfortunately, the
neighboring counties have been affected the same way.

Still, it has been fun and, in its way, exciting. I’ve learned a little
about making feed and about the animals that need feeding. I’ve
become an animal nutritionist, albeit in a small way. We've had
some success with the feeds we produce and for several years have
fed many of the outstanding dairy herds in the State of Connecti-
cut. In the poultry field our results have been equally spectacular,
but not very profitable. We tried raising broilers a dozen years
ago. I lost a very fine shirt. So, two years ago, we went into rais-
ing hens for egg production. To date, I haven’t a ghost of a chance
of getting the shirt back.

Life in a small town doesn’t have to be all business. In 1945, I
married a very lovely and very wonderful girl. We have two
children. Like most parents, as our children have grown our activi-
ties have become involved with theirs. While Frances has been busy
with Girl Scouts and P.T.A., I have been occupied with Boy Scouts
and Little League. Although I never was much of a baseball player,
I turned out to be a pretty fair manager. We won the League
Championship once and were runner-up once.

Because 1 was concerned with our children’s religious education,
I helped to form a Hebrew School and was president of it for five
years, More recently, with both of the children in high school, |

[ 1234]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have been active in the Fathers’ Club. This means I have to work ;
football games selling hot dogs and soda. . .

Life in a small town has been good to us. We've enjoyed th
things we have done and the friends we have made. We are happ
with our lot and hopeful for our children’s future.

JEROME SAYPER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 4607 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.

ARTHUR MEIER SCHLESINGER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3132 O St, N.W., Washington, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The White House, Washington, D.C,
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. Stciua ctm haute, 1918, LITT
(Muhlenberg Coll.), 1950; LL.D. (Bethany Coll.), 1956; nc, (Univ. of New
Brunswick), 1960.

[1235 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Marriep: Marian Cannon, Aug. 10, 1940. CHILDREN: Stephen Cannon and
Katharine Bancroft (twins), Aug. 17, 1942; Christina, Nov. 19, 1946; An-
drew Bancroft, Nov. 16, 1948.

HARVARD soN: Stephen Cannon Schlesinger, 64.

occupation: Writer; government official.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor of history, 1947-54, professor of history,
1954-61, Harvard University; Special Assistant to the President, since
1961.

MEMBER OF: Century Association; Harvard Club of New York.

pusLications: Orestes A. Brownson, 1939; The Age of Jackson, 1945; The Vital
Center, 1949; The Crisis of the Old Order, 1957; The Coming of the New
Deal, 1958; Kennedy or Nixon, 1960, The Politics of Upbeaval, 1960; The
Politics of Hope, 1963.

I SPENT my first year after graduation at Cambridge University. I
then returned to Harvard as a member of the Society of Fellows.
After Pearl Harbor, I went to Washington, first in the Office of War
Information and subsequently in the Office of Strategic Services. I
went Overseas in 1944 and served in England, France and Germany.
I entered the Army along the way and emerged with the rank of
corporal. After my discharge at the end of 1945, I lived in Washing-
ton as a free-lance writer. In the autumn of 1947 I joined the Har-
vard History Department and for the next dozen years or so lectured
in American Intellectual History. I became interested in politics,
headed the research staffs in Adlai Stevenson’s two campaigns and,
after the happy events of November, 1960, went back to Washington
as Special Assistant to John F. Kennedy, ’40. In 1962 I resigned my
Harvard professorship. I have written eight books and am now
midway into a multi-volume study of The Age of Roosevelt —a
project, presently suspended, to which I shall return in due course.
Of my children, Stephen is a member of the Harvard Class of
1964; Katharine is at Boston University; Christina is at Madeira; and
Andrew at St. Albans. My hobbies remain my children, tennis, read-
ing, lying on the beach and talk. I have not recently had enough time
to pursue any of them adequately.

[ 1236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARTMAN FRANK SCHMIDT, JR.

  

  
   

HOME aporEss: 8 Idlewild Park Drive, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: EF. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Newburgh, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

MaRRIED: Lois L. Hill, June 14, 1952. cHiLpREN: David H., Sept. 29, 1954;
Margaret L., Nov. 14, 1956.

occupation: Assistant plant manager, E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Mid-Hudson Valley, Powelton Club, Newburgh,
N.Y.

GEORGE FREDERICK SCHNELL

MAILING ADDRESS: 651 Wellesley Drive, Birmingham, Mich.

+ HOWARD LEE SCHNUR

 

7 See .

BORN: Oct. 29, 1917, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Joseph Schnur, Sache Hrinsd-
man,

[ 1237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B., cum laude, 1938; M.v. (Columbia
Univ.), 1949.

MarriED: Roxana Reed, May 28, 1949, New York, N.Y. cmp: Joseph Thorn-
ton,

pep: March 22, 1958, Houston, Texas.

wwow: Mrs. Howard L. Schnur, 5127 Jackwood, Houston 35, Texas.

WHILE at college Schnur was a member of Dunster House squash
team and the Memorial Society. His studies at medical school were
interrupted by service with the Air Force Military Intelligence
during World War II. After graduation from medical school he
interned at the Jefferson Davis Hospital in Houston and since then
had been assistant chief of the department of physical medicine
at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Houston. He was sur-
vived by his wife and son.

PARKER FALL SCHOFIELD

   

HOME appreEss: Bailey’s Island, North Scituate, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Beacon School, Wellesley Hills, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREE: LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.), 1947-

marriep: Nancy Ann Ordway, June 28, 1941. cuiLpreN: John Parker, Aug. 39,
1943; Parker Fall, Jr., June 25, 1946; Cynthia, 1948.

occupation: Pilot, Northeast Airlines.

AFTER leaving Harvard I signed up as a flying cadet. 1 graduated
from Kelley Field as a second lieutenant in 1939. I remained on ac-
tive duty in what was then the Army Air Corps until the fall of
1940. The following spring I married Nancy Ordway of Cohasset,
Massachusetts, and went to work for Northeast Airlines. I have re-
mained affiliated with both ever since. Along with most of us I was

[ 1238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

called up after Pearl Harbor, and after a tour of duty which kept me
in the Arctic for the whole war I returned to Northeast.

After the war I went to school at night and graduated from North-
eastern University Law School. I passed the Massachusetts bar in
1948, but when faced with a choice between flying and practising
law I chose the former. I am now flying jets up and down the east
coast.

I have three children: John, Parker, Jr. (alias Chip) and Cynthia,
aged nineteen, sixteen and fourteen respectively. John is at Antioch,

while the younger two are at Thayer Academy. Chip is a senior
and hopes to attend Harvard next year.

RICHARD WILLIAM SCHREIBER

 

HOME apprEss: DeMerritt Apts., R.F.D. 2, Dover, N.H.

OFFICE AppREsS: Dept. of Botany, Nesmith Hall, University of New H ampshire,
Durham, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREES: s.B. (Univ. of New Hampshire), 19513
s.M. (ibid.), 1952; PH.D. (Univ. of Wisconsin), 1956.

MaRRIED: Joan Winslow Moody, Nov. 25, 1948. cHitp: Kurt Winslow, Jan. a1,
1957.

OCCUPATION: University teaching and research,

MEMBER OF: Botanical Society of America; American Society for Cell Biology;

Sigma Xi; Phi Sigma; Phi Kappa Phi; American Association of University
Professors,

PuBLications: Articles on cytology in professional journals.

PVE always been amused with the idea that you're able from the

eminence of a Twenty-fifth Anniversary to sce how you goce there
and where you're going next,

[ 1239]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

When I left Harvard (after two years) I had a vague feeling
that I should return and get a degree. For that I needed cash, so I
got a job in a textile factory and began to learn the business. For
those of you who don’t know the “textile business, I can report
that it’s a mighty uninspired affair. 1 was engaged in performing
the ritual dance (so many months in this department, so many
months in that) when the war broke out.

I spent three years in the Army: a year in South Carolina and
two years in North Africa and Italy. The infantry part of it wasn’t
much of a picnic, but the last year and a half in Base Section Head-
quarters in Italy was almost bearable.

After the war, back to textiles. I stood it for a year and a half
more and then simultaneously | got married and returned to school
(a working wife plus the G.I. Bill). I got an S.B. (biology) in 1951
and an S.M. (plant breeding) in 1952—both degrees from the
University of New Hampshire. Then, completely carried away, I

got a PhD. (botany) from the University of Wisconsin in 1956.

] taught two years in the University of Wisconsin extension

center in Green Bay (Senator McCarthy’s country) and in 1957
returned to the University of New Hampshire, where I am at pres-
ent happily dug in. Professionally, 1 am a botanist and job-wise I
teach, do research (into the nature of the gene) and live the odd
life of a committeeman.

1 am fascinated by music, novels, science fiction, politics, watch-
ing my six-year-old son bend reality into a new shape, trapping
muskrats and mink, designing a house which we have built this
spring, living with a wife, writing a botany textbook, talking and
even listening. I am a Hubert Humphrey kind of Democrat, which
in New Hampshire is not as innocuous as it may sound. I believe
that the human race is still in its early childhood, and I would rate
a man by what he has done to help the race along the road to
maturity.

1 consider the last twenty-five years as a period of preparation,
and I think that J am now well prepared for the next fifty.

[ 1240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM FRANCIS SCHREITER

   

HOME ADDRESS: 325 S. 18th St., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Southern Home for Children, 3200 S. Broad St., Philadelphia
45, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Walpole High School, Walpole, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B., cum laude 1938; a.M. (Tufts Coll.),

1948.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Child Welfare; executive director, Southern Home for Children,
a residential psychiatric treatment center for emotionally disturbed children.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Green Tree School; member, Serv-
ices Division, Health & Welfare Council, Philadelphia.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Social Workers; Academy of Certified
Social Workers; American Sociological Association (fellow); Plays and
Players; Harvard Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various professional journals,

IT is a shocker when one is asked to review a 25-year span of his
life. One wonders what, if anything, has been accomplished and
experienced in that time, how he will measure up to his classmates
and, more than that, whether he likes what he sees of himself in
terms of the exuberances and aspirations of his college days.

No, I’ve not traveled like I dreamed I would; I've not made
the fortune I vowed to make; and I’ve not become a national figure
of renown. These turned out to be youthful resolves in themselves
for me — instead, by those inexplicable events which shape a life,
I found myself propelled into the field of social service, particu-
larly child welfare. It has meant a surprisingly exciting venture
and an occupation which has offered unlimited opportunites for
exercising all the talents one has.

During the first ten years following graduation, T remained in

[1241]

___|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

today that we can easily lose sight of the individuals who comprise
our society and the fact that their weaknesses, troubles and misery
could in their sum be our downfall. Dealing with human adversity,
no matter in what form, can not be done by automation but only
by people dealing with people. How strange that not more thought-
ful, gifted men have gone into the field of welfare, which is rapidly
becoming one of society’s major concerns! As for my part, while
not widely traveled, wealthy or renowned, I feel I’ve covered quite
a distance, have become rich in satisfactions and have established
a meaningful place for myself among many.

ARTHUR SCHUH

 

HOME appress: 15 Lincoln Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 339 Newbury St., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: North Quincy High School, North Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938, M.B.A., 1940.

MARRIED: Jean Alice Kennedy, Jan. 30, 1943. CHILDREN: Joanne, Oct. 8, 1958,
James Arthur, Dec. 8, 1952.

OccuPATION: President and general manager, Hospital Pictures Service Corpora-
tion, camera manufacturer, and Hospital Picture Service of New England,
Inc., newborn baby picture service for hospitals.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive board, Sprague School PTA, Wellesley, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

ORDINARILY when I am expected to write something, it is likely
to be a business matter or a “thing of the moment” to some friend or
member of the family. In all of these cases, the words come forth
with great speed and with no hesitation whatsoever. But this
Twenty-fifth Report has been a different proposition altogether.
Last week I received a postal reminder which made me realize

[ 1244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that I had been delaying the job, and as I thought about it, I began
to realize why. The truth is that it is very easy to become embroiled
in your daily affairs and to know exactly what to do about them, but
when you take an accumulation of weeks growing into months and
months growing into years — twenty-five of them at last — you've
got a different problem. The question “What have you done with
twenty-five years?” is different from “Are you busy, this evening?”

The last thirteen years have been so fully devoted to family and
business that I sometimes forget that I was ever in the Navy for more
than four years or that there could be anything worth writing about.

Jean and I were married in 1943, and we did not really settle
down until well after the war, so that our children, Joanne and
Jimmy, are a bit younger than some. When this sometimes makes
me feel “old” for them, I am consoled by thinking of JFK.

The years since they were born have been busy and demanding.
We have seen the business grow to the point where we are photo-
graphing the newborn babies in eighty New England hospitals and
have leased camera units to associates covering three hundred more
throughout the country. Those who hear about it are usually fasci-
nated by the uniqueness of the business and mystified that anyone
could make a living out of it.

Actually, I have enjoyed the traveling and the independence, if
not the headaches and hardships, which are associated with a small
business having nine employees. I find that I am the small business
man’s small business man, much smaller than anything envisioned by
those who walk into a “small business” and say “Where's the office
manager?”

We feel that the years have been kind to us and that we could not
ask for much more than our wonderful children and our two homes
in Wellesley and Duxbury. In recent years we have taken up sailing
as our principal hobby. For a while we owned a large cruising
sloop named Focus (because our cameras paid for it), but the prob-
lems of keeping it up and of dealing with boat yards caused us to res
trench to a day sailer in which we spend many a happy summer dav
on the water at Duxbury.

Each spring we have enjoyed a vacation trip with the children.
We have seen many wonderful sections of the country and of
Canada, and there have been many places where we know we would
have been happy to live, but none any more attractive than our own
New England.

So, that is what twenty-five years have been devoted to: Canby,

[ 1245]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

business and just plain living; nothing too glamorous, but a happy,
satisfying way to have spent the time.

BENJAMIN ISADORE SCHWARTZ

 

HOME AbpRESS: 3 Sedgewick Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fast Asian Research Center, Harvard University, 16 Dunster
St., Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1941;
A.M., 1948; PH.D., 1950.

MarrieD: Bernice Cohen, July 6, 1948, cHmpren: Jonathan Seth, May 17, 19533
Sara Ann, May, 1962. ,

OccUPATION: Professor of history and government.

MEMBER OF: Association for Asia Studies; American Historical Society; Ameri-
can Jewish Congress, NAACP.

PuBLICATIONS: “Chinese Communism and the Rise of Mao”; “A Documentary
History of Chinese Communism,” with Conrad Brandt and J. K. Fairbank;
“The Ideological Aspects of Sino-Soviet Relations,” a chapter in H. Boor-

man, Moscow-Peking Axis; “Some Polarities in Confucian Thought,”
chapter in D. Nivison, Confucianism in Action.

SURVEYING the course of my vocational life over the past twenty-
five years, I find myself inclined to pay enormous respects to the
role of fortune in shaping the careers of men— particularly of
passive types like myself. Thrust onto an unkind world with an
A.B. in French literature in 1938, ] found it to be not a particularly
saleable product at the time. As in the case of many others, World

War II opened up new perspectives — thus leading to uneasy re-
flections on the ambivalent effects of war on the lives of individuals.

The U.S. Army turned my attention to the horrendous complexi-
ties of the Japanese language and the puzzles of cryptanalysis and

[ 1246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1946 found me in newly occupied Japan, naturally fascinated by
the new world which opened up before my eyes. It was this
new experience taken together with an extreme reluctance to return
to secondary school teaching which led me to enroll in the Fast
Asia Regional Studies program then being organized at Elarvard
under the aegis of Professor John K. Fairbank who has played no
small role in determining my subsequent career. I have held onto
the apron strings of Alma Mater ever since and now find myself
in the unlikely position of teacher of Far Eastern history and
government.

The academic life, I have found, is far from cloistered and at
present a concern with the “mysterious orient” hardly removes one
from the maelstrom. While my own interests have drifted in the
direction of comparative thought, one finds oneself constantly called
upon to deliver supposedly oracular judgments on the shifting
policies of Mao T’se-tung.

The constant increase of paper work and the machinery of budg-
ets is an unmitigated bore, but I find research, teaching and contacts
with students deeply satisfying. While I still love French literature,
I feel rather happy to be located on one of the frontier areas of
human studies.

My domestic life has pursued a happy course and here I exer-
cised somewhat more personal initiative and enterprise in pursuing
my charming spouse, Bunny. We are blessed with a wonderful son,
Jonathan, and a charming new arrival, Sara Ann.

While I have been as fortunate as man can reasonably expect to
be at work and at home, one can not insulate oneself (and should
not) against the more general anxieties and agonies of the ave. Be-
yond the usual array of “world problems” which assail us day after
day from the columns of newspapers, for those of us in the “de-
_ veloped societies” there looms the quieter yet ever present problem

of finding some deeper underlying sense of meaning behind the
enormous variety, complexity and din of modern life.

[ 1247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

 

HOME ApprEss: 2900 Devon Rd., Muncie, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Schwartz Paper Co. Inc., S, Tillotson Ave., Muncie, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 60772 latide, 1938; A.M. (Ball State
Teachers Coll.), 1962.

marrieD: Helen Frances Berger, Sept. 15, 1940. CHILDREN: Judith Miriam, Oct.
28, 1942; Susan Alisa, July 18, 1946; Deborah Hedy, Oct, 4, 1954; Joan
Abby, Aug. 6, 1959.

occupation: President, Schwartz Paper Company, Inc., Taylor Martin Papers,
Inc., McMurtry Martin Papers, Inc., wholesale distributors of paper and
allied products.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Muncie Public Library, since 1956, president of the
board, 1959-62; national chairman, AMVETS Americanism Council, since
1954; chairman, Union Bag-Camp Paper Corporation Merchants Advisory
Committee, 1959, 1960, director, Muncie-Delaware County Chapter,
American Red Cross; chairman, Citizens Advisory Committee to the Dela-
ware Circuit Court, member, Governor’s Youth Council, former director,
Muncie Chamber of Commerce, Muncie Boys Club; past president, Middle
States Wrapping Paper Association, Paper & Twine Association, Indiana
Jewish Community Relations Council, Temple Beth El, Muncie Civic
Theatre.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Indianapolis Athletic Club; Young
Presidents Organization; Torch; etc.

MY story is quite simple —I am still right where I started! Never-
theless the past twenty-five years have been eventful and often
exciting.

A business career in Muncie, Indiana, is what I anticipated when
I left here for Harvard some time ago, That anticipation gave me
little joy, but it had a salutary effect on me while 1 was an under-
graduate. It sharpened my interest in ideas and my curiosity about
things. It fortunately provided me with a positive Weltanschauung

[1248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which I have retained ever since. I returned home to a world |
knew would stifle me if I permitted it to do so. My life since then
has been a deliberate process of making of that smaller world a
microcosm of the larger universe Harvard brought into my ken.

One important element in this larger universe is my wife, Helen,
who happily shares and encourages most of my interests. We met
on a blind date in a bar in New York City in 1940 and were married
about two months later. No amount of prolonged analysis or philo-
sophical deliberation could have brought more fortunate results.

Being a businessman in Muncie seemed dull, and more important
things were happening 1 in the world, especially i in Washington, D.C.
So we moved there in mid-1941 and I became a business “expert”
in the Office of Price Administration, helping set maximum prices
for the paper industry. It was heady stuff for a twenty-four-year-
old, especially after Pearl Harbor when price control became a
major government effort. But then the eager-beaver military syn-
drome set in, and I initiated the long process of getting myself
unsnarled from the OPA in order to volunteer for the Naval Re-
serve. That took a year but still allowed me three years of active
duty in the Navy, part of which was spent in Washington, but most
of which was in the United Kingdom.

After the war we returned to Muncie, where we have since
continued to grow and multiply. At present I am surrounded by
females. I preside over the peregrinations of the same wife and
four fascinating daughters ranging in age from twenty to three.
When there is time, I am also charged with the destinies of five busi-
ness enterprises and responsibilities for numerous financial arrange-
ments — a euphemism for debts!

I am president of the Schwartz Paper Company, Inc., which is
my original business interest. I am also president of Taylor Martin
Papers, Inc., of Ft. Wayne, Indiana, which was established in 1949
and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Allen Steel & Supply Company.
In 1958 I became president of McMurtry Martin Papers, Inc., of
Evansville, Indiana. These companies are engaged in the whole-
sale distribution of several thousand products used by every kind
of business enterprise, public institution and industrial consumer.
These products range from packaging materials and printing papers
to tools and grinding wheels.

J am involved with many organizations, boards, committees and
ad hoc groups concerned with industry problems, civic duties, social
welfare, the arts, education and human relations. In fact, Muncie

[ 1249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

can become an exhausting place at times. Anonymity is practically

impossible for the socially conscious in a small town and volun-

tarism makes even more complex demands on personal resources
especially when it reaches beyond strictly local or regional limits.

My major non-business activities are clustered around education.

I have helped organize management seminars for the paper industry
at several universities. As national chairman of AMVETS Ameri-
canism Council since 1954, 1 have been privileged to direct an edu-
cational program in positive American values that has received
financial support from the Fund for the Republic and the Fund for
Adult Education. This program has instituted university seminars
on significant problems such as Education for Public Responsibility
and the National Purpose. I am similarly involved with the educa-
tional programs of Young Presidents Organization. Last June I
received an A.M. from Ball State Teachers College after five years
of classes and a thesis reworked a dozen times. My current pet
project is a bond issue and building program for the Muncie
Library of whose board I am immediate past president. As a lieu-
tenant commander, U.S. Naval Reserve, I am actively associated
with the Naval Reserve Officers School in Muncie.

Helen and I travel extensively at home and abroad and take part
in a variety of stimulating activities which range from the religious
to the aesthetic. Primarily we are trying to guide the growing-up
of our children. Judy is now a senior at Wheaton College, Sue a
high school senior, Debby is a budding fifth-grader and Joan,
approaching four, makes me feel like a grandfather. I have years
of P.T.A. ahead!

Meanwhile I'm a camera buff, play the piano (primitive New
Orleans style) for my amusement and my daughters’ derision, and
collect books and original prints. Even though my banker says
I am becoming a hard money man, I am still a political and social
liberal and something of a frustrated college professor. One of
these days I plan to satisfy that urge too.

My interests are keen as ever and curiosity still drives me on.
There have been many difficulties along the way, but life has been
exciting and rewarding. This realization keeps me humble, grate-~
ful and very conscious of my human frailties and finiteness.

[ 1250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GORDON KENDALL SCOTT

 

HOME appREss: 535 Los Arboles, Stanford, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stanford Law School, Stanford, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B., cu7m laude, 1941.
MARRIED: Faith Crandall, Dec. 23, 1943. CHILDREN: Peter Crandall, Dec. 9, 1949;

Charity, May 21, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Professor of law.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various law reviews.
AFTER law school I practised law in Washington, D.C., for a year
until I was drafted. Upon discharge I taught at Stanford Law
School for two years, then practised law in Boston for four years.
Since 1952 I have been teaching at Stanford.

My predominant social conviction is that the martini 1s the statf
of life. My political and religious convictions are too obscure for

me to understand.
I cannot enclose a photograph because my image fails to register

on the negative.

[r25t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PETER LINDSAY SCOTT

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 161 Main St., Wenham, Mass.

preparED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1938(39); sm. (Columbia Univ.),
1953.

marrigD: Thelma Adelaide Cole, June 17, 1947. CHILDREN: Vera Lindsay, Oct.
22, 1948; Nancy Loy, Nov. 3, 1950; Carol Elizabeth, Oct. 17, 1956.

occupation: Education; teacher in secondary schools of the North Shore area.

OFFICES HELD; Teaching-superintendent, Upper School, First Church, Wenham,
since 1956; division leader, Every Member Canvass, Wenham First Church,
since 1957; vice-president, United Church Canvass Committee, New Lon-
don, Conn., 1955; director, New London Lions Club, 1954-55; member,
Wenham Republican Town Committee, since 1960, Community Council
of Salem, Marblehead and Danvers, 1956-57, Mass. Hospital Association
and New England Hospital Assembly, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Hamilton-Wenham Lions Club, 1956-60; P.T.A.; YMCA; Harvard
Club of New York.

PuBLicaTions: Articles on administration printed in hospital pamphlets; papers
on education and administration presented to professional groups.

IN perusing the monographs contained in our published Class Re-
ports, I am impressed, once again, by the continuing multiplicity
of our life patterns. Yet, in the background of all of this activity,
stands our “Alma Mater,” like a “bulwark, never failing,” which,
barely a quarter-century ago, fostered our noblest ideas and keenly
adjusted our sights for the years to come. Although many of us
have not made spectacular contributions to the world-at-large, we
still hold firmly to the ideals of our Harvard inheritance, we persist
in our search for truth, and we continue to strive for excellence,
through service to the communities in which we live.

While the possession of a “Harvard Degree” is not a prerequisite

[1252 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for satisfactory performance as a secondary schoolteacher, it does

indicate a singular background of adherence to the “best” in educa-

tion, with its insistence on intellectual integrity and self-discipline.

Consequently, it was with a feeling of basic assurance, though mixed
with some trepidation, that I decided, about a year ago, to change
my field of endeavor from the administration of hospitals to the
teaching of young people in high schools. Since there are several
excellent, new Regional Schools within commuting distance of our
home in Wenham (located about twenty miles from Boston, on the
North Shore), ‘Thelma and I elected to stay in this quaint New
England town.

Of course, my decision to go into teaching is the culmination of
a series of assignments and activities, from the time that I finished
Harvard to the present. The two prewar years found me as a buyer
and merchandising trainee for a New York department store, the
next four years from private to lieutenant in the U.S. Army Medical
Administrative Corps, followed by two years at Columbia Uni-
versity in Hospital Administration, marriage, and then a progressive
eight-year sequence of top administrative posts in several General
Hospitals, with the next four years as a representative of a prominent
life insurance company in Boston.

The field of secondary education is far from relaxing, despite
the fact that we teachers have our summers “off.” Such time away
from the classroom usually means further indoctrination for us along
the lines of our specialty: instead of basking in the sun in some
secluded cover, “away from it all,” we are frequently expected to
attend school ourselves, in order to advance our knowledge. But
there are compensations far more lasting than the meager contents
of our pay envelopes. These include the job of contributing to the
mental growth and development of eager young people, as they
progress from grade school to college, and the satisfaction of assist-
ing in their preparation for the future. To me, the essence of the
teacher’s job consists of the opportunity, which it offers him, of
sharing with the new generation some of the privileges and benefits
which he has received abundantly in his own lifetime.

On the “home front,” Thelma and I have three “bouncing"
daughters, ages fourteen, twelve and six. We try to keep at lease
one “bounce” ahead of them, but every year they go a little higher
and a little farther in their zest for life. V era, our eldest, has entered
the new Hamilton-Wenham Regional High School, Nancy is in
Junior High; and Carol is a first-grader, Although these three are

[1253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

not prospects for Harvard at present, perhaps by the time they are
ready, the College may be co-educational!

My wife and I are both active in the First Church, Wenham,
where I am teaching-superintendent of the Upper School, and she
is president of the Women’s Guild. In our spare time, between
school semesters, we “hitch up” our Airstream Travel Trailer and
go “land yachting” to visit with our friends and relatives in distant
parts of the country. Last summer, for example, we “cruised” to
the west coast, and this coming year we are planning a trip around
the Gaspé Peninsula, and on into Canada. So, Classmates, as you
motor along the highway, please keep an eye open for our trailer
No. 5905; if you happen to see it, blink your lights, for “auld lang
syne.”

ROBERT LITCHFIELD SCOTT

    

HOME appress: Route 3, Box 93, Annapolis Roads, Annapolis, Md.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Scott Book Center, 211 Main St., Annapolis, Md.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1941.

Markie: Ann Garrett, June 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Susan Tucker, Sept. 1, 19423
Linda Litchfield, Sept. 27, 1943 (mm. Charles F. Scott); Carola Lyon, Nov.
30, 1946. GranpcHiLp: Valerie Ann Scott, Nov. 14, 1962.

occupaTiON: Bookseller.

OFFICES HELD; Secretary-treasurer, 1947-49, president, 1960-62, Harvard Club
of Annapolis.

MEMBER OF: Severn Sailing Association, Annapolis; Annapolis Chamber of
Commerce; Republican Organization of Anne Arundel County; Maryland
Federation of Retail Merchants, American Booksellers Association, Na-
tional Trust for Historic Preservation; Historic Annapolis.

HARVARD'S emphasis on a development of independent standards
[ 1254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and an ability to evaluate seems to me to be its most important gift

to the graduate. Much that I once learned there I have forgotten,

and what I remember of specific courses seems so much a crazy-
quilt of ill-matched bits of memory as to have no practical purpose.

And yet the four-year experience in Cambridge is a priceless treas-

ure, and has exerted its influence on every important decision |
have made since 1938.

An English major then, taking very little else in the restricted
curriculum of our day, I would now be broader in my choice of
courses. A bit of economic theory is handy for anyone who expects
to make his way in the world of business, and makes easier what
he has specifically to learn about his own line of endeavor. No
time put into the study of history is ever wasted. I would, too,
spend some time in the study of religion, and the reasons behind man-
kind’s continuing devotion to it. Broadly speaking, I feel that a
better spread between practical courses and esthetic courses would
be desirable, if I were to enter the College again.

Today I am the owner, with my wife, of a bookstore in Annapolis,
living in a comfortable house with a glimpse of Chesapeake Bay in
the near distance, and if, in 1938, I had known that this would be
my position twenty-five years later, I do not think I would have
been disappointed. We have been in Annapolis since 1959, but
were here teaching at the Naval Academy from 1946 to 1949, re-
turning ten years later by design and not by accident.

Annapolis suits our temperaments very well. A state capital but
still a small town, it has the pleasures and frustrations of small towns
everywhere. Its high number of retired military personnel lend
it a conservative cast, compounded by the perennial sluggish con-
dition of Maryland politics. But the Academy gives it a leaven of
young, vigorous, and attractive Navy and civilian families attached
to it, and the vast government payroll in the area gives the town
a wealth that its level of economic activity could not otherwise

support. And the fact that Annapolis is a great yachting center,
and has many miles of bay and river front, inlets and creeks, makes
it a haven for boat-minded people, and others who like to look art
salt water. We have an excellent Little Theatre here, in which my
wife is active, with a continuous program of sell-out performances.
Living is easy here, with costs below those of comparable areas to
the northeast, winters mild, and falls lingering. People are friendly
and have time to stop in the strect and talk; we like it.
The road by which we came here over twenty-five years seers

[31255 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

illogically tortuous. The conviction that I was cut out to be a
teacher died hard and colored much that I have done and some
years spent teaching in colleges, high schools and the Academy.
The war and its aftermath provided a detour that added general
experience but nothing very solid to build on. The Navy was good
to us, keeping our family together for most of the six years spent
therein, and took us all as far afield as Hawaii. It introduced us to
Annapolis, and we regard it with the affection felt toward the per-
son who introduces one to his future wife. It still continues to be
good to us, as we use its club, its pool, and its yachts, and its
midshipmen squire our daughters.

We have nearly raised our family, having had one marriage and
a very recent grandchild, with another wedding planned for June.
Our girls have their earliest memories of Martha’s Vineyard, where
we spent five happy years gaining experience in retail business and
proprietorship, living in the country, and being very smug “natives”
in a summer community. The Vineyard virus is hard to lose. The
fever returns constantly, and some day we shall go back again.

Five years subsequently in suburban New York, battling the
commuting grind, and the even harder grind of New York domestic
economics, gave our girls a more sophisticated atmosphere to grow up
in, and some contact with city culture, but none of us cared greatly
for the life, and when the decision was made to return to Annapolis,
everyone was relieved. But the experience in New York made open-
ing the bookstore much simpler, as I was in publishing for a good
part of my time there. Ina sense I have come to a full turn. I have no
plans to change occupations or residence. But restlessness dies hard.
The change-of-duty regimen of the Navy gets in the blood, and I
would hate to think that I might never up-anchor again and try some-

thing else in another place.

My interests have not changed greatly over the years. Owning
a retail business is a time-consuming matter and, loving it, one tends
to carry business matters into what is for others leisure time. But
1 like to putter and paint around the house, with an occasional bit
of carpentry to test my skill. I sail when I get a chance, and we
have a small sailboat to make such joy possible. Almost all entertain-
ing in Annapolis is done in the home, and we enjoy both going
and receiving as opportunity affords.

Recently I have developed an interest in psychic matters, and
have read greatly in the literature. I have no great gifts that I can
determine, but the accounts of others are fascinating, and the physi-

[ 1256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cal and psychic theories evolved to explain what natural science
cannot explain. I feel that we are on the verge of a breakthrough
in this area which will rival the achievements in space that will
surely come.

It is truly an exciting time to be alive. I am indebted to Harvard
for giving me a large part of whatever insight I may have in
appreciating and enjoying it.

ROBERT WALTER SCOTT

Ape

SSPMORS ea

[SRE MRR RgeeR AE RR

 

HOME ADDRESS: Seapuit Road, P.O. Box 727, Osterville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crosby & Scott, Inc., Osterville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Catherine E. Buff, 1937 (divorced 1943); Anne Udaloy, to43 (di-
vorced 1958); Catherine Buff Richey, 1959. CHILDREN: Susan Scott, June 7,
1940 (mm. George B. Rowland, June 10, 1961); Robert Walter, Jr, Ovt. jo,
1945; John Roper, May 24, 1947. GRANDCHILD: Christopher Frost Rowland,
June 6, 1962.

occuPaTION: Treasurer and general manager, Crosby & Scott, Inc, hydraulic
dredging contractors.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Water Board, 1947-54, Board of Assessors, tg48-s0
Lincoln, Mass.; deputy commissioner, Mass, Dept. of Commerce, tog 3~$5;
vestryman and warden, St. Anne’s Church, Lincoln, 1947-53, 1957-58; licus

tenant commander, USNR.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Tennis and Racquet Club, Cruning

Club of America.

THIS account is ordinarily expected to be an exercise in becoming
modest as one points to the solid achievements of tw enty-tive well-
spent years. However, no Harvard class could ever point with com-
plete pride to a full roster of solid achievers, or could it?

[1257 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

When I was graduated, I took a year off for constructive loafing,
including a voyage to Hawaii as mate of Wanderbird, which has
given quite a few of my classmates their basic training as seamen.
Having this sort of thing out of my system, I went to work in a
machine shop for fourteen dollars a week and all the stock I could
spoil. This was instructive, as were three years in the Navy during
which I didn’t really do a great deal, though I did achieve command
of a sea-going towboat.

After the war I wandered into what I now recognize as a career
in the starting of new small business enterprises. I acted in various
capacities in a number of situations, merely investing in some and
actively engaging in the management of others. Some were mildly
successful, others not so good and there are a few I shudder to re-
call. This must have provided some sort of background, for when
Richard Preston, 37, was given the job of setting up a state com-
merce department I walked innocently into his office and didn’t get
out for two and a half years. This was a stimulating period which, if

nothing else, taught me to speak extemporaneously to all sorts of
groups on subjects about which I knew very little.

Feeling the urge to struggle with my own problems instead of
other people’s, I took over the management of a small electronics
hardware company, a subsidiary of some very bright people called
General Electronic Laboratories in Cambridge. A couple of years of
labor here achieved a rather respectable gross, thanks to a good
sales manager, but the net position made it an irresistible tax loss to
the parent company, who absorbed it, treating my investment much
more kindly than my efforts deserved.

After a rather complicated series of events, I now find myself liv-
ing on Cape Cod and running a small hydraulic dredging operation.
Curiously enough, this seems to draw on almost all of my experience
and abilities. Besides the ordinary business problems of new enter-
prise, this job offers a host of day-to-day practical puzzles requiring
a knowledge of machinery and a good deal of seamanship. Also a
life of hard physical work outdoors has its compensations. I might
add that despite all the talk of “sweetheart deals” in the dredging

field in this area, we seem to be able to get along as mere nodding
acquaintances.

Mixed in with all this hodgepodge of business activity I found
time to serve the town of Lincoln in various capacities. Lincoln, by
the way, was such a’38 stronghold that at one time the only member
of the planning board not a classmate was Henry Stone’s sister. I

[1258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

also studied singing quite seriously for a number of years but even-
tually concluded that the ability to produce a reasonably pleasant
sound did not compensate for an almost complete lack of musical
skills. Dealing with technical people most of the time, I began to feel
inadequate because of my total lack of mathematical exposure be-
yond plane geometry. Harvard deigned to take me back for a couple
of courses in the early fifties, which filled in the gap but also made
me realize that I was right to elect philosophy in my freshman year.
I enjoy golf, skiing, cruising, court tennis and singing in well-
conducted choruses. Both my boys want to go to Harvard and may
possibly get there. Aside from the present state of the world, I
don’t have a whole lot to complain about, except for my one sorrow.
My comment on this is probably best expressed in the words of the
song I sang to the gathering the night before my daughter’s mar-
riage to G. B. Rowland, Yale ’6o.
Fair Harvard, before thee in sorrow I stand
A son who has proven untrue,
For the bright crimson banner once proudly I bore
Is now sadly bespattered with blue.
Though I tried to keep watch with an eagle-like eye,
My vigilance did not prevail;
And, oh how can I face thee a few short years hence
When my grandsons are all down at YALE!

FRANCIS PHILIP SEARS, JR.

 

JOME ADDRESS: 25 Gardner St., Hamilton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis, 24 Federal St, Boston, Mase.
REPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

[ 1259]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.
MARRIED: Barbara Iselin, Sept. 14, 1946. cuiLpREN: Francis Philip, 3d, April 5,

1948; Thomas Merrill, Jan. 30, 1950; Nancy Iselin, March 28, 1955.
occuraTion: Investment broker; partner, Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis.
oFFices HELD: Director, Hartford Life Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club; Somerset Club; Bond Club of Boston; Boston

Madison Square Garden Club.

FROM 1938 to 1940 — meat packing industry — Chicago, Illinois,
and Omaha, Nebraska. November, 1940, enlisted ro1st Field Artil-
lery, 26th Infantry Division, Massachusetts National Guard; in-
ducted Federal Service, January, 1941. September, 1942, graduated
OCS, Fort Sill, Oklahoma, second lieutenant, Artillery.

1942-45 —94th Infantry Division; communications officer and
commanding officer, Hq. Battery, 94th Infantry Division Artillery;
Captain, ETO, Northern France, Brittany, Saar, Moselle, Rhine,
Ruhr, Czechoslovakia.

1946 to date— Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis, investment
brokers, Boston; 1946-50, registered representative; 1950~52, man-
ager, Lynn Mass., office, 1953-59, manager, brokerage department,

Boston; partner, since 1960.
Special interests: 1) Politics — Republican, chairman, Hamilton

Town Committee, Budget Committee, Massachusetts Republican
Finance Committee, 2) equestrian— Master of Fox Hounds,

Myopia Hunt Club, Hamilton, Mass.

RICHARD SEARS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3401 34th Pl, N.W., Washington, D.C,
orFice appress: Dept. of State, Washington, 1).C,

[ 1260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.C.P., 19§0.

MarrieD: Christiane Marie Linas, March 24, 1951. CHILprEN: Richard, Feb, 25,
1952; Stephanie, Oct. 24, 1956.
occupaTion: Government service.

OFFICES HELD: Executive director, Boston Metropolitan Housing and Planning
Association, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Porcellian Club; Somerset Club, American Institute of Planners.
puBLicaTions: Part author, Action for Cities, 1942, “Planning for Paris,” Land-
scape, 1959; a nuinber of book reviews in the New Leader.

ON the whole the optimism with which I regarded life in 1938
remains intact although colored with scepticism. The course thus
far has been varied and the prospect of its continuing so seems
reason for satisfaction rather than alarm. Chance has played the
part Conrad ascribed to it.

Architectural studies begun as an undergraduate were continued
at the British Architectural Association in London where they
were interrupted by the war. Returning to the United States I went
to work in Washington at the Territorial Resources Planning Board.
War service as a naval air combat intelligence officer came next. In
1946, after an initial period of city planning in Boston and Phila-
delphia, I entered the Foreign Service and was sent to the Peace
Conference in Paris, thence continuing with the Council of Forcign
Ministers to New York, London, and Moscow. After serving in
the embassy in Paris I resigned and completed my studics for a
city planning degree at Harvard in 1950. For the next eight years
I was engaged in political warfare in the Free Europe Committee,
first in Paris as assistant to the Committee’s European representa-
tives, later as deputy political adviser and acting political adviser to
Radio Free Europe in New York. From 1958 to 1962, I practised

city planning in Boston and Puerto Rico. Presently, I am again
at the Department of State.

[ 1261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

+ JOHN WALTER SEBASTIAN

 

porN: Novy. 27, 1916, Greensboro, N.C, Parents: Simon Powell Sebastian,

Martha Oxford.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.D. (Howard Univ.), 1942.

marrigp: Grace Evelyn Jones, 1947.

pep: March 2g, 1956, Washington, D.C.

AFTER receiving his M.D. degree Sebastian interned in St. Louis.
He was an instructor in pathology at Howard University from
1943 to 1954. At the time of his death he was a staff member of
Freedmen’s Hospital in Washington, D.C. He was survived by his

wife.

WILLIAM AARON SELZ

 

HOME aporEss: 614 Poplar Ave., Vermillion, S, Dak.
OFFIce apprEss: University of South Dakota, Vermillion, S. Dak.

[ 1262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
PREPARED AT: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1940;

PH.D. 1943-
MarRIED: Dorothy Baisch, May 30, 1951.
occupation: Professor of English, University of South Dakota.
MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association, National Council of Teachers of
English; American Association of University Professors, Phi Beta Kappa.

FOR me the twenty-five years since graduation have meant a great
deal of moving about and a great many radical modifications of
outlook. On two occasions I have enjoyed extended stays in
Europe; otherwise my life has been passed in the academic world,
first acquiring the needed degrees and then working through the
ranks of English Departments in various parts of the country. The
shifts in interest within the colleges and universities during these
years have not exactly filled professors of the humanities with joy
and hope. Business schools and departments of education have
expanded enormously while philosophy and classics departments
have dwindled, and at best English faculties have maintained their
numbers simply because freshman composition and “general educa-
tion” are required even of sociologists and engineers. As one who
has conversed daily with humanists, I have no difficulty thinking of
reasons for the general indifference; but when I regard the conse-
quences in my own experience of the choice I made at Harvard,
I cannot help regretting some of the changes we are seeing. Of the
time inevitably spent in a society, I have spent much, and with last-
ing pleasure, in the society of the creative, the aware, and the un-
bought—the articulate of the past and present; and I am dis-
appointed, of course, to find an ever greater percentage of the
presumably educated excluded from this communion, forced by
their choices or by chance to endure their consciousness among the

unexpressed.

[ 1263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN LAWSON SENIOR, JR.

    

HOME appress: Senior Farms, Sawmill Road, R.R. 1, Danbury, Conn.

OFFICE aDpREss: 96 Main St., Box 287, Ridgefield, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; S.B. IN AERONAUTICAL ENG. (Mass.
Inst. of Technology), 1942.

MarRiED: Susan Elizabeth Cable, 1950 (divorced 1955); Lois Tiffany Banner-
man, 1956. CHILDREN: Mark Parry, July 16, 1948 (stepson), Sar Ogden,
May 20, 1957; John Lawson, 3d, Aug. 2, 1958.

occupation: Agriculture and pure-bred cattle breeding; owner and manager,
Senior Farms, breeders of prize Aberdeen Angus cattle.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Cowham Engineering Company, Chicago, 1938-
39; American Airlines, Inc.— Engineering Dept., New York, 1941; Glenn
L. Martin Co., Baltimore, aerodynamicist, 1942-45; Northeast Airlines,
Boston, project engineer, 1945-56; Luttrell & Senior, Inc., New York,
vice-president and treasurer, 1946-50; New York Airways, Inc., founder —
president and board chairman, 1949-54; General Portland Cement Com-
pany, director, since 1946; Museum of Modern Art, New York, trustee,
1951-56; New Canaan Fuel & Lumber Company, director; Connecticut
Angus Association, director; Cayman Islands Public Service, director; Dan-
bury Music Center, director; New England Institute for Medical Research
— Advisory Board; owner and manager, Senior Farms, Danbury, Conn.,
since 1955.

MemMBeR OF; Harvard Club of New York, M.1.T, Club of New York; Wings
Club; Racquet and Tennis Club of New York, Metropolitan Club; Wac-
cabuc Country Club; Cayman Islands Yacht Club, Society of Automotive
Engineers, American Helicopter Society; Institute of the Aeronautical
Sciences; American Rocket Society; Aircraft Owners and Pilots Associa-
tion; American Forestry Association, American Society of Agricultural
Engineers, American Geographical Society; National Rifle Association.

[ 1264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP TRUMAN SHAHAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6218 Washington Ave., St. Louis 30, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 N. Euclid, St. Louis 8, Mo.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938, M.p. (Wash-
ington Univ.), 1942.

MarriED: Jean Keith, June 22, 1940. CHILDREN: Keith Ewing, March 15, 1944;
David Parker, Oct. 15, 1947.

occuPATION: Ophthalmologist, in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, St. Louis Society for the Blind,
1949-59, St. Louis Lighthouse for the Blind, since 1960, president, St.
Louis Ophthalmological Society, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: St. Louis Ophthalmological Society; St. Louis Medical Socicty;
Missouri State Medical Society; American Medical Association, American
Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology; Pan-American Ophthal-
mological Society; Association for Research in Ophthalmology, Nor-
mandie Golf Club.

HAPPY is the man whose history is short. Medical school at Wash-
ington University in St. Louis occupied four years after graduation,
with marriage between sophomore and junior years to the girl who
kept me going to New London nearly every weekend the last two
_ years I was at Harvard. 1942-1944 were spent on a medical intern-
ship and assistant residency in medicine at the New York Hospital,
with a few months’ time out for a mild bout with tuberculosis,
which led to a discharge from the Army before going on active
duty. 1944-1946 saw an assistant residency and residency in ophthal-
mology at McMillan Hospital in St. Louis, after which FT entered the
practice of medicine in St. Louis, specializing in ophthalmology.
1953-1955 were spent very happily as a captain in the Air Force,
teaching ophthalmology in the School of Aviation Medicine, Ran-

[ 1265 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

dolph Air Force Base, Texas. Since 1955, my career history has been
very simple, being the practice of ophthalmology, with some teach-
ing in the medical school as a clinical instructor in ophthalmology.
For a time, between 1946 and 1952, I combined research in the
laboratory with clinical practice, but found clinical work vastly
more interesting to me, and have settled permanently and happily
in the career of taking care of patients.

There are three other members of my family. Jean, my wife,
besides running the family smoothly, is an artist, painting portraits
of children in pastels for fun and for profit. She has several wide
circles of friends, and I am convinced is the happiest and best ad-
justed housewife I know. Keith, my elder son, aged eighteen, pre-
pared at John Burroughs School, and is now a freshman at Amherst.
He had an extraordinarily successful high school career, and spent
last summer in Germany with the Experiment in International Liv-
ing. David, my younger son, now fifteen, is in the tenth grade at
John Burroughs School. Our family has spent vacations the last
four years covering the entire country, quarter by quarter, on long
leisurely auto trips, finishing this past summer by branching out into
Europe for a six-week tour. Touring and traveling in general make
up my principal hobbies, and I pursue them every chance that offers
itself.

With regard to social and political convictions, I tend toward the
mildly liberal, have voted Democratic three out of five times, and
disagree with most of my medical colleagues on social issues and
political convictions. My disagreement is not violent, however, and
] generally have no axes to grind. I do believe that by and large, and
on the whole, the Democratic Party has stood for the rights and
opportunities of the little fellow more than the Republican Party
has, so when the differences between candidates are not marked, I
lean toward the Democrat.

My church affiliation, and my religious convictions, lie with the
Episcopal Church, to which I changed from Congregational in 1942.
Episcopalianism combines, for me, much tradition with much free-
dom and compassion, and I feel at home in that church.

Hobbies, besides travel, include reading history, with special
interest in the Mexican War; bowling in a medical league where our
team at the moment leads the league, watching high school athletic
events, especially football and soccer. (Need I say both sons played
or play high school football and soccer?) Oh, yes, and golf, poor
but honest.

[ 1266 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My main goal in life is personal, family and professional happi-
ness, and twenty-five years of postgraduate living have both formed
and fulfilled this goal.

AARON MARCUS SHAPIRO

 

HOME AppREss: 126 Bonad Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Herman B. Cohen & Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MarriED: Edith Cohen, Jan. 29, 1946. cHILD: Joshua, April 13, 1949.

occupation: Public accounting (C.P.A.).

OFFICES HELD: Financial secretary, Temple Emeth P.T.A., 1960-62; auditor,
Temple Emeth Memorial Park, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

THE years subsequent to the publication of the Eighteenth Anni-
versary Report continue to find me methodically plying the same
trade, public accounting. Most of my leisure time has been taken up
with trying to keep pace with the ever-changing, sometimes nebu-
lous tax laws.

As for my family life, the major change has been our moving in
1957 into our own home. Living in close proximity to the Temple,
most of my outside activities have been devoted to serving this Insu-
tution.

My wife has proved herself a loyal and devoted helpmare. She
has put up with my idiosyncrasies with equanimity, She has the
good sense to know that tuition rates at Harvard will go up, if
anything. So in the event that our son should grace the portals of
fair Harvard, she has been supplementing the family income by

[ 1267 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

teaching Hebrew. Our young man, Joshua, will be entering Brook-
line High next fall. At the present he aspires to become an historian.

Politically I am definitely opposed to the trickle-down theory
of government. Athletically my pursuits have been confined to
shooting baskets with my son in the backyard. Several attempts
at golf have been altogether too short-lived.

I am looking forward to this 25th Reunion. To meet with old
friends and indulge in a bit of nostalgia will, no doubt, be pleasant.
Added to which, the festivities might strengthen my conviction
that being a Harvard grad is worth it after all!

CARL BERGMAN SHAPIRO

 

HOME ADpREsS: 123 Scenic Rd., Fairfax, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Hallinan & Shapiro, 345 Franklin, San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of
San Francisco).

marrige: Helen Frey, Jan. 5, 1942. CHILDREN: Joe, Oct. 29, 1942; Sylvia, Jan.
9, 1945; Toby, Oct. 2, 1946.

occuPaTioN: Attorney-at-law.

VOLUME Ill of the history of the Class of ’38 can be brought up
to date as far as I am concerned with a simple report. Still married
(same girl), still have three children (but now grown), still living
in the same house and still practising law. I am moving my office
from a small town to a large city and now have a partner — but this
has meant only more freedom and incentive to practice in a mean-
ingful way. Being associated with a controversial figure and a rebel

[ 1268 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

against conventionality has in many ways been a liberating force
for me.

I am sure that each of us will first of all read through this book
to see how our closest friends have fared and we shall compare
them with ourselves to see whether we have measured up to our
standards of a generation ago. We will notice that our class now
has sired a new college generation who are still or perhaps again
carrying on the fight for peace and freedom. These youngsters, and
I include mine in this group, have rejected the lead in the feet of
their fathers and if we can avoid the dark ages of McCarthyism so
as to protect their right to freedom of expression they may succeed
where we failed.

It seems as though every time things get tough in this country
a Harvard man is called upon to be President. I hope the next
one will be able to make this world fear-free, war-free, poverty-
free and discrimination-free. Good luck to you, Class of 1963, and
as you write for your Twenty-fifth Anniversary volume I hope
the United Nations will be exactly that.

WILLIS HARLOW SHAPLEY

    

x e
Sy <3

HOME appRESs: 3040 P St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bureau of the Budget, Executive Office of the President,
Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1938.

MarRiED: Virginia Bishop, June, 1940. CHILDREN: Sarah Stowell, Dee. 3a, fost,
Deborah, Nov. 2, 1945.

occuPaTION: Deputy Chief, Military Division, U.S, Bureau of the Budget, et-
pert on defense, research and development.

[ 1269 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

orrices HELD: U.S. Bureau of the Budget, since 1942, deputy chief, Military
Division, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Cosmos Club and City Tavern Association,
Washington, D.C.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on research and development statistics, military research
and development, and the organization of U.S. outer space programs — in
various publications.

ROGER RITTENHOUSE SHARP

 

HOME apprEss: Saddle Ridge Road Darien, Conn.

OFFICE AppRESS: Harris, Upham & Co., 120 Broadway, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Morristown High School, Morristown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1938(39).

MarrieD: Mary Goodwin Atwood, Jan. 6, 1945. CHILDREN: Roger Rittenhouse,
Jr, Dec. 23, 1947; Nancy MacKaye, June 14, 1952; William Goodwin,
June 9, 1957.

occupation: Investment adviser and stockbroker.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and New Canaan; Country Club of
Darien; Corinthians (Yachting Association), New York Society of Se-
curity Analysts.

PUBLICATIONS: “America’s Stake in World Petroleum,” Harvard Business Re-
view, September, 1950; The Petrochemical Industry, pamphlet. Harris, Up-

ham & Co., 1958; various articles on petroleum and chemical industries in
financial and economic publications.

AT the present time I am living in Darien, Connecticut, and leading
the life of a typical New York commuter. I have found that Darien
is not much different in most respects from other places I have lived
in the United States, notwithstanding some rather distorted por-

trayals in postwar fiction. It is principally a residential town, offer-
ing fine schools and excellent community facilitics,

[ 1270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

How I arrived here I assume is the principal purpose of writing
this autobiography. After graduation, I entered the marine insurance
brokerage business in New York. For what reason, I still don’t know,
except that I needed a job and I had some facility for mathematics.
After about a year, I decided that sales was more to my liking, so I
switched over to the sales department of the Bethlehem Stccl Com-
pany. I spent most of my time filling out order forms and answering
customer complaints.

In June, 1941, I was commissioned an ensign in the U.S. Navy and
called to active duty. I was sent back to Boston Supply and Logistics.
Upon graduation as a full-fledged supply officer, I was assigned in
Boston with the Offshore Patrol as part of a team to decommission
the Boston Lightship. The Navy could not quite decide what to do
with this old tub, formerly under the Coast Guard. It was even
suggested seriously that it be converted to a sub-chaser, but dis-

cretion finally proved to be the better part of valor and it was con-
signed to the scrap heap.

Next I was sent to Bar Harbor, Maine, to help commission a small
anti-submarine patrol base. I was responsible for providing all the
supplies and equipment and seeing to it that the personnel were fed
properly. This was a pleasant tour of duty especially in the summer.
In January, 1942 (it was 20 degrees below), I received orders to re-
port to Norfolk, Virginia, as the supply officer of a Navy Tanker.
I was given a farewell party, and among other mementos, I received

a pamphlet on how to swim in burning oil from my colleagues. On
my way to Norfolk I practised in an indoor swimming pool the
various pointers suggested in this booklet.

As it turned out, these precautions were unnecessary, and I also
discovered that duty on a Navy tanker was quite enjoyable and not
nearly as hazardous as originally anticipated. I spent cighteen
months aboard this vessel, whose chief function was to refuel the es-
cort ships of a convoy. On one trip we acted as a cargo ship, carry-
ing four Patrol Boats (PT’s) and all their personnel. This crossing
was prior to the Sicilian invasion, and since we were not needed
from a military standpoint and considered somewhat of a liability,
we rode at anchor in a North African port during the landings.

In the summer of 1944, I returned to New York and was awigned
to the Navy Purchasing Office. This was the largest ficld procure-
ment branch, and since I had shipboard duty, I was put in charpe of
Spare parts. By this time I had acquired two stripes (a full licuren-
ant), and my fellow officers were somewhat envious of the green

[razr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

tinge to my gold braid, most having to experience still the benefits
of sea duty in the U.S. Navy.

About this time I met my future wife, Mary Atwood, whose
family lived in Belmont, Massachusetts. After a brief engagement,
we were married in Christ Church in Cambridge. Her father was
Colonel R. S. Atwood, a regular Army officer, and therefore Mary
was accustomed to service life.

Before the war was over, I was assigned as the supply officer of an
Attack Transport in the Pacific. We visited Honolulu, Guam, and
Saipan. The ship carried in addition to its regular personnel a con-
tingent of about 2,000 troops, Eventually we became part of an
amphibious force which landed occupation troops in Southern
Japan.

In 1945, at the end of the war, I received a final promotion to
lieutenant commander and had some thoughts about staying in the
service permanently, as did some of the Class of 1938, I believe.
However, after about a year of further duty, accompanied by my
wife, in San Juan, Puerto Rico and the submarine base in New Lon-
don, I decided to return to civilian life.

Rather than go back to the steel business, I felt that a career in
finance offered a better future, and accordingly I started in the in-
vestment department of the Old Colony Trust Company back in
Boston again. ] concentrated my efforts on the study of investments
in the petroleum and metals industries. About this time (1948), the
petroleum industry was leading a spectacular forward surge of our
economy and investors in petroleum stocks were handsomely re-
warded. I spent considerable time reading everything I could about
the petroleum industry and in September, 1950, the Harvard Busi-
ness Review honored me by accepting as its lead article a study I had

written on the world oil industry. Many evenings I had spent re-
searching and writing this report in the Widener stacks.

Shortly thereafter I accepted a position with a New York invest-
ment house and subsequently extended my investment studies fur-
ther to include the chemical industry, since it is now closely related
to and dependent on the petroleum industry for a large portion of
its basic raw materials, Up to this time, I had always wondered why
I had taken Chemistry A in my senior year as an elective course.

In 1956 I joined Harris, Upham & Company, a nationwide broker-
age firm, as an investment adviser and registered representative,
still following closely investments in the petroleum and chemical
industries, In addition I find time to work on a merger negotiation

[1272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

now and then, although I have yet to close the big deal. Wall Street
is a fascinating place in which to work and yet it can be very frus-
trating. The fast-moving events in 1962 have challenged the ability
and agility of even the most astute investors, some of whom have
been astounded at the seemingly contradictory trend of the stock
market at times.

Aside from making a living and raising three children, I have
found time to teach Sunday school (I have learned everything about
the Bible I had forgotten), play tennis, putter at golf, and to sail, the
latter being my favorite sport. In politics, I am a Republican and my
church affiliation was Presbyterian, but is now Episcopalian, having
been converted by my wife. This past twenty-five years I feel have
been a rewarding experience, and if there is one thing that stands
out, it is the unpredictability of the future. I begin to wonder now
what is in store for the next twenty-five years.

HUGH PAUL SHAW

 

HOME apprEss: 72 Donna Rd., Framingham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938(39); LL.B. (Boston Univ.), tygt-

MarRiED: Catherine Wellings, June 1, 1947. cHitp: Paul W., Nov. 1, 1950.

OccUPATION: Contract administrator — attorney,

OFFICES HELD; President, Student Council, Law School, 1943; tnastee, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon Fraternity, Harvard College, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Massachusetts bar, Federal bar.

[1273]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

+ ROBERT SOUTHWORTH SHAW

 
    

MMLC ET RN sui nsy, ee
, ERE Sein wees spegesey

BorN: Feb, 24, 1915, Dover, Mass. parents: Henry Southworth Shaw, ’06, Mary

Allen.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.
DIED: June 9, 1940, Boston, Mass.

ROBERT SOUTHWORTH SHAW was a resident of Leverett
House while an upperclassman. After graduation he entered the

employ of a Boston law office. He was survived by his parents.

SAMUEL ROBERTUS SHAW

 

MAILING ADDRESS: P.O, Box 1130, Birmingham, Ala.

[1274 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID WILLIAM SHEAN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Cambridge St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nathan Robbins Co., 21 N. Market St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1034-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MARRIED: Helen E. Reeves, Jan. 3, 1942. CHILDREN: David William, 3d, Dec, 5,

1942; Leslie Anne, March 4, 1945; Henry Reeves, June 23, 1949; Peter
Reeves, Nov. 11, 1953; William Gregory, June 6, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, Nathan Robbins Company, food
purveyors.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Boston Food and Produce Exchange.
MEMBER OF: Winchester Country Club.

THE massive problem of translating a quarter of a century is indeed
challenging. Our family of one daughter and four sons, ranging
from an engineering-college junior to a small but vociferous kinder-
garten chap, is oft time-consuming as well as rewarding.

The law of probabilities apropos of the existence of a small bus-
ness is not sanguine. It is my lot hopefully to overcome such
statistics.

Family-wise, we have exposed ourselves to the usual athletic pur-
suits. Our youngest is quite devoted to a game known as kick-ball,
which although not racy is none the less spirited. My fond help-
mate and I have pursued golf and curling, both tout d@ seul and in
partnership. This might be known as togetherness, where no one
really wants to win or especially lose.

It would be remiss not to mention the impingement of span
and nuclear concepts and realities upon the attitude of our genera-
tion, but perhaps much more on our progeny. Ready acceptance
is far more facile for them than for us. The future might bettes

[1275 ]

_|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

be served by fewer semantics but rather a more honest appraisal of
our direction.

HENRY PERCY SHERLOCK, JR.

   

Me Se
, ws ae :

MAILING AppREss: 1688 N.\V. Eden Lane, Roseburg, Oregon.

HENRY SHERMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4500 Channing Rd., Wilmington, Del.

OFFICE AppREss: E. 1, duPont de Nemours Co., Wilmington, Del.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., agna cum laude, 1938; PH.D. (Massa-
chusetts Inst. of Technology), 1946.

Marrigp: Doris B. Leighton, April 12, 1945. cHiLpreN: Frederick Scott, Feb. 7,

1949; Barry Robert, Jan. 19, 1952; Michael Eric, Nov, 4, 1955.
occupaTion: Toxicologist.

[ 1276 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi; Institute of Food Technologists,
American Chemical Society; AAAS; American Industrial Hygiene
Association; Animal Care Panel; Animal Nutrition Council.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on nutrition in professional journals.

THE one major change in my life since the issuance of the last
Class Report was one which can be pinpointed with respect to
time — my translocation from my native Boston to Wilmington,
Delaware, five years ago. After having spent the better part of
sixteen years at MIT. as a student, as a research associate, and as
an assistant professor of nutrition, I must admit the change was
regarded with much trepidation. However, I have this to say —
people are the same wherever you may live as long as you have a
family with you! The adaptation to new surroundings can be
accomplished almost immediately and without pain. I have to
admit, though, that the children and a charming, effervescent and
gregarious wife should receive most of the credit for the ease of
transition. While living in Newton, Massachusetts, I at one time,
served as president of a PTA and was a member of our Temple
School Board. It seemed as if my arrival in Wilmington, Delaware,
was to augur a repetition of affairs, for I have again served as presi-
dent of a PTA and am still a member of our Temple School Board.
So you see, life continues apparently without interruption and sur-
prises, aided in no small measure by the growing up of one’s
children.

_ Although twenty-five years have passed since graduation, I must
admit that I do not feel twenty-five years older most of the time!
I’m certain the presence of a very active family, consisting of three
very actively growing boys and an equally active and young wife,
had much to do with this frame of mind.

It may seem strange that my training as a biochemist and nutri-
tionist should have taken me by a devious route to the practice of
toxicology, a science which is becoming more and more important
as we become more and more urbanized, civilized and accustomed
to a more sophisticated way of life. As a toxicologist, one of my
concerns is to see that the food, drug and cosmetic supply of the
present and the future is kept as free as possible of harmful com-
ponents. Many pseudo-scientists, endowed with only a gifted pen
or tongue, have done much to advance the erroneous idea that it
is being poisoned by the unscrupulous chemical industry. My work

with the duPont Company has done much to indicate how w rong
those people are. Morcover, it is very difficult for me ta envision

[1277 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

our present-day society —let alone that of the future — living as
well and as healthfully and comfortably as it does without the aid of
chemistry.

The tortuous road to the future is, I’m sure, beset with many
obstacles, disappointments and cul-de-sacs, which must be over-
come before a rich full life can be attained. I gain strength and
comfort from a knowledge of the past, so that this road does not
seem bleak and foreboding. My wonderful wife and children will
undoubtedly make this road an easier one upon which to travel.

WALTER B. SHERRIFF

 

LAST KNOWN appress: 511 Third St., Jackson, Mich. (Lost.)

DONALD SHIPPEE

   

MAILING appress: Grange Avenue, Red Bank, N,J.

[ 1278 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Chairman, mathematics department, Choate School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Southern New England Mathematics Association,
1957-58.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author: Introduction to Navigation and Nautical Astronomy,
1944; Plane Geometry, 1949; Solid Geometry, 1953; Plane and Solid Geome-
try, 1960; Plane Trigonometry, 1945, Elementary Algebra, 1956 — enlarged
edition, 1960; Intermediate Algebra, 1957 — enlarged edition, 1960.

AS the past twenty-five years sped by all too rapidly, I have con-
tinued to teach (and to write texts in) mathematics here at Choate;
to coach varsity basketball (until 1958) and to run a dormitory. In
spare time I play golf and bridge (life master in bridge and winner
of one National ‘Tournament event).

[ 1279]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CARL SHIRLEY

ORR TE ITE, Nee ote oe page °
%y

 

sppress: Post Kennel Road, Bernardsville, N.J.

appress: Millrun, Inc. Route 202, Bernardsville, N.J.
2 at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

2 COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: $.B, 1938.

: Betsy Beinecke, April, tggt. CHILDREN: Betsy; Jody.
aon: President and treasurer, Millrun, Ine.

HENRY FARRAR SHUTE

 

,wpress: 32 E. Austin St, Skaneateles, N.Y.

[ 1280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT HINCKLEY SIBLEY, JR.

    

te,

HOME AppRESS: 48 Lloyd St., Winchester, Mass.

orFice ApprEss: United Shoe Machinery Corp., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

prepareD at: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.; Williston Academy,
Fasthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

Marriép: Jacqueline F. Hall, March 18, 1945. CHILDREN: Jonathan Langdon,
Dec. 5, 1945; Pamela Louise, Oct. 19, 1946; Penelope Jacqueline, Nov. 4,
1948; Jennifer Woodberry, March 6, 1953.

occuPATION: Machine terms analyst, machinery manufacturing.

ONE wife, four children, assorted pets, many friends and twenty-five
years later, an appraisal of my present status finds me in good health,
happily married, and continually scheming to beat inflation and a
receding hairline.

While a daily nine-to-five office career may not have been in-
cluded among my aspirations at graduation, a need to fulfill a basic
human function — to provide for the necessities of life —led me to
compromise and accept a timely opportunity in business. And be-
cause each new responsibility became more challenging and the
security of a well-established concern in an unsettled world became
more attractive, I have remained with the same firm ever since, in-
terrupted only by four years of military service. Machine terms-
setting in a fast-expanding overseas operation has been an absorbing
occupation.

In the four-year interim devoted to the armed forces, I became
familiar with various military camps and Air Force bases across the
country and eventually arrived on the island of Okinawa soon after
hostilities ceased. Attached to the Sixth Photograph Squadron of the
Army Air Forces, my major contribution to the war etfort was com-

[ 1281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

piling maps from aerial photographs, an interesting assignment, in an
otherwise regimented life, I attribute to courses in the Graphic Arts
at Fogg and Robinson. It was in this period while stationed at
Jefferson Barracks, Missouri, that a youthful romance came to a
happy conclusion and produced in the years to follow progeny in
which the fair sex outnumbered the males three to one.

A return to civilian life with the attendant responsibilities of a
growing family found us residing in Winchester, an enlightened sub-
urb of Greater Boston, where a few roots from my own youth still
remained. In a spirit of “togetherness,” a way of life apparently
originating in our generation, we entered into community life, par-
ticipating in the Little League program and most of the degrees of
Boy and Girl Scouting, and frequently performing the leg work for
numerous fund-raising campaigns. Sharing my wife’s enthusiasm
for the theatre, we have collaborated in various capacities in local
amateur productions. By way of diversification and in response to
a recent appeal by the school board, I wear my other hat as a tutor
of mathematics in my spare me. Though I may not have closed the
gap in education, this experience has been stimulating. Our spiritual
life has its focal point in the Episcopal Church where I have recently
become active in the parish of the Epiphany Chapter of the Brother-
hood of St. Andrew.

Maintaining summer residences at West Falmouth on Cape Cod
and Port Clyde, Maine, occupies vacations and as many weekends as
we can steal. It is at these times and in the atmosphere of several
wooded acres in the vicinity of the sea that we indulge in the luxury
of setting our own pace, initiate “do-it-yourself” projects to pre-
serve and improve existing facilities and enjoy the fine company of
our many friends willing to share the simple pleasures of life.

Since undergoing a critical brain operation eight years ago, I am
ever appreciative that my ability to lead a normal, productive life
was made possible by a heap of faith, the skilled hands of surgery and
the tender, loving care of many concerned people.

Now that son Jonathan and daughters Pamela and Penny have
arrived at the self-asserting period of the teens, the family crisis level
reacts accordingly as we cope with their frustrations, take pride in
their accomplishments and plan for their higher education. Daugh-
ter Jennifer, aged nine, with her exuberance continues to keep us
young in spirit if not in body.

Though my postgraduate associations with Harvard and the Class
up to now have not been as close as might be expected of loyal sons,

[ 1282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am always hopeful that circumstances in the future will permit a
strengthening of these ties.

ROBERT WHITTEMORE SIDES

    
   

3
q
ons

  

Babee bb antes tc stm on

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Hidden Field, Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Kate Meredith Boyce, June 22, 1940, CHILDREN: Kate Meredith, Aug.
1, 1941; Robert Whittemore, Jr., March 25, 1943; Sophie Meredich, Aug.
27, 1947; Lucie Boyce, April 29, 1949; Natalie Sinclair, May 9, 1952.

occuPATION: Education; director of admissions and instructor in mathematics,
Phillips Academy.

OFFICES HELD: President, Secondary School Admission Test Board, 1960-63;
secretary, United Fund of Greater Lawrence, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Eastern Yacht Club; Eastern Point Yacht
Club; North Andover Country Club.

IT WONDER how many of us, looking back upon the past quarter
century which seems much shorter in retrospect than it ever did in
prospect, have done those things we envisioned for ourselves in
1938. My aspirations of that time were basically these: a career in the
insurance business as an actuary, early marriage and two kids, hob-
bies of golf and more golf, and some form of community service.
How far from the target did the arrow actually fall?

Instead of the insurance business I embarked experimentally on a
teaching career in mathematics at Phillips Academy, Andover (ef.
Time, October 26, 1962). In a few years this turned slowly into
administrative work, and since 1954 I have been the director of ad-
missions, with one course of mathematics teaching on the side. Why

[ 1283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

anyone gets involved with admissions work in these hectic days of
heavy over-application, I'll never know. In this business you make
about five enemies to every friend. Nevertheless, it’s a challenging
and fascinating occupation with rarely a dull moment.

Harvard’s attraction for Andover’s most able boys is stronger than
ever. For three straight years, contrary to long tradition, more An-
dover boys have headed for Cambridge than for New Haven.
Oddly, Stanford is now in third place.

For two years, 1947-49, I had a leave of absence to serve as assist-
ant dean of sophomores under Bill Bender in University Hall. This
provided an interesting and broadening interlude to my Andover
career, especially since it involved numerous dismissals as well as re-
admissions,

Early marriage—yes. Two children—no. Alas, five! Four
daughters and one son with a mind of his own as a sophomore at
Yale. Unhappily for Harvard he’s a fierce firing forward on the first
line of the hockey team. Our eldest showed her independence by
choosing Vassar over her mother’s alma mater, Smith, and now she’s
serving as president of student government. Last summer she
worked six weeks for Senator Sparkman in Washington under the
Government Intern Training Program, and then she turned about
face to work for Lodge’s campaign in Massachusetts. Our second
daughter is a sophomore at the Ethel Walker School, and the third
aspires to the same goal next fall. The fourth will keep us on our
toes at home for three more years.

For several years I followed my ardent hobby of golf and coached
it at Andover with Classmate Bill Brown, but more recently tennis
and sailing have completely replaced this time-consuming form of
recreation. Virtually the whole family sails madly all summer out
of Gloucester, Massachusetts, and more recently in Marblehead.
This is strictly small-boat, one-design racing in the 210 class. Being
a school teacher I have, happily, more time to devote to racing than
most enthusiasts of the sport. As a result I have been able to enter
a number of local and national men’s sailing competitions. On one
occasion, in 1959, luck took us to Texas where we lost out in the
last of eight races, But we kept trying, and therein lies the fun.

In quite another way a school teacher’s life has its rewards. An-
dover has a system of two sabbatical leaves in a lifetime. Our first
turn came up last year, and my bride and I took the opportunity to
really “see the world.” Twelve European, four African, and seven
Asian countries widened our horizons and deepened our apprecia-

[ 1284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion of much that we had always taken for granted. It was a rare
and humbling experience, and we can’t wait for our second leave
some ten years hence. Furthermore, we can bore our friends to death
with movies and slides of many exotic places.

As far as community service is concerned, I find that my involve-
ment with education, especially the counselling phase of admissions
work, fulfills much of my aspiration in this area. In addition there
have been the usual fund drives, church canvasses and sundry com-
mittees. I have served as director and secretary of the local United
Fund and have taken my turn as commodore of the Eastern Point
Yacht Club.

To date ours has been a satisfying, albeit unspectacular, twenty-
five years. Admissions work is a high-pressured occupation much of
the time, but a happy family life and active sporting hobbies of sail-
ing, tennis and squash have kept us relatively young and agile. We
can only hope that the next twenty-five will treat us half as well.

JOSEPH ISAAC SIEGEL

 

HOME apprEss: 1853 Lohengrin St., Los Angeles 47, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1940-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(60).
occuUPATION: Railroad engine foreman.

MEMBER OF: Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen.

DEDICATING this to my father, who paid up my lean after
twenty years of not being able to put aside 150 dollars for such a

necessity. Finally received my degree in 1960 after completing
the requirements out here at Southern California University at Los

Angeles.
[ 1285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

As this is being written, Monday evening, October 22, 1962,
millions of people all over the world have been placed on the brink
of thermonuclear war. A “go it alone” military action, in violation
of the United Nations charter, has been enunciated by the Presi-
dent of the United States, a graduate of Harvard University.

At this moment in man’s existence, confronted with the reality
of no existence, one thinks it rather more suitable to write one’s
own obituary rather than prosaic autobiography.

The scientific calculations of our greatest minds have estimated
fifty million to 100 million dead Americans as well as millions upon
millions of human beings elsewhere in the event of any nuclear
incident. In such a crisis as today, the danger of accidental nuclear
incident whether by mechanical failure or human irrationality is
increased.

Humanity does hope for a chance. The eternal “while there’s
life, there’s hope” looks for human reason to prevent the oblitera-
tion of human beings. I look to United Nations negotiations as
an alternative to prevent thermonuclear war.

All these years my greatest wish was to see a world where people
could live in peace. Even at this late hour one looks to the work of
people like Professor Stuart Hughes so that sanity and peace will

prevail.

ALVIN LEONARD SILVERMAN

 

HOME appress: 288 Hawthorne Drive, Danville, Va,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 319 Main St., Danville, Va.

preparen at: George Washington High School, Danville, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 5934-1938, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; M.B.A., 1940,

{ 1286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Gertrude F. Schreibfeder, Aug. 25, 1951. CHILDREN: Keith Judd, July
28, 1952; Jack, March 19, 1954; Paul Smith, Jan. 29, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Owner, men’s retail clothing store.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Beth Sholem Congregation (currently).

MEMBER OF: Lions Club; Masons, Knights of Pythias; B’nai B'rith; Tuscarora

Country Club.

I MAY not have accomplished a lot in the past twenty-five years,
but I have succeeded in doing it very well. I have not been over-
ambitious, feeling that there is enough to go around for everyone.
Consequently, I am free from ulcers, hypertension and other assorted
ills of the Eager Beavers. Life has been good and I have enjoyed
it in my own quiet way. In the past twenty-five years I have gained
a lovely wife, three fine sons, a beautiful home and an active business.
On the intellectual side I have retained an interest in history, litera-
ture and world affairs. I am an omnivorous reader.

Now for a résumé of my life and career since graduation. After
receiving my diploma, I moved over to Mellon Hall in the Graduate
School of Business Administration where, after two rather unevent-
ful years, I received my M.B.A. Before joining the Army in Sep-
tember, 1941, I worked at the local cotton mills for a few months
in time and motion study work. My military career began as a
private in the finance department and ended as a first licutenant in
the 88th Division Quartermaster Company. The four and one-half
years I spent in the Army were the really eventful ones. After train-
ing in Oklahoma and maneuvering in Louisiana, my division em-
barked for North Africa where we spent most of the winter of
1943. We then went to Italy where we advanced over a period of
eighteen months from the Garigliano River just above Naples to
the Brenner Pass. I really got to know Italy, the people and, despite
the destruction of the war, the charm of the place. When the war
ended I became company commander of my outfit, and we spent a
very pleasant and indolent summer on the shores of Lake Garda.

After my release from the Army, I got adjusted to civilian hfe
very fast and entered the family business, and am now sole owner.
[am a small town merchant and enjoy it.

After several years of bachelorhood, I married Trudy Schreib-
feder in August of 1951. Our marriage has been blessed with three
fine sons — my eldest son is ten, my middle son is cight and my
youngest son is four years old. They ‘keep life interesting and active.
In my business career I had one very unusual experience. On July
1, 1959, I was on my way to work when the store building collapsed

[ 1287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

when I was about a block away, completely demolishing my busi-
ness. Three minutes more and I would have been inside the building
and would have met certain death. A new building was being
erected next door to mine, and while digging for a foundation the
workmen undermined the wall of my store. Since then I have felt
that fate is on my side.

This brings my career up to date. As far as a philosophy of life is
concerned, I try to abide by the Golden Rule. I have an abiding
faith in the future of mankind, despite the destructive power of
the atom bomb.

ELIOT NATHAN SILVERMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 232 N. Kings Ave., North Massapequa, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFicE abprEss: Applied Plastics Corp., 166 Babylon Turnpike, Roosevelt, N.Y.

preparED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938, A.M., 1941.

marrieD: Dorothy Lois Cohen, Aug. 22, 1943. CHILDREN: Peter Jay, Jan. 13,
1945; Dorothy Gail, May 29, 1948; David Lee, Jan. 29, 1950, William
Maurice, July 17, 1953.

occupation: Vice-president (responsible for sales and engineering), Applied
Plastics Corporation, manufacturers of cast plastic spectacle lenses and
clear plastic sheet.

OFFICES HELD: President, Plainedge Action Committee for Education, 1962-63.

DEAR Jake: It’s been so long since college, that I hardly remember
where we left off in our correspondence. Over the years we ex-
changed a card or a brief visit, but we rushed through so much in
an hour or two that I never have brought you fully up to date on
the Silvermans. Perhaps this résumé will inspire you to a reply.

Life is a lot simpler and more satisfying now than in that first

[ 1288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year after graduation. I remember hitchhiking to the Norton plant

in Worcester. They had no job for me in ’38, but they also had no

security guards and offered me a tour of the plant. They pointed

out a huge rolling mill being constructed for the USSR — they
said that order was keeping the plant going. 1938 was a rough year.

I always wanted to teach. I had a knack of presenting a tough
idea so it looked simple and obvious. Teaching excited me. A year
at the Graduate School of Education (Harvard) began to cure me
of that aberration, and the following year, at the Windsor Mountain
School in Vermont, continued the cure. Nonetheless, 1940 found
me teaching at the Fieldston School in Riverdale, New York. I
met some wonderful people there—teachers and students — and
might have made a career of it if the War hadn’t intervened.

While waiting to be picked up by the Draft Board I took a
temporary job with my friend Paul Lee (’37) at Polaroid Corpo-
ration in Cambridge. Somehow this lasted until 1949. I worked my
way through machine gun trainers, optical instrument design, glass
and plastic optics manufacturing and stayed on until the advent of
the Polaroid camera. About the same time that I took the job at
Polaroid I met Dorothy Lois Cohen, Mary Baldwin ’38, and a Rad-
cliffe graduate student in ’39. We were married in August, 1943.
I still don’t know why it took so long, but it was worth the wait.
We’ve done well together — four children, Peter, Gail, David, Billy

— and nineteen good years. I guess I’ve made more of a career of
marriage than business, though both are doing well. Dotty opened
my eyes to the need for political action to alleviate the social and
economic injustices that hurt our country. We devoted many years
to progressive political causes —I being moved more by intellectual
conviction, and Dotty by the warmth of her spirit. It was a good
combination. Many of the causes we supported have become an
accepted part of U.S.A. in the ’60’s.

In 1949 I went to work as chief engineer for the Pioneer Scien-
tific Corporation in New York City. We manufactured sunglasses
and later plastic spectacle lenses. In 1957 I joined the Alderson Re-
search Laboratories as vice-president and chief engineer. We manu-
factured human simulations for aero-medical research. In 1959
Martin Greshes and I organized the Applied Plastics Corporation
(Roosevelt, Long Island. New York). We manufacture plastic
lenses and clear plastic sheets. In the next few years you will sce
many of our classmates wearing APC plastic lenses.

Of course anyone living on Long Island has a school problem —

[ 1289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

with four children it’s a little more urgent than average. Dotty and
I, along with many good friends in Plainedge, have been trying
to persuade the community to build enough schools to end split
sessions. This campaign has become an obsession. We are now in
our ninth referendum for a second junior high school. We lost
the last one by thirteen votes— 66.6% instead of the required
66.66%! I'll report the results of this one when we meet in June.

DAVIS SIMPSON

 

HOME Abpress: 1 Bowdoin St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MaraizD: Phyllis Marshall Saunders, November, 1940 (divorced 1957); Gretchen
Scullin, 1959. CHILDREN: Jane Ann, Oct. 6, 1941; Betsey Davis, Nov. 24,
1943; Sarah Marshall, July 6, 1945; Davis, Jr., Sept. 27, 1948; George Wil-
liam, Dec. 27, 1953; Richard Davis, June 8, 1961.

occupation: Manufacturing.

SINCE leaving Harvard in 1935, 1 find I have been unable to set
the world on fire because I have been unable to find any matches.

After Harvard, I worked in a bank for two years at the low end
of the ladder, then left to work for a textile machine manufacturer,
where I stayed for seventeen years. Then I became employed by
a concern which makes vacuum pumps (for industrial use) and
vacuum equipment and systems. My career is still continuing and
progressing slowly, if at all, at the latter place where I have been
for the last six years.

The last two jobs involve heavy machinery and include physical
and some mental work which seems to suit my makeup and which
I enjoy immensely except for the modest remuneration.

[ 1290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My outside interests have included watch and clock repairing,
photography, competition rifle shooting, sports car racing, short
wave radio and hi fi.

My main interest of course is my family —my wife and six
wonderful children of whom I am very proud and who compensate
for any other things I may have missed so far in life.

re
e

 

HOME appress: 51 Old Farm Rd., South Burlington, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Medical Alumni Bldg. College of Medicine, University of
Vermont, Burlington, Vt.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.p. (Columbia Univ.), tg42.

MARRIED: Dorothea Foote Merriman, Aug. 5, 1939. CHILDREN: Ethan Allen, Jr
July 3, 1940; Dorothea Foote, 2d, March 26, 1943; Nathaniel Merriman,
Oct. 25, 1950.

occuPATION: Teacher, physician, clinical investigator; associate profesor of
medicine, College of Medicine, University of Vermont; program direc-
tor, Metabolic Unit, Department of Medicine; attending physician, Mary
Fletcher Hospital and associate attending, Degoesbriand Memorial Hos
pital, Burlington, Vt.

OFFICES HELD: House officer, New Haven Hospital, 1942-44; lieutenant (jg) to
lieutenant, Medical Corps, USNR, 1944-46; research fellow, Chemical Di-
vision, Department of Medicine, 1946-47, instructor, tgy7-sa, Vale Uni
versity School of Medicine; medical officer, Naval Reserve Unie, Burhng-
ton, 1950-54; president, board of trustees, First Congregational Church
(Unitarian), Burlington; councillor for Eastern Section, American Federa
tion for Clinical Research, 1956-60.

MEMBER oF: Amcrican Federation for Clinical Research, Savicty for Gyne-
cologic Investigation; Sigma Xi (Yale); Endocrine Society; Amen an
College of Physicians (fellow); American Diabetes Awociaton,

[ 291]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

which will launch a project she has piloted for starting a state youth
orchestra here. She has been active in the Vermont Council of
World Affairs, and this has brought many interesting foreign and
national visitors to our house.

We have had a good share of non-medical fun as well. Our
twenty-five-foot trailable cruising-racing sloop, the Guillemot, which
spends the winters in our barn with an international fourteen, has
given us much pleasure on this incredibly beautiful lake as well as
in the waters of Maine and Buzzards Bay. We are members of a
syndicate sharing a thirty-eight-foot ice boat now being readied
for the season. The skiing, which lasts until the end of April, can
be incomparable and is only forty minutes away.

Our living room is the scene of a fair amount of amateur music,
clarinets, recorders, flute, etc. In this university town we are fortu-
nate in having many friends both medical and non-medical. We
are glad we chose medicine. Doro’s comment to this last point is,
“T had nothing to do with it, my friends.”

We extend an invitation to any of our classmates to visit us at
the above address. We aren't far from the depot.

THEODORE SINGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 89 Beaumont Ave., Newton 60, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Mitre Corporation, Bedford, Mass.

preparep AT: Roxbury Memorial High School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, Magna cum laude, 1938; A.M., 19393
PHD. 1954

marriep: Yetta Rothtovsky, Nov, 11, 1948, cHiLpREN: Stephen Allen, Feb. 8,
1950; Judy Sue, Feb. 12, 1953; Philip Arthur, Aug. 26, 1957.

occupation: Systems analyst, Mitre Corporation,

[1294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TECHNICAL staff member of non-profit corporation (Mitre),
functioning as Air Force consultant, principally interested in the use
of digital computer systems.

EDMUND WARE SINNOTT, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 459 Prospect St., New Haven, Conn,

DANIEL AUSTIN SISTARE

 

   

oven ‘ er

 

HOME ADpRESS: 8 Main St., Fairhaven, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lincoln School, Providence, R.I.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marRiED: Anne Aronson, Feb, 4, 1937 (divorced 1939); Sonia L. Robins, Oct.
15, 1943 (died March 5, 1960), CHILDREN: Hannah Story, Jan. 15, '945%
Deborah Ellen, Dec. 24, 1948; Christine Townsend, Aug. 20, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Secondary school teaching of mathematics and sciences.

[1295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

AFTER graduating from college, I attended the Law School and

was admitted to the Massachusetts bar in December, 1941. I practised

briefly in Boston, then joined a Federal agency, Steel Recovery

Corporation, in Pittsburgh, became interested in the steel business

and moved to Carnegie-Illinois Steel in the fall of 1943, where I
held a position in one of the statistical offices of the company. In
the spring of 1944, I had a recurrence of a serious respiratory sick-
ness which I had first contracted in 1933 as a member of °36. It was
necessary to give up working and try to salvage first my health and
then some kind of life.

From 1944 through the early fifties our lives were largely domi-
nated by the demands of the administration of my condition. I was
in and out of bed, in and out of surgery, in and out of hospitals and,
finally, in and successfully out of chemotherapy. During these years
my wife and I managed to raise a family of three fine girls, to keep,
with some strain, our sense of humor and to maintain the low-
grade conviction that it was somehow going to prove worth while,
for our children if not for ourselves.

In 1956 I seemed well enough to find something to do, without
knowing how long it would last. Bill Mulliken, ’39, offered me a
part-time teaching position at Friends Academy in nearby North
Dartmouth and I have taught ever since. National Science Sum-
mer Institutes at the University of Massachusetts, Tufts and Brown
have helped me to update my undergraduate training and I am now
working slowly towards an advanced degree in mathematics, an
early love of mine. The work is fun, has its elements of psychic
compensation, and has enabled me to educate my children in excel-
lent schools.

My eldest daughter, Hannah, is in her first year at Mount Hol-
yoke. Debby is at the Lincoln School in Providence, Rhode Island,
where I am now teaching, and Christine is in the sixth grade at
Friends. They are a bright and attractive trio, if I do say it myself.
It is my deepest regret that my wife, who died of a coronary acci-

dent three years ago, could not have lived to see her years of cour-
ageous devotion and work fulfilled in her children and in my own
continued good health.

[ 1296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANIEL THOMAS SKINNER

   
 

a |

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2033 Wheeler Ave., Baltimore 16, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Morgan State College, Baltimore 12, Md.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., #zagna cum laude, 1938, A.M. (Bos-
ton Coll.), 1939; pH.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1953.

MARRIED: Vyna May Wingood, Oct. 15, 1944. CHILDREN: David Edward, Jan.
11, 1948; John Arnold, June 1, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Professor of modern languages, Morgan State College.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting professor, Brandeis University, 1948-49, Texas Southern
University, 1953-1956, Southern University, 1960; researcher and Iccturer,
US. Embassy, Paris, France, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Association of Teachers of French;
Modern Language Association; Boston College Club of Maryland.

PUBLICATIONS: “A Modern Language Teacher Considers the Classics.” Classical
Journal, 1947; “L’Influence Poétique de Victor Hugo sur Louis Frechette,”
paper read before Modern Language Association, 19533 “A Dictionary of
Linguistics,” review in Social Science Journal, 1955; “Les Minorites aux
Etats-Unis,” lecture at University of Strasbourg, France, 1957; The US.
Teacher-Training Program for France, Baltimore and Parts, tgsg. “La
Maison Victor Hugo,” paper read before College Language Associaton,
1961,

IT was certainly reassuring to review my professional career, be-
cause, as a teacher in a small Negro college, I sometimes wonder if
anything has been achieved. I am pleased to be teaching en the
college level and to follow, very modestly, in the footsteps of the
Great Men whom we had at Harvard.

Since graduation in 1938, I have taught at several colleges, served
with the U.S. Army in France during World War UL, as a sccend
lieutenant, and have had the pleasure of raising two sons who may
some day study at Harvard. It is gratifying abe to have carned my

[ 1297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Ph.D. at alma mater, since the doctorate represents a union card to
college teachers.

My wife Vyna has returned to public school work as an art in-
structor, in order to help David and John when they reach college
age very shortly. We had a wonderful year abroad during 1956-57
when I was a State Department lecturer in Paris. Since then, our
life has been a very settled one in Baltimore, where I have been
busy at the same position for the past sixteen years.

How should I evaluate my life in a philosophical or human sense?
I should say that things have worked out very well, without the
starry achievements of which one dreams in youth. A Harvard
education plus a grounding in Roman Catholicism gave me a charac-
ter base that I have been able to maintain in our worldly and some-
what trivial society, I have been able, fortunately, to preserve cer-
tain principles of character and conduct despite the opposition and
despite the consequences.

For the future, we hope to see our sons become decent men and
“péres de famille,’ while we ourselves enjoy our middle age.
Whether I should complete my career at Morgan State College, to
which I have already given sixteen years, or leave it for a less segre-
gated and more “cultural” institution, is an unanswered question with
me.

Personally, 1 look forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion at Har-
vard and I still believe that “Veritas” is a noble and valid concept.

EDWIN SOUTHERLAND SKINNER

 

HOME Appress: Thornvale Farm, W. Walnut St., North Wales, Pa.
OFFICE Appress: Philadelphia Electric Co., 1000 Chestnut St., Philadelphia 5, Pa.

[ 1298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, “Pinehurst,” Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(52).

MarRIED: Mary Ann Riley, 1943. camtpren: Sarah Riley, May 22, 1946, Edwin
Southerland, Jr., Jan. 30, 1949; Nancy Penn, Nov. 13, 1953.

occupaTion: Technical assistant, statistical staff, privately owned public utiliry.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant (j.g.), USNR, 1941-43, vestryman, Protestant Episco-
pal Church of the Messiah, Gwynedd, Pennsylvania, 1951-55.

MEMBER OF: The Franklin Institute; The Union League of Philadelphia.

THE economic collapse which engulfed the nation in the early
1930's did not reach my family until 1937, when dwindling in-
come was overstrained by the expense of sending three sons to
Harvard.

The task of managing the family debt fell to me because I was
there and had a financial bent. For this purpose, I needed a steady
job in the Philadelphia area and Janded one in the Financial Depart-
ment of the Philadelphia Electric Company. For the next ten years
I was busy holding my thumb on the economic dike —a position
not conducive to world-shattering accomplishments. However, I
did find time for two of the most rewarding accomplishments of my
life. I served as ensign and lieutenant (j.g.) in subchasers on the
East Coast during the period of heavy German attacks on our ship-
ping (1941-1943). Then in 1943 I married Mary Ann, who not only
shared my struggle with economics, but also inspired me to devote
some energies to my Own account.

By 1948 the family situation was secure again and the assets we had
salvaged presented an opportunity to rebuild our fortunes. The
move to the suburbs which my father (A.B., magna cum laude, 1906)
anticipated by some thirty years was well under way, and we had
salvaged land. Naturally, I became involved in a development proj-
ect whereby we sold restricted acre lots and converted the un-
productive land into productive stock investments. A housing short-
age let me to build with my own hands a six-room house in my spare
time. Within a year, this was producing rental income to augment
the dividend income for my parents’ old age.

In the early 1950's, I turned my attention more to my own affairs.
A night course in accounting which was aimed at improv ing my job
performance, also whetted my appetite for scholarly pursuits. Ac-
cordingly, I asked for a leave of absence and went to summer school
at Harvard so that I could sit for the departmental exams which I
had failed in 1938. Having worked for a public utility, IF did well in
the course on Government Regulation of Industry, passed the gen-

[ 1299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

eral examinations and was awarded an A.B. degree in 1952. After
thirteen vears this is really an award for persistence as well!

My wife had enjoyed camp life as a counsellor for many years and
when her summer camp in the Pocono Mountains was up for sale
we purchased it — on a mortgage, of course. She has run it well for
eight summers now with my help as V.P. in charge of Finance, Ac-
counting and Property. It is a girls’ private resident camp in the
summer and a year-round resort for the family.

With the growth of the suburban area, our country church has
grown five-fold into a thriving institution. As a vestryman for four
years in the early 1950's, I had the opportunity to participate in the
early planning stages of a building program. My contribution in the
form of studies of land use and population growth has added a sec-
ond source of satisfaction from this activity.

As you can see, if you have stayed with me this long, this has been
a rather parochial period not beset with honors or acclaim. Yet, to
me, it has been a very satisfying one. I have no ulcers, keep in good
physical condition through my outdoor pursuits and have preserved
my personal integrity throughout. Much of the activity has been
altruistic to set things right for the best interest of all concerned.
Still, there is no true altruism, for that which benefited me least was

really most rewarding.

THOMAS RYDEN SKINNER

 

malLinc appress: P.O, Box 628, Mount Sunapee, N.H.

[ 1300 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD CAMPBELL SLEEPER

 

HOME apprEss: 18 Tice Valley Lane, Walnut Creek, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Columbia-Geneva Steel Division, Pittsburgh, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarrigD: Dorothy Anne Marwedel, April 14, 1945. CHILDREN: Stephen Taft,
Nov. 25, 1947; Anne Elizabeth, Aug. 27, 1949; Scott Warren, April 17,

1957-
occupATION: Supervisor-Safety, Pittsburgh Works, Columbia-Geneva Steel

Division, U.S. Steel Corporation.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Safety Engineers; Northern California In-
dustrial Safety Society; American Industrial Hygiene Association, Northern
California Industrial Relations Council; American Institute of Industrial
Engineers, Association of Iron and Steel Engineers.

I FIND it hard to believe your statement that the Class wants to
know all about my exciting history. During the past twenty-five
years I have received relatively few phone calls and had even fewer
people bat down my front door to secure this information. The few
who did inquire did not seem to be overly excited by the fact that
I am still a rabid Republican (half way between Goldwater and
John Birch); that I deserted my New England Baptist upbringing
to become an Episcopalian (power of a w oman); that I have spent
five years in the Navy in World War II, and at the invitation of the
government, two more years during the Korean emergency (present
rank, captain in the Naval Reserves; unfortunately, no PT boat
duty); that we had deserted the harshness of the New Fngland ch-
mate for California (unfortunately, California is now entering a
cold cycle); that I had over the vears joined three separate duck
clubs and averaged less than one duck per club; thar my golf game
has deteriorated to the point where I have to use a driver to yet the

[ r301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

same distance I used to get with a two-iron; that my wife is a very
tolerant person and has managed to put up with my foibles lo these
many years (several times she has become quite threatening); that
our children are no better or worse than other children in the same
age group (even though we secretly believe they are superior); that
I now have a permanent “football knee” (from trying to do the
Limbo with the teen-agers).

I became so bored trying to review my past life that I am sure
anyone not ego involved would be bored beyond endurance; besides
] am still waiting for my past to happen.

JAMES ROY SMALL

 

HOME appress: 25 Norfolk Rd., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: B. F. Goodrich Footwear Co., Nichols Avenue, Watertown,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: North Brookfield High School, North Brookfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, L1.B. (Boston Coll.), 1946.

Marrigp: Ester Modin, June 20, 1941. CHILDREN: Paul James, June 30, 1946;
Christine Margaret, Oct. 17, 1953.

occupaTION: Manager, Footwear Construction, B. F. Goodrich Footwear
Company.

MEMBER OF: Stay at Home; Friday Night Poker Club, Noon Hour Bridge
Club; National Geographic Soctety.

COVERING twenty-five years in a few sentences seemed, at first,
to be an impossible task. A quick review, however, is a good re-
minder of how the years have sped by since 1938 and particularly

since 1945 — postwar, that is. Keeping busy and the blessings of
good health and family seem to be the all-important requirements for

[ 1302 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

happiness. I guess these lessons are available in Philosophy A but are
much better learned by actual experience.

As covered in the Tenth Report, I married a Radcliffe girl — Class
of 1938 incidentally — and have a boy sixteen, now at Woodstock

Country School in Vermont, and a girl nine, now preparing to be a
schoolteacher — she says.

I have been working at the B. F. Goodrich Footwear Company in
Watertown, Massachusetts, since January, 1939, which covers my
entire working life since graduation. Starting at the lowest possible
point in the organization, I have acquired a number of different ttle
changes over the years, but have not succeeded in changing many
of the problems I started with. My present job is entitled “Manager
of Footwear Construction,” which makes me responsible for proper
footwear making (construction, costs, methods, materials, patterns
and quality) but actually is more like a complaint clerk and requires
handling problems of any nature—except snow shovelling and
carpentry, of which I have more than enough to do at home.

Apart from my working hours, my chief diversions have been
golf, reading, cards — socially only—and TV viewing. I have
never been active in any religious, social or political organization,
preferring, perhaps, to be as independent as possible and liking to go
my own way if I can. Of course I have been roped into P.T.A.,
Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, company trips, etc., and can expect to be
involved in some degree with the Brownies, Camp Fire Girls or
Girl Scouts in the near future. Not being any kind of a “joiner” I
keep such activities at a minimum. In so doing the sledding is fre-
quently rougher, I’m sure, but the sense of accomplishment is greater
for whatever it’s worth. The kids keep me occupied for any leisure
time I may have which the above activities do not absorb.

In spite of the prosaic way of life I have detailed, I find my inner
satisfaction is adequate and in my own way I think I'm probably as
happy and contented as any other clam. At the risk of sounding
trite, I think it has been a good life to date. I'm expecting the nent
twenty-five years to be as good or better and I'd not like to have to
go through the past twenty-five again. Perhaps my fifty-year re-
port will be more interesting and informative.

[ 1303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

COURTNEY CRAIG SMITH
—_ — |

  

he

 

HOME ADDRESS: 324 Cedar Lane, Swarthmore, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Des Moines, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., #agva cum laude, 1938; A.M., 19413
PHD. 1944; LLD. (Univ. of Pennsylvania, Temple Univ., Univ. of Pitts-
burgh); Lup. (Bucknell Univ.); purr. (West Virginia Univ.); deco-
rated Honorary Officer, Order of British Empire (O.B.E.).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Bowden Proctor, Oct. 12, 1939. CHILDREN: Courtney
Craig, Jr., Feb. 27, 1942; Elizabeth Bowden, June 8, 1944; Carol Dabney,
Oct. 15, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Courtney Craig Smith, Jr., ’64.

occupation: President, Swarthmore College and American Secretary of the
Rhodes Scholarships.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of managers, Philadelphia Savings Fund Society;
member, board of directors, The Markle Foundation, Association of
American Colleges, 1957-61; member, board of trustees, Eisenhower Ex-
change Fellowships, Inc, Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Delaware Metropoli-
tan Project; member, board of directors, Association of American Rhodes
Scholars; member, Board of Overseers, Harvard College, 1955-61, member,
board of electors, George Eastman Visiting Professorship to Oxford
University.

MEMBER OF: Association of American Rhodes Scholars; Phi Beta Kappa;
Fellows in American Studies; Modern Language Association; Century
Association and University Club, New York City; Harvard Club of
Philadelphia, Sunday Breakfast Club and Ozone Club, Philadelphia,
Rolling Green Golf Club, Delaware County, Pa,

MY theme, I note in looking back, was sounded in my Eighteenth
Anniversary Report: “the great joy in believing so thoroughly in
what you're doing that your only regret is that you can’t give more
to it all.” This is my tenth year as President of Swarthmore College
and administrative head of the Rhodes Scholarships in the United

[ 13¢q ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

States, and I feel deeply rewarded by life to be doing precisely what
I most want to do.

I write about and speak for Swarthmore and the Rhodes Scholar-
ships so constantly that it is hard to keep an account of this sort from
becoming “institutional.” The question of what's happened to me in
the past year, or the past ten, would seem most naturally answ ered
by what’s happened to this college or to the scholarships. I keep
feeling that my “Class Life” has already been written — in install-
ments, in my Annual Reports. The self, from what I see of myself
and the selves of my colleagues, does not get entirely lost in this
process, for one naturally hopes for the personal satisfaction of doing
the job well. But it does get somewhat chastened: when one 5 occu-
pation, one’s preoccupation, centers in the arrangements that are
conceived to foster the development of young people and the ad-
vancement of knowledge it doesn’t take much candor to realize that
infinitely more remains to be accomplished than has been accom-
plished. The personal joy of which I spoke comes, then, primarily
from the conviction that the goal is good.

The college President’s wife is involved in all this too, for her re-
lationship to the college is a full-time job as well. And somehow
our three children have managed to survive their parents’ too busy
lives — in part, I think, because in growing up on the edge of the
campus they have felt an involvement in the college’s prob-
lems and activities and thus a sense of sharing in what was occupv-
ing their father and mother. At ten they v worshipped the foorball
captain, at twelve they relished the students’ escapades, at sixtcen
they heard the concerts and the visiting lecturers and wondered for
a moment if college anywhere else would be so much fun. It is, of
course, and Craig is now an enthusiastic member of the Class of 1944
at Harvard, Lee the Class of 1966 at Smith, while Dabney is in the
tenth grade of Swarthmore High School. "

Whenever Ishmael, Herman Melville tells us, found himself grow-
ing grim about the mouth, or bringing up the rear of every funcral
he met, or tempted to step into the street and methodically knock
people’s hats off, he accounted it high time to get to sea as soon as
he could. I get to the golf course instead. And in August we some-
times travel as a family but most often go to New Hampshire for a
month of swimming, canocing, tennis, reading, and hoping that the
phone worrt ring. It does ring, of course, but by September, which
is the real New Year in the academic world, there are not only the
old friends — the concerned and dedicated colleagues whe take an

[ 1305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

academic community so rich a place to live — but the new students,
the new faculty, the new courses, the new research, which give

one a sense of personal renewal and the full return of the joy with
which I began.

FRANKLIN HENRY SMITH

 

HOME appress: 1 Nelson Lane, Bay City, Mich.
PREPARED AT: Cranbrook School, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938, B.ARCH., 1947.

MarrieD: Betty Frances Payne, July 10, 1945. cHitpren: Norman; Franklin
Henry, Jr.; Elizabeth, Martha.

occuPaTIoN: Architecture.

AFTER Graduate School of Design, went to work for an architec-
tural firm in Saginaw, Michigan, Frantz & Spence, and stayed with
that ship until it split in two in 1960, when I went to work with
James A. Spence, Architect, Saginaw, Michigan.

Although I enjoy reminiscing in moderation, 25th Reunions come
all too soon and there is a strong element of sadness involved when
one considers all the ideas and ideals which were associated with the
college years, and which still seem to require much nurturing to sur-
vive, let alone grow. But not wishing to be a wet blanket, I think
that this occasion is one which could serve to provide the impetus
for cutting away the barnacles which time’s hull gathers, and getting
on with the job. (Salty talk from the Great Fresh Water Lakes.)

No photo because I am wanted by Brookline (Mass.) police for
stealing Welsbach mantle from street lamp in 1940.

[ 1306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

++ GEORGE CRICHTON SMITH

 

porn: Aug. 11, 1916, San Francisco, Calif. parents: George Crichton Smith,
Alice Harker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

marriep: Mary Farrar, June, 1937. cuiLp: George Crichton, 3d, June 27, 1943-
piep: Killed in action, Oct. 9, 1944, in northern Italy.

AFTER leaving college Smith spent two years in the hotel business
and then became associated with Remington Rand, Inc. In July,
1943, he entered the Army, asked for overseas duty and was sent to
Europe in 1944. He was killed by enemy artillery fire while on

patrol duty. He had been wounded once and had been awarded the
Purple Heart. He was survived by his wife and son.

HERBERT SMITH

 

HOME appress; 22 Glen Brook Rd., Wellesley Farms, Mass.

[ 1307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICE appress: Jordan, Read & Co., 89 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Muriel Gladys Weldon, June 16, 1945. CHILDREN: Craig Weldon,
April 19, 1947; Todd H., Oct. 1, 1948.

occupation: Partner in Jordan, Read & Company, insurance agency.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Boston Chapter, past national director, Chartered
Property and Casualty Underwriters.

MEMBER OF: Boston Chapter and National Society, C.P.C.U.; Wellesley Club
(waiting list); Copley Society of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on Massachusetts Compulsory Automobile Insurance and
Fire Insurance Rating.

THESE twenty-five years seem to have whirled past. It doesn’t
seem too long ago that we viewed with admiration the ancient and
honorable members of the other twenty-five-year classes who were
still able to amble about. Now our turn has arrived! For the first
six years after leaving Cambridge I was employed in New York City.
There J gained three great assets. First and foremost, it was there
that I met my bride. Secondly, an excellent opportunity to learn the
insurance business presented itself. Finally, as Uncle Sam turned up
his nose at my physical fitness, I was able to help as a volunteer
orderly at New York Hospital in my spare time, and this was a very
rewarding experience.

In 1945 employment shifted from New York City to Boston,
which was followed shortly by wedding bells and an apartment in
Cambridge. With the arrival of our sons we subsequently moved to
Newton, Massachusetts, and finally to our present Wellesley home.
A third change in employment occurred in 1950, and I became a
partner in the firm of Jordan, Read & Company in 1955.

Spare time has been consumed by such activities as Cub Master,
Commissioner of Little League for Wellesley and Youth Hockey
activities. Refinishing old furniture was a hobby until we ran out
of room for any more. Sending one son to Europe last year has been
the extent of “our” travels. However, if we can spend such wonder-
ful summers at North Lovell, Maine, with George Stone and his

family, who wants to travel? As to convictions — politically, my
leanings are independently conservative. As far as religion is con-
cerned, I am a member of the First Congregational Church of Wel-
lesley Hills.

And I look forward to renewing acquaintances in June, ’63.

[ 1308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LORING BARCLAY SMITH

 

HOME AppREss: 2218 MacArthur, Colorado Springs, Colo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hq., Air Defense Command, Ent AFB, Colorado Springs,

Colo.

PREPARED AT: Upper Canada College, Toronto, Canada; Rivers School, Brook-
line, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: B.G.E. (Univ. of Omaha), 1963.

MarRiED: Anna V. Barry, March 29, 1944. camp: Wendy Barclay, Sept. 14

1945.
occuPATION: Major, U.S. Air Force — air defense planning on design and em-

ployment of automated (computerized) systems.
MEMBER OF: Colorado Springs Fine Arts Association; Society of the Pen and
Sword.

THE past quarter of a century (a frightening way to phrase it) has
proven both swift and interesting in its passing. My graduation from
military flying school coincided neatly with the Pearl Harbor
period. Shortly thereafter, in common with many, many others, I
took a trip abroad. In my case it was not to the cultural centers of
Europe, but rather to the fabled islands of the South Pacitic. (In
twenty months I neither met Bloody Mary, nor discovered Bal
Hai.) For the remainder of the war I did most of my flving state-
side, with occasional short trips overseas.

When the war ended I returned to civilian life and began work-
ing for American Airlines. I was just getting settled into a nice, reu-
tine rut when the Korean trouble broke. A curt wire from the Air
Force advised me that I was wanted. So, it was back into uniform.
I have been in it ever since. I have spent most of the time since re-
turning to the service in the design and employment of computer:
ized systems in solving the problems of air defense. Vhere have been
the station changes so typical of military life, one overseas tour

[ 1309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

(with another coming up this March), and the normal number of
military schools.

Now that I have passed eighteen years of active duty I am be-
ginning to give some thought to the future. I may remain in service
until the Pentagon decides it no longer needs such an ancient retainer,
or I may retire, having the odd idea that I would enjoy teaching
history in either a high school or a junior college.

MAURICE ELI SMITH

 

HOME apprEss: 40 Gerald Rd. Milton, Mass.

oFFice Appress: Waldron H. Rand & Co., 41 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1936, 1937-1938. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1938; LL.B.
1941,

Mareiep: Edith Astrachan, Aug. 23, 1942. CHILDREN: Sandra Lee, Dec. 11, 19515
Joan Carol, Nov. 6, 1952; Amy Gail, May 16, 1955.

occupation: Accountant, attorney, tax consultant; partner, Waldron H. Rand
& Company.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer, Northeastern University.

AFTER leaving the hallowed walls of the College and crossing the
street to the Law School for three years, I spent the next four years
plaving cops and robbers in the guise of a special agent in the
Counter-intelligence Corps of the Army of the U.S. During this
period, in order to avoid temptation away from our shores, I mar-
ried the love of my life and spent my time overseas, in between
questioning recalcitrant enemy agents, in writing to my newly ac-
quired spouse.

Upon returning to our shores, a sudden whim enticed me into
preparing myself for the practice of tax law, for which various

[1310 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

courses in accounting seemed necessary for a proper understanding
of the subject. In practising this profession, I must have achieved
some sort of recognition, since I was called on to teach a course in
the tax aspects of estate planning at Northeastern University in Bos-
ton. The one major impression obtained from dealing with taxpayers
and their troubles with the government, I would say, is that too
many of our citizens try by many devious methods to reduce their
own personal tax loads without regard to the welfare of the
country and the tax loads of their fellow citizens.

During the course of the years, there were born to me three
daughters who have been a delight. I shudder to think of the teen-
age and ensuing problems to follow.

My abode is in a suburb of Boston and, sad to relate, I live the
typical suburbanite life, including P.T.A.’s and related organizations.
I see, to my sorrow, a further stratification of American society
going on all the time with a hardening of class lines dependent on
the relative financial affluence of each class. Having been a “student
of history” at Harvard, this pains me no end since it, in my opinion,
detracts from the democratic ideals of our society.

As I write this brief summary, the Cuban crisis is at its apex. I
wonder whether men of intelligence can overcome the prejudices
rampant in the world today, and allow our children to enjoy the
full life this age of atomic miracles could achieve.

So as not to end on a pessimistic note, I would mention my deep
satisfaction in the signs of a religious revival that seems to be on the
ascendancy, and my hope that this revival may play its part in
keeping our civilization alive.

[1311]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RALPH INGRAM SMITH

    

HOME apprEss: 1740 Madera St., Berkeley 7, Calif.
OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of Zoology, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1938; A.M. 1940;
PHD, 1942.

MARRIED: Todd Crane, Aug. 30, 1940. CHILDREN: Daniel Crane, Oct. 1, 1943;
David Lyman, Jan. 10, 1947; Leverett Ralph, Feb. 24, 1949; Margaret Bal-
lard, Nov. 17, 1950; Malcolm Andrews, Dec. 2, 1953.

occuPATION: Professor of zoology, University of California.

MEMBER OF: Sierra Club; American Society of Zoologists; Western Society of
Naturalists; several other scientific societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Edited, Intertidal Invertebrates of the Central California Coast,
by Light, Smith, Pitelka, Abbott & Weesner, Univ. of California Press,
1953; various scientific papers.

IT ought not to be difficult to find, in the experiences of twenty-
five years, enough to fill a page, but it is, especially if one tries to
find anything very significant to record. I see by looking at my
Tenth Anniversary Report that after four years of graduate work at
Harvard, followed by nearly four years in the Army, I found myself
an instructor in zoology at the University of California in Berkeley.
In my Eighteenth Report, 1 could say that I was still teaching
zoology at Berkeley, and I could have added that some of my stu-
dents were starting in their turn to teach in various colleges. I had
spent a year in Scotland and elsewhere, teaching and carrying on
some research into brackish-water worms. Now I can report that
I still lead the life of a professor of zoulogy at Berkeley, that some
of my early students are just now being recommended for professor-
ships at their respective universities, and I don’t know whether to
feel proud or merely semi-obsolete. We have had one more year

[1312 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

abroad, my sabbatical of 1961-62, in which I went as a Fulbright
professor to the University of Turku, Finland. The choice of coun-
try stemmed in part from the wish to continue research on worms
in the low salinities of the inner Baltic Sea, in part from a general
interest in the country. We had an interesting year, including the
tense period of the Soviet note and the critical elections following.
We saw a little of a tough country treading a narrow and difficult
path in an effort to preserve much that we take for granted. The
children experienced going to school in a foreign language, surviving
with various success scholastically; the eldest fared best, since he was
able to register as a freshman in the university, and to live among
the Finnish students. I learned enough Finnish to ask questions, but
not enough to understand the answers; lecturing was, of course, in
English. ‘The trip gave opportunities to work and to exchange ideas
with colleagues of similar interests in Sweden, Denmark, Leningrad
and Germany. It seemed remarkable how close can be the ties of
common. interests, despite the differences between governments.
Back in Berkeley, we find the rapid growth and speeding-up of all
things hard to adjust to. At the university the job goes on of trying
to change and grow, and still preserve what we have been trained
to regard as the essential values of a university. Between umes we
still turn to the mountains for pack trips in summer; in winter I

manage a little ski-touring. With a little care, that should go on for
some time, or so I hope.

ARTHUR RAYMOND SNELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 728 Hawthorne St., N.E., Grand Rapids 3, Mich.

[ 1313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICE apprEss: Miller, Johnson, Snell & Cummiskey, 932 Michigan Trust
Bidg., Grand Rapids 2, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Eckberg, Sept. 30, 1960.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm, Miller, Johnson, Snell & Cummiskey,

MEMBER OF: State bar of Michigan, American Bar Association; University
Club, Grand Rapids; Harvard Club of Western Michigan (president,
1961-62, since 1962).

AFTER graduation from college I went to Harvard Law School,
graduating in 1941. Without benefit of a cram course, I took and
passed the Michigan bar examination in June, 1941. With a Selective
Service classification of 1-A, I interviewed unsuccessfully for jobs
in a law office with the polite but firm rejection — “Come back
after you have finished your military service.” In September, 1941,
I went to work as a “junior legal assistant” in the Old Age & Sur-
vivors Insurance Office in Washington, D.C. (a slightly glorified
clerk’s job).

By mid October, 1941, I took leave from the government civilian
job and entered the Army as a private. Assigned to Fort Sill (Artil-
lery), I took my basic training in survey and fire direction. In Feb-
ruary, 1942, the next assignment was to Division Artillery Head-
quarters with the 33d Infantry Division at Camp Forrest, Tennessee.
The division moved west to Fort Lewis and from there I went to
OCS (Artillery) at Fort Sill. Upon graduating as a second lieuten-
ant (promoted to first lieutenant in due course), I was assigned to
the 104th Infantry Division as assistant S-z of the 386th F.A. Battal-
ion. After maneuvers and more maneuvers, the division went over-
seas, landed in France in September, 1944, took a turn on the Red
Ball Express, and first saw action in Holland in October, 1944. The
1o4th then went into the lines at Aachen and fought on to V-E Day,
winding up near Leipzig. In the course of these actions, I received a
Bronze Star. Then back to the United States for staging for the
Pacific Theatre came the division, but V-J Day ended the staging.
I went into the Reserves in October, 1945.

After getting my military service complete, I went to work as a
lawyer in Grand Rapids, Michigan, for the law firm of McCobb &
Heaney. After five plus years in that office, I became a partner in
the law firm then known as McCobb, Heaney & Dunn. By April 1,
1959, the partners had a falling out and six of us formed our own law
firm of Miller, Johnson, Snell & Cummiskey. This has worked out

well.

[1314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In September, 1960, I married Betty Eckberg (first for both of
us). It was a happy event for both of us.

I have found that old adage “the law is a jealous mistress” is still
true, but it has been an interesting seventeen years. I hope I have con-
tributed to the satisfactory solution of some clients’ problems. Per-
haps in this way I have contributed something to a better society.

FRANKLIN BLISS SNYDER

&
BE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1223 Oak Ave., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pullman, Inc., 200 S. Michigan, Chicago, IIl.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; J.p. (Northwestern Univ.),
1941.

MarRRIED: Carolyn L. Mellinger, Feb. 14, 1942. cHmpREN: Carolyn Prudence,
Sept. 30, 1943 (7. William H. Pfarrer, Sept. 29, 1962); Wendy Bunting.
Dec. 26, 1946; Franklin Bliss, 3d, March 19, 1949.

occuPATION: Lawyer; labor counsel, Pullman, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, National Panel of Arbitrators, American Arbitration
Association, 1947-63; committeeman, Boy Scouts of America, Evanston, Il,
1960-63; member, Chicago Bar Association Committees on Labor Law,
1959-63, Unauthorized Practice, 1953-55, Professional Ethics, 1956-60.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Phi; Legal Club of Chicago; Bar Association; Society of
Former Agents of F.B.I.; Suburb Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles on labor law matters in journals.

IN being cajoled into writing up my life at this stage of events, I
suspect I am not alone in feeling that same irksomeness of a mid-
term paper due during the skiing season; however, such a moment
of inventory can be valuable, regardless of what is written, and that
may be part of the psychology behind the Twenty-five-vear “Class

[ 1315 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Life” — refocusing on the years ahead and weeding out evidences of
self-content.

Originally studying law for business training, I found that profes-
sion a more interesting business than some others and went to work
for Montgomery Ward’s law department in 1941, Expertise in de-
fending phony dermatitis cases involving allegedly itchy underwear
was foreclosed by the war. The Navy and Marines discriminated
against me with some Japanese color blindness tests, and it didn’t
matter that I could match my socks, tufts of wool, strands of hair or
that the Japs had waived the tests.

Upon acquiring my first and only wife (who had once rung the
doorbell soliciting for Seeing Eye dogs and got me instead), I had
to do more than leave canned spaghetti on the radiator for meals and
accepted an appointment as special agent of the F.B.I. Apparently
my draft board tallied up the various fugitives and deserters |
accounted for, figured I could never match my roommate’s war re-
ord anyway and approved this most interesting career. It gave me
an early insight into Communist matters and has been of great prac-
tical value in the practice of law, which I have since followed in
Chicago, primarily in litigation and labor relations.

In September, 1961, | was appointed labor counsel for Pullman,
Inc., the manufacturing divisions of which cover much of the trans-
portation field. In labor relations there are so many under-currents
contributing to the erosion of management’s right to run its own
business that the law itself constitutes only the rules of the game.
Education today has a greater role than ever in correcting the think-
ing which invites the debilities of socialism.

[ 1316 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT WELLS SNYDER

ee RR ei aga

     

RATE ES man

HOME ADDRESS: Ash Lane and Easton Road, Riegelsville, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Robert W. Snyder Funeral Home, Ash Lane and Easton Road,
Riegelsville, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Easton High School, Easton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1038. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marrieD: Marjorie M. Sillman, Jan. 2, 1943. CHILDREN: Diane June, Feb. 2, 1948;

Ellen Marie, Dec. 27, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Funeral director — self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: President, Eastern Pennsylvania Funeral Directors Association,
1956; member, executive board, Lutheran Ministerium of Pennsylvania,
1960-62; assistant director, Legion Concert Band, Easton, Pa., 1962; vice-
president, St. Peter’s Lutheran Church, Riegelsville, Pa., 1961-62; assistant
secretary, treasurer, Riegelsville Union Cemetery.

MEMBER OF: National Funeral Directors Association; Eastern Pennsylvania
Funeral Directors Association; Prosperity Lodge No. 567, F. & AM,
Riegelsville, Pa.; Brown and Lynch Post No. 9, American Legion Band,
Easton Symphony Orchestra; Easton Woodwind Ouintet: Local No. 379,
Musicians’ Union; Riegelsville Kiwanis Club.

I STUDIOUSLY avoided writing biographies for earlier publica-
tions of this type. It seemed to me it would be dull reading about
some classmate who has moved no more than eight miles from his
place of birth, has had no exciting military or government service
and has apparently offered little of any great moment to socicty. |
have mellowed somewhat in latter years, however, so that now a
statement of twenty-five years of quiet activity does not seem so
much out of line.

The yearbook says I planned to become an “undertaker.” And
that is exactly what happened but it was many years before the wis-
dom of this effort became apparent. Since this was a family busi-
ness I dutifully completed the necessary requirements and became

[1317 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT ALEXANDER SOLO

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3850 Tunlaw Rd., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE appress: National Planning Association, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Northeast High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 72agva cum laude, 1938; A.M. (Ameri-
can Univ.), 1941; PH.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1952

marrieD: Carolyn Shaw, November, 1942 (divorced 1949); Roselyn Starr,
Aug. 18, 1957. CHILD: Tova, Jan, 28, 1948.

OccuPATION: Economic research; project director, National Planning Associa-
tion.

OFFICES HELD: Economic analyst, Dept, of Commerce, OPACS, War Produc-
tion Board, and economic analyst to Executive Secretary, Combined Raw
Materials Board, 1939-41; lieutenant, USNR, 1941-46; script chief, WCAU-
TV, 1949-50; assistant professor, Rutgers University, McGill University,
City College of New York, 1952-59; economic consultant to Economic
Development Administration of Puerto Rico, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: La Academia de Artes y Ciencias de Puerto Rico.

PuBLicaTions: Literary: Essai sur L’Amérique, Paris, 1960; Journal (with
Georges Agadjanian), Paris, 1961; La Vallée des Ombres (with Georges
Agadjanian), New York, 1945; “Notre Temps,” Rythmes et Couleurs,
Mars-Avril 1962, Paris. Technical: Synthetic Rubber; A Case Study in
Technological Development Under Government Direction, Government
Printing Office, 1959; Economics and the Public Interest, Rutgers Press,
1955; ‘Gearing Military R and D into Economic Growth,” Harvard Bust-
ness Review, November, 1962; “Intra-Enterprise Conspiracy and the
Theory of the Firm,” Journal of Business of the University of Chicago,
April, 1961; “Education for Revolution” and “Creative Technology and
Economic Growth,” International Development Review, February, 1961;
“Economics of the International Base Company,” National Tax Journal,
March, 1961; “Inflation in the Context of a Mixed Economy,” Canadian
Journal of Economics and Political Science, November, 1959; “The US.
Attorney General’s Report on the Anti-trust Laws. . .” Canadian Bar Re-
view, June-July, 1956, “Prediction, Projection and Social Prognosis,” Jour-

[ 1320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nal of Philosophy, August, 1955; “The Accumulation of Wealth in the
Form of Land Ownership in Underdeveloped Areas,” Land Economies
May, 1955; “Research and Development in the Synthetic Rubber Indus.
try,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, February, 1954.

TWENTY-FIVE years. Like an English theme handed back to me
at college; written across the top margin “very interesting” (under-
lined) but the text clawed over by the instructor’s red pencil, mark-
ing innumerable errors, and with a grade of C plus or B minus. So
these years, “very interesting” but by the grades, no great shakes.

They started, in the summer of graduation, with my first visit to
Europe. I went an isolationist-pacifist, saw the sanitized misery of
Italian Fascism, met the young Nazis in the hostels, knew the despair
of Munich in Paris and London, and came back home implacably
belligerent. I served in New Deal Washington, a minor functionary,
callow, enthusiastic, uneasy, by chance in high compartments of
the edifice of power; not understanding then (and perhaps not
understanding still) the degree to which politics, government, power
are like a river that the individual can ride on rather than a means
whereby his ideas are actualized and his ideals made real. Then war.
I spent most of it as a naval officer at advance bases on the Solomons
and Saipan. There were nasty moments; but the conflicts that
mattered were strictly internecine. In retrospect the war years seem
a relaxed time, a wandering in a labyrinth without looking for an
exit, expecting little, particularly expecting little from oneself. With
the Peace, to London, variously intending to learn about Europe,
to write a big novel, to formulate a social philosophy, to get a Ph.D.;
and in three years returning with nothing publishable, nothing
achieved, except perhaps some lessons learned.

Parenthetically, such literary notice as I have received has been
only in France; not so much due to the superior intelligence of the
French as to the faith and persistence of my friend and collaborator
and translator, Georges Agadjanian.

In 1949 I took a fling at television, wrote and helped produce some
eighty documentaries. That was no way to live, so back to Cornell
fora quick doctorate and then, from September, 1952, to June, 195%
to teach — three years at Rutgers University, three years at the Caty
College of New York and one visiting year at McGill University
in Montreal. I went into teaching at the ebb tide of the G.I. scholar-

ships. I started very low and, with no help at all from Alina Mace,
never got far.

The universities offer a pleasant life to those who find their niche.

[ 1321 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

But they are a miserable place in which to build an honest career.
The academic is a world without real standards for the evaluation
of men or achievement, nor is there any general force (of self-inter-
est, or of public demand, or of private ethos) motivating those who
exercise choice to use their power for the sake of education or sci-
ence. When the next pipe-smoking hack crosses his tweeded legs
and tells you of the undue emphasis that is being placed on research
and writing, don’t believe a word. The academic is a world full of
frauds, venom-tipped doctrinaires and timid fools, and its path to
pre-eminence is by the way of pleasing and appeasing these.

During the academic interim I published two books and twenty
articles in journals of economics, business, philosophy and law. I
also became interested in the social phenomenon of “research and
development,” an effort unique in our era to integrate systematically
science, invention, innovation, application.

From the summer of 1959 to the spring of 1961, I spent nearly
two useful and enriching years in the beautiful city of San Juan, as
a consultant to the government (more specifically to the Economic
Development Administration) of Puerto Rico, in its “Operations
Bootstraps.”

Returned in April, 1961, to Washington to undertake a study
under a grant procured by the National Planning Association, of
the means by which the knowledge, invention and discovery gen-
erated by the research and development expenditures of the military
and space agencies of the U.S. Government (some $11 billion dollars
worth, annually) are or might be transmitted into civilian-industrial
applications, and benefits for the likes of us, That study is now
completed and I hope it will soon be available in book form. Also
scheduled for publication by Bobbs-Merrill is an ambitious effort

called Comparative Economic Organizations, Economies, Systems.

[1322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALCIBIADES EMMANUEL SOPHOS

   

HOME AppREss: 345 N. H St., Oxnard, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ventura Star-Free Press, 567 E. Santa Clara St., Ventura, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

MarRRIED: Helen Alexakis, Jan. 14, 1951. CHILDREN: Mary Catherine, July 10,
1954; Patricia Ellen, June 25, 1957; Peter Emmanuel, Feb. 19, 1960.

occupation: Newspaper, reporting, editing (currently telegraph editor),

MEMBER OF: Oxnard Lodge, B.P.O.E.; Ventura V.F.W.

I HAVE chased the will o’ the wisp of a better functioning govern-
ment of, by and for the people since my college days ended. The
hunt took me to Washington where I thought the front door would
not have foreclosed fruitless efforts at a menial start in some eco-
nomic branch of service. It did. And a prewar chapter ended only
to be re-opened in 1946 after four years of service that ended with
the foolish thought in my cranium that now it would be truly a
question of winning the peace since the atomic bomb forever would
deter war. .

For another crack at the wisp, this time, thought I would try
through the back door. I am in my sixteenth year in the editorial
end of the newspaper business, that back door that I entered when I
was accepted into journalism by a tough and capable publisher. He
turned down my offer to work on trial for no pay and instead
started me at twenty-five dollars a week, largely, I believe, because
I held a Harvard diploma.

My swift pace through the ranks to the editorial desks left much to
be desired in a career in which it is easy to become mellow before
one is ripe. A few years’ running of a newspaper for the same pub-

[ 1323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

lisher undid some of the damage and I lowered my sights for a shot
at the wisp in local levels.

In 1959 I took a flyer at high finance, leaving journalism to earn,
if possible, the money to launch my next chase of the wisp at higher
levels, I had the satisfaction of achieving my goal in obtaining sub-
scriptions to a huge amount of local funds to build and operate a
local paper-board mill. The plan was conceived by perhaps one of
the best paper makers in the world and is still good. But matching
funds from prospective users in a seller’s market were not forthcom-
ing for unique reasons of industrial oligarchy, and I was forced to
close that chapter.

Back in journalism, the fascinating, difficult-to-leave profession
has provided support for me, my wife and my three children, and
I am becoming more and more resigned to the abundance of non-
material wealth it provides,

And the yearning to chase the wisp I have been trying to incul-
cate in whoever of the journalistic neophytes might lend me his ear.

ROBERT PARKER SORLIEN

 

HOME Appress: Waites Corner Road, West Kingston, R.I.
oFFiceE appress: Dept. of English, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, R.I.
PREPARED AT: West High School, Minneapolis, Minn.; Eau Claire Senior High

School, Eau Claire, Wis,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, A.M. IN TEACHING, 1942; PH.D.

(Brown Univ.), 1955.
marrieD: Louise Virginia Crenshaw, June 28, 1941 (divorced 1958); Barbara

Meredith Beasley, January, 1959. cumtnren: Janet Noelle, Jan. 10, 1944;
Parker Crenshaw, Jan. 1, 1951, Roger Field, Dec. 14, 1959; John Edmonds,

April 5, 1962.
[1324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Teaching; associate professor of English, University of Rhode
Island, instructing in English and American literature, composition and
report writing; special field: 17th Century English literature.

OFFICES HELD: Guest lecturer, U.S. Naval War College and Naval Underwater
Ordnance Station, major, USMCR, since 1952; vestryman, Church of the
Ascension, Wakefield, R.I., 1950-56; member, Diocesan Council, 1954-55;
member, Diocesan College Work Commission, since 1952; trustee, 1958-62,
vice-president and program chairman since 1962, Conference in Theology
for College and University Faculty.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association, New England College English
Association; American Association of University Professors; Renaissance
Colloquium; Harvard Club of Kingston; Rhode Island Council of Teachers.

PUBLICATIONS: 200 Years Ago in the Civil War, a series of fifty Centennial
articles written for the Narragansett Times.

EXCEPT for the interlude of our War, I have been able to devote
most of this quarter century to my calling. After a stint at two pri-
vate schools (Penn Charter in Germantown and the Englewood,
New Jersey, School for Boys) I joined the Marines and played a bit
part in a tragicomedy put on by the 4th Marine Division, between
Camp Lejeune, North Carolina and Iwo Jima.

’Tis said a Harvard man can learn to do anything. Besides direct-
ing a regimental stage show and performing other duties, I loaded
and unloaded ships, thereby contributing to confusion and probably
prolonging the war.

In 1946 I came to what was then Rhode Island State College, ex-
pecting to remain about five years while earning a doctorate at
Brown. In spite of a fellowship arranged by Barnaby hKeency, now
the president of Brunonia, my Ph.D. studies spread out over cight
years. Then finding it brillig in these slithy toves, especially the
woods and ponds and ocean beaches of South County, I have staved
on and on and am like to be here another seventeen years if voice
and eyesight last.

To assess my achievement is difficult if not impossible. A million-
aire acquaintance once told me, at a time when my salary was some-
thing under $4,000, “To be a teacher you must have to be a cru-
sader.” I think he was partly right. Anyway, by Reunion time I
shall have survived thirty-five semesters at URI and exposed between
four and five thousand students to the rigors of writing plain prove
and to some of the riches in poctry and drama.

My contributions to learning have been meager. [am sull be-
coming a Renaissance scholar, working back from Donne into the
Elizabethan age and focusing on Anglican preaching. Happily. a

[1325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

U.R.L faculty research grant has enabled me to prepare a complete,
unexpurgated edition of Middle Templar John Manningham’s Diary
(1602-1603). It should be in print for the gooth anniversary of
Shakespeare’s birth. Meanwhile the hitherto unpublished passages
should be worth an article or two.

This Manningham project began during a sabbatical leave, spent
in Oxford in 1958 with my son Parky, then only seven. Now we
regard Oxford as a second, my spiritual, home, and we hope to return
there in 1965 with the whole family in tow.

Perhaps the family changes should be summarized. Only those
who have been through the pain of marital shipwreck will under-
stand what I suffered and was forced to accept in the 1955-58 period,
so I will pass over this experience, except to add that the kindness of
many friends and the comfortable words enabled me to endure.
Then along came Barbara, who belongs to the Class of 1938 by
virtue of her birth in that famous year, just four months before our
graduation. Athletic, attractive and capable, tall and slender like a
willow, she has mothered Parky, given us two more boys, and helped
me to get on with the business of living. Is she, possibly, the young-
est wife in our class? So far this marriage of January and May has
produced much happiness.

Of course I am not yet decrepit. College teaching is hard work,
but occasionally there is time for tennis and swimming and in winter
for ice skating. Southern Rhode Island is virtually unspoiled. Our
house is in farming country, a trout brook flowing through our back
yard forms a Wordsworthian glen, and the air is clean. So we are
rich in everything but money.

Music is still a major interest, and I have been choirsinger at St.
Paul's in Englewood, at Makawao Union Church on Maui, and at
Ascension in Wakefield, Rhode Island. We have heard many superb
concerts in Providence and Kingston, though few as memorable as
those I heard at the first Edinburgh Festival in ’47 and a symphony
concert in Salisbury Cathedral in 58.

Rhode Island being a great Naval state, part of my life is involved
with the Navy. Twice a week in the Fall I cross the Jamestown
Bridge and take the ferry to Newport for a session of oral English
at the U.S. Naval War College. My students: twelve or fifteen
captains and commanders from as many countries of the Free World.
Teaching this international class means warm friendships with in-
telligent, appreciative foreign officers each year.

In the spring an extra responsibility is to instruct scientists and

[ 1326 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

technologists at the Underwater Ordnance Station in report-writing.
This task is more demanding and less satisfying.

So life has assumed a pattern. At Commencement I line up the
governor, senators, University trustees, deans and visiting dignitaries.
A few days later I am at Trinity College, Hartford, for the annual
conference in Theology. In July I may teach in the U.R.I. summer
school or take the family to Algonquin Park in Canada. In Septem-
ber we manage a few days at Dennisport on the Cape.

There is never enough time for reading and writing, but I have
much to be thankful for, including four beautiful children and the
opportunity to carry the inspiration of Harvard — of Lowes, Kitty
and Murdock, of David Worcester and Ernest J. Simmons, of W oody
and Doc, of Greenough and Hillyer — into a lifetime of study.

In more than one sense I have not been far from the Yard, having
spent the summers of 1939-42 and of 1953, and many a Saturday
since, in Cambridge, mainly in Widener or the Houghton.

Classmates who visit us will be heartily welcomed, especially
between April and November, when you can enjoy a swim in our
pool. We'll fire up the sauna and ice up something else.

+: JOHN THOMPSON SOUTHWELL

 

BoRN: April 5, 1916, Chicago, Ill. parents: Charles Thompson Anderen,
Theckla Maudt.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938.

MARRIED: Priscilla Lewis Cox, Sept. 10, 1940, Chevy Chase, Md.
piep: Feb. 11, 1956, New York, N.Y,

AFTER three years at Harvard, Southwell attended Grinnell Col-
[1327]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

lege. After a year of travel he went to California to work as a movie
scenarist for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. In 1940 he attended Harvard
Summer School and then entered the advertising business in New
York City. He was a free-lance copywriter and directed radio and
television shows before going into business for himself in market
research and advertising. He was survived by his wife.

WILLIAM FREDERICK SPANG

SPREE Gm eam es mg

stepgpees

1a Oa ym

  

HOME AppRESS: Box 336, Pine Street, Medfield, Mass.
OFFICE appress: Overseas Development Co., 470 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: [Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
marriep: Anne Evans Hoyt, Oct, 16, 1948. CHILDREN: Madeleine Hoyt, Aug. 15,
1949; Rachel, March 3, 1952; William Frederick, Jr., Nov. 2, 1954; Anne E.,
April 29, 1956, Rebecca W., Nov. 1, 1961.
OCCUPATION: Export-import; self-employed, act as combination export manager.
OFFICES HELD: President, Boston Branch, National Metal Trades Association,
1958-60, New England regional director, Small Business Administration,
1955~60; director, Associated Industries of Massachusetts, 1959-61, Need-
ham National Bank, Needham, Mass., since 1957, Black & Webster, Inc.,
Watertown, Mass., since 1955; member, board of trustees, since 1948, presi-
dent of board, 1958-61, Thayer Academy; member, board of trustees,
Charles River School, Dover, Mass., 1956-61; industrial chairman (13
towns), United Fund, Boston, 1956; member, Finance Board, Town of
Medfield, since 1961; member, Republican Town Committee of Medfield,
since 1952; member, Republican State Committee, Mass., since 1961; direc-
tor, Boston Council for International Visitors, Inc., since 1962; member,
US. Trade Mission to Spain, November-December, 1962.
MEMBER OF: World Trade Center of New England, International Trade Asso-
ciation of New England; Rotary Club, Needham, Mass.; Dedham Country
& Polo Club, Duxbury Yacht Club, Duxbury, Mass.
PUBLICATIONS: Several patents in the food machinery field.

[ 1328]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduating I was destined to join the family business of
manufacturing food processing machinery. In preparation for this
assignment, I was placed in a leading slaughter house to learn the
meat business. After about nine months I emerged from this first
stage of my career, bloody but unbowed. I was then enrolled in
the family business as a salesman. If you've ever tried to sell meat
machinery though the medium of a Harvard accent to butchers who
ran away from home at an early age you'll know how successful |
was.

In view of these problems, I was shortly called into the plant and
made president, which office, surprisingly enough, I held for twenty
years. After more ups and downs than a twelve-year-old boy can
get out of a yo-yo we sold the company. This brings our little his-
tory up to June, 1960 (our Twenty-second Reunion year). Having
acquired by this time a beautiful wife and four demanding children
it was imperative that I find a new vocation, post haste. After giving
this problem considerable thought for a few days I finally decided
to become a combination export manager. If you don’t know what
a combination export manager is you are in good company because
I was in this business about a year before I really knew myself. This
endeavor has been christened Overseas Development Company and
currently I am desperately working to establish a flow of interna-
tional trade that will do justice to the title I have chosen.

For someone who had never set foot on European soil before, I
had the full treatment this year (1962), having spent fourteen weeks
covering about a dozen European countries in the spring and again
in the fall, five weeks of which as a member of a U.S. Trade Mision
to Spain. I guess this brings my business career up to date.

Outside of business I have managed to keep altogether too busy
with various and sundry extracurricular activities in the political
(Republican, what else? ), educational, municipal, charitable fichls,
etc.

My war record was rather unusual, if brief. Was drafted into the
Army before the war, the day after returning home from our Third
Reunion in June, 1941. Was released three months liter to manu-
facture armaments. Was later drafted into the Navy and headed
out into the Pacific for weather ship duty. Gor as far as Hawaii
when the war ended and I was shipped back home,

My home life has been terrific. [TE married my wife for her apart-
ment when they were in very short supply in 1948. My wife marned
me for my beautiful thirty-four racing sloop. Within a y car neither

[ 329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

one of us had either. We had our first child after nine months so we
had to move out of the apartment. I had to sell my boat to help pay
for the house.

We bought an old farm house with thirty acres of land in the
most isolated part of Boston, twenty miles from the Ritz Bar as the
crow flies, This was one of my major mistakes because winter nights
were long out here in the country and we now have five kids, the
youngest only fourteen months. We are thinking of moving back
into the city.

Country life is great for the constitution though, or at least what
is left of it by the time your Twenty-fifth Reunion rolls around.
A fast spin around the trail on a trusty steed before breakfast makes
you feel young again for at least an hour and a half.

The call of the sea over all these years has been irresistible and we
finally put enough pasteboards together to acquire a summer cottage
on the beautiful shores of Duxbury Bay. Am trying to get the kids
to go before the wind in a tiny cat so I can get sailing again.

My wife and I are very compatible. In the winter she likes to play
bridge and I like to ski. In the summer she likes to play golf and I
like to sail. However, there is still the spring and the fall’, . . and

Harvard Reunions.

JOHN PRENTISS SPARROW

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2901 Claremont Ave., Berkeley 5, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 590 University Hall, 2200 University Ave., University of Cali-

fornia, Berkeley, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B, 1941

[ 1330 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Nan Reynolds Drew, Feb. 19, 1945 (divorced 1962). cHitores: Denis
William Drew (stepson), July 29, 1941 (7m. Patricia Monaco, Sept. 8 1942);
Deborah Nan Drew (stepdaughter), Nov. 19, 1942; Katharine, Oct. 31,
1945; John Prentiss, Jr., Dec. 24, 1948, Margaret, Aug. 22, 1955.

occupation: Attorney; associate counsel, The Regents of the University of
California.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor of law, University of San Francisco, 1947-52, Golden
Gate College, 1952-54, San Francisco Law School, since 1952, Deputy
District Attorney, Alameda County, Calif., 1947-53; Assistant US, Antor-
ney, Northern District of California, 1954-55; member, Schools and
Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of San Francisco.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; Berkeley Breakfast Club; Naval
Reserve Law Co. 12-4; member of bars of Supreme Court of the United
States, Ninth Circuit, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California,
Court of Military Appeals, Supreme Court of California, Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts.

PUBLICATIONS: One of several co-authors of California Condentmation Practice,
published in 1960 by The Regents of the University of California,

AFTER numerous attempts, I have concluded that it is impossible
to write a class biography without H. M. Pulham, Esquire, looking
over my shoulder, so I submit this with apologies to J. P. Marquand.

In the fall of 1938, Professor Leach of the Law School opened his
class in Property with the warning that one would never become
rich practising law. I ignored the warning and my graduation from
the Law School marked the completion of eleven years of schooling
in and around Harvard Square—a record hardly conducive to
moving west of the Charles River. It took the Navy and a war to
change the pattern.

Still believing that one could control his destiny, 1943 found me
at the Subchaser Training Center in Miami. My roommate there, a
graduate of the University of California, was from Berkeley and he
had the inevitable friend with influence who could send us anywhere
destroyer escorts were being built. My roommate indicated a strong
preference for Mare Island and I an equally strong one for Boston.
Of course, he went to Boston and I to Mare Island and thereby
became a Californian in spite of myself. However, it took a year of
residence within two miles of Harvard Square after the end of the
war finally to convince me,

After practising law for a year with a large firm in Sun France,
I served for five years as a deputy district attorney of Alanwia
County. Practise with a small firm in San Francisco ‘and service as

an assistant U.S. attorney Ww ith the Republican victory it gg
followed.

[1331 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193 8

In 1955 I became associate counsel for the Regents of the Univer-
sity of California and have been such ever since. It has been an excit-
ing experience to participate in the growth of this remarkable uni-
versity which now consists of ten campuses in various parts of the
state plus the Atomic Research Projects at Livermore, California,
and Los Alamos, New Mexico. We have some 55,000 students now
with 100,000 expected by 1970. Although the statewide offices of the
University are in Berkeley, legal problems of a remarkably varied
nature arise all over the state, so 1 travel a great deal. I find my work
satisfying and rewarding. To me it is an ideal combination of the
academic and the practising side of the law.

Understandably, the University of California attracted my two
eldest children. Kathy, who enters college next fall, indicates she
is going to break precedent and go elsewhere, but refuses to consider
Harvard by way of Radcliffe. Jack and Peggy are my last hopes.

I still teach law one evening a week in night law school and have
Icctured from time to time for Felix Stumpf’s unique Continuing
Education of the Bar program. I have kept up my interest in the
Navy as a member of a Naval Reserve law company in San Fran-
cisco. For some years I was on the Schools and Scholarship Com-
mittee of the Harvard Club of San Francisco and, as a consequence,
had the pleasure of becoming acquainted with a number of the cur-
rent generation of Harvard students from this area. California is a
pleasant place to live and I have never regretted moving west of the
Charles.

GEORGE HOLLISTER SPENCER

    

HOME abprEss: 11 Maher Ave., Greenwich, Conn,
orFice appress: Young & Rubicam, 285 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

[ 1332 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

marriep: Elizabeth Calihan, Sept, 19, 1938. CHILDREN: George Hollister, Jr.
Oct. 23, 1939 (72. Edith Gould Sheffield, June 9, 1962); Robert Calihan,
March 20, 1942; John Gager, March 20, 1946; Eliott Frost Michael, June
26, 1950; Elizabeth Weed, May 7, 1957.

HARVARD sons: George Hollister Spencer, Jr., 62; Robert Calihan Spencer, *64.

occupaTION: Merchandising executive, Young & Rubicam, Inc., advertising.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rochester (N.Y.) Chapter, American Marketing
Association, 1951-52; member, Board of Governors, Genesee Hospital,
Rochester, New York, 1950-54; member, Camp Cory (YMCA camp)
Board, Rochester, New York, 1951-54; board member, Brunswick School,
Greenwich, Conn., 1958-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rochester, New York (treasurer, 1953, chairman,
scholarship committee, 1952-53); Country Club of Rochester, Genesee
Valley Club of Rochester; Harvard Club of New York City; Belle Haven
Beach Club and Skating Club, Greenwich, Conn.; Nantucket Yacht Club.

pusLications: “How Population Shifts Have Reshaped Markets,” Advertising
and Selling, September, 1941.

SHORTLY after graduation, I married Elizabeth Anne Calihan of
my own home town, Rochester, New York. This, without question,
is the best move I have made in twenty-five years out of College.
George, 62, now twenty-three and married, was close to being the
Class baby I am told. Betty and I have three other boys and a little
girl aged five. Bob is now in Paris at the Sorbonne, John at Ports-
mouth Priory, Eliott and Liza in school in Greenwich.

Graduate school (Harvard Business), the necessity of making a
living and World War II have resulted in our living in Cambridge,
Rochester, Dobbs Ferry, Philadelphia, Boston and Greenwich, Con-
necticut. I spent eight years with the R. T. French Company in
Rochester and have been another eight years with Young & Rubi-
cam, advertising, in New York City. From 1942 to 1945 I was on
active duty with the Navy and was on Admiral Bryant's statf during
the invasion of Normandy, Battle of Cherbourg and invasion of
Southern France.

Most summers have found us at Nantucket for at least a month
and, in recent years, for the whole summer (I have been a regular
week-end commuter from New York City, weather permitting).
Sailing and sail boat racing have been our primary summer activities
and our sons have excelled in racing in the Flying Dutchman and
Rainbow (Beetle Cat) classes. Last summer we bought a Rhodes 19
sail boat to provide a little less acrobatic activity (than the Flying
Dutchman) for the senior members of the family.

[ 1333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Other than golf during the first fifteen years out of college and
more recently sailing, my interests outside of family and job have
centered around youngsters. I have particularly enjoyed my activi-
ties over the years as Chairman of the Harvard Scholarship Com-
mittee in Rochester, on the Camp Cory (YMCA Camp) Board,
Rochester, and on the Brunswick School Board in Greenwich.
Needless to say, these and other youngsters are our future citizens
and leaders and this country will stand or fall on the character and
resourcefulness they develop at an early age.

My Reunion record is not as good as I would like to have had it.
I made the Twentieth Reunion briefly and definitely intend to be on
hand for the Twenty-fifth with the whole family. However, Betty
and I have been regular attendants at the Harvard-Yale football
games which have provided excellent opportunities for get-togethers
with ’38 Classmates and a constant, pleasant reminder of undergradu-
ate days on the banks of the Charles. Pleasure taken at being a Har-
vard man seems to grow rather than diminish with the years, a fact

__ _ which can hardly be foreseen during college years.

JOSEPH HENRY SPITZLEY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1200 W. Fort St. Detroit 26, Mich,

[ 1334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT HENRY SPROAT

 

HOME ADpREsS: 64 Prospect Hill Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: English Dept., Boston University, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1938.

MaRRIED: Audrey Townsend, Aug. 30, 1940. cHILD: Christopher Townsend,

Sept. 23, 1945.
occuPaATION: Teacher.
MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; American Association of Uni-

versity Professors,

AFTER graduation I spent two years in the Harvard Graduate
School of Arts and Sciences, followed by a two-year stint of teaching
in a preparatory school in Chestnut Hill, Pennsylvania. Returned to
Boston in 1942 to teach freshman composition at Boston University
and to continue my graduate studies at Harvard. At the end of the
academic year I was commissioned an ensign in the USNR and served
as communications officer in the Armed Guard. I was assigned to
convoys to ports in Africa, Italy, England and France. After V-E
Day I was sent to Port Directors School in Port Hueneme, California,
until my discharge as lieutenant (j.g.) in February, 1946. Back to
teaching — for a year and a half at the University of Connecticut
and then home again to Boston University where I teach seven-
teenth-century and contemporary literature.

These are the dumb facts, to which I might add: I vore Demo-
cratic, attend no church, drink no booze and expect to continue to
do “the right deed for the wrong reason.”

( 1335]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CLAUDE WILLARD SPROUSE, JR.

 

HOME AbpREsS: Route 1, Grand Avenue, Lake Villa, Iil.

orFice appress: Abbott Laboratories, r4th & Sheridan Road, North Chicago, IIL.
PREPARED AT: Pembroke Country Day School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.B.A. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1942,

marriepD: Ruth Owen, Feb. 7, 1953. CHILDREN: Michael Ray, Nov. 7, 19573
Michele Louise, Oct. 22, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Manager, international personnel, Abbott Laboratories.

AFTER being graduated from Harvard, I worked for two years
for a small insurance company and then returned to school; this time
to the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce at the University
of Pennsylvania, where I received an M.B.A. in June of 1942.

After receiving the M.B.A., I immediately went into the Navy,
stationed first in Washington, D.C.; and later became port director
of Palermo, Sicily, and senior port officer in the Mediterranean.
After being placed on inactive duty I went with the insurance firm
of Chubb & Sons in New York City, where I remained until 1950
when the Navy placed me back on active duty during the Korean
War. I was stationed at Great Lakes, Illinois, and served as director
of Naval Personnel in the Ninth Naval District.

I went back to Chubb & Sons for a year and then joined the
Arabian-American Oil Company and was based in Saudi Arabia.
I originally went to Arabia to do personnel work but later switched
to the treasurer’s office as insurance administrator. Fortunately this
job required considerable travel and I got to see most of the world
several times at very little expense to myself. I left Arabia in 1961
and returned to the United States, more or less permanently. My
present position is manager, international personnel for Abbott Lab-

[ 1336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oratories, based at North Chicago, Illinois. 1 have some thirty-seven
countries to concern myself with and find it most interesting.
My family, including two small children, resides a mile and a half

west of Lake Villa, Illinois, and we devote ourselves principally to
enjoying our five wooded acres.

EDWARD GEORGE SPUGNARDI

-

  

HOME AppREss: 370 Knickerbocker Rd., Closter, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Coty Inc., 423 W. 55th St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937.

MarriED: Catherine L. Bennett, June 22, 1951.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

AFTER college I followed the family merchandising trend, joining
William Filene’s Sons Department Store in Boston, along with other
38 men. As a member of the merchandise training course, I experi-
enced the usual jobs as stock boy, and clerical in various depart-
ments, and was elevated to staff assistant to the general merchandise
man. It was in this capacity in June, 1942, that Uncle Sam inter-
rupted my career. My services though limited were required until
January of 1946. Although all of the three and a half vears were
spent in the states, I did get a good look at the West from Wyoming,
the South from Virginia, and familiar New England from Taunton,
Massachusetts.

After my discharge I returned to Filene’s as assistant buyer of
cosmetics, and a year later became buyer. This experience brought
on a desire to travel, and in 1949 I left Filene’s, with some regrets, to
join Parfums Evyan as representative in New England and New York

[1337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

State, and a few years later became district manager for the eleven
northeastern states, I was married in June of 1951, to Catherine L.
Bennett, and we spent the next five happy years in Hancock Village,
renewing old school acquaintances with Bob Sullivan and Jack
Casey.

In 1956 we bought a lovely new home in Weston, Massachusetts.
The acre of wooded pines made this living especially enjoyable.
In 1961 I left Evyan and joined Coty Inc., as district manager of the
metropolitan New York area, and this necessitated a move to our
present location in New Jersey, where we purchased an excellent
new bi-level colonial home.

In New England my hobby was mostly golf at Charles River
Country Club, but this has been limited here in New Jersey, due
to a recent operation. Gardening, landscaping and bridge have kept
me quite pleasantly occupied. Although twenty-five years have
added some weight and eliminated more than a few hairs, it doesn’t
scem possible that so many years have gone by.

FRANCIS SKIDDY vow STADE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Bryant St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: 3 University Hall, Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1938.

MarrieD: Susan Russell, Aug. 12, 1939. CHILDREN: Christopher Russell, Nov. 25,
1950; William Fessenden, March 4, 1953; Susan, Oct, 18, 1959.

occupation: Dean of Freshmen, Harvard College.

OFFICES HELD: Master, St. Paul’s School, 1938-39; assistant dean, 1940-42, director
of scholarships, 1949-52, Dean of Freshmen, since 1952, acting Master,
Kirkland House, 1951-52, 1962 (fall), Harvard College.

[ 1338 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MEMBER OF: Tavern Club; The Country Club, Dublin (N.H.) Lake Club,
Harvard Club of Boston.

puBLicaTions: Articles for and about Harvard (in the Alummi Bulletin, for
parents and students, etc.).

FOR almost twenty of the past twenty-five years I’ve been some
kind of dean at Harvard, and the excitement is still just as great.

It all happened by chance in the spring of 1938, after a fall term
off to play polo in the Argentine. I was drifting in a happy haze,
engaged, and with not the slightest idea of what to do next. An old
friend and master at St. Paul’s caught me in a weak moment and
hired me to teach there. The year was interesting, particularly since
I taught mainly subjects I had not been taught in college; it was
probably less absorbing for my victims.

Realizing that, if I was going to escape from this ambiguous
position, it would be better to know something of my field, I en-
rolled in the University of North Carolina in history —and got
married. The former experience was exhilarating but embarrassing.
The other graduate students thought that, being from Harvard, I
knew more than they did; I, knowing less than they did, kept my
mouth shut. Six month later there was a meeting of minds, and the
final term was a very pleasant one.

Then I got a great break. Dean Hanford had a vacancy, and
somehow his incredible capacity for taking chances on people led
him to hire me as assistant dean of juniors and seniors. Two years
followed in which I had a chance to know a great man and to
understand and respect this institution that I had previously taken
for granted.

Then came the war, spent mostly in Boston, with the Navy. The
last few months I was assigned to a job of fascinating inappropriate-
ness with the OSS, as an editor of the concentration camp movies that
were shown at the Nuremberg trials. My first day s with these films
were sheer nausea and I shall never forget them. They have never
been shown to the public, but they were a revelation of the potential
cruelty of man toward man that still horrifics me.

Since 1946 I’ve been in University Hall dealing, in one capacity
or another, with young men more able and ambitious than most of
us twenty-five years ago. I hope I’m around twenty-five years from
now to see if they have accomplished as much as their ability and
ambition promise. I’m pretty sure many of them will make majot
contributions, though the present very strong trend toward graduate

[ 1339]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

schools may tend to make them known better in their respective
professions than on the national scene.

I would like to pay tribute to Harvard’s tradition of turning the
greenhorn loose and leaving him alone as long as he behaves himself
and gets his 3 C’s and a D. There aren’t many bright loafers today,
but there are able students who have trouble; these have been the
ones I’ve been most concerned about and I’m glad to say that many
of them make the grade. .

I admire what Harvard was and is trying to do: namely to admit
young men to an “association” with educated men (and women)
and release them into the “fellowship” of the same. What more can
one ask of life than to be involved in such an endeavor?

My private life is so pleasant — happy — there is no appropriate
adjective — that I don’t need to discuss it — just wish you the same.
Without it, the rest couldn’t have happened.

Finally, I still believe in the future, though I enjoy looking back.
I cannot believe in the oft-mentioned purposelessness of it all! I
cannot believe that man is born except to be free (even though I see
contradictions on every hand). I hope I’m mature enough to be
sceptical, without being a cynic. Browning’s wonderful lines (prob-
ably inexact) still hold good for me after thirty years:

Ah! but man’s reach should e’er exceed his grasp,
Or what's a heaven for?

PHILIP NICHOLAS STAMAS

 

HOME appress: 8 Francis Rd., Lexington, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Stamas Metal Products Co,, Inc., 33 Ship Ave., Medford, Mass.
PREPARED At: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

L 1340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1938-1939.

marrieD: Ruth I, Sundelinn, October, 1952. cHitpREN: Nicholas Philip, Jan. 25,
1954; Lisa Ruth, Nov. 7, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Stamas Metal Products Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Blue Lodge; York Rite Bodies, Aleppo Shrine; Ahepa
Fraternal and Charitable Organization.

STEPHEN SADLER STANTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1520 Argyle Crescent, Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3012D Natural Resources Bldg., University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B., 1938(40); a.m. (Univ. of Michigan),
1942; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1955.

MARRIED: Jane Adams, March 28, 1959. cHitp: Deborah Jane, April rt, tft.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of English, Dept. of English, Collcge of Fn-
gineering, University of Michigan.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee on Scholastic Standing, and chairman,
Freshman English Committee, member, Curriculum Committee, Dept. of
English, College of Engineering, University of Michigan; bibliographer,
The Shaw Review, member, Shaw Society of America.

MEMBER OF: Society of Cincinnatt (headquarters at Philadclphia), Moextern
Language Association; National Council of Teachers of English, Fragloh
Graduate Union (Columbia University).

PUBLICATIONS: A Casebook on Candida, Thomas Y. Crowcll Co. New York,
1962; Camille and Other Plays, Hill and Wang, Inc, New Vork, to¢?,
“Shaw’s Debt to Scribe,” Publications of the Modern Langusee Asvecse
tion, December, 1961; “Scribe's Bertrand et Raton: A Well-Made Play.”
Tulane Drama Review, I, November, 1957. |

QUICKLY discovering during the summer of 1938 that | would
never make an insurance salesman, I accepted the gencrous invitanon
of Mr. Henry Kittredge, acting Rector of St. Paul's School and won

[ 1348]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

of Harvard’s famed “Kitty,” to join the faculty of this fine prepara-
tory school. I remained there for three years as a member of the
English Department and coach of junior athletic teams.

In 1941 I enlisted in the Naval Reserve. While awaiting a call
to active duty, I was fortunate in being able to complete a Master
of Arts degree at the University of Michigan. Between October,
1942, and February, 1946, I participated in the landings at Sicily,
Salerno, and southern France as a member of a special operations
task group commanded by Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. Our activities on
board a destroyer and a fleet of PT boats and air-sea rescue craft in
the Mediterranean were reported by Classmate Richard Tregaskis
and by John Steinbeck, at that time a war correspondent for the
New York Herald-Tribune. The latter’s recent Once There Was a
War reprints several of his original articles about us. When this
group was recalled to the States in 1944, I became for a year a liaison
officer with the U.S, Naval Staff at Toulon, France.

After the war a semester of teaching at the University of Michi-
gan restored my enthusiasm for academic life, and I decided to try
for a doctorate (the college professor’s union card) at Columbia
University. By the time I had ultimately earned this degree (in 195 5)
in English and Comparative Literature, | had completed three more
years of teaching (two years at Williams College and one at Bar-
nard) and had also gained some experience as an editor for Encyclo-
pedia Americana. Despite the economic hardships of these years as
an instructor and graduate student in New York City, I find them
especially pleasant to look back on as a turning point in my life, for
during this time I met my wife, who was also a graduate student in
psychology and French literature.

In 1955 I became an assistant professor of English at the University
of Michigan. Jane and | were married in 1959. In 1960 I was pro-
moted to the rank of associate professor. J seem to have reversed
the pattern which is undoubtedly typical of the majority of my class-
mates: | did not marry young! Although I do not in the least regret
this, I am nevertheless struggling pretty hard these days to keep up
with my lively two-year-old daughter. I have also foresworn, tem-
porarily at least, the grime and the bustle of the city for the so-
called pleasures of the country; or, more precisely, a cosmopolitan,
Eastern metropolis for Middle-Western suburbia, Fsthetically, the
greatest loss resulting from this move has been that of live theatre —
Broadway and off-Broadway, for since the war, drama has been my
first love among the arts, Yet a sizable university town like Ann

[ 1342 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Arbor has its compensations. To me college teaching offers an ever-

rowing challenge and continues to retain the fascination it has
always held. Furthermore, it gives me the time to write, translate,
collect, and publish materials in my field of special interest: dramatic
literature. I am official bibliographer for The Shaw Review, a pub-
lication devoted to the writing and ideas of George Bernard Shaw.
In these bedeviled days of our history I am placing my hopes for
a wiser, Clearer-headed, more far-seeing America in the increasing
opportunities for higher education which are being offered today's
high school graduates.

SIGMUND MAGNUS STEIN

enn

  

HOME ADDRESS: 3621 Riviera Ave., Las Vegas, Nev.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2672 Las Vegas Blvd., N., North Las Vegas, Nev.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

Marrigp: Blanche Tarlin, Nov. 30, 1939. CHILDREN: Fredrick, March 15, 19433
Warren Gordon, Jan. 30, 1952; Victoria, Nov. 16, 1954.

occuPATION: Pharmacist and drug store owner.

OFFICES HELD: City Councilman and president, Chamber of Commerce, North
Las Vegas; chairman, Clark County Heart Fund, member, Nevada State
Board of Health; president, Clark County Mental Health Association; ¢ap-
tain, U.S. Marine Corps Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Nevada State Pharmaceutical Association.
PUBLICATIONS: Weekly newspaper column in the Las Vegas Sun,

I HAVE a vivid memory of the Class Day exercises back in 193%,
and recall the shock of secing how Father Time had treated the mem-
bers of the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class. I made a firm resolve then
and there to avoid developing a paunch, a Yul Brynnee hairde, and

[ 1343]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

worry lines around my eyes. Sad to relate, I am preying, balding
and wrinkling. My waistline, however, is still a firm thirty-three due
to an active schedule and moderate diet.

Looking back over the last twenty-five years, I would undoubtedly
place my happy family life as the outstanding achievement since
graduation from fair Harvard. My wife Blanche has been a constant
source of good companionship, inspiration and love. My three chil-
dren are my most prized possessions.

If I were asked what I thought the most important contribution
a Harvard education provided, I would have to answer that it helps
mold a person’s thinking in such a way that human values take
precedence over material things.

Just take a brief look at any Harvard Class Report, and it soon
becomes obvious that our fellow alumni participate more actively
and unselfishly in community and civic affairs than most. Cynics
may belittle the old-fashioned view about the dedicated views of the
average Harvard graduate but I can’t help feeling overwhelmed by a
surge of pride, when I listen to the conversations of our alumni at
social gatherings. Building new schools, raising teaching standards,
eliminating slum areas, devising new and better methods of labor
mediation, improving race relations, etc. — these are prime subjects
of interest to our classmates,

My experiences in the Marine Corps provided me with an oppor-
tunity to see many different areas in our country and overseas.
Strangely enough, I found that desert climate agreed with my family
better than the much vaunted greenery of New England or the West
Coast. Hence, I settled in Las Vegas, which is undergoing a fantastic
growth pattern. It is an exciting thing to be part and parcel of the
pioneering that is constantly going on here. We have many problems
due to the vast influx of population, but these problems are being
met head-on with more than usual fortitude.

My politics are growing more conservative with the advent of
years although I still lean pretty heavily toward the Democratic
party. The Republicans just don’t seem to have enough dynamism

for me,

If any of you Harvardmen plan to visit Las Vegas in the future,
please get in touch with me, The welcome mat is always out for
good fellowship and stimulating conversation.

[ 1344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ARTHUR STEINBERG

 

BORN: Sept. 4, 1916, Boston, Mass. Parents: Samuel Steinberg, Sarah Heller.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; PH.D. (Boston Univ.), 1949.

MarRIED: Selma L. Levinson, July 6, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy
Beth, March 29, 1944; Robert Wayne, March 4, 1947.

DIED: Sept, 20, 1953, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

AFTER graduation Steinberg spent a year in graduate study in
psychology at Harvard. During World War II he was a lieutenant
commander in the Navy. After his discharge from the Navy in 1945
he worked in psychology at the Boston Regional Office of the Vet-
erans Administration and at the time of his death he was resident
associate at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Roxbury. He
was also resident associate at the Boston Psychopathic Hospital and
the Mental Hygiene Hospital of Boston. He was a diplomate in
clinical psychology of the American Psychology Association and
a member of the National Vocational Guidance Association and the
Society for Projected Techniques. He was survived by his wife and
children.

[ 1345]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EIN

ES sae

THOMAS ALBERT STEINFELD

    

HOME abprEss: 83 W. Meadow Rd., Wilton, Conn,

OFFICE AppRESS: Playbill, Inc., 240 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

prepareD AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

marrigD: Joan Rollinson, July 29, 1945. cHm-pREN: Geoffrey Thomas, June 22,

1946; Jill Rollinson, March 7, 1948.

occupation: Publishing — publisher.

T LEFT Harvard in 1935. Dean Bender gave me a good send-off. My
father’s funds had become almost nonexistent and I had asked Har-
vard for a scholarship. Very rightfully, with my academic record,
I was turned out into the world. John Orr Young, who had just left
Young & Rubicam, the advertising agency which he’d founded, gave
me a job wrapping packages and, after a few months, it was dis-
covered that I had a minor sales talent. I soon took this minor talent
to Bloomingdale’s where I became an expert copywriter for canary
bird sales, in addition to taking signs around the store and acting as
a general backstop for the varied temperaments of the advertising
manager, a lady, and her assistant. I was listed as an executive (at
$16.00 a week) because when the bell rang and the other employees
went home, they could keep me cleaning up the shop.

Tn 1937, when I knew one man in the theatre, this same man in-
troduced me to the owner of Playbill who took a long chance on me
at a few dollars increment in salary. I've remained with this or-
ganization ever since and because it’s small have held almost every
position available with the exception of chairman of the board. It’s
been an excellent avenue for meeting a wide varicty of people in
many walks of life. After all these years, 1 know now that I don’t
know much about the theatre, maybe a little about advertising and

[ 1346 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I’m beginning to learn about publishing. As one of Uncle Sam's
invited guests, I spent some years in the Far East in the China-Burma-
India theatre. I was fortunate enough to be an aide to General King,
one of Stilwell’s staff officers. There, again, 1 was fortunate in sit-
ting in on some high councils — of course, at the far end of the
room — and I did help a lot of high military men on with their
coats.

I met my wife in New Delhi. We both hit this faraway place at
about the same time. She arrived in India with a group of young
ladies who had volunteered for service in the Wrens and had been
picked for the long voyage to India as part of Mountbatten’s staff.
After some years of wading through army red tape, we were per-
mitted to marry in Ceylon. I think fewer people would have known
of our intentions if we had taken a display ad in the Hindustani
Times. Our first home, complete with purple bar with an orange V
for Victory emblazoned, was in the woods of Burma. We now live
in the woods of Wilton, Connecticut, from whence I commute daily
on the New Haven. Train bridge and bar car stories are a part of this
life. Playbill is becoming a national magazine in 1963 and certain
copies, I trust, will be found in the old Boston stamping grounds.

Our son Geoffrey, sixteen, is away at prep school and daughter
Jill, fourteen, is at home. Geoff is trying hard to match his father's
academic record despite violent opposition from his parents. Jill is
currently emulating her mother. I live a typical urban existence by
day and a secluded rural existence by night and over the weekends.

JOHN HOWLAND STEINWAY

Se

    

HOME AbpREss: 132 E. 1gth St. New York, N.Y,

[ 1347 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICE AppREss: Steinway & Sons, Steinway Place, Long Island City 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREE: A.B. (Bard Coll.), 1939.

occupation: Piano manufacturer; secretary, Steinway & Sons,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, 1941-61, chairman of board, 1946-47, Bard College.

MEMBER OF: Amateur Comedy Club; Players Club; Dutch Treat Club, Collec-
tors Club (all in New York City),

THERE is not much of note to record since my short period of
association with the class at Harvard. I graduated from Bard Col-
lege, then a part of Columbia University, in 1939, went to work as
an apprentice in the piano business and have been at it ever since —
with the exception of the war years. Drafted in January, 1942, I
served with the Air Corps for four years, two of them in Africa
and the Middle East. I was commissioned in 1943 (ninety-day
wonder) and retired as captain, A.C., in 1946.

One of my main interests has been in the field of education. I
served as a trustee of Bard College for nearly twenty years, includ-
ing two as chairman of the board of that institution. I have come
out of this experience more firmly convinced of the importance to
this country of the small, privately supported liberal institution of
higher education.

As to hobbies, the theatre remains my most absorbing avocation.
] am an avid actor and stage technician with the Amateur Comedy
Club of New York, giving as much of my time and effort to that
organization as a busy career in the family piano business will allow.

JOSEPH CORNELIUS STEPHENS, JR.

 

HOME Appress: 4101 Walnut Hill Lane, Dallas, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 1700 Mercanule Bank Bldg, Dallas 1, Texas,

[ 1348 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Woodrow Wilson High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-10938. DEGREES: A.B., Cu771 laude, 1938; LL.B. 1941.

MARRIED: Marjorie Johnsen, June 28, 1941. CHILDREN: Erika, May 2, 1944, Stan-
sel Gertrude, April 8, 1946; John David, Nov. 22, 1947; Marjorie Johnsen,
Aug. 29, 1949; Leonora, Jan. 14, 1951; Philip Benjamin, Oct. 19, 1952; Wil-
liam Rufus, Dec. 29, 1956; George Schmucker, Jan. 19, 1959; Benjamin
Hugh, Dec. 28, 1960.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors and executive committee, Council of
Social Agencies of Dallas; member, board of directors, Texas Social Wel-
fare Association; chairman, City of Dallas Advisory Health Board, chair-
man, Legal and Endowment Committee, Community Chest Trust Fund Ad-
visory Council; past president, Advisory Board of St. Paul’s School of
Nursing.

MEMBER OF: Dallas Athletic Club; Insurance Club; Gun Club; Brookhaven
Country Club; Ridglea Country Club, Fort Worth, Texas.

pusLicaTions: “Life Insurance in Estate Planning,” 15 S.W.L.J. 570, 1961; “Life
Insurance and Community Property in Texas — Revisited,” 10 S.1VL.J. 343,
1956.

AFTER graduation from Jaw school I married and worked for a few
months in the Claims Division of the Department of Justice in
Washington, D.C.; preparatory to entering service I returned to
practise law for a short period of time in Dallas with the predeces-
sors of my present firm. During the war the Air Force claimed my
talents which it recognized to the extent of a captaincy, and I saw
ground service in Italy.

Upon discharge from the Army in September, 1945, I rejoined the
Jaw firm in Dallas, ‘Texas, and since that time I have engaged in the
practice of law in a provincial town with a medium-sized firm
specializing somewhat in tax and related matters, although I am glad
to have any client bring any problem to me.

As you can tell from previous information, my family occupies a
fair amount of my time and I don’t manage to play much golf, squash
or anything of that nature. My wife and I, together with some
of my sons and daughters, enjoy hunting and fishing and we

occasionally shoot skeet if we can rake together enough money.
My youngest daughter is a horse fancier and is currently establish-
ing the Stephens Quarter Horse Farm, her sole acquisition being a
yearling filly which may, however, start a new line surpassing Poce
Buerno.

[ 1349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RUSSELL JUSTIN STERNE

 

HoME AppREss: 30 Danbern Lane, Williamsville 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1350 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Frasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., C77 laude, 1938.

markiep: Dorothea White, Sept. 3, 1943. CHILDREN: Richard Justin, March 21,
1946; Lawrence Jon, Sept. 28, 1949.

occupation: President, Walden Classics, Inc., manufacturers of women’s ap-
parcel,

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Citizens Advisory Committee of Williamsville School
District, 1958; treasurer, Combined Little League of Amherst, since 1957;
trustee, Unitarian-Universalist Church of Amherst, 1956, 1962; director,
American Red Cross, Amherst, 1962-63; honorary life member, P.T.A.,
1962; member, Aviation Committee, Buffalo Chamber of Commerce,
1956-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Brookfield Country Club; Buffalo
Ski Club.

WE spend so much of our time writing progress reports on our
business affairs, our charitable projects, or our community endeavors,
that it is good to be forced to assess twenty-five years of personal
activity (let’s not call it progress! ).

Most of my accounting procedures get “fuzzy” where the per-
sonal balance sheet is concerned. Most of my liabilities are indeed
my most worthwhile assets. My children, with their insatiable edu-
cational and financial requirements, are among the greatest assets.
My vice-president in charge of everything, with whom I signed a
lifetime contract almost twenty years ago, is a top asset. Our home,
the second one we have built in the last fifteen years, with its mort-
gage, its taxes, and its maintenance, is a very worthwhile part of my
opulence. My business which demands so much of my time, which

[ 1350 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is more of a preoccupation than an occupation, and which only
occasionally gives forth with a good return is still an item in the
credit column.

Perhaps, however, the greatest asset of all is something that Har-
vard had a large hand in developing. That has been the capacity to
keep learning. That search for “veritas” that began twenty-nine
years ago goes on and although I make no claim to having found
answers, let alone final answers, the search itself is rewarding. Per-
haps the essence of life itself is “the search.”

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Devereux Rocks, Marblehead, Mass.

JOHN BARTLETT STEVENS

&
y

  

HOME AppREsS: 15 Swart Terr., Nashua, N.H.
OFFICE AppRESS: Maine Manufacturing Co,, 46 Bridge St. Nashua NOL

[1351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.B.Ay 1940.

mareieD: Jean Hamilton, Nov. 4, 1939. CHILDREN: Suzanne, June 25, 1941 (m.
Peter Hamblett, 1960); Holly, Dec. 29, 1942; Carolyn, March 16, 1944;
John Bartlett, Jr., April 16, 1949. GRANDCHILD: grandson, December, 1960.

occupation: President, Maine Manufacturing Company, manufacturers of sheet
metal products.

OFFICES HELD: President, First Federal Savings & Loan Association, since 1959,
Nashua Country Club, 1958-6o; trustee, Nashua Hospital Association, since

1955; past president and present member, executive committee, Unitarian-
Universalist Church of Nashua.

MUCH of this so-called autobiography may be repetitious in view
of our Tenth and Eighteenth Anniversary Reports, but here goes
anyhow ... After graduation and the last prewar and pre-work
type of summer vacation, I entered the Harvard Business School,
and, as so many graduates like to say, “learned what hard work and
diligent application really meant.” During the fall of my second
year I married Jean Hamilton, left dormitory life after nine years
and graduated on schedule with the M.B.A. Class of 1940.

After a belated honeymoon, I reported to work at the Maine
Manufacturing Company in my native city of Nashua, New Hamp-
shire, and settled down under cloudy war skies to help operate this
family business and to raise a family of my own. This didn’t take
long with the arrival of three daughters in just under three years.
They have since contributed to making our life happy, hectic and,
at times, exciting. The girls provided me with a deferred draft
status, but by two years after Pearl Harbor I could stand it no longer
and volunteered for the Naval Reserve and was sworn in as an
ensign in early 1944. After several months of indoctrination, I was
assigned to an APD fast transport and shipped to the Pacific, where
we helped finish the war, participating in the battle of Okinawa and
the early occupation of Japan. We escaped unscathed, but I saw
enough action at close hand to last me a lifetime.

Returning to Nashua after separation from the Navy in 1946, I
resumed my duties at the Maine Manufacturing Company. The
company enjoyed several years of prosperity during the next few
years experiencing the happy, but all too temporary and perhaps
lethargic state of a sellers’ market. Our main product for over sixty
years had been ice refrigerators, which remained in great demand
due to wartime shortages through the early postwar period. By 1949
the handwriting on the wall indicated that the company would either
have to find new products or go out of business. New products,

[ 1352]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
including kitchen cabinets, display fixtures, laboratory cabinets, and
an assortment of other miscellaneous ones, were developed, and today
represent our principal livelihood.

Much hard work, disappointments and frustration accompanied
the transition from one product to several replacement products, but
the rewards of thus establishing a whole new business were worth
the trials and tribulations. Most recently we have established
GRADE-AID Corporation, a subsidiary, selling and distributing a
higher quality line of steel cabinets and equipment for elementary

and secondary schools.
Another new postwar product was our only son, John, Jr., who

arrived in 1949 —now thirteen and a half years old. He scales

5’9” and weighs 170 — needless to say, he is our pride and joy and is

now playing junior high football and struggling with Latin. In 1960
our eldest daughter, Suzanne, was married to Peter Hamblett, a Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania senior, but with a long line of Harvard rela-
tives. They reside in Philadelphia and in December, 1960, presented
Jean and me with our first grandson. Holly and Carolyn are senior
and freshman respectively at Westbrook Junior College, Portland,
Maine. They love the college, the state of Maine, their studies, and
their proximity to Bowdoin College.

On the non-family, non-business side of my life, I have been active
in our Unitarian Church and served as its president for two terms.
Socially, I have served as a director and president of the Nashua
Country Club and for several years belonged to Rotary. I have also
served as a director for many years on the board of the First Federal
Savings & Loan Association and have been president of this institu-
tion since 1959.

My hobbies include working around the house, golf about five
times a year, and boating around Boothbay Harbor, Maine, where we
have a summer place. Jean and I and all the children are looking
forward immensely to our Twenty-fifth Reunion and renewing many

old friendships and perhaps making many new ones.

[ 1353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CHARLES EDWARD STEWART, JR:

  
  

  

HOME appress: 420 West End Ave., New York 24, N.Y. New

orFice appress: Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood, 40 Wall St.,
York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B. cu laude, 1938; LL.B. 1948. .

Makniep: Virginia L, Browne, Jan. 21, 1941. cHiLp; Charles Edward, 3d, Apr il
25, 1946.

occuPATION: Partner in law firm.

orFices HELD: Member, various committees, Bar Association of the City of
New York, New York State Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Quaker Hill Country Club, Pawling,
NY,

FRANK HOYT STEWART

 

HOME ADDRESS: 724 Sterling Ave., Flossmoor, Ill.
oFFice appress: Wilson & Co., Prudential Plaza, Chicago, III,

[ 1354 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Independence High School, Independence, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.B.A. (Univ. of Chicago),
1948.

marrieD: Mary Ingle, April 23, 1944. curio: Linda, July 6, 1947.

occuPATION: Office services manager, personnel staff, Wilson & Company, meat
packers.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Education, Flossmoor Public Schools, since
1961; member, Schools Committee, Harvard Club of Chicago, since 1956,
president, District 3 (South), Chicago Regional Rose Society, 1953-54;
consulting rosarian, American Rose Society, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Flossmoor Garden Club; Otfice Man-
agement Association of Chicago; American, British, French and German
Rose Societies.

NEGATIVE report submitted. But I have enjoyed your postcards,
and I did get my picture taken, which even my wife wouldn’t buy.

SIDNEY MONROE STEWART, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Samoset Rd., Winchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MarriED: Lorraine Mooney, Oct. 19, 1940, CHILDREN; Cynthia, May 23, 19425
Philip, Sept. 22, 1944; Marcy, May 28, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Small arms — assistant contract coordinator, Rlarrington & Rich-
ardson.

[3355 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WALDO EWING STEWART

 

HOME AbprESS: 5315 Rock Cliff Pl., Dallas 9, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8428 Kate St., Suite 222, Dallas 25, Texas.

PREPARED AT: San Jacinto High Schol, Houston, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-10935, 1936-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Ella Jeanette Hall, Dec. 25, 1943. CHILDREN: Suzanne Hall, April 12,
1946; Christine Pauls, Aug. 20, 1947; Dennis Lindsay, Jan. 2, 1950, Victoria
Ewing, Feb. 12, 1951; Harry Michael, Feb. 15, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Executive.

OFFICES HELD: President, Auto Convoy Company, since 1938, Helix, 1952-62,
Dallas Theatre Center, 1961-62; treasurer, The Stewart Company, since

1945.
MEMBER OF: Detroit Athletic Club; Dallas Athletic Club; Brook Hollow Golf
Club; Dallas Club; Chaparral Club; Idlewild Club, Terpsichorean Club,

Cinema Guild of Texas; American Helicopter Society.

EVEN before [ left college I was involved in starting an insurance
agency which survives and prospers today. In the year after leaving
college, I started working with Ford tractors and agricultural ma-
chinery ina distributorship with my father and brother. It has grown
during these twenty-five years and now covers both Oklahoma and
Texas and is capably presidented by my brother, Peter Stewart, a
Harvard graduate of 1942. Through this same period, I have been
president of Auto Convoy Company busily hauling all makes of
automobiles, but principally Fords, all over the South Central part
of the United States. Just before the war, I was president and gen-
eral manager of Gulf States Tractor and Equipment Company in
New Orleans, covering Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. For the
past ten years I have also had a small helicopter operation, named
Helix, serving the Dallas-Fort Worth area.

In World War II, I was inducted as a private and sent through

[ 1356 |

~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

radio mechanics school after which I graduated to radar and officers
school with a diploma from Yale. I was then put into the zoth Air
Force in a brand-new B—29 and shipped to India and China for a year
of combat which ranged all the way from the Japanese Islands to
Singapore and Burma. Most of this combat I saw only electronically
through the radar screen in the rear compartment of various B-29's
as the radar navigator and bombardier.

During the war, I married Ella Jeanette Hall (Jenny) at Palm
Beach, Florida, before I left for overseas. Upon my return we
produced five marvelous children in a short space of time; the three
elder children (Suzanne, Christine and Dennis) are in the middle
and upper schools at The Principia in St. Louis, while the two
younger children (Victoria and Mike) keep us fully occupied at
home.

My interest in theatre, which was whetted by Pi Eta theatricals
and a good series of openings in Boston, has borne fruit in these
latter years in service with various cultural institutions of Dallas, our
two art museums, the Dallas Symphony Orchestra and the Dallas
Civic Opera. In 1957, the Dallas Theatre Center was organized by
a small group and I had the privilege of working on the building
committee with Mr. Frank Lloyd Wright. The resulting theatre is
the only legitimate theatre that Mr. Wright ever got built and now
houses a Repertory Company and a busy school of graduate students
under the direction of Paul Baker. It is part of our local evidence
of the national cultural explosion that is taking place. Although it
takes a lot of extracurricular time, it is very rewarding to serve as
its president.

Whenever we can, we travel anywhere and everywhere with the
children and enjoy each other, sailing, scuba diving or skiing.

Harvard continues to be close to mv heart and I marvel at its
wonderful progress and rejoice in the great addition which the Locb
Theatre is making to a well-rounded campus life.

Ever since college days, when I served as an usher in the Mother
Church in Boston, I have been a student of Christian Science and
have just this year begun to devote half of every working dav to
service as a Christian Science practitioner, It has been a wonderful

twenty-five years and I am looking forward with great zest to the
next twenty-five.

[1357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ALBERT STICKNEY, JR.

    

HOME AppRESS: Leetes Island Road, Guilford, Conn.

oFFICE ADDRESS: Box 23, Guilford, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

Makriep: Eleanor Elisabeth Herrick, June 28, 1941. CHILDREN: Albert Stickney,
3d, Oct. 29, 1944; Harold Herrick, July 24, 1949.

occupation: Manufacturer’s agent — owner.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1948-54, chairman, 1950-54, Board of Education, Regis-
trar of Voters, 1948-52, Town of Middlefield, member of Vestry, Holy
Trinity Church, Middletown, 1950-54; member of Vestry, 1956-60, senior
warden, since 1960, Christ Church, Guilford.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Southern Connecticut; New
Haven Lawn Club; Sachem Head Yacht Club.

IT would seem that one of the objectives of a Liberal Arts educa-
tion should be that the graduate is prepared to meet and make the
best use of the opportunities which present themselves in his future
life-— thereby benefiting society, his family and himself. I have
been most fortunate in having been faced with a plethora of oppor-
tunities, some of which I have used.

The best opportunity was to marry an incredible woman in 1941.
She has not only been a ideal wife but has produced and shared in
bringing up two very satisfactory sons. Having done this she has
now gone to work for Yale’s Peabody Museum, gives lectures on
birds at much too low a fee and by bringing home her work provides
me with unending opportunities to relax with someone else’s prob-
lems.

A second great opportunity came in 1951, when I decided to take
the bull by the horns and start my own business enterprise. Against
the advice of those who felt that fringe benefits, group insurance

[ 1358]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and security were of prime importance, this enterprise was launched
with considerable effort and much satisfaction. The advantage of
having only two bosses (my wife and my conscience, incidentally,
the first is easier to get along with) outweighs all other considera-

tions.
On the premise that in the future, all we may be allowed to leave

our children will be a good education and a second mortgage, we
have been very fortunate. They are getting the former, we think,
and we have, as yet, not had to apply for the latter.

A third opportunity has been to do some things that In no way
could do me any material good: namely, six years’ service on a local
board of education (part of the time as chairman) and twelve years
of service on the Vestry of my church (part of the time as senior
warden).

Between 1941 and 1946, I had the opportunity to work for two
governments, the British Ministry of Information first and then in
the U.S. Navy. This was an experience which might be called
broadening. It involved some 65,000 miles of travel, mostly on ship-
board in the Atlantic, Mediterranean and Pacific Theatres. Ir would
have been pleasant had it been under different circumstances, but on
balance it was a very interesting experience. It led me to deplore
the wastefulness of war and governmental bureaucracy.

Not the least of the opportunities which have presented themselves
is to have met and made friends with a host of wonderful people. I
am always amazed at how cussed some people can be; yer how
extraordinarily interesting most people are and how admirable a few
people turn out to be after you have gotten to know them.

After twenty-five years, I have come to certain basic conclusions:

First, You can not change the world overnight. If vou could it
would not be advisable.

Second, The human who has all the answers has not existed in the
ast, does not exist today and will not exist in the future.

Third, People, not things, make up the measure of socicty.

Fourth, A Welfare State which ostensibly strives to give the people
everything they want and need must get the power to do this from
the people. Once the government has the power to do this it alse
has the power to take from the people everything they have.

Finally, I have concluded that life is a very interesting opper-
tunity, and one for which I am most grateful. The satisfaction of
knowing that every year, in my territory, over a million produces
are manufactured with components thar have been produced: by

[ 1359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

companies which I represent is most gratifying. In some small way
I feel that I have a part in our great industrial and economic system.
That the system has permitted us to settle in a small town and enjoy
country living is even more satisfying.

OCTAVIAN MATHIOT STIRLING, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 447 Westgate, St. Louis 30, Mo.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLFGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938, M.B.A. 1940.
marriep: Judith Bess Saul, April 24, 1953. cHmpReEN: Susan Abigail, April 5,

1954; Peter Bass, July 8, 1955; Robert Kingsbacher, March 13, 1957.
OCCUPATION; Business,

[ 1360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: At various times, member, board of directors, People's Art Cen.
ter, Nursery Foundation, Rehabilitation Center of Greater Se. Loun
Jewish Employment & Vocational Service; member, board of director,
and sometime secretary, Automatic Parking of Missouri, Inc. vanoudy as
assistant to superintendent of men’s wear factories, assistant to merchant
department manager, assistant sales manager, director and secretary, Rice-
Stix, Inc., 1940 and 1945-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis; Harvard Business School Club, Se
Charles Club; Sometimes Monday Lunch Club (defunct).

THIS is a task, and perhaps a subject, I do not relish. That ts prob-
ably the most revealing statement I shall make.

With more faith than facility and with more indirection and inter-
mittence than intensity, I have spent the past twenty-five years in an
effort to discover, express, rectify and enlarge the product of the
preceding twenty-two. My lament is that I have not found myself,

my consolation, that I hope to. I should lke to think that | have
been enriched by my failures and defeats, my weaknesses and dis
appointments, that I have the capacity to be happy and to attain the
freedom to be creative and productive. I am beginning to under-
stand that the cult of perfection can be crippling, that what is fale
is truly foul, that many paths compound the road ahead.

From Winthrop House in 1938, I crossed the Charles River —
and the buffer state of mind between learning and ledgerdemania —
to the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. tn
1940, bouyant with my Master’s papers, I signed on self-consciously
as a deck-hand at Rice-Stix, a venerable firm established in 1841, one
of the very last surviving national wholesale dry goods companies
where my father (Class of ’o0) was the distinguished prewdent.
Principal indicia of my military activities for almost five full years
from their inception in January, 1941, include: ASN Ogos yoy ‘4
Cav Sp W; QM OCS; 0-1573955; EMOTS, QM Co Trk (Ava),
QMPONY. Twenty-five months’ duty with colored troops on Am.
chitka, Aleutian Islands, seemed to consist importantly of combae:
ing segregation and racial prejudice. I never became a captain of
industry, serving in substantially junior capacities from the end of
the war to 1954 when control of the company, ravaged by ccounenine
storm and stock raids, passed toa. a New York concern which die:
mantled the corporation and absorbed its factories Several abortive
ventures since then have produced littl: more than an improved pers
spective and objectivity.

I treasure my wife, who is fabulous perhaps least of all for havi
suppressed a southern accent and graduated from Washington Cae

[ 1340 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

versity in 1952, Phi Beta Kappa, and our three incomparable chil-
dren who, in the sense that they have all left behind them the for-
midably formative first five years, are irretrievably launched on their
own. Is it selfish to wish for the character and wisdom to help them
to maturity, health, and happiness?

As to many of our convictions, I gladly pay homage to the pro-
fessor who acknowledged that he was a buttress rather than a pillar
of the church— supporting from without. We are Jews, but not
members of a temple; the one small congregation that seemed to have
some appeal promptly undertook a building program which, to
apply a corollary of Parkinson’s law, disqualified it. We have not
yct had any occasion not to vote Democratic, In the matter of PTA
— if there weren't one, I'd be for it; but its program, at the public
school that harbors our children, is regrettably inconsequential.
Perhaps this is inherent in any well-administered school system.
With regard to charitable agencies, experience suggests that agency
performance would reflect the result of any effort deliberately di-
rected toward an optimum reconciliation of board involvement with
board performance. Business bent on ends is mindful of organiza-
tional means, and charities might profit from an equal awareness.

We identify ourselves with the Committee for Nuclear Informa-
tion, the Committee for Racial Equality, and the Ozark Rivers Asso-
ciation, among others, and relish the cultural fringe benefits that
accrue to living just a stone’s throw from burgeoning Washington
University, where Thomas Hopkinson Eliot has just become chan-
cellor. With canoes and congenial companions, we are addicted to
“floating” the Current River and the Jack’s Fork, unique Ozark
Mountain streams in urgent need of a national conservation program.
(In a related sense, we are for Rachel Carson.)

The fascination of Mexico, first revealed to me on trips in 1936
and 1938, led us to visit there in 1957 and again in 1961. Our en-

thusiasm is undiminished. Last summer we explored family together-
ness, tenting in the Rocky Mountains with happy consequences. For
shorter trips — of a mile or three —— when whim and weather war-
rant, we resort to a bicycle caravan, although after twenty-five years
my saddle sorely needs repair, Occasionally I derive some satisfac-
tion from contriving sculptures of found objects. The very modest
collection of painting and other works which affords us so much
pleasure is an expression of our good fortune in having acquired as
friends the remarkable artists who produced them.

Certain undergraduate exploits should be mentioned lest they go

[ 1362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unrecorded in this Report, for their significance was not fully estab-
lished at the time:
A sense of history: SANE, the Society for the Autonomy of New
England, enjoyed a brief but noteworthy life in 1934 solely for the
purpose of providing story matter for a subsequently successful
“Crimson” candidate.
Humor and sickle: an instructor in government felt his chances
of tenure jeopardized upon receipt by mail of an issue of the
Harvard Communist labeled “complimentary copy.”
Point of view: a bored spectator was accorded a standing ovation
for launching a paper programmed airplane that sailed the width
of the football field, and the public address system implored the
cessation of such flights out of consideration for the safety of the
layers.
The challenge of pedalanticism: a student, impelled by wager,
raced time on a bicycle from Cambridge to the Harvard-Princeton
game at Palmer Stadium.
Horticulturally, I am a conformist, reaffirming each year my belief
in the principles of lawn order — to no avail. But, I am glad to share

with others my discovery that a milk pail makes a superior waste
basket.

GEORGE VALANCOURT STONE, II

 

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Arrowhead Way, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bulkley, Dunton & Co., Div. of Carter, Rice, Store & Bement,
Inc., 295 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1938.

[ 1363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

marriep: Dorothy Ingram Acuff, Aug. 20, 1940. CHILDREN: Cynthia Randolph,
June 21, 1943; Susan Parker, April 13, 1949; James Mason, Dec. 2, 1950;
Catherine Ingram, Aug. 11, 1952.

occupation: Vice-president and manager, director, Bulkley, Dunton & Com-
pany, paper distributors.

MEMBER OF: Union League Club of New York; Advertising Club of New York;
Quinnipiack Club of New Haven; Wee Burn Country Club of Darien.

IMMEDIATELY following graduation I entered the employ of
Carter, Rice of Boston, a paper distributing organization selling to
publishers, printers and industrial users of paper products. Twenty
months later 1 became a resident salesman in western Massachusetts
for the company and in August of that year (1940) married Dottie,
a graduate of Lasell Junior College, and the second of her family to
go wrong by way of marrying a Yankee. Cindy, our eldest daughter,
kept her company while I was in the Pacific skippering PT boats.
Back in harness, April Fools’ Day of 1946, I returned to Springfield,
Massachusetts, for the company and bought a home in Longmeadow,
a wonderful bedroom New England town and the birthplace of our
Sue and Jim. Carter, Rice was purchased by Bulkley, Dunton &
Company of New York shortly thereafter. In 1951 I moved to
Woodbridge, Connecticut, outside of New Haven, where I took over
management of our local office and where Cathy, our youngest,
joined us, Church committees, Woodbridge Club, town school
committees, Greater New Haven United Fund, to mention a few
activities, along with building a business kept me active and sleepless.
January of 1958 brought the move to New York as head of the
largest of our thirteen offices and subsequent directorship of the total
company. After six months of long distance commuting we built a
home in the Tokeneke section of Darien which we have since enjoyed
thoroughly,

Our summers are spent largely at our camp on Kezar Lake in
Maine just relaxing in the quiet of the north woods far from tele-
phones.

We have indeed been fortunate — good health and happiness,
blended with a modicum of prosperity and business responsibility,
surrounded with good friends and associates, topped off with family
love and affection.

[ 1364 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY SAWYER STONE

 
  

RYE POE DOM PELE POE ERE OEE

HOME ADprREss: Center Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

MARRIED: Jean Richmond, Feb. 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Henry Sawyer, Jr. Oct. 16,

1942; Jeannette, April 16, 1945; Olivia Richmond, April 18, 1954.

HARVARD SON: Henry Sawyer Stone, Jr., ’65.
occupation: Insurance, New England manager, The Employers’ Group of

Insurance Companies,

oFFIcEs HELD: The Employers’ Group of Insurance Companies: London (Eng-

land) office, September, 1938, to October, 1939, Boston & New York,
October, 1939, to July, 1941, Boston office, 1945-51, assistant regional man-
ager, 1952-55, regional manager, since 1955, New England Dept.; naval
aviator, July, 1941, through October, 1945, U.S. Navy, separated rank:
lieutenant commander; member, Warrant Committee, 1952-54 (chairman
1954), School Committee, 1955, Selectman, 1957-60, re-elected tg62 to
present, chairman, Board of Health, 1957, member, Conservation Com-
mission, since 1959, Board of Fire Engineers, 1961-62, Long-range Planning
Committee, 1958-60, Town of Dover; trustee, Charles River School, 195-
57, Boys and Girls Camps, Inc., since 1958; incorporator, \lasachusctts
Savings Bank, since 1957; director, Sakonnet Golf Club; member, Advisory
Committee on Insurance, Boston University, since 1962; trustee since tas,
vice-president, board of trustees, since 1961, Middlesex School, member,

Draft Board, Local 119, Wellesley, since 1961; director, Needham National
Bank, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Dedham Polo and Country Club; Union Club,

Sakonnet Golf Club; Algonquin Club; Down Town Club; Harvard Club,

SINCE 1955, my job as New England regional manager of The
Employers’ Group of Insurance Companies has been an exciting.
invigorating experience. To date, with the aid of some very cent
petent assistants, we have been reasonably successful, however, be-

[ 1365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

cause of the competitive nature of the insurance business, it is futile
to dwell on past performance. Suffice to report that instead of the
traditional ulcers associated with a job of this kind, I seem to thrive
on it and hope that in spite of being twenty-five years out of college,
I will not be considered too old for further advancement.

On the “extracurricular” activities side of things, the town of
Dover has occupied a considerable amount of time. Having served
the town in one capacity or another since 1952, I decided early last
year to step down and let some other, perhaps more enthusiastic
talent do the job. Unfortunately, the untimely death last spring of
a close friend who was chairman of the board of selectmen resulted
in my standing once more for selectman at a special town election.
Thus, the telephone once again dominates a great many of the eve-
nings at home. If there is any compensation to it all, it would be the
amazing variety of problems that come before a small town board of
selectmen.

Since 1957, I have thoroughly enjoyed my association with
Middlesex School in Concord. A couple of years ago I had a part in
a successful fund drive for the school, which has resulted in sub-
stantial increases in salary for the faculty, truly a most satisfying
experience. The board of trustees are as genial a group as one could
find, and the headmaster is a man whose talents and abilities in edu-
cational circles are second to none. Age has led him to ask for
retirement and I now find myself severely jolted from my academic
“Ivory Tower,” having been elected chairman of the “selection
committee,” with the task of finding a suitable successor.

Finally, on that most important subject of all— my family —
I have been really lucky. Our younger daughter, eight years old,
keeps us on the move and young. Our second daughter is seventeen
and a senior at Westover School in Connecticut. She is as pretty as
they come, and her prowess on the athletic fields of her school has
led to all sorts of positions of responsibility. Our eldest is currently

a sophomore at Harvard, and never ceases to amaze me. I can recall
a symposium at our Twentieth Reunion at which Deans Leighton,
Bundy, von Stade and Keppel and company were supposed to speak
on the subject, “How to Get Your Son into Harvard.” They never
did speak on the subject, but instead regaled us with their problems
on admissions. It was a thoroughly discouraging experience but in
spite of their problems our son surprised us and is currently enjoying
his exposure to Harvard’s liberal educational process, Incidentally,
my answer to the above proposition is to marry a girl who is an avid

[ 1366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

reader, and have her Impart the same trait to her son... it’s a
cinch!

Which brings me to my wife, Jean, who has managed to put up
with and care for us all, and still pursue her own hobbies of horticul-
ture, music, tennis, and bird-watching. Together we enjoy the
theatre, and most of all—travel. We have made three tnps to
Europe since World War II. Three months’ study at the Adminis
trative Staff College in England (completed course in advanced
management) were followed by a tour of Scandinavia in tose and
skiing in Austria and Switzerland in 1957 and in the summer of 1941,
we took our two elder children and high-lighted the trip by two
weeks’ cruising in the Aegean. On the less expensive side, we play a
respectable game of mixed doubles, less respectable games of golf, shi
on the hills of New Hampshire and Vermont, do a little sailing in the
summer, and finally enjoy singing together with the Dover Choir
each Thursday evening and Sunday morning.

In retrospect, the last twenty-five years have passed quickly and
have treated us well. May the next twenty-five be as liberal.

NORMAN SUMNER STONE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ApbRESS: 49 Devens Rd. Swampseort, Masa

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B, 1948.

MarRiED: Ruth Jackson, November, 1938. Gators: Andrea, September, tape
(mt. Mr. Riendeau),; Beth, April, tog2, Norman Sumner, Je. Novertter,

1946, William, April, toga. Gaaspamta: Susanne Riembeaa, Speendae
1962.

OCCUPATION: Private consultant—=— The Apex Corporanend

dustry in sales training and communication
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Lynn, Tedewo Country Club,

{ 1367 ]

sen SEME CES foe are

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FOR most of you, this is just your Twenty-fifth, but for me it’s
really another Commencement. After a twenty-year career in big
business, I have embarked on a new and exciting business venture:
private consulting in communications and sales training for business
and industry.

After graduation I spent four years in secondary-school teaching,
then joined General Electric for a long and relatively successful
career in sales and marketing. At the twenty-year mark with Gen-
eral Electric I was national distributor sales manager for several
product lines, and settled into the questionable security of big-cor-
poration life. But the urge for greater independence and self-ex-
pression had been growing through the year, and I have finally made
the break —to offer privately a course I have developed in the ef-
fective presentation of business ideas. It’s too early to hazard a
guess as to my success—but the need is great, the New Boston
marketing inviting, and the venture has already proved interesting
and challenging.

My years with General Electric were both rewarding and pleasant.
A heavy travel schedule provided the opportunity to make many
friends in every major city in the country; the strange coincidence
is that these hundreds of business associates do not include even one
of my 1938 classmates. Perhaps with my new business concentrated
here in the Boston area I may remedy this defect.

Another benefit I look for is the chance to get re-activated in
college, civic and community affairs, In the late forties and fifties
[had been fairly active in local Harvard Club affairs, area interview-
ing for the College, town government, United Fund, Boy Scouts,
etc. My heavy travel schedule with General Electric forced a radical
curtailment of these activities; now I look forward to resuming some
of these functions that make for the “complete” man.

My family and social life has left little to be desired. With two
daughters having finished college and two boys in high school, I
suspect my exemption production has kept pace with most. And a
granddaughter has been added to the family package. My politics
are Independent (with a Republican base showing through if the
men and the issues are not outstanding), my bridge game is fairly
good, golf scores in the high 70’s, and I try to stay young with some
occasional badminton, softball, skating and skiing.

All in all, the twenty-five years have not been particularly epic or
noteworthy. They have been full of good health, happiness, and
moderate success — but of no earth-shaking significance, But again,

[ 1368 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this is really my second commencement, and I look forward to re-
porting what the next twenty-five years will bring.

TIMOTHY PICKERING STONE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Main Street, Southboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.o. (Tufts Coll.). tags.

MaRRIED: Virginia E, Amesbury, July 19, 1951. cHttpren: James Savage. sd,
May 11, 1952; Susan Amesbury, May 15, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member of staff, Framingham Union Hospital, Marlboro Hos
pital; member, since 1948, chairman, Southboro Board of Health, phywesan,
Fay School, St. Mark’s School, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society,
Middlesex West District Medical Society.

BRIEFLY stated, I shall have passed, as of June, 1963. 16° of the
years since ’38 at medical school, 8% at postgraduate hospital train-
ing, 12% in the Army and 64% in general practice of medicine.

I don’t feel compelled to enlarge too much on the above, for al-
though the time has been fruitfully spent I doube if a detailed ac-
count would fascinate anyone.

As of June, 1963, I shall have been married for twelve veary
and these years have been good. We are four now. My wate Vir-
ginia is my constant help and companion, be it in my practice, in the
community or on camping trips. Jay is now ten and plugying hard
at Fay School. Susan is cight and full of nascene charm. My work
fills practically all of my waking hours (and robs me of some sleep),
but it’s gratifying except when ‘the government intrudes

Insofar as the 129% of time in the Ariny is concerned, it wae de-

[ 1369 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

tailed in an earlier Report. I was in Italy with the 85th Division which
saw action from Minturno to Belluno. Some day perhaps I can return
vagucly to retrace those steps.

In a philosophical vein, “the world will little note, nor long re-
member, what we say here,” so I shall say little. Living as I do in
Massachusetts, I feel compelled to vote Republican.

HARLEY LORD STOWELL, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 13010 S.W, 63rd Ct., Miami, Fla.

JOHANN ANDREAS PETER STRASSBURGER

’

  

HOME appress: La Ferme Du Coteau, Deauville (Calvados), France.
____. PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

EE ’N MARRIED.
[ 1370 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD has always been very kind to me, considering me a
member of the Class of 1938, probably because I left because of
illness rather than other causes. But the briefness of my stay there
has often led me, personally, to de-emphasize my attendance.

I was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, January 3, 1916, and am
the only surviving child of Ralph Beaver Strassburger and his wife,
nee May Bourne, who resided at Gwynedd Valley, Pennsylvania. At
the age of three, I was baptized Protestant Episcopalian. At the age
of seven, my parents established an additional residence in France.
Thereafter, until World War II, we spent about half our time in this
latter country. I graduated from the American High School of
Paris, France, in 1933, and from Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,
New Hampshire, in 1934. (My father, who was Annapolis, ’o5, had
attended Exeter, but had been unable to remain for graduation in
view of the navy’s off-beat schedule in those days.)

I was drafted in World War II, and entered the Army, January
5, 1942. I later graduated from OCS, and was commissioned in the
autumn of the same year. In April, 1944, I was sent to the European
Theatre, but remained in England until the autumn. I was detached
to the French Army for eight months, December, ’44 to July "45,
which included the German Campaign. Later I served briefly with
USCIC in Germany, returning home in February, 1946. No medals,
no decorations. Rank of captain, in the Reserve.

Subsequent to World War II, my parents returned to France, to
restore their residence where they subsequently spent most of their
time. My father died in 1959. My mother survives as his widow,
and still maintains our Pennsylvania residence, despite the fact that
we are rarely there. As for myself, I am unmarried and have ob-
viously no children. I am a club member in New York City (New
York Yacht, Racquet and Tennis, Metropolitan and Brook), Phila-
delphia (Racquet), and Washington, D.C. (Metropolitan). In Paris,
I am a member of Trinity Protestant Fpiscopal Church. (For ten
years or so of my life, I was a convert to Roman Catholicism, age
twenty to thirty, or thereabouts.)

[1371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

GEORGE DOUGLAS STRATON

      

       

HOME ADDRESS: 2243 Potter St., Eugene, Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Religion, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: Burris School, Muncie, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; B.D. (Andover Newton
Theological School), 1941; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1950.

MarrieD: Ruth Isabelle Riley, June 12, 1943. CHILDREN: Kathryn Ann, July 30,
1947; David Skeen, June 5, 1950; Peter Riley, Dec. 16, 1953; John Carter,
Aug. 14, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Teacher; chairman, Department of Religion, University of Oregon.

OFFICES HELD: Iowa convenor for the Faculty Christian Fellowship, spring, 1954;
secretary, Rocky Mountan Conference of the National Association of
Biblical Instructors, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Association; past member, American Asso-
ciation of University Professors; past member, Kiwanis Club, Pella, Iowa.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, Introduction to the Study of the Bible, James Ander-
son et al., published by the College of Wooster; “The Non-Pacifist Chris-
tian,” Religion in Life, spring, 1941; “The Transcendency of the Spirit,”
The Personalist, winter, 1957; “Christ as Truth,” The Journal of Religious
Thought, winter-spring, 1960; “The Personal Significance of Time, Space,
and Causality,” Andover Newton Quarterly, November, 1960; “God,
Freedom, and Pain,” The Harvard Theological Review, April, 1962; re-
views in The Christian Century, June 4, 1952, February 23, 1955; The Re-
view of Religion, November, 1951, 1955; The Journal of Philosophy, July
1959; Tbe Pulpit Digest, December, 1959, 1960.

A STATEMENT of the purpose, or inspiration, that would breathe
real life upon the bare bones of the above facts would be to say that
I have attempted, in my professional aims, to teach in the fields of
religious and philosophic studies and scholarship. For a while it was
uncertain whether I would center on the technical courses in philos-
ophy —in which the history of western philosophy had a special
appeal for me — or whether I should continue in the area of the

[ 1372 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

history, philosophy and literature of religion. A few years ago the
choice, of course, was mine, within the opportunities and circum-
stances of life, in which many men, no doubt, come to feel that there
“is a destiny that shapes our ends, rough hew them how we will.”

As a teacher in an academic, college department of religion, or
religious studies, my interests have gone to focus in the great religions
of the world, in the literature and thought of the Bible, and in philos.
ophy of religion and ethics, with an emphasis in the latter area.
Philosophic inquiry into the idea of God, and the meaning of a
Divine Reality in life, would probably identify, in one way, the over-
all theme of my professional interest and activity (in so far as some
writing in the theological area has been done).

In graduate school, and up until a year or so ago, I was most
inspired, in philosophical terms, by a classic idealist conception of
reality and interpretation of man’s religious nature. Currently, I
feel a strong returning tide of an earlier naturalism, with some
“existentialist” insights, as qualifying a late, ascendent idealism and
rationalism. Emotional and ethical uncertainty, as well as an enlarg-
ing intellectual perplexity, has been the cause of this change of view.

Life has not been without its emotional stresses — professionally
and domestically. Such experiences, however, seem now passages
of development and adaptation, resulting in needed growth in under-
standing and faith.

I would like to pay tribute to my wonderful wife and family, and

to my friends professional and social. These are the greatest treas-
ures of all.

[ 1373]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DONALD BLUN STRAUS

 

HOME Abpress: 44 E, 73d St. New York, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N.Y.

prepare AT; Ailton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938, M.B.A., 1940.

marrigp: Elizabeth Allen, Sept. 7, 1940. CHILDREN: David Allen, Sept. 29, 1942;
Robert Beckwith, June 12, 1945; Sara Elizabeth, July 20, 1949.

HarvarD SON: David Allen Straus, ’64.

occupATION: President, American Arbitration Association.

oFFices HELD: Vice-president, Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York,
1953-61, member, New York State Mediation Board, 1956-59; executive
director, Atomic Energy Labor Relations Panel, 1948-53; vice-chairman,
Review & Appeals Committee, Wage Stabilization Board, 1952; vice-presi-
dent, Management Employee Relations, Inc., 1946-53; air combat intelli-
gence officer, U.S. Navy, 1943-45; chief of personnel, Civil Aeronautics
Board, 1942-43; research assistant, Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration, 1941-42.
Labor Boards: Member, Presidential Emergency Board No. 142, Novem-
ber, 1962; executive secretary of Presidential Board of Inquiry, Maritime
Dispute, 1961; member, Secretary of Labor’s Foreign Flag Review Board,
September, 1961; secretary to Presidential Emergency Board, American
Airlines Dispute, 1951; economic consultant to New York City Transit
Fact Finding Board, 1950; member, Board of American Arbitration Asso-
ciation; member, New York State Mediation Board, Arbitration Panel.
Other Activities: Chairman of board, Planned Parenthood Federation of
America, 1962; trustee, Milton Academy, 1962; member, Overseers’ Com-
mittee to Visit Harvard Graduate School of Public Administration, 1957—
62, Overseers’ Committee to Visit Harvard University Press, since 1952;
member, Markle Scholarship Board Committee; member, Board of Group
Health Association, 1958-62, Board of Public Education Association, 1958-
59, Board of New York Fund for Children, Board of United Neighbor-
hood Houses, 1956-61; instructor, Retail Labor Relations, New York
University, 1950-51; president, Educational Alliance, 1955-58.

[ 1374 ]

ed hd

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Lotos Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Causes of Peace Under Collective Bargaining,” National Plan.
ning Association, Hickey Freeman Study, 1949; “Development of a Policy
for Industrial Peace in Atomic Energy,” National Planning Association,
1950; “Laws Won't Stop Strikes,” Harper’s, 1952; “Can We Afford to be
Healthy?” Harper's 1960; “Too Little Too Soon May be Worse than Too
Little Too Late,” The Nation, 1962; chapter on “Meeting of Minds,” Mec-
Graw-Hill, 1952; data paper for Rockefeller Fund Studies Project, “A
Framework for Developing a National Policy on the Financing and
Organization of Physicians’ Services,” 1958, “Employee and Employer,”
Women’s Wear Daily Column, 1948-50.

I DON’T remember much about my graduation, but I do remember
wondering what I would put into my class biography twenty-five
years off. I am still wondering. Perhaps the moral to this tale is
that it is no easier to be a historian than a prophet. As a senior, I
looked upon Commencement as the starter’s gun for the twenty-five-
year dash to a happy finish line, with everything on the other side
an easy glide on the updrafts of past accomplishments. I thought
then that twenty-five years later I would spend a leisurely period of
time writing the definitive record; now I find I am rushed in the
preparation of this interim report.

The zigs in the road have held most of the pleasant surprises al-
though I always seemed to have looked for them up the zags. The
first and most important of these zigs was in Hawaii, a port of call
during a sailing vacation in the summer of ’37. There, about as far
from the marriage marts of the Ritz and the party circuit as one could
get, | met my bride-to-be. It took me some three vears to turn this
stroke of luck into a permanent asset, but those of you who know
Beth recognize this as my finest hour.

The next zig of importance was at the B School. I was actively
pursuing the zag of a career in retailing when up a zig the late Elton
Mayo captured my interest in the field of industrial relations, Upon
graduation, instead of joining the world of trade I zigged down the
road of personnel administration — first as research assistant back at
the B School and then to Washington as chief of personnel of the
Civil Aeronautics Board.

The year 1941 in Washington was one full of the best of military
drums. During the eighteen months that I was with the CAB |
filed no less than fourteen applications with various branches of the
armed forces, only to be turned down as many times because of poor
eyesight. Finally, getting wise to the way things get done TE parlived
my strategic position as procurer of secretarial assistance by exe hang-

[1375 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ing five hard-to-get (technically speaking) secretaries for an eye
waiver from the medical director of the CAA, a man much plagued
by a backlog of paper work. This led to a period of time as a civilian
flight instructor. Finally the Navy relented on my poor eyesight as
its Own 20-20 vision saw the bottom of the barrel, and I entered upon
a war career that was a land-locked version of Mr. Roberts.

Released into the bewilderment of postwar bustle, I zagged by

design into a labor relations consulting firm and soon found myself
zigging into industrial relations research, writing and mediation —
in other words a labor relations “neutral” rather than an advocate.
] held various such jobs, including that of director of the first Atomic
Energy Labor Relations Panel, vice-chairman of the Review Board
of the Wage Stabilization Board and various other such posts both in
New York and Washington. And then, once again, another zig. Just
as I was planning an extended career in arbitration and academic in-
dustrial relations (this was when the Republicans took over and threw
us rascals out) I was offered a position with the Health Insurance
Plan of New York and remained there, eventually as vice-president,
until 1961. I then left HIP to set up my own office with a miscellany
of consulting assignments that ranged from advising foundations,
state governments and private companies; teaching at the Columbia
School of Public Health, and arbitration. On March rst of this year
(1963) I closed that office of assorted activities to become president
of the American Arbitration Association.

I must add that an absorbing interest, and one that takes a major
chunk of my time, is my newly acquired position as chairman of
the board of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. I
would like to take advantage of the important readership of this
publication by making a “pitch,” but well-mannered Harvard re-
straint holds me to these few well-chosen words: half a career watch-
ing automation put people out of work, and the other half spent
in watching medical science keep people alive and healthy, has con-
vinced me that if we are to have space and employment to enable us
to enjoy our long life, health and new-found leisure we had better
begin to limit our population both at home and abroad. My own
contribution to the population explosion has been moderate and of
good assortment: David, Robert and Sally. While I am writing the
closing sentence of the Twenty-five-year Report, David is a year
away from living the first sentence of his. If you can judge a race
from the start, all three should run the course with more good zigs
than bad zags, For this they can thank me for having picked their

[ 1376 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mother well, and for long happy summers on Naushon Island — a
refuge that has thus far escaped the rising tide of too many, too
much and too fast.

MAURICE JACK STRAUSS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10554 Dolcedo Way, Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1850 Westwood Blvd., Los Angeles 25, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MARRIED: Barbara Mann Van Dyke, Oct. 14, 1950. CHILDREN: Judith F. Van
Dyke, Oct. 10, 1941 (72. Norman A. Marlow, June 30, 1961); Thomas HH.
Van Dyke, Jan. 19, 1945; Donald Parker, March 28, 1952.

occuPATION: General building contractor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; La Jolla Beach and Tennis Club.

I HAVE been divorced only once and that by Harvard College in
the court of Dean Leighton. Since that time 1 made two efforts at
reconciliation through the marriage counsel efforts (combined) of
the Harvard Summer School of 1936 and 1937 and the Wolf tutor-
ing schools. Both efforts were abortive. So I then launched myself
into the cold, clammy hands of the world of commerce, first as a
“runner” in Wall Street, then as a behind-the-counter man at R-EE.
Macy & Company, owned by lesser known Strauses. This was fol-
lowed by a pleasant association with Cue Magazine until late tygo,
at which time a Horace Greeley urge overcame me and I headed
for Los Angeles where I was just getting a foothold making toy air-
planes at Lockheed Aircraft Corporation when World War Tl
started, so I promptly enlisted in the Air Force, where as a member
of the class of '43C in pilot training T made a positively brillant
splash in pre-flight training and an equally brilliant wash-out in

[1377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

primary flight training. But the Air Force still needed me desperately
and I was commissioned as a navigator in August of 1943 and was
immediately shipped overseas to plan and train for D-Day with the
Troop Carrier Command Pathfinders which found me (and almost
lost me) on June 6, 1944, 600 feet over Normandy’s beaches towing
gliders and dropping them behind the enemy lines non-stop for
thirty-six hours. This was followed by many more stimulating ex-.
periences which were documented by me through letters home and
subsequently published by the Harvard Alumni Bulletin.

When peace returned I came back to sunny California, and after
much seeking out a niche, I found myself in the building business
that I am still with sixteen years later. In the interim I met a fifth-
generation native-born “grass widow,” with two fine infants, on the
beach in La Jolla and married her six weeks later. I hope to bring
her, one of-her original brood and one that we have created since the
union to Cambridge in June and look over some of the bald spots
and gloat over my greying full supply of hair. That is, I shall be
there if I have anything left after the rebuilding and furnishing of
our house which we lost along with all of our possessions in the fire
which wiped out a huge residential area exactly one year ago of the

day of the writing of this biography.

VERNON HENRY STRUCK

 

HOME apprEss: 910 Fighth St. S., Fargo, N.Dak.

OFFICE ADpress: Manchester Bldg,, Fargo, N.Dak,

PREPARED AT: Centralia Township High School, Centralia, II,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: $.B., 1938,

Marrigp: Helen Louise Darrow, June'11, 1941, cHiLpREN: Elizabeth Ann,

[ 1378 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

April 28, 1943; Kent Darrow, Oct. 26, 1944; Mary Caroline, May s2. tu47,
Barbara Jean, Oct. 25, 1950.

HARVARD SON: Kent Darrow Struck, ’66.

occuPATION: Estate analyst with estate and business planning consultant firm

and life insurance agency.

MEMBER OF: Fargo Country Club.

AFTER graduation I spent two seasons as an assistant coach at Elar-

vard, then two years in the advertising business in Philadelphia and

Boston before a stint in the Navy. Immediately following the war
and my separation from service, I settled in Fargo, my Wellesley
wife’s home town, and have been here since.

With no specific occupation in mind when I arrived in what was
a strange and unfamiliar town, I drifted into the life insurance ficld
and have been connected with it in one form or another ever since.
Time has brought no great success, and there seems little indication
that the future will add any particular lustre to a rather undistin-
guished career.

Our family, of course, has been a source of pride to Hclen and me.
Beth is in Wellesley, class of ’65, and Kent is a freshman at Elar-
vard; Mary and Barbara seem now inclined to want to follow the
path eastward to school, though that no doubt could change. We
have attempted to provide an atmosphere — good books, music,
thought — which would prompt our children to be intellectually
curious, and hope we have succeeded. So far we feel we have.

As for my “social, political and religious convictions,” I can be
quite brief. ’m not much of a joiner, vote generally Republican with
an occasional divergence and am semi-active in the Congregational
Church. Rather generally typical of a great many people, I should
imagine. Any elaboration would be redundant. And that would
appear to apply also to any further talk, so I shall considerately stop
right here.

[ 1379]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT CRAIG STUART

   

cy Jf
8 . «

HOME ApprEss: 7 Bertram St., Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESs: 50 Washington St., Chelsea, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE! A.B., 1938.

Marriep: Jean L, Austin, May 20, 1944 (divorced 1949); Dora A. Klink, March
10, 1960, cHiLD: Anne M., July 27, 1945.

occupaTION: Salesman, New England Box Company.

MEMBER OF: Pi Era Club; Harvard Varsity Club; Salem Country Club.

HAVE enjoyed a wonderful and varying twenty-five years since
graduation. Spent five years in the Infantry, starting as a private and
discharged a major, during which time I saw combat service in
France and Germany. Don’t recommend it as the best way to see
Europe, but fortunately 1 came through unscathed. After the war
worked for the National Cash Register Company. Saw enough of
big business to know I wanted no part of it.

In 1950 I acquired a fishing boat which could handle 250 passengers

comfortably. Spent each day of the summer cruising in Boston
Harbor catching plenty of cod, haddock and pollock. A delightful
way to spend the summer and a profitable venture, too.

Divorced from my first wife in 1949, and married my present
wife in 1960, She was a widow who owned a bakery which has
been operating since 1892. So, at the present time, I am running a
bakery with my wife and also selling all types of wooden shipping
containers for New England Box Company.

Have gained considerable weight. Lost most of my hair and need
powerful glasses to read anything. Played a litle golf this summer
and have to play more frequently next year. Can truthfully say I

[ 1380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have complete peace of mind, and am extremely happy at this stage

in life. |

GEORGE FRANCIS STUBBS, JR.

    

ng

HOME apprEss: 66 Pleasant St., Haworth, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., Inc., 330 W. 42d St, New York
36, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.B.A. (New York Univ.),
1948.

Marriep: Marian H. Lindsay, March 8, 1947. CHILDREN: Barbara Joan, April 4,
1948; Patricia Ann, Feb. 5, 1951; David Lindsay, Dec. 29, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Accountant; assistant to controller of publishing company; busi-
ness manager of product engineering, McGraw-Hill Publishing Company,
Inc., since January, 1963.

OFFICES ‘HELD: Treasurer, St. Luke’s Episcopal Church, since 1953, Bergen
County Chapter, American Veterans Committee, 1954-58, treasurer, 19$4-
56, Vice-president, 1959-60, president, 1960-61, Ahdeek Tennis Club, Ber-
genfield, N.J.; member, Schools Committee, Harvard Club of New Jersey,
Harvard Class of °38 New York Regional Committee.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Haworth Swim Club; National
Circulation Roundtable — Associated Business Publications; American
Veterans Committee; United World Federalists.

THE twenty-five years since graduation seem to have skipped by
rather rapidly. However, on looking back and reviewing, as one
must do to prepare this report, one realizes that a lot has gone on in
this interval. In my case the interval divides itself chronologically
into three distinct periods, as follows:
1. Orientation and Adjustment to Non-academic Life, 19 38-'gg2-
During this period, I continued studies, first with a view to entec-

[1381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

FELIX FRANKLIN STUMPF

 

HOME ADpRESS: 1888 San Lorenzo Ave., Berkeley 7, Calif.

OFFICE ApprEss; University of California Extension, Berkeley 4, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Bridgton High School, Bridgton, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MarriED: Martha E, Wickland, May 29, 1948 (divorced 1956); Betty-Jo Vol-
berg, Aug. 5, 1959. CHILDREN: Eric Paul, Aug. 19, 1949; Kenneth Alan, May
16, 1951; Kirk Edmund, Dec. 30, 1953; Mark Frederick, Sept. 18, 1955;
Paul Martin, April 15, 1961; Jennifer Ann, Dec. 5, 1953 (stepdaughter).

occupation: Lawyer, primarily engaged as Administrator, Continuing Educa-
tion of the Bar, University of California Extension.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; State Bar of California; American So-
ciety of Legal History. .

PuBLicaTions: Contributor of articles to legal periodicals, edited and planned
numerous legal books for California’s Continuing Education of the Bar,
contributor to Law and Electronics: The Challenge of a New Era (1962).

AFTER repeated reminders, I return the form. I can’t decide
whether the sample lives sent to us were intended to inspire or
depress. A good deal of second-rate musing creeps into these book-
keeping accounts of our careers, I actually doubt that the “Class
wants to know all about . . .”, for if most of my classmates share
my feelings, I am not particularly curious about their trials and
tribulations. I have had my quota, as everyone has, and scarcely
intend to disclose or discuss them.

Briefly, 1 was in World War II for four years; I moved to San
Francisco from Boston in 1946 and have been in the Bay Area ever
since and hope to remain here the balance of my life; I practised
law from 1946 to 1953; I am the father of five boys and the proud
father of a charming stepdaughter; my wife and I are temperamen-
tally well suited and happy, though she is an Episcopalian and Re-

[ 1384]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

publican and I am a non-churchgoer and a Democrat. My work
continues to be challenging — even after ten years.

Summed up, the twenty-five years have been a mixture of the gay
and sad, the easy and the hard, the unusual and the ordinary, none
of which should interest anyone except me. What does amaze me is
that three years at the Harvard Law School left a more powerful
and lasting impression upon me than four years of undergraduate
schooling. What also amazes me is that the international outlook as
far as peace goes seems no different in 1963 than it did in 1938, bear-
ing out what H. G. Wells wrote in a forgotten book called Wind
at the End of Its Tether: “A frightful queerness has come into life.”

DANIEL SULLIVAN (see Richard Webb Sullivan)

GEORGE PHILIP SULLIVAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 185 Brooks St., Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Anselm’s College High School, Manchester, N.UL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1935-1938. DEGREE: $.B., 1938(40).

MARRIED: Catherine Peddie, Feb. 21, 1936, CHILDREN: Janice Flaine, Jan, ja, toh?
(m.); George Philip, Jr., Feb. 18, 1940 (98. 1960); Diane A. April 7. toss,
Robert G., April 10, 1943; David E., June 15, 1944; Marcia FE, Apel ¢,
1947; Philip R., Aug. 16, 1948; Stephen A, July 7, 1950; Charley Apel ts.
1953; Mark A., May 10, 1959. GRANDCHILDREN: Michelle FF. Jeany tye,
Catherine A. Jeans, 1958; Robert W. Jeans, Jr. 1962; Todd G. Sullivan
1961,

OCCUPATION: Director of audio-visual education, Medford School Sywem, de-
partment head in charge of plane safety, First National Stores,

RAISING our family and working two jobs have kept me pretty
busy until lately, Have now begun to do a little traveling.

[ 1385 ]

ek

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

In 1959 we spent some time touring Canada, Attended George,
Jr.'s wedding in Seattle, Washington, in 1960, then drove down the
coast to San Diego, stopping off at a number of places. In 1961
I got a look at London, Paris and East and West Germany, where
I had the pleasure of conducting a class in algebra for a few hours. I
have just returned from Florida where we enjoyed the sun and many
old friends. I hope to get to Japan and Hawaii next year.

JOHN ANDREW SULLIVAN, JR.

Fong me era ogy

  

HOME AppRESS: 99 Central Ave., South Burlington, Vt., Lexington Road, Lex-
ington 73, Mass. (currently).

OFFICE AbpREss:; American Friends Service Committee, P.O. Box 247, Cam-
bridge 38, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Doris Nicholaisen, 1938 (annulled 1946); Nina Lindstrom, Oct. 8,
1946. CHILDREN: John Andrew, 3d, Aug. 4, 1953; Donal Gillis, Sept. 26,
1954.

OCCUPATION: Executive secretary, New England Regional Office, American
Friends Service Committee.

OFFICES HELD: Editor and co-publisher, Manistee County Times, 1950-51; news
director, WCAX. Radio-TV, 1953-62; director, Vermont Council on
World Affairs, 1959-62; chairman, Greater Burlington Community Rela-
tions Committee,’:1960-62; member, South Burlington Town Govern-
ment Committee, 1961-62, South Burlington School Board, 1961-62; chair-

man, Vermont State Advisory Committee to U.S. Civil Rights Commis-
sion, 1962.

I AM on my third life, although, of course, they are connected.
After graduation I continued the life of a newspaperman, begun at
Harvard on the Boston Globe and continued after Harvard on Time

[ 1386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

magazine and the newspaper PM. This led directly to the Office of

War Information in 1941, since I had been, among other things,

analyzing Axis propaganda in a PM column. I analyzed from 1941

to 1945, then entered the U.S. Army and served in the CIC, Berlin

Military Government and the C.I.A. After a semi-literary hiatus in

London and a Paris editing job with the World Federation of Trade

Unions (before the West and East parted), I returned in 1948 to New

York City, a job — while the paper lasted — with the late Clendenin

Ryan’s late Public Guardian and then, with a wartime associate, to

Manistee, Michigan, where I first managing-edited and then editor-

co-published the weekly Manistee County Times. The financial

failure of this endearing enterprise allowed me to swallow my news-
paperman’s contempt for broadcasters and I became news director
of Station WMTE in Manistee.

An imminent family required greener pastures: for nine years from

1953, | was news director of WCAX Radio & Television in Burling-
ton, Vermont. We thought this might be permanent, we built a
house that has Lake Champlain for its front yard. I acquired a three-
state following of my news and press-panel programs; became active
in community, civic and church organizations, was elected to lesser
office and seemed well rooted. But no. Soon after college, the reli-
gion of my youth had lost its significance for me and for years I had
done without my church affiliation. In 1956 I was accepted in the
Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). My church activity was at
first incidental to my work. In that time I helped found the Burl-
ington Friends Meeting and became its first clerk. Quaker (and
long-time personal) concerns led me into much weekend and eve-
ning work. In the spring of 1962 I was asked to lead the A.F.S.C
effort in New England for two years. I accepted and now direct a
program of interpretation of Quaker work and service in New
England. As has been noted elsewhere, Boston Irishmen sometimes
show up in unexpected places.

My family is a joy: after the ending of a war-interrupted mar-
riage, I met Nina at the BBC in England and we married. (She is
not English, but Swedish, and her family home is in Kenya.) Our
sons were born in Vermont and have an interesting mixture of New
England and other accents.

Travels: wartime in England, postwar residence in France and
Germany (Paris and Berlin); in 1960, a tour of Western and Eastern
Europe.

My social, political and religious convictions are, I think, measured

[ 1387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

more in terms of what I think is true and right than in any lateral
scale, although I have not moved noticeably Rightward.

The three lives I mentioned? The first, young-man-on-the-make
seeking the good life and on pleasure bent. The second, life-battered
man, with ideals unimpaired but equipped with family needs, seeking
survival and material returns. The third, re-directed and inner-
directed man, still seeking, but with focus on spiritual rather than
material values. And the family seems to do all right. And I feel
younger.

JOHN JOSEPH SULLIVAN

 

HOME AbpRESs: 56 Milton Rd., Braintree 84, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 225, McElroy Commons, Boston College English Dept.,
Chestnut Hill 67, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; A.M. (Boston Coll.), 1949.

marriep: Mary P, Walsh, Sept. 1, 1943. cHiLoreN: Maura, Aug. 23, 1944; Dennis,
Sept. 27, 1947; Eileen, Aug. 16, 1949; Michael, Dec. 5, 1950, Mark, Nov. 22,
1952.

occupation: Assistant professor of English and director of Freshman English,
Boston College.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors, St. Vincent De Paul Society; South Braintree Little
League; Irish-American Anglophiles (charter and only member).

I LIVE a life of “quiet desperation,” but upwards. I don’t think I'll
ever be a big league ball player. I don’t think I’ll write a great novel.
I don’t think I'll get my Ph.D. But I still think I may find a way to
keep boys from plagiarizing term papers. I may discover a fool-
proof system for avoiding dangling modifiers, 1 may help keep

[ 1388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the adverb from becoming extinct. I may get this typewriter

cleaned.
I began my career as an inspired drudge at Georgetown University

after that one “good” war, during which I took Mary for my wife.
She still thinks I am some kind of a genius whom the world hasn't
discovered simply because I haven’t followed her instructions, 1
went to Boston College in 1949 to get a Master’s degree on the G.I.
Bill and continued a while at B.U. in quest of a Doctor's. I joined the
Boston College English Department in 1949 and I remain in it today,
I’m lucky; it’s a great department, the most vigorous and charming,
funniest group of men and women in the world. I’m its Leopold
Bloom; every young Stephen or Charlotte Bronté seeks me out and
calls me Dad for the first few years. They go on, upward and clse-
where, and the next time I see them they seem older than I am.

I’ve been a Catholic since birth, a liberal Catholic (one can say
“liberal” now with some hope of being understood, after the E-cu-
menical Council). I’m a Democrat, a left-wi ing Democrat. My father
was both of these before me. My addiction is reading, my special
tastes are Thomas Love Peacock, Ford Madox Ford, John Updy ke,
Elizabeth Bowen, Malcolm Lowry and (the bigger names) Conrad,
James, the Russians, DeMaupassant, Dickens, George Eliot, Dreiser
and Thurber.

My family life is full of laughter and hollering. Now that my
youngest is ten, there seems to be constant noise everywhere about
the house, which is too small for the seven of us. People taking stairs
two or three at a time, sibling rivalry, radios blaring, these go on
farther and farther into the night and the quiet which my wife and
I used to enjoy is less and less. A family of any size ‘absorbs its
parents, I think, and what can one do about it? My daughter Maura,
piquant and perceptive, is now a freshman at B. C. My son Dennis
is a sophomore at Archbishop Williams High School, a boy scholar.
athlete. Eileen and Michael are at Braintree South Junior High
School and Mark is at Braintree Highlands School. We're all in
school except mother and she seems to like it that way, but she’s soll
the best bridge player, the best cook, and the prettiest one in the
whole family. Please correct all the bad English.

[ 1389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

LEONARD EDWARD SULLIVAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 177 Spring Ave., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc., 757 Third Ave., New York 17,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. CU72 laude, 1938; A.M., 1940.

MARRIED: Virginia Louise Hammond, Jan. 26, 1946.

occupaTION: Publishing; manager, textbook department, Harcourt, Brace &
World, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Textbook Publishers
Institute.

THERE is a school of thought that maintains it is chancy to look
back lest the past catch up with one—and to that school I sub-
scribe. However, confident that the gods hold in special sanctuary
the Harvardman preparing his Twenty-fifth Class Reunion Report,
I have screwed up my courage and penned this sketch.

Most of my life — boy, youth, man — has been spent in education.
In the earlier phases, I attempted to acquire it; in the. later, I have
tried to share. Following graduate work, I was a college instructor
in the frigid prairieland of western Canada and then among the only
slightly less cold hills of New Hampshire. For good measure, mili-
tary life —a hitherto unsuspected source of education — found me
in the wintery Aleutians. Any wonder, then, that I chose as my
wife a girl from sun-drenched Florida?

Since 1945 I have been in the textbook publishing business — first
in the Midwest and now in the East. And today with schools
being urged to diversify and intensify their curricula, it’s an exciting
one. We work in the worlds of programmed instruction, teaching

[ 1390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

machines and audio-lingual methods — areas only dimly glimpsed
along the Charles in 1938.

And, of course, we in publishing are greatly encouraged by
Ecclesiastes which prophesies that “of making many books there is
no end.”

RICHARD WEBB SULLIVAN (formerly Daniel Sullivan)

prreeees SESS AH 8h OI REE INE GN OTIS Ae OES EE
ie : BEN wee

 

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Clinton Rd., Glen Ridge, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bendix Plant IV, Garibaldi Street, Hackensack, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; A.M. (Fordham Univ.), 1951.
MARRIED: Juanita Marle Keagy, July 1, 1961. cHiLp: Donald Ralph Keagy,

Sept. 13, 1951. ~

occupPaTION: Assistant chief editor, technical publications.

PUBLICATIONS: Poetry in Atlantic Monthly, Spirit, America, New York Times,
New York Herald Tribune, Florida Magazine of Verse, Irish Writing,

and elsewhere.

WHEN I graduated from Harvard I had four distinct ambitions to
choose from. I wanted to be one of the world’s great pocts, or may-
be the hero of blood-curdling adventures, or else an obviously canon-
izable saint, or possibly just an ordinary multi-billionaire who could
make the stock markets of the world tremble by coughing in an irri-
tated way.. A fifth ambition I had already put aside as impractical:
after coming in fifth in a field of five in the campaign for Class
Orator I had decided that I lacked political talent and therefore need
not bother about the Presidency of the United States. I probably
had never been very serious about this fifth ambition, anyway. Four
such ambitions as I had were enough for any man.

Tackling the multi-billionaire bit first as, after all, the casicst, I

[ 1391 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

had years ago. | know what I am in addition to being a husband and
father: I am a communicator, someone adept at conveying ideas
and motivations by whatever means may lie at hand, and in a small
way I am a philosopher. I am preparing— under contract to a
famous textbook house —a college textbook on business communi-
cations, about which I find that I know a great deal. I teach part-
time at New York University. I expect to convey my best thoughts
to a great many minds, and one way or another I shall continue to
earn enough money for comfortable middle-class living. Meanwhile,
] have an enviable home life. I do not even ask, “What price glory?”
If I were to think about it at all I might ask what it is, for at this
point | honestly do not know. You see, my education at this point
is very nearly complete. I know who I am, and I do not need to be
assured that I exist by anyone’s applause — except, of course, my
wife’s and my son’s.

ROBERT SULLIVAN

     

a. . My
HOME apprEss: 47 Old Orchard Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Superior Court, Court House, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1941.

MaRRIED: Dorothy A. Noonan, December, 1949. cuILp: Sally Ann, May 27, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Justice, Massachusetts Superior Court.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, University of Massachusetts, 1959-60; director, New
England Conferences of Christians and Jews, 1949-59; member, board of
governors, Boston University Human Relations Center, 1959-60; president,

Holy Name Society, Infant Jesus Church, 1959-60; lieutenant colonel, U.S.
Army Reserves.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Boston and Norfolk County Bar Associations;
Charles River Country Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

[ 1394 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE factual chronology of twenty-five years of living reads as
follows:

In 1941, I was graduated from Boston College Law School and
was admitted to the Massachusetts bar.

Immediately thereafter I was called into the military service and
served for nearly five years. My principal assignment was as an
Artillery forward observer with the “Rainbow” Infantry Division,
first committed to combat at the Colmar Sector of the Battle of the
Bulge and later in France, Germany and Austria. In 1946 I was
discharged as a major, later lieutenant colonel of Field Artillery.

During the period 1946 to 1958, I sustained my small family ‘and
myself by practising law, principally trial work in the courts of the
Commonwealth.

In 1949 I married Dorothy A. Noonan whom I had known since
childhood and in 1951 our dear daughter, Sally Ann, was born.

In 1958 I was appointed, with life tenure, a Justice of the Massa-
chusetts Superior Court. Ours is a state-wide court of general,

indeed virtually unlimited, jurisdiction. It is the lineal successor to
the Magistrates of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Yet steeped in
tradition as it is, it remains a dynamic force in the lives of the people
of the Commonwealth. Now in my fifth year of service on the
bench, I have found the work challenging and rewarding.

All things considered, after twenty-five years, I find myself rea-
sonably sound of mind and limb and very content.

WILLIAM FRANCIS SULLIVAN, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 30 Ficldmont Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Northern Textile Association, 80 Federal St, Boston tg, Mase

[1395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum? laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

married: Helen Barr Dolan, Feb. 27, 1943. CHILDREN: Christine Barr, May 24,
1944; William Francis, 3d, Nov. 14, 1946; Mary Thomas, Aug. 17, 1953.

occupation: Lawyer and president, Northern Textile Association.

orFices HELD: Member, Management-Labor Textile Advisory Committee (Fed-
eral); New England Governors’ Textile Commictee, 1953-59; delegate,
Textiles Committee, International Labour Organization, Geneva, 1953,

1955 and 1958, delegate, International Cooperation Administration Con-
ference, France, 1956.

meMaeR OF; Algonquin Club, Boston; New Hampshire and Boston Bar Asso-
ciations; National Planning Association.

BY Scptember of 1938, not having found an occupation, I applied to
the Law School, where I spent the next three years in the usual
routine but with a certain emphasis on labor law and labor problems.
In the fall of 1941, having been admitted to the Massachusetts and
New Hampshire bars, I wound up in a large Boston law firm known
as Ropes & Gray, and after doing the usual chores and memoranda,
gradually specialized in labor work involving collective bargaining,
long nights, and the practical application of many of the studies
which began in Freshman year. It was a period of discovering that
there is satisfaction and incentive in doing the ordinary.

In 1943 a Wellesley girl married me and we are still happily enjoy-
ing life together with the addition of three healthy and intelligent
children — one is in Vassar, one is at Belmont Hill School, and the
third is in the fourth grade.

Interests in labor matters, and particularly those of the New
England textile industry, led to the presidency of the National Asso-
ciation of Cotton Manufacturers in 1950, which later became the
Northern Textile Association. The first five years were devoted
largely to the chronic labor problems of the New England mills,
while I also learned something about that strange form of business
organization known as a trade association, where the owners pay
annual dues, receive no dividends, and struggle with public relations,
politics and personalities while competing against each other. Our
principal adversaries were the southern mills until 1956, when we
became allies in a struggle against foreign mills,

The old labor-cost problem between North and South was re-
placed by similar ones with Osaka, Hong Kong and points East.
Attendance at three I.L.O. conferences in Geneva proved that the
problem was not going to be solved by the good will and classical
economic adjustments envisaged in the Wilsonian era. Politics,

[ 1396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

government and legislation become involved when the problem is
world-wide. I had the opportunity to be close to the 1956 negotia-
tions, which led to the first five-year cotton quota agreement with
Japan and to later developments.

In 1961, President Kennedy established an over-all National Tex-
tile Program, which led to the two global quota arrangements cover-
ing cotton products. The monotony of negotiations was broken up
by two trips to Japan, five to Geneva, and the usual number to
Washington. The arrangements represent a novel approach to the
trade problems of a labor-oriented manufacturing industry. By the
time this appears in print, I hope the trade difficulties of the wool
and man-made fiber industries will be under similar or better control.
My job has its share of frustrations but a degree of variety, and I
still have a modest labor practice.

We live a quiet suburban life a few miles from Harvard Square,
enlivened annually by a get-together with a few classmates, including
Symmie and Pete Hale, for the Yale game.

ALVAH WOODBURY SULLOWAY

TERNS ERE

 

HOME aApprEss: Kittery Point, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.I.
PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 7/ag7a cum latide, 1938; LL.B, 1941.

marriep: Alison Green, June 17, 1939 (divorced 1953); Susan Fstabrook
Stewart, July 10, 1954. CHILDREN: Alvan Woodbury, Jr, March 10, tot)

Lucien Price, July 4, 1944; Frank Jones, 2d, Feb. 2, 1947; Stewart: Fsta-
brook, July 10, 1956.

occuPaTIoNn: Teacher of English, Moses Brown Schgol.

[ 1397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

oFFices HELD: President, New Hampshire Federation of Young Republicans,
1947-48; trustee, Concord (N.H.) National Bank, 1948-50; trustee and
general counsel, Darrmouth Eye Institute (later Hanover Institute), 1948-
so; treasurer, New Hampshire Citizens Council for the General Welfare,
1948; vice-president, New England Lawn Tennis Association, 1953-55;
chairman, Thurston Cup Committee for New England Intra-Sectional

Doubles Team Championship, 1949-56, president, New England Tennis
Patrons Association, 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: New Hampshire, Connecticut and U.S. Supreme Court bars,
Harvard Club of Boston, Agawam Hunt Club, Providence, R.I.

PUBLICATIONS: Birth Control and Catholic Doctrine, Beacon Press, 1959; “Birth
Control; Dogma and Dilemma,” in Contemporary Accents in Liberal Re-
ligion, 1960, ed. by Bradford E. Gale, Beacon Press, 1960; “The Legal and
Political Aspects of Population Control in the United States,” Law and
Contemporary Problems, Duke University School of Law, 1960.

AFTER twenty-five years it could be said that I am still trying to
live up to my undergraduate ideal of the Renaissance man. At the
risk of being adjudged a master of no trades in a seeming effort to be
Jack of all, I am now embarked upon a new profession as a teacher
of English in a new city, Providence, Rhode Island, and in the
novel living situation of a boys’ private secondary school, Moses
Brown. Lawyer, author, government official, part-time playwright
and songwriter, teacher and tennis coach — there, in brief, is a
kaleidoscopic vista of my career to date.

Now that, after twenty years at the bar, I am no longer engaged in
the practice of law, I can look back on my years in the legal pro-
fession with perspective, if not unmitigated satisfaction. To them I
owe my first-hand knowledge of almost every corner of the State
of New Hampshire, a useful hard-headedness about business affairs,
and an ability to make words serve my purposes. The days and
nights when as a young lawyer I was sent out to interview witnesses,
investigate accidents, and prepare cases for trial seemed a far cry
from the scholarly reading room of Langdell Library. It was tire-
some, poorly paid work involving a constant and painful process of
self-education in one of the many but limited disciplines of the law.
When, after the war, 1 became a partner in Cummings and Lock-
wood, a Stamford, Connecticut, firm, I exchanged the harassments
of practice as an insurance company defense counsel for those of
real-estate transactions, wills, trusts, and estates, The wear and tear
on my nervous system increased proportionately with the greater
wealth of my suburban clients. Nor could I find sufficient satisfac-
tion in my increased earnings (and vastly increased expenditures! ) to

[ 1398 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

compensate for what, in spite of many fine clients and associates,
was a creatively stultifying existence.

As an interlude in my twenty-year law practice came three war
years in the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) in Washington. Most
of this time was spent in the Secretariat, of which I became Chief in
April, 1945. Working for Major General William J. Donovan, him-
self a master of the mot juste, turned out to be a milestone in my
education, for here was a man to whom every embarrassment or
difficulty represented not a problem but an opportunity for a dra-
matic turning of the tables. The interest and excitement of those
years, enhanced by many congenial friendships, make invidious
any comparison with other communities where I have lived.

As far back as my law-school days I had begun to lead a double
life. Then it was that I started the research for a book on birth
control and the Catholic Church which Beacon Press published in
1959 with a foreword by Aldous Huxley. It took Morris Ernst about
sixteen years of unremitting effort to find a publisher for the volume
since few publishers, however liberal their views, will knowingly an-
tagonize the Catholic hierarchy (unless they expect to make a for-
tune out of the book). Needless to say, this book was not headed
for the best-seller list, and it’s a good thing I had some other gainful
occupation at the time. My last year’s royalty statement, by some
accounting procedure I cannot fathom, showed me owing the
publisher $5.89!

Equally non-remunerative, but far better as a change of pace
from the law, has been my intermittent fling at the theatre and song
writing. A musical for which I did the book lyrics (my former
wife, Alison, wrote the music) had four different productions over
a ten-year period, one for a week at the Duxbury Playhouse in sum-
mer stock and the last at the White Barn Theatre in Westport, Con-
necticut. Admittedly I didn’t set the theatrical world on fire, but all
is grist for the mill, and today I would guess that few English teach-
ers in the secondary schools can match my practical experience with
the theatre.

Walking out of a law office one day and into an eleventh-grade
English classroom the next puts a premium on pedagogical ingenuity.
Thank God for my legal training! It extricated me from many dith-
culties that first year, What I didn’t know about English grammar
I made up for by my experience as a legal draftsman. And in htera-
ture there were unexpected windfalls. Teaching Catherine Drinker
Bowen's biography of Mr. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Yartee

[ 1399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

from Olympus, was made to order for a man to whom civil liberties
provided one of the few vitally interesting areas of the law.

Whether my school, a combination of boarding and day, in a large
metropolitan area, is typical of others I do not know. I continue to
be amazed at the gulf between the best boys and their least able
classmates. Moreover, I am impressed (and concerned) at the de-
mands made upon the time and stamina of an English teacher, and
universally accepted as par for the course. It so happens that I am
in charge of a corridor of eleven boarding students. I coach tennis
two terms out of three. I have thirteen advisees for whose destinies
I am responsible in addition to my seventy-two English students
spread over two grades. And by comparison with public school
teachers my load is light.

From our life in a dormitory during school term we move in vaca-
tion to our house on Portsmouth Harbor at Kittery, Maine. My
enterprising wife, Susan, talked me into an en famille camping trip
throughout the West our first teaching summer. Last summer she
and I acquired a new perspective on the world thanks to a motor
trip through England, Scotland and Wales during which we played
more than twenty golf courses and examined a wealth of prehistoric
ruins.

My athletic activities, despite a siege or two with the gout, re-
main a continuing source of pleasure. Thanks to the British golf
courses, I’ve worked my handicap down to an eight and can talk
authoritatively about gorse bushes, and bunkers to which the only
exit is by ladder. Although no longer active in New England tennis
administration, I had the good fortune last spring to coach an un-
defeated tennis team at Moses Brown. And, naturally, it is an
inducement to physical fitness that I should be able to win at least a
one-set match with the best of my student players. Well I know,
though, that if not by others, by a couple of developing young
Sulloways, my days of triumph are numbered.

All in all, my life has shown increasingly my indebtedness to
Harvard. I am now leading a life where ideas are important, where
books are read, where lives are being molded. I am teaching, but in
another sense my new profession is not unlike going back to an excit-
ing school, a school like the Harvard I remember, where a teacher
can also Jearn.

[ 1400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN WALLACE SUTER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 360 Old Post Rd., Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE AppRESss: Unquowa School, 981 Stratfield Rd., Bridgeport 4, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREES: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1938; ep.st. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Antoinette Chappel Brown, Oct. 31, 1942. CHILDREN: John Wallace,
3d, July 16, 1945; Robert Brown, Nov. 29, 1946.

OccUPATION: Headmaster, Unquowa School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Detroit Oratorio Society, 1950-33; vestryman, Sc.
Paul’s Church, Fairfield, Conn., 1959-61; member, executive committce,
board of directors, Cooperative Bureau for Teachers, New York City,
since 1960; president, Lake Forest Family Service.

MEMBER OF: Cooperative Bureau for Teachers; St. Paul's Church, Trinity
Chorale, Trinity Church, Southport, Conn.; Mid-Fairfield County Youth
Museum, Westport, Conn.

IT was probably during my junior year at Bard College, Columbia
University (having transferred there following our freshman year),
that the decision to enter the ivied halls of education was made. The
three years at the Malcolm Gordon School, Garrison-on-Hudyon,
New York, and the year and a half at the Shady Fill School in
Cambridge provided the two most important and most intluential
factors in the years that were to follow. In chronological order,
rather than in the order of importance, was, first, the discovery
that education and teaching bore little resemblance to the “Elalls of
Ivy” image, but was, rather, a tremendously exciting, ever-changing
challenge and opportunity the essence of w hich is rooted in the minds
and hearts of youngsters and not so much in the textbook.
Secondly, but of first importance, was the discovery at Shady Efi
of a superb teacher who shortly became an even more supert wile

[ r401 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

and, later, mother of our two boys. Our mutual interests in the fam-
ily, in education, choral music and the Episcopal Church have pro-
vided much of pleasure, of excitement and of the serious grapplings
with the problems characteristic of these pursuits.

As was true of all of us in 38, the war years interrupted or at
least delayed the normal course of events. Stationed only in various
parts of this country, we were moved around a bit and I ended up
working with the educational aspects of rehabilitation of returning
servicemen. Tony, meanwhile, bore our first son and returned to her
family in Ohio until my discharge in 1946.

During the following year, the School of Education at Harvard
provided a Master's degree and a better basis for continuing work in
the profession. Having returned to a more normal way of life, we
moved to Grosse Pointe, Michigan, in the meantime having acquired
a second son. The Detroit Oratorio Society, of which I was, for a
time, president, the church, the League of Women Voters, and in-
volvement in many other community ventures filled in whatever time
remained after teaching and family doings. It was a rewarding
seven years in Grosse Pointe. It was also during this period that we
as a family first enjoyed the pleasures of our family island on Geor-
gian Bay in Canada, All but two summers have been spent there
since,

In 1954 we pulled up stakes and moved from Grosse Pointe to
Lake Forest, Illinois, where I assumed the tasks of headmaster of the
Lake Forest Day School, a coeducational school from kindergarten
through the ninth grade. Our four years there were in many ways

very rewarding —for me in terms of experience and professional
know-how, and for the family in terms of all those things which our
boys, in their “pre-teens,” found satisfying and productive. Again
Tony and I became involved happily in an adult singing group, in
local educational scenes, and Tony found tremendous satisfaction in
handling the five-state regional scholarship program for her alma
mater, Bryn Mawr. In 1958, “my” school and another in the com-
munity planned to merge. Realizing that the kind of school philoso-
phy which the “new” school was to represent and champion was
so far afield from my own as to preclude compromise on my part,
we moved once more, and we hope for the last time, to Fairfield,

Connecticut, where we are now happily situated. I am now head-

master of the Unquowa School, a country day school, coeducational

(of course!), which handles kindergarten through the senior high

schoo] years. This June, in fact, we shall graduate the first senior

[ 1402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

class which represents the changes, physically, educationally and
financially which have occurred in the past four years. With our
eldest, John, headed for college next fall (we don’t know where
yet) and his brother just a year behind, we are steeped in the current
pressures, real or imaginary, which seem to pervade the national
scene. We're still singing, teaching (Tony, too) and going to church,
among a lot of other varied activities which keep us very busy.

It has been a wonderful twenty years for us and a wonderful
twenty-five since °38!

AG

 

HOME AppRESS: 68 Kingsbury St., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Instrumentation Laboratory, Dept. of Aeronautics and Astronau-
tics, Massachusetts Inst. of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Pingry School, Elizabeth, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarRieD: Ruth B. Wilson, June 22, 1946. CHILDREN: Joy, July 4, 1948; Sarah,
May 26, 1950; Roger Wilson, July 16, 1953.

occuPaTION: Development engineer, designing computers, Laboratory for the
development of guidance systems.

OFFICES HELD: Program chairman, Professional Group on Electronic Computers
Boston Section, Institute of Radio Engineers, 1952-53; president, Golden-
crest Park Improvement Association, 1955-56; chairman, Renovation Fund
Committee, First Parish Unitarian, Needham, Mass. 1959-60; chairman,
Survival-in-Disaster Study Committee, appointed by the Board of Scleet-
men, Needham, 1961-62; chairman, Session on Social Aspects and Re-
sponsibilities of Computing, National Conference of the Association for
Computing Machinery, Syracuse, N.Y., September, 1962.

MEMBER OF: First Parish Unitarian, Needham; Institute of Electrical and Elee-
tronic Engineers; Association for Computing Machinery; Harvard Ba-
gineering Society.

[ 1403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

In March, 1959, I presented a paper on a possible application of
computers to government, entitled “Emergency Simulation of the
Duties of the President of the United States.” Comments on this
filled some newspapers columns on the west coast where I presented
it and apparently led one reporter to ask President Eisenhower if
he thought a computer would ever assume the duties of the Presi-
dent. The answer was “No.”

Some of the illustrations in that paper diagram the United States
government as the Visualizer may do. The making of such diagrams
by computer I described in a paper called “A Model of Visual
Space,” last year.

The greatest help in working out a tidy theory of operation both
of the Visualizer and of “eyes” has been Dr. Warren McCulloch,
a psychiatrist and physiologist at M.LT. From him I have been
learning what our eyes tell our brains and what our brains do with
this information. I hope to pass this information on to you when
the Visualizer goes on the air, some day in the future.

While the Visualizer may never materialize, I shall go on trying
to make it, On each vacation in the Berkshires, we produce a movie
as though for the Visualizer. Through the past year as chairman of
a committee studying the nuclear threat to Needham, we took a long
look at community shelters and concluded that they could take the
edge off the danger but that the principal need was to “demonstrate
to Russians that there is an interesting and lively alternative for
Russia on the world scene to either an arms race or unconditional
surrender,” to quote Walt Rostow. Somehow this must be demon-
strated, not by giving in and not by scaring them to death. At the
same time our people are going to have to apply an unusual com-
bination of firmness and restraint in deciding when to use and not to
use our nuclear power. Both the Russians and ourselves need under-

standing to a depth that words alone have been unable to provide.
Here the technical development that I have chronicled should help.

[ 1406 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BARTHOLOMEW PHILIP SWEENEY, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 3810 Davis Pl., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

WARREN PREBLE SWETT

ERSTE TR

   

HOME apprEss: 1746 Martine Ave., Scotch Plains, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co., soo Doremus Ave.
Newark 5, N.J. |

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1034-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938(39).

MaRRIED: Margaret Agnes Skinner, May 19, 1944. CHILDREN: Dianne Margaret,
Dec. 31, 1946, Geoffrey W., Dec. 24, 1948; Graham E., July zt, 1965.

occuPATION: Senior pilot plant engineer, Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1960-61, treasurer, since tg61, Plaintichd (N.Jo
Symphony Society.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Association of Harvard Chemists,
Plainfield Symphony Socicty.

[ 1407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

puBLicaTions: U.S, Patent No. 3,014,006, Composition of Halogenated Butyl

Rubber and a Methylol-free Polyhydric Phenol, Method of Curing same
and Vulcanizate thereof, dated Dec. 19, 1961.

CHARLES PORTER SYLVESTER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 495 Central Rd. Rye, N.H.

OFFICE Appress: Hoover Motors, Inc., 113 Dartmouth St., Boston, Mass.
prepared aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Comptroller.

DWIGHT ARVEN SYMMES

 

HOME AporeEss: Dean Road, Hudson Falls, N.Y,

orFice appress: Glens Falls Portland Cement Co., Div. of Flintkote Co., Glens
Falls, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn,

[ 1408 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarriED: Catherine Burch, Aug. 3, 1940 (divorced 1961). CHILDREN: William
Dwight, Dec. 12, 1941 (m. Roberta Williams, June, 1962); Lowell Burch,
March 8, 1945; Dwight Arven, Jr., Dec. 26, 1948.

occupation: President, Glens Falls Portland Cement Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, YMCA of Glens Falls; director, First National Bank
of Glens Falls, Community Chest, Red Cross, Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: University Club, New York, Lake George Club; Glens Falls
Country Club.

BERNARD KRIEGER SYMONDS

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 200 Blackstone Blvd., Providence 6, R.I.

KIYOSHI TASHIRO

 

ee .

ei AILING ADDRESS: 306 N. Washington St., Rome, N.Y,

[ 1409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DAVID HENDRICKSON TAYLOR

 

HOME aAppress: 177 Larch Row, South Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE aporEss: Davison Chemical Division, W. R. Grace & Co., 101 N.
Charles St., Baltimore 3, Md.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

Marriep: Constance Matless, May 20, 1939. CHILDREN: Carroll Nicholson, May
7, 1940; David Hendrickson, Jr. April 7, 1946; Ruth, Feb. 8, 1949.

occupation: Vice-president and general manager, Specialty Products Division,
W. R. Grace & Company, Davison Chemical Division.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Pingree School, Hamilton, Mass., Beverly Hospital,
Beverly, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club, South Hamilton, Mass.

OVER the past twenty-five years, I have forgotten much too
much of what was taught me, some prejudices, and many — too
many — names and faces, On the other hand, I have acquired a little
knowledge of a large variety of things. Chronologically, I have
learned: to husband a wife and support same, pin a diaper, econo-
mize, wear a uniform, command a ship, put up with the regular
Navy, change jobs, go back to work, have more children, borrow
money, buy a house, run a sales force, survive a merger, become big
business, earn more money, borrow more money, travel incessantly,
smoke too much, drink too often, give up touch football, never play
singles, break ninety, bid according to the book (female pressure),
tolerate teen-agers, never tackle their homework, recognize again
the power of the female, rebuild an old house, borrow more money,
hate architects, detest contractors. Hence, to adopt a philosophy re

Harvard football, middle age, deficit spending, eggheads, and life
in general, which all in all has been very good to me.

Besides paying taxes, educating children, rearing dogs, expanding

[ 1410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

markets, my contributions I rate as mediocre, my interest, regretf ully,
far too mundane.

FRANK CLARE TAYLOR

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 42 Hilltop Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

i TALBOT JONES TAYLOR, II

s

 

BORN: June 18, 1916, Glen Cove, Long Island, N.Y. Parents: Talbot Jones

Taylor, Jr., Louise Frank.
PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.
DIED: Killed in action, June 6, 1942, over Emden, Germany.

AFTER college Taylor spent two years at Trinity College and
received a degree i in economics. He enlisted in the RCAF m Canada

and after training was sent overseas with the rank of pilot officer in
November, 1941. He had further training in England and in March,

[ryt]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

1942, began flying active missions as navigator of a Halifax bomber
He was lost in a raid over Emden, Germany.

ALFRED WILLIAM TEICHMEIER, JR.

   

HOME ApprEss: 200 E. 66th St., New York 21, N.Y.

oFFice appress: U.S, Plywood Corp., 55 W. 44th St., New York 36, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

Marriep; Ann Stevens, May 26, 1961.

occupation: Vice-president, marketing services, U.S. Plywood Corporation.

oFrices HELD: Director, Hardwood Plywood Institute, 1961-62, National Particle
Board Association, 1959-62; president, U.N. We Believe, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Former member, Knollwood Club, Lake Forest, [ll., Lake Shore
Club, Chicago, and Young Republican Club; currently, Hardwood Ply-
wood Institute, National Particle Board Association, Harvard Club of
New York, Harvard Business School Club, Sales Executive Club, New
York City.

MY business career has been entirely with the U.S. Plywood Cor-

poration, which I joined in 1940 after two years at the “B” School.

The years have taken me from beginnings in sales in Boston, to pro-

duction work in a plywood mill in northern Wisconsin, and then

on to New York where I had the broadening experience of serving
as assistant to the vice-president in charge of sales before returning
to the line sales organization in 1949 as Chicago branch sales manager.

In 1952 I opened a new branch sales office and warehouse in Chicago,

serving as manager until 1957 when I returned to our home office as

a product manager. Now I find myself as Vice-president in charge

of all staff marketing functions, enjoying it thoroughly, but occasion-

ally yearning for the immediate satisfactions available from line
responsibilities.

[1412 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My wife insists that those who hold that “New York is a good
place to visit but not to live” are simply unknowing and we are
thoroughly enjoying urban life. She has shown me that mixing
Manhattan living with occasional weekend excursions to pastoral
environments, plus a few longer jaunts to the more exotic places,
makes for a well-balanced way of life.

My first serious brush with non-professional activities involved me
in Eisenhower’s first presidential campaign while working with the
Young Republican Club in Chicago. It was possibly the sense of
social responsibility awakened then which led me to the presidency
of an organization known as U.N. WE BELIEVE, a group of
amateurs dedicated to securing the commitment of industry, labor
unions, other organizations and individuals to the principles of the
United Nations as expressed in the preamble to the charter. Our
efforts are primarily aimed at getting corporations to use the powers
of communication at their command to create greater awareness and
understanding of the United Nations’ principles by individuals

everywhere. We have just commemorated the completion of our
most successful year to date with a luncheon during which Ambas-
sador Adlai Stevenson presented an award to General Telephone
& Electronics Corporation for their public commitment and out-
standing accomplishments this past year. Until a better means of
changing the fast-moving, frightening course of history is developed,
we shall continue to generate support for this world organization.

CARLETON FOSTER TENNEY

 

MAILING AppRESS: 7 Bailey Ave., Montpelier, Vt.

[1413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN BECHTEL TEW

TER ee tre re NTT RTT a
: ‘

   

HOME ADDRESS: Old Concord Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE AbprEss: Scudder, Stevens & Clark, 10 Post Office Sq. Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.
arrigp: Valerie Hathaway, July 25, 1942. CHILDREN: James D., 3d, Oct. 29,

1944; Hathaway, Sept. 2, 1947; David S., Jan. 22, 1952; John Bechtel, Jr.,
Feb. 19, 1955; Valerie S., Sept. 21, 1958.

HARVARD SON: James D. Tew, 3d, °66.

occupaTion: General partner, Scudder, Stevens & Clark, investment counselors.

oFFIces HELD: Chairman, Town of Lincoln Finance Committee; chairman,
Finance Committee, lay reader and former vestryman and warden, St.
Anne's Episcopal Church, Lincoln, director, Black & Webster, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Concord Country Club; Wianno Club,
Wianno Yacht Club; Fort Hill Club.

TWO months of stacking hay in Wyoming and a little hard thought
convinced me that my ambitions to be a rancher were shattered, and I
returned east to pursue a more conventional business career. After a
brief period with the Continental Can Company, I joined the B. F.
Goodrich Company and was there until the war started. My military
career was a comedy of errors, notable only for spending a year at
Yale, first as a cadet and later as a commissioned instructor. This at
least earned me an invitation to join the Yale Club of Boston, an offer
not yet accepted. The war’s end found me still in this country as a
radar officer in the Army Air Force. So far as the war effort was
concerned, the entire period was a waste of time, but it did give me
a hobby of building radios and time to think of my future career.
Having decided to enter the investment business, I joined Keystone,
Custodian Funds, a mutual fund company, in 1946, and settled in
Lincoln, Massachusetts. Concentrating in security analysis and

[1414]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

later portfolio management, I stayed there until 1959 when I joined
Scudder, Stevens & Clark. The investment business has been stimu-
lating and rewarding, and some of the economics courses at Harvard
have proved quite useful.

The most important event in my life was meeting a Vassar lassie
in 1942. Ours was a hasty wartime marriage which, thanks to
Valerie, has survived twenty years and five wonderful children. The
eldest, James, is now a freshman in the Yard and the two younger
boys we hope will follow, if they don’t become too discouraged by
the football games they have seen this fall. With such a family,
Lincoln, which is rather overrun by the Class of ’38, has proved a
delightful spot for the parents, although perhaps a bit too rural for
the children. We have partially solved this problem by moving to
the suburbia of Osterville, on the Cape, for our summers. With such
a setup, we do some mild and, for my part, very cautious skiing in
the winter, and cruise on a very small sloop in the summer. In the
spring and fall I still have time for my golf game, which has lost its
youthful exuberance but gained mature judgment and twenty-five
pounds, thus creating a standoff.

What have twenty-five years brought? A wonderful wife and
family, an interesting job, and most important, an abiding faith in the
private enterprise system and in Christianity.

ALEXANDER MONTGOMERY THACKARA

HEEL CEPR TRRTREMNS ATM RETIN nee a

  

HOME ADDRESS: 840 W. Inverness Drive, Pasadena 3, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pacific Controls, Inc, 2822 E. Olympic Blvd. Los Angeles 24.
Calif,

PREPARED AT: Beaumont College, Windsor, England.

[1415 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936. DEGREE: S.B. BUS. & ENGR. ADMIN. (Massachusetts
Inst, of Technology), 1939.

MarrigD: Cynthia Thorndike, May 31, 1941. CHILDREN: Pamela, April 17, 1943;
William T. S., Dec. 28, 1945; Thomas E., Nov. 15, 1949; Robert L., May
12, 1953.

occupation: Sales engineer in automatic control field, president, Pacific Con-
trols, Inc., manufacturers’ representative.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Community Fund, Westwood, Massachusetts, 1950;
member, 1957-62, chairman, 1960, Entertainment Committee, California
Natural Gasoline Association.

MEMBER OF: Instrument Society of America; Southern California Meter
Association; California Natural Gasoline Association.

WHILE both my father and brother graduated from Harvard, I
transferred to M.LT. after two years. After graduation from M.L-T.,
] began a twenty-three-year association with the Mason-Neilan Reg-
ulator Company of Boston, Massachusetts, originally as an employee
and recently as a manufacturer’s representative. After a year at the
factory, I was transferred to their Pittsburgh office. In 1942 I was
commissioned in the Navy. My service included two years in the
South Pacific and instructing a V-12 unit at Southwestern Louisiana
Institute at Lafayette, Louisiana.

In November, 1945, I returned to Mason-Neilan and settled in
Westwood, Massachusetts. In 1953 I was transferred to Los Angeles
and became Western regional manager covering eleven states. On
April 1, 1961, I formed a company, Pacific Controls, Inc., a dis-
tributor and manufacturers’ representative of automatic control
equipment. .

My favorite sports are tennis and skiing. Hobbies are stereoscopic
photography and hi-fi.

At the present time, I have a girl in college, and three boys in
high school, junior high school and grammar school respectively.

Were I to start over again, I believe I would like to have been a
college professor. | had the opportunity at S.L.L but turned it down.

[1416 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT LYMAN THAYER

 

HOME AppRESS: Kenilworth, Alden Park, Philadelphia 4, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938(39).

MARRIED: Louise Ranney. CHILDREN: Ranney Wellington, 1944, Robert Lyman,
Jr., 1946; Victoria Graves, 1956; Joseph Main, 1961.

HARVARD SON: Ranney Wellington Thayer, ’65.

occuPATION: Industrial and financial writing and management.

A VERY busy twenty-five years it has been, and — subjectively —
of tremendous interest. A little combat duty with the Navy, start-
ing a very small corporation of my own, the discovery of limitless
horizons of study and practical application in the sciences and
finance, and the chance to watch the unfolding of my children’s
minds have been the highest peaks of interest. It is incredible to me
that anyone in our age group should be apathetic, in a world so nch
in available knowledge and stimulating experience. I have no wish
to be a day younger nor a day older. If I have any noticeable regret
or worry, such regret or worry is that no day is long enough. I
believe that every Harvard man should be, intellectually, ever mere
hungry, voracious, sceptical, objective and in control of hix own
and others’ fears.

Politically, I think voting a lengthy straight ticket is an open
confession of laziness and cowardice. Religiously, [am a Unitarian.

[ 1417 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN QUITMAN UNDERWOOD THOMPSON

LEO Ome ANP Ph ARETE MI LH

SIP EMO gs

 

HOME ADpRESS: 1958 River Rd., Jacksonville 7, Fla.

OFFICE ADpREsS: 800 Lomax St., Jacksonville 4, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Robert E. Lee High School, Jacksonville, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Cu7# laude, 1938; M.D., 1942.

MarRIED: Jane Anne Sutton, July 18, 1943. CHILDREN: Matthew Underwood,
Nov. 28, 1946; Margaret Elizabeth, Oct. 5, 1949; John Marcus, April 5,
1952; Patricia Anne, Aug. 10, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Orthopedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Duval Medical Center,
assistant orthopedic surgeon, Florida Crippled Children’s Commission.

THE first twelve years after graduation from Harvard College were
spent in Harvard Medical School, the Navy, and a hospital residency
program covering the required basis qualifications for an orthopedic
surgeon, completed in 1950. Since then I have been in private
(“solo”) practice, and I find myself getting more involved in the
responsibilities of developing an approved residency training program
here in our own hospitals, so the days seem ever more crowded with
work to be done, and with other things to be put off until another
time.

My family life has been pleasant, though it took me the first ten
years to learn how to get along with my wife; the same problem
comes up again as the rising generation (four of them) shows its in-
dividualities. 1 maintain a variety of recreational interests and activi-
ties, including swimming, small boat sailing, and tennis for sport,
bird-watching (derived from the Harvard Ornithological Club),
reading history, growing a few orchids and lilies, and collecting
stamps and coins. Most of these activities are easily picked up or laid
aside as unscheduled demands are made on the doctor’s evenings or

[ 1418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

weekends. We have talked about traveling, but so far it has been
only a two-week trip to South America, aside from brief annual
visits to the mountains of North Carolina, and hiking on the Appala-
chian Trail with the boys.

I have been made uneasy by the visible evidence of the population
explosion and the covering of vast areas of good land by endless
surburban developments: this is so obvious in Florida where recent
growth has been rapid. How is the same thing affecting the rest of
the country and the world?

This concerns me for the future of humanity more than do the
opposing ideologies of the Cold War or the extremes of individualism
versus socialism in our domestic politics. I hope the coming leaders
of all nations will have greater and sufficient world knowledge to
formulate and carry out plans for universal conservation of natural
resources, and for more effective population control than war,
pestilence and famine. Whither the U.N.?

RALPH LAWRENCE THOMPSON

 

HOME ApDpREss: 104 W. Hanlon St., Tampa 4, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Florida Federation of the Blind, 10g W. Hanlon Se, Tampa 4
Fla.

PREPARED AT: Perkins Institution, Watertown, Afass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; ED.M., 1945.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Woodward, Oct. 11, 1946, cHittpREN; Jeanne Camulle,
Nov. 26, 1948; Barbara Anne, Sept. 20, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Executive officer, Florida Federation of che Blind.

OFFICES HELD: State president.

A YEAR of frustration was followed by five years of teaching

[ t419 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

social studies at the Perkins School for the Blind and acting as house
master — 1940-1945.

In 1945 I accepted a position as placement officer with the Florida
State Council for the Blind in Tampa. While with the vocational
rehabilitation division of this governmental agency I was classified as
industrial and workshop specialist soon after my employment. After
eleven years, in 1956, I left my job to accept a position as field
officer with the National Federation of the Blind, with headquarters
in Berkeley, California. I remained on this job for only one year or
until 1957 and since then have been executive officer for the Florida
Federation of the Blind, a corporation not for profit, and have at the
same time built up a property management business.

I have been much interested in credit unions and have served in a
number of official capacities in several different credit unions. I am
at present loan officer for the FFB Federal Credit Union.

I believe in citizen organizations made up of citizens who are
primarily recipients of governmental services and not of persons
dishing it out. I ran for the Florida State Legislature once and was
decisively beaten. [ am not sorry I tried and may try again.

HENRY GREENOUGH THORNDIKE

      

: 4
} ‘- 4
S adv # :
a 7
are A

a * 4

 
  

=
oe

\ {
we

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Wicomico Church, Va.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marriep: Carolyn Fredrika Thompson, June 26, 1939. CHILDREN: Alice, Sept.
24, 1940; Susan Quincy, March 28, 1942; Evelyn Thompson, July 31, 19445
Henry Greenough, Jr., June 27, 1946; Anne Quintard, Nov. 24, 1947; Sarah
Prince, Sept. 23, 1949; Andrew Thompson, Oct, 23, 1954; Olivia, Sept. 7,
1957-

[1420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occUPATION: Farming and a variety of associated businesses; secretary-treasurer
and general manager.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Thorncroft Company, Inc., since 1945, Farm-
ers Service Center, Inc., since 1951, Motor Vessel Virginian, Inc., since
1957, Chesapeake Feed & Grain Corporation, since 1958, Virginia Freight
Lines, Inc., since 1959, Chesapeake Egg Marketing Corporation, since 1962,
Chesapeake Poultry Products, Inc., since 1962; member Northumberland
County School Board, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Corinthian Yacht Club of Philadelphia, Indian Creek Yache and
Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: One patent application pending.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I went to work in pursuit of my
lifelong interest with the naval architecture firm of Eldredge-
McInnis in Boston, with whom I had held a job during the previous
summer. Serious intentions with respect to my wife-to-be triggered
a switch to an occupation with more immediate financial rewards,
and, in the fall of 1938, I started with the Research Division of United
Shoe Machinery Corp. at Beverly, Massachusetts. After two very
pleasant years of hydraulic research and machine design, the orientals
attacked Pearl Harbor during choir practice, and, in January, with
an ensign’s commission, I was attached to the War Plans Division
of the Bureau of Yards & Docks in Washington, where I worked
with the design and development of advance base equipment. A
request for change of duty brought me an assignment as executive
officer of an island base on the Pacific side of Panama, where we
provided final combat training and modification for MTB squadrons
headed west. No more idyllic situation can be contemplated for
riding out a war.

In 1945 I had enough points, with a wife and three children, to
be sent home in September to the farm here on the northern neck
of Virginia. We had purchased it before the war anticipating the
move to an area which, to us, seemed to have everything — and sall
does.

Unfortunately we got off on the wrong foot by getting into the
dairy business with a herd of registered Guernsey s. After five years
of nightmares with reluctant labor and a host of ‘other problems, we
successfully sold the herd in 1952, eventually converting the main
barn to caged layers and the remainder of the buildings to brooding
and raising pullets.

Meanwhile in 1950 I had designed a grain elevator for a concern.
When their plans fell through, I was reluctant to see my labors go
for nought, so, in combination with a local feed business, we formed

[1421 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

a new company and built the elevator ourselves, From this stemmed
a chain of involvements in motor freight and, being on Chesapeake
Bay, freight boats to haul our commodities. Anticipating the restric-
tive policies of the New Frontier with respect to agriculture, we felt
the necessity of creating our own captive market for feed grains so
that we could encourage local farmers to continue their productive
efforts rather than retire their acreage and be paid for doing nothing.
To this end I organized a complex “of integrated poultry operations
with six controlled-environment caged layer houses, a central egg-
Bracing and packing p lant and scattered operations for the growing
of replacement pullets. W ith only minor kinks it is all working very
well, and with completion scheduled during the coming year we are
optimistic for the future. Apparently it is also serving our original
purpose, since a number of local farmers have now decided to go
back to work.

This is strictly a country life here with the news of various forms
of unpleasantness arriving by newspaper and other media, but not
affecting us too intimately. No ulcer diets or tranquilizers are re-
quired. The Bay is ideal for sailing and fishing and I have managed
to keep my hand in with a little boat designing and building. The
children have good local schools and all forms of recreation and my
wife is an excellent cook.

L hope the rest of you are all enjoying life as much as I am.

JOHN NORRISH THORNE

 

HOME Appress: R.F.D. 2, Mount Kisco, N.Y.

orrice appress: Life Magazine, Time & Life Bldg., Rockefeller Center, New
York 20, N.Y.

[ 1422 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Barbara Grassi, Sept. 6, 1940. CHILDREN: Angela, Sept. 24, 1947; Zoe,
Jan. 23, 1949; Bridget, May 9, 1951.

occuPATION: Editor, Special Projects, Life Magazine.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bedford Golf and Tennis Club.

AFTER a couple of decades spent putting words into a picture
magazine I can laugh at your challenge to be concise. Thorne
(above, left) departed Harvard to work for Life, where he can be
found today (above, right). If some more generous biographer
finds out that all these years have only wafted Thorne from his
birthplace on 52d Street to an office on 51st, he'll think, why, my
children’s hamster’s got more miles on him than that. No so. After
leaving college I served a hitch in Life’s Washington bureau, then
a hitch in the old Army Air Corps (at 165 m.p.h.). Then back to
Life in New York where I disappeared into the ranks of the very
pleasant people Who Work All Saturday Nights. In °53 Barbara
and I and our daughters moved to Paris, w here I was Life bureau
chief for some three and a half years. Now we're repatriated, and
some mechanical marvel has put an end to the Saturday night shift.
We're still in Mount Kisco. We’ve got a door-knob instead of a
latch-string but if we had a latch-string it would be, like they say,
always out.

GRAY THORON

 

HOME Appress: 409 Highland Rd. Ithaca, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cornell Law School, Ithaca, N.Y,
PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, NAL,

[1423]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, Cum laude, 1938; LL.B. cum laude,
1941,

MARRIED: Mary Dwight Clark, June 25, 1939. cHitpREN: Claire, Feb. 22, 1941;
Louisa, March 10, 1945; Grenville C, Nov. 7, 1946; Molly D., April 29,
1951; Thomas G., Nov. 12, 1955.

occupation: Law school dean, professor of law and lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Associate with Sullivan & Cromwell, New York City, 1941-42,
1945-48; private to first lieutenant, U.S. Army, 1942-45; associate professor
of law, 1948-50, professor of law, 1950-56, University of Texas Law School,
Assistant to the U.S. Solicitor General, Washington, D.C., 1954-56, dean
and professor of law, Cornell Law School, since 1956; member, Overseers
Visiting Committee for the Harvard Law School, since 1961.

MEMBER OF; American Law Institute; Association of the Bar of the City of
New York; American and New York State Bar Associations, Century
Association; Somerset Club; Harvard Club of New York.

I CAN report twenty-five stimulating years; an unusually enjoy-
able and intellectually challenging professional career; extraordinary
luck in the choice of a bride; and five thoroughly satisfying children.

For a quarter of a century the law has been my jealous profes-
sional mistress. Her siren song first drew me to Langdell Hall. Then
her call was successively to Wall Street as a corporate litigator,
junior grade; to Texas (and deep into its heart) as a law teacher; to
Washington as Assistant to the Solicitor General, with an assignment
permitting six oral arguments before the United States Supreme
Court; and finally to upstate New York as Dean of the Cornell Law
School.

Fach phase of this varied professional experience has been both
intellectually rewarding and personally satisfying. Wall Street prac-
tice provided a high-level practical apprenticeship and invaluable
insights into the keen and creative professional craftsmanship which
is the hallmark of the large New York City corporate firms. In
Texas, there was the challenge of having to master teaching skills
and unfamiliar course material, and a wonderfully stimulating in-
tellectual give and take with demanding students, both in and out of
class. Two years in Washington provided the opportunity to see at
first hand and to participate in the handling at the appellate level of
a broad spectrum of mid-twentieth century federal litigation, prin-
cipally in the Supreme Court. The Cornell Deanship presented
challenging and interesting administrative responsibilities at a fine
national law school.

No one, however, who enjoys classroom teaching and the intel-
Jectual aspects of law as much as 1 do would want to hold for too
long a period an assignment which is primarily administrative.

[1424 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Today, successful academic administration, especially at institutions

dependent on private endowment, necessarily requires an inordinate

amount of time in promotional and public relations activitics, to the

almost total exclusion of effective and creative work on the academic

side. Although it has been very satisfying to have worked closely

with dedicated and cooperative faculty colleagues, to have partici-
pated in negotiations leading to a number of significant capital gifts,
including one of $1,000,000, and to have seen our law school's
annual operating budget more than double in seven years, these
results have involved a heavy inroad on academic pursuits. This ts a
price which it would be a mistake to pay indefinitely. On completion
of an initial five-year commitment, I tried to get back to regular
academic work, only to find that it was somewhat more difficult to
get out of deaning than to get in. As a compromise, I reluctantly
agreed to continue as Dean for two additional years. This coming
July 1, I shall definitely escape from administration and shall once
again be a full-time law professor, continuing as a member of the
Cornell law faculty.

My teaching has been that of a generalist with special interests
in the legal process, its objectives, methods and techniques, and in
the role of the lawyer and his profession. Specific courses have deale
principally with various aspects of the litigation process, and with
the entire field of professional responsibility. In addition, I have
periodically given contracts, corporations or constitutional law.
While one can never predict what challenges will come along to
which one can not say “no,” I look forward to spending at least a
major portion of the next twenty-five years in teaching, rescarch and
writing, with the major emphasis, if possible, on teaching.

My legal mistress has Icft relatively little time for other pursuits.
Between 1952 and 1954, I became active in the first serious attempt
to develop an effective and progressive Republican Party in Tesas.
Starting as a complete political amateur, I soon reached what mht
be called the semi-professional level, with deep involvement in the
Eisenhower campaign. This included a succesful uphill contest
against the state party organization, culminating with the delegagen
of which I was a member being seated at the National Convention
in Chicago after extended hearings and a bitter Moor fiuht, Phere
followed an exciting campaign w hich carried the county and: state
for Eisenhower. I continued as an active membee of eur county
executive committee, uncl leaving for Washingeten in agg Poltay
and good government continue to be a hebby in which | boes fer.

[ ryzs ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ward to becoming again reasonably active when my decanal duties
come to an end.

Perhaps the only remaining item deserving specific mention relates
to three exciting and highly educational years in military service.
After basic training as a private and Armored Force OCS, came
twenty-eight months with the 14th Armored Division, including
nearly a year of overseas Armored Infantry service in southern
France, Alsace and Germany. My combat role was first that of a
platoon leader, with a unit which, with some hyperbole, called itself,
“Thoron’s Thunderbolts.” Following heavy action in the Bulge, I
was given command of our company. In March, I stopped a sniper’s
bullet in the leg. Fortunately there was no permanent damage, and

1 was back with the company within a month for a good part of the

final push across Germany. In addition I had a full quota of near

misses in qualifying for membership in the fraternity of “them that’s
been shot at.”

Though calling myself a realist and fully recognizing the prac-
tical difficulties which the world currently faces, I remain a cautious

optimist. With luck I shall be seeing a goodly complement of class-
mates at our fiftieth reunion in 1988.

HOWARD EVERETT THUNBERG

    

HOME ADDRESS: 6305 Massachusetts Ave. Washington 16, D.C.

oFFice apprEss: Office of Coal Research, US. Dept. of the Interior, Washing-
ton, D.C,

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE; A.B, 1938.
marriep: Penelope Hartland, Feb. 21, 1946,

[ 1426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Controller, Office of Coal Research, Department of the Interior.
MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; National Association of Account-
ants; Federal Government Accountants Association; Massachusetts So-

ciety of Certified Public Accountants (associate); Bethesda Lodge No. 204,
AF. & A.M.

MY career after World War II, which was spent with Seventh Army
headquarters from North Africa through to Germany (1942-45),
consisted of the following:

With the accounting firm of Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery
as a senior accountant until 1950 (Boston Office). With U.S. Gen-
eral Accounting Office as a supervisory auditor (Washington, D.C.)
to 1953. With U.S. Atomic Energy Commission as a supervisory
auditor and contract specialist on raw materials procurement con-
tracts to 1955. With U.S. Department of State (International Co-
operation Administration and Agency for International Develo
ment) as a contract specialist to 1962. Currently, with the Office of
Coal Research, U.S. Department of the Interior as controller.

Although I had met Penny in 1939 and tried my persuasive best,
it was not until early 1946 that we were married, shortly after she
had acquired a Radcliffe Ph.D. in economics. Now Penny is no
ordinary Penny and she meant to practise her science and got her-
self a job as assistant professor in the Department of Economics at
Brown. (President Wriston said she had the best pair of legs he had
every seen ona Ph.D.) At this point, we had an apartment in Har-
vard Square, I worked for Lybrand in Boston, and Penny com-
muted to Providence three days a week.

In 1950, we decided to go to Washington where Penny went to
work for Truman’s Council of Economic Advisers and I too began
my government career with the GAO. This career, especially with
the State Department, has kept me traveling about twenty-five per
cent of the time, for the most part within the United States where
my work has been on contract audits, negotiations, and overhead
determinations of universities (including Harvard), engineering
firms, airlines and manufacturing concerns and others who have
entered into contracts with the United States.

Penny, who is now a Sino-Soviet specialist, has made several trips
around the world, during which periods I have tried to stay in a
travel status myself. Currently, neither of us is traveling as exten-

sively, I am happy to say. I really prefer our home, puttering with
our trees and shrubs and afterwards reading with a long cool one.

My thoughts about life? They still haven't jelled, but growing
[ 1427]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

old is a fascinating experience. After twenty-five years I am begin-
ning to grasp the meaning of seeing through the glass darkly.

HENRY HARDING TIFT

Boo ene marae aE
. 3

8
ie
si icant a tl i Bhi

   

HOME AbprEss: 972 Nottingham Drive, Macon, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 765 Spring St., Macon, Ga.

PREPARED AT: Harvard School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: $.B., 1938; M.D. (Tulane Univ.), 1942.

marriep: Christine Cole Lee, June 5, 1940. CHILDREN: Henry Harding, 4th,
April 11, 1943; William Lee, April 25, 1945; Jerome Pound, Jan. 23, 1949;
Thomas Nelson, March 18, 1951.

occuPaTION: Physician, internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Macon Kiwanis Club, Boys Club of Macon,
Bibb County Medical Society, member, House of Delegates, American
Medical Association.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians (fellow), Idle Hour Country
Club; Riverside Country Club; Alpha Omega Alpha.

THERE are many members of the Class of 1938 who are more suc-
cussful than I am, but not a single member who has been happier or
luckier. I would not care to exchange places with anyone.

After leaving Harvard, I attended Tulane University School of
Medicine, graduating in 1942. During my junior year at Tulane, I
married Christine Lee, whom I consider a perfect wife. We have a
comfortable home in Macon, Georgia, a beautiful city with a popu-
lation of 125,000. Two fine colleges, Mercer University and Wes-
leyan University, are located here.

After a year of internship at Philadelphia General Hospital, I
entered the U.S. Air Force, serving in the Regional Hospital, Max-
well Field, Alabama, for three years. After discharge, I spent a year

[ 1428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at Vanderbilt University Hospital, leaving there in July, 1947, to
begin the private practice of internal medicine in Macon.

My church means a great deal to me and my family. We attend
services every Sunday, and I have served on the board of deacons
for the past ten years.

Organized medicine has been of special interest to me, partly be-
cause it gives me a chance to speak out against some of the socialistic
trends that our country has taken. For the past six years I have been
a member of the House of Delegates of the American Medical Asso-
ciation which meets twice a year in various cities, from Seattle to
Miami, and from Los Angeles to New York.

My hobby is golf, which I play at least once a week, without be-
ing able to improve on my present handicap of twelve. If any of
you are ever passing through Macon on the way to Florida, stop by
and have a game with me.

My greatest pride is in my four sons, each of them a good student,
good athlete and well-behaved. I decided to let them pick their own
college. The result was that my number one son is a sophomore at
Yale! So I thought I would take my number two son up to see
Harvard. I was greatly impressed, particularly by the beautiful new
Houses, but he was not. His selection, Rice University. Oh well,

maybe number three and number four will follow in dad's foot-
steps, but by the time they are ready for college, they probably
won't be able to get into Harvard anyway.

I know it will be a blow to the Class to learn that I shall not be
at the Reunion. I send warm greetings and best wishes, along with

a check, which I hope you will use to defray some of the expenses
of the Class Party.

[ 1429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WALTER WILLIAM TILLMAN, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 1220 E. Loren St., Springfield, Mo.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Crawford-Tillman & Wise, 215 Professional Bldg., Springfield,
Mo.

PREPARED AT: Greenwood High School, Springfield, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: M.D. (Washington Univ., St. Louis), 1942.

MARRIED: Miriam Wiechman, Aug. 15, 1941. CHILDREN: Lucinda Ann, Sept. 25,
1942 (m. Robert Gerald Long, Jan. 31, 1962); Martha Susan, Feb. 16, 1947.

occupation: Anesthesiologist, private practice, partnership, Crawford-Tillman
& Wise.

OFFICES HELD: President, Phi Beta Pi, 1942; vice-president, Springfield Rotary
Club, 1956; secretary-treasurer, Missouri Academy of General Practice,
1948-51; member, Advisory Committee, University of Missouri Medical
Center, 1956-62; councilor, Eighth District, Missouri State Medical Asso-
ciation, 1957-60; elder, First and Calvary Presbyterian Church, 1960-63;
member, board of trustees, Missouri State Medical Foundation, 1961-62;
president, Greene County Medical Society, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Greene County Medical Society; American and Missouri State
Medical Associations, Missouri Society of Anesthesiologists,; American So-
ciety of Anesthesiologists; American College of Anesthesiologists (fellow);
Rotary Club and Chamber of Commerce, Springfield, Mo.; Republican
Party (sustaining member), Conservation Federation of Missouri; Frisco
Medical Society, Southern Medical Association; Washington University
Alumni Association; First and Calvary Presbyterian Church.

pusLications: “Evaluation of Marezene and Bonamine in Lowering the Inci-
dence of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting,” Anesthesiology, 1956; “Pre-
medication for Operative Procedures,” Missouri Medicine, November, 1954.

AFTER two years of “home town” college, which required little
scholastic effort, my two years at Harvard was a long nightmare.
The academic record I made does not in any way demonstrate the
things I learned about other people; what it really meant to study;

[ 1430 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and how fortunate I was to have been raised in the midwestern part
of our country.

The four years of medical school at Washington University in
St. Louis were just what I had desired and the degree received was
the achievement of an ambition born in early childhood.

During my junior year of medical school, I met Miriam Wicch-
man, on a blind date, during Christmas vacation. Despite the fact
that she lived in Indiana, a fast romance developed, culminating in
our marriage on August 15, 1941. Thus a senior year of medical
school was even more enjoyable.

A rotating internship was chosen at St. Luke’s Hospital in St.
Louis, but the promise of a residency in surgery was nullified by a
call to active duty for Uncle Sam. After four months of getting
oriented into the 38th Field Hospital, I found myself traveling on
the Pacific Ocean. From September, 1942, to December, 1943, was
not long enough to really know my first red-headed daughter, but
many others were not even so fortunate.

The period of war service was not pleasant. Saipan and Iwo Jima
were both under active combat conditions, but again I was fortunate
—no Purple Hearts; only plenty of experience caring for those who
had earned them. There was very little medical education in the
twenty-three months I spent overseas.

My postwar period was like most others, for in 1945 residencics
were all filled, housing was critical, and after three months of a
medical residency with no home in St. Louis for my family, I found
a wonderful small town and a fine general practitioner who needed
a partner. The second red-headed daughter arrived February 16,

1947, and this all seemed ideal, for we were only thirty miles from
Mother and Dad, and, as an only child, I felt obligated to be near
them. Even thirty miles was too far; so in November, 1949, we
moved back to Springfield. General practice in a community of
3,000 is a rewarding and challenging experience, but in a city of
80,000, it has many different aspects, not all of which are pleasant.

I had been very active in organizing the Missouri Academy of
General Practice, as an organization to help continue the education
of the general practitioner, as well as to serve as a voice in all organ-
ized medicine. However, when another fine opportunity presented
itself in 1951, to receive training and become a partner in the new
and much-needed specialty of anesthesiology, T chose the specialty.
There are now four of us, and secking more, to provide anevthewa

[ 1431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

service in a wonderful growing medical center of southwest
Missouri.

My interest in civic life and affairs has not been neglected. I have
served as president and board member for our Civic Music Associa-
tion, The Chamber of Commerce and Rotary Club are meetings
I find difficult to meet, but somehow do get there, and have enjoyed
them for the past seventeen years.

Organized medicine has also been a great interest. I served four
years on the Council of the Missouri State Medical Association and
also as our county delegate for six years. I served as president of the
Greene County Medical Society in 1960 and now look for others to
carry on this essential work in medicine.

All of our family enjoy spectator sports, especially football and
basketball, the 1961 Orange Bowl being most outstanding. The girls
play golf, but not as enthusiastically as I would hope. I continue to
play tennis and most of all enjoy hunting and fishing. This past year
we forgot the annual trip to Canada and we now have a small two-
bedroom cottage just fifty-nine miles from Springfield on the edge
of Table Rock Lake. Water skiing has become a favorite sport of
all except mother, who limits her activities to catching a few big bass
each year.

This leaves the church and politics, neither of which have been
neglected. | have served as an officer and elder in First and Calvary
Presbyterian Church since my return to Springfield in 1949. Each
year my activity in the Republican Party increases, both in time
devoted and in enthusiasm. Needless to say, my thoughts about
government and politics are far different from those of many who
will be answering this questionnaire.

So sums up twenty-five years of activities, in all of which I have
tried first of all to serve God; secondly and with God’s help, I have
tried to pay my share of this life by service to others; and lastly, my
wife and children have joined with me in enjoying these attempts
to be of service.

| 1432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN BRADFORD TILLSON

 

HOME AbbREss: 993 Memorial Drive, Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Protestant Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts, 1 Joy St.,
Boston 8, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B. (Bard Coll.), 1941.

MarRIED: Frances Ragland, Dec. 16, 1943. CHILDREN: John Bradford, Jr. Dec.
21, 1944; Christopher Ragland, April 26, 1947; William Henry, 2d, Sept.
27, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Secretary-treasurer, Protestant Episcopal Diocese of Mfassachu-
setts.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Diocese of Massachusetts, since 1961, trustee,
Friends Academy, Dartmouth, Mass., 1961-62; member, bishop and trustees,
of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the Diocese of Massachusetts; di-
rector, Episcopalian Club of Massachusetts; member, Trustees of Dona-
tions to the Protestant Episcopal Church; director, New Bedford Yacht
Club, South Dartmouth, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; New Bedford Yacht Club; Episcopalian
Club of Massachusetts.

PUBLICATIONS: Magazine articles.

IT’S difficult to set down in a few words the path my life has taken,
from failure to complete the four years at Harvard to a position of
great satisfaction in working as a layman for the Church. After de-
parture from Harvard in 1935 came years of academic barnstorm-
ing, to the University of Virginia, some flying and airline experience
on the west coast, and then back for a degree at Bard College just
before the start of World War II. A brief tour as a draftce in the
Infantry in 1942, then OCS and a commission as a second lieutenant
of Infantry, a sudden opportunity to serve as aide to an Artillery
brigadier general, and then service in the ETO, as a captain of F icld
Artillery.

[ 1433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Somewhere in the midst of this military career came the highlight
— marriage. Postwar years of teaching and the general insurance
business saw the birth of three sons who now begin to really stretch
their wings and break the umbilical cord. The purpose and meaning
which a happy marriage and three kids gave life led very purpose-
fully to the Church — both in gratitude and in search of a deeper
meaning to life. Exposure to a very dedicated and dynamic English
clergyman marked a real turning point in my own personal life
and its direction and meaning. This was followed by growing par-
ticipation in the life of the Church as a layman at both the parish and
the diocesan level.

In late 1960 the Bishop approached me about taking on a full-
time job as secretary-treasurer of the Episcopal Diocese of Massa-
chusetts to replace the person who was retiring. In January, 1961, I
started what has been as exciting and satisfying a challenge as anyone
could face. It took about eighteen months to settle personal affairs in
New Bedford, Massachusetts, and sell the general insurance agency
I had operated for ten years, and in September of 1962 we moved to
Cambridge.

The boys are fairly well grown. Brad is a freshman at Denison
University in Ohio; Christopher is a freshman at the Lenox School in
Lenox, Massachusetts, and young Bill is the only chick still home
and attends the Browne and Nichols School in Cambridge. After
nearly twenty years of mortgages, grass-mowing, snow-shovelling,
doing-it-ourselves, and all the other joys of suburban living, we have
moved into an apartment. Believe me, the rumored “return of the
natives” from the suburbs back to the city as soon as the kids are
grown is no myth —there’s no satisfaction like it. Lots of luck,
you slaves of suburbia.

[ 1434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FLOYD WILLIAMS TOMKINS, JR.

 

i
HOME ADDRESS: 32 Condit Rd., Mountain Lakes, NJ.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, 14 Wall St. New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B., 1941.

marrizp: Marie Susan Palmer, April 11, 1947. CHILDREN: Marjorie Loring, Nov.
26, 1948; Floyd Williams, 3d, Nov. 9, 1950; Sarah Ann, April 18, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, associated with Cadwalader, Wickersham & Tafe.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Church Club of New York.

LAW school, Army; marriage (easily my greatest reward), New
York law practice, first in a law firm, then with a corporation; Tokyo
for two years during Korea, meanwhile children — one, two, three;
new law practice with my present firm; acquiring our pleasant home
—the twenty-five-year panorama is foreshortened and the events
seem only a few months apart, everywhere interspersed with mem-
ories of smaller events and impressions, many imprecisely dated and
almost all rewarding.

The tastes, insights and modest skills which I acquired at Harvard
have enhanced understanding and enjoyment all along the read.

[ 8435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ALFRED MICHAEL TORRIELLI

 

HOME AbDpREss: 12 Stewart Terr., Belmont, Mass,

OFFICE AppRESS: C. Pappas Co., 450 Summer St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.

marrieD: Lydia Anne DiPietro, Oct. 12, 1939. CHILDREN: Lawrence Joseph,
Jan. 29, 1944; Charles William, July 28, 1946; Rosana, Feb. 5, 1951; Andrea
Marie, Oct. 3, 1955.

occuPATION: Mercantile business; food sales to chains and wholesale grocers
throughout southern New England.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus, Boy Scouts, District Advancements; Sons of
Italy in America.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation, I started in the food business.
Married in 1939 and never a moment of regret. War service from
1941 to 1945, mostly Intelligence in Italy. Returned to the food
business and the serious job of raising a family. Business: ups and
downs but nonetheless adequate. Family: increased to two pairs,
making a full house of satisfaction and joy. Elder son is now at
Northeastern, younger son in high school, pair of princesses grow-
ing into young ladies.

Other than family and job, my main interests for the past several
years have been Boy Scouts and bowling. I have enjoyed working
with the Scouts and I have never begrudged the many evenings de-
voted to them. If I could swap my golf and bowling scores I'd be
a champion at both.

In short, life has been good to me and all of mine for the past
twenty-five years, God willing, I will report the same thing in 1988.

[ 1436 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT HOLMES TORSTENSEN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2318 Buena Vista Ave., Belmont, Calif,

ROBERT BROWNING TRAINER

 

HOME aAppreEss: 1150 W. Bradley Rd., Milwaukee 17, Wis.

OFFICE appREsS: Jos, Schlitz Brewing Co., 235 W. Galena Sc, Milwaukee 1,
Wis. |

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1938, 11.8. cum
laude, 1941.

MarriED: Mary Ilsley Uihlein, July to, 1941, ctutpren: Robert Browning, Jr,
Dec. 22, 1943; Charles L, Nov. 15, 1945; Stevens U. Oct. 20, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to president in plants and production, Jos. Schliez Brew-
ing Company,

OFFICES HELD; Trustce, Village of River Hills, Wis, since 1y40; member, beard
of directors, Malting Barley Improvement Association, since thi, vice-
president and dircctor, Brewers Yeast Council, since 1955, member, board

( 1437]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

of directors, First Wisconsin National Bank, since 1950, First Wi

Trust Company, since 1951, First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporatio

1953; trustee, since 1951, member, executive committee, since 195g.
Governmental Research Bureau; member, board of directors, sj
vice-president, since 1961, Milwaukee Association of Commerce;
board of directors, Junior Achievement, 1959-60; member, boar
rectors, since 1949, Finance Committee, since 1955, Columbia
member, board of directors, since 1959, president, since 1962,
Blood Center; member, board of directors, since 1960, crusade
1960, 1961, Milwaukee Division, American Cancer Society; member, boarg
of trustees, since 1951, Building & Grounds Committee, since 1952, Finan,
Committee, since 1955, Milwaukee-Downer College, vice-president and
director, since 1957, Navy League of the U.S.

MEMBER oF: Master Brewers Association of America; Milwaukee and Wisc on.
sin Bar Associations; Milwaukee Art Institute; Drama, Inc.; World Affairs
Council; Wisconsin Zoological Society of Milwaukee County; Milwaukee
Boys’ Club; American Legion; Military Order of World Wars; Chene.
qua Country Club; City Club of Milwaukee; Elks Club; Harvard Clubs

of New York and Wisconsin; Milwaukee Athletic Club; Milwaukee
Club; Milwaukee Country Club; River Tennis Club; Town Club; Uni-
versity Club; Wisconsin Club.

FOLLOWING graduation, I spent three difficult but interesting
and pleasant years at Harvard Law School —the last half of the
third year by reason of deferment from active service in the Navy.
That lasted long enough to permit bar exams in New York, mar-
riage to Polly Uihlein, sister of Classmate Bob Uihlein of Milwaukee,
and a short stint of legal work at New York law firm, White &
Case. In October, 1941, my civilian days were over and we quickly
arrived in Portland, Maine, where ] reported as an ensign aboard the
U.S.S. Denebola, a destroyer tender which catered to the repair and
supply needs of the growing fleet of destroyers, DE’s and other ships
of the North Atlantic naval forces. The Denebola was also the
flagship of commander destroyers Atlantic fleet, which added to the
work load and interest of the job.

Living successively in five houses, we spent the next four years in
and out of Portland. Our first son thereby became a native of Maine.
Two major overseas cruises were made by the Denebola — one
1944 to the Mediterranean to participate in the invasion of Southern
France, and the other to the Pacific in 1945 where we concluded
the war in Eniwetok. During these years I held about every Jine
officer job, ending the war as a licutenant commander and execuuve

officer. In 1945 we moved back to New York and again took up 4
legal life, commuting between White & Case on Wall Strect 3”
Bedford Hills, New York. At that time our second son was born.

[ 1438 J

SCOnsin
n, Sing
Citizeny
NCE 1960,
Membey
d of dj.
Hospital;
Milwaukeg
Chairman,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1947 We moved to Milwaukee, where I left law and went to
In late 19 the Joseph Schlitz Brewing Company. After a year or so

for . . 22
Wor al training in brewing, which included two brewing school
of E. ng — and a short stint in banking —I entered the Schlitz Sales
sess}
Department.

During this period, our third and, to date, last son was born. We
red our first permanent house and began to enjoy the delight-
ful life of a large but not huge midwestern city.

In 1951 1 was put in charge of the Schlitz plants and production —_

a job which I still hold. It includes brewing, packaging and engi-
neering (design, construction, and maintenance). Since 1951, at a
total cost of around $100,000,000, Schlitz has expanded from two to
six plants, spread from San Francisco to Florida, New York to Los
Angeles. Iwo of the new plants were built from the ground up; the
others received complete modernization and overhaul. All in all,
we feel that we have the most efficient plants in the brewing industrv.

Schlitz now markets three brands of beer — the premium, Schlitz,
and two regional brands— Old Milwaukee and Burgermeister.
With a current share of the market of about 8%, the company
has capacity of about 10% of total national beer sales. Besides being
kept busy by these developments, I have performed numerous and
varied extracurricular jobs in the field of industrial and public rela-
tions. Directorship on First Wisconsin Bankshares, First Wisconsin
National Bank and First Wisconsin Trust Company have been in-
teresting.

Politically, I hold the elected position of trustce of the Village of
River Hills, a suburb of Milwaukee. A quasi-political organization
working in the field of research and fact-finding in the municipal
field, with which I am associated as a member of the executive com-
mittee, is the Citizens’ Governmental Research Bureau. Medically.
I have become quite active as president of the Milwaukee Blood
Center, one of the first such institutions in the country, and as a di-
the ny: of Columbia Hospital. I also ran two annual campaigns for
t Tn the akee Division of the American Cancer Society. re and
stisfartg “ of education, I have had a great deal of P cn G.
lege, 4 stra fom serving on the board of Milwaukee-Dov

lin all. | ne well-qualified women’s college. a endounly.
“Specially m a enjoyed the lase twenty five et ‘ith scant
and antizie, y family and work, and look forward wit }
Pation to the next.

acqui

[ 1439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RICHARD WILLIAM TREGASKIS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 6024 Summer St., Honolulu 16, Hawaii.

PREPARED AT: Pingry School, Elizabeth, N.J.; Peddie School, Hightstown, N_J.,
Thomas Jefferson High School, Elizabeth, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; Litt.D. (Hillsdale
Coll.), 1947.

Marriep: Marian Holmes, Aug. 30, 1941 (divorced 1952); Walton Jeffords,
Aug. 30, 1953. ,

occupation: Writer and correspondent, self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Reporter and feature writer, Boston American-Record-Adver-
tiser, 1937-41; war correspondent, International News Service, 1942-44;
Pacific war correspondent and staff writer, Saturday Evening Post, 1945-46.
Awards: George R. Holmes Award, 1942; International News Service
Medal of Honor for Heroic Devotion to Duty, 1942-43, Purple Heart,
1944.

MEMBER OF: Royal Geographic Society (fellow), Academy of Motion Pic-
ture Arts and Sciences, Writers Guild of America, Magazine Writers’
Association; Aviation-Space Writers’ Association; Overseas Press Club of
America; Author's League; Harvard Club of New York; 82d Airborne
Division and Edson’s Raiders Association (honorary member).

pusLicaTions: Guadalcanal Diary, 1943; Invasion Diary, 1944; Stronger Than
Fear, 1945, Round-The-W orld Diary, 1948-49; “Force of Arms” (screen
play), 1951; Seven Leagues to Paradise, 1951; “The Wild Blue Yonder”
screen play), 1951; “Fair Wind to Java” (screen play), 1952; “Mission
Over Korea” (screen play), 1953; “Polar City” (documentary film), 1958;
Last Plane to Shanghai, 1961, John F, Kennedy and PT-109, 1962; numer-
ous television dramas; contributor to national magazines.

IT has been surprising to me that the standard of values I projected
while I was in Harvard as an undergraduate has stood up so well
these twenty-five years. I have traveled a large part of the time,
and as a writer it has been my job to explore far-removed people in
areas unfamiliar to most Americans (principally in Asia and princi-

[ 1440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pally in the vocation of war which has been unfamiliar as a career
to most Americans).

Practically as soon as I left Harvard I was associated, as a corre-
spondent, with war. First, with many different types of American,
French and British troops in World War II. Later, with a dozen
nationalities of troops in seven wars of the Leninistic sort which
followed on the Second World War.

[ have seen a lot more brutality and death, suffering and privation
than most people. Yet if I ask myself what I believe 1s worth while
in life, I come up with just about the same values I remember listing
in my mind, back at Harvard, and in exactly the same order of im-
portance as then, when I had seen so little of the world and its people,
and so little of human behavior in times of stress and distress.

Those values and their order of importance were and are: Beauty,
truth, justice, love, courage and humor. In college I would generally,
except in a bull-session with friends, have been afraid to mention
these values.

Now I am not, because the years of exposure to the best and worst
that men are able to do to and for each other (both quantites are
at a maximum in war) have convinced me that life is very fragile
and that the best thing in it is that men and women will give them-
selves for larger considerations than selfishness. War is an intensifier
of strength and a reminder that if men and women could give the
same strength to non-warlike pursuits such as the creation of beauty,
the pursuit of truth, the fight for justice, the world would rapidly
improve.

But we live in an era of war, and we shall probably be living in a
time of war for the rest of our lives and our children’s lives. A wave
of nationalism sweeps our history, and this vogue is and will be a
favorable environment for the death-struggle between Democracy
and Communism, which will probably finish out the century.

We engaged in our greatest war from 1941 to 1945 and it was
then a matter of survival, but really unrelated to the current of con-
flict which now carries us all willy-nilly, no matter what our jobs or
family concerns, into a struggle for life, a struggle against a cynical

enemy pledged to the expansion of his peculiar religion of state.

Whatever we accomplish in art, literature, architecture, in lcarn-

ing, in science and engincering, in social betterment and the more
bountiful production of material things, it will have to be done

as part of our overall struggle to prove ourselves stronger than this
enemy. (It is only we who sometimes fail to realize that he i an

[ r44t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

enemy; he has many times avowed that his objective is to eclipse
and defeat us and eventually convert us to his way of thinking, or
more exactly, his rigid discipline in thought.)

But with these emendations, I still, twenty-five years afterward,
think of beauty as the highest value, the first value to be preserved
whenever possible from war. Men and women who create beauty
should be among our loftiest heroes.

I believe the search for and devotion to truth and the freedom to
write about it, to speak about it and discuss it freely are worth fight-
ing and even dying for.

I think that justice, and individual rights and liberties safeguarded
by law, are also important enough to risk perishing for. These are
close, like truth and the freedom to create beauty, to the heart of the
world-wide conflict we are engaged in.

Love, courage and humor, of course, exist on both sides of our
curtain of warfare. But like the other quantities I have mentioned,
they tend to grow much more splendidly in a free and democratic
society than in an atmosphere of dictatorship and repression.

I am adjusted to the realization that we and our descendants are
going to have to struggle for these noble qualities. I hope we shall
have the strength and belief to fight for them, and to make sure that
they are eventually made available in maximum quantity to the whole

world.

WALTER NORTHEY TRENERRY

 

HOME appress: 188 Oakview Rd., West St. Paul 18, Minn,
OFFICE ADDRESS: W-2762 First National Bank Bldg:, St. Paul 1, Minn.
PREPARED AT: Duluth Central High School, Duluth, Minn,

[1442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938, LL.8., 1941.
marrieD: Patricia Harrington, July 1, 1944. cHiLpREN: Deborah Ann, March

17, 1947; Joan Ellen, April 25, 1948, Katherine Louise, July 31, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD:

Political: Alderman, West St. Paul, 1960; city attorney, West St. Paul,

since 1961; chairman, Minnesota Civil War and Sioux Uprising Centennial
Commission, since 1961.

Charitable and Educational: President and director, McKnight Foundation,
St. Paul, since 1953; director, Bush Foundation, St. Paul, since 1954, Min-
nesota Playing Company Foundation, Minneapolis (Tyrone Guthrie

Theatre), since 1961; trustee, St. Paul Gallery and School of Art, since
1958, Breck School, Minneapolis, 1959-62.

Business: Director of several small corporations.
MEMBER OF: American and Minnesota Bar Associations; St. Paul Athletic Club;
Minnesota Club; Harvard Club of Minnesota; Minnesota Historical So-

ciety (president), Twin Cities Civil War Round Table (ex-president);
Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Minnesota Curative Acts, 1947; Murder in Minnesota, 1962;
several articles on Minnesota history.

IN the past twenty-five years I think I did everything I hoped to do:
made some money, traveled widely, married, begat a family, had in-
teresting social and business experiences, became involved in the
literary and theatrical worlds and got into print.

From 1938 to 1941, I attended Harvard Law School. From 1941
to 1946, I served unheroically in the Army. Since 1946 I have lived
in St. Paul, practising law and taking part in a number of business
activities.

At present, I am involved in such varied businesses as aircraft
operations, beryllium and copper mining, concrete making, horse
racing, life insurance company management, marina operations, oil
exploration, real estate, rock crushing, shipbuilding and theatre
management (including Boston’s lovely Colonial), and at times I
have done business in Italy, Portugal and Switzerland.

Like most of my contemporaries, if I can believe all the sociologi-
cal studies of Homo americanus, I have a family, a somewhat too ex-
pensive house, debts, a sense of detachment from current events, and
a kind of mal de vie best described as a feeling of the pointlessness
of it all, which I suppose comes from aging.

Once I had political ambitions but a term as Alderman of West Se.
Paul put an end to any enthusiasm for public office and listening to
that eternal drivel.

The most persistent wish in all these years has been to see myself

[ 1443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

an author—any kind of an author. In 1962 this boon finally
arrived, at age forty- five, when my Afurder in Minnesota, a descrip-
tion of sixteen epic North Star ‘State homicides, appeared. I re-
main a bookworm as well as a scribbler and as president of a founda-
tion have tried to encourage other scribblers and bookworms by
establishing Minnesota’s first cash awards for authors.

In recent years I have been able to satisfy the wish of a descendant
of landless peasants to own land: to find that on my several hundred
acres expensive Holsteins ail, and delinquent tenants clamor for
improvements.

In politics 1 am Republican by prejudice; by conviction, je m’en
fiche. My only religious belief is atheism, but I occasionally attend
the Episcopal Church.

You will see in my photograph a middle-aged man with thinning
gray hair, baggy eyes, incipient jowls hinting excess weight else-
where and a general look of being no wiser than in 1938. The pic-
ture is accurate.

+ RAY WILLIAM TRIPP, JR.

 

Born; Jan. 8, 1916, Latonia, Ky, parexts: Ray William Tripp, Adcline Camp-
bell.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marieD: Pauline Ann Wheble, Quincy, Mass. citipren: Ray William, 3d, May
29, 1944; Paula Adeline, Oct. 2, 1947.
piep: June 21, 1955, Boston, Mass.

AFTER a year at the Business School, Tripp joined the sales office
of the E. J. duPont Company, In World War I he served in the

[1444]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Navy as commander of a subchaser in the Adiantic and as command.
ing officer of a control vessel for directing invasions in the Pacific.
After the war he returned to the duPont Company in Boston. He
was survived by his wife and children.

ALAN STUBBS TRUFBLOOD

NA RRB DA SE aE et, ee CANE “*
= 2

k Oe nate Pee RY eat y
ak &

a ”
oo , a “tN

   
 

sea Pea
»

   

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Cushing St., Providence 6, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Marston Hall, Brown University, Providence tz, R.1.

PREPARED AT: Hastings High School, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. summa cue laude, 1938, AM. toghy
PH.D., 1951; A.M. (Brown Univ.), 1957.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Associate professor of Spanish, Brown University.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on Hispanic and United States litcrature and culture
and on inter-American relations in periodicals in both Americas

LOOKING back over the past twenty-five years, which have turned
me into a college professor, I do not find too much evidence of
methodical planning. Within the broad guidelines of inclination and
interest, chance and circumstances have often seemed to point the
way until decisions appeared to make themselves and my interven:
tion turned into an afterthought. Perhaps this helps explain why l
have not acquired a wife and family, though even at mid-pasuge the
future still secms open.

Three years out of college the chance arose unevpectedly te po ta
Latin America on a study grant from Elarvard. “Thus began a last.
ing association with the Hispanic world, the one Remuanee area
with which I had noe been concerned up to that point, Long before
the Alliance for Progress [ joined the small group whe asked that

[ t445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

we pay more attention to what went on below the Rio Grande,
though I never rode the Good Neighbor Policy as a hobby horse. I
felt and still feel that, for all the social and political problems Latin
Americans have neglected or mismanaged and despite their often
irritating tendency to let Sam do it, they have learned some secrets
of non-fragmentized and non-standardized living and discovered
ways of cultivating human relationships that still elude many Ameri-
cans to the north. I do not doubt they will be increasingly heard
from in the future — not only vociferously but in wise and forceful
voices of statesmen, artists and thinkers.

With two years of study and cultural relations work for the U.S.
government behind me in Chile and Colombia, and two or three
more in the Navy, I returned to Harvard for a Ph.D. The presence
there of Amado Alonso, a Spanish scholar fresh from abroad, de-
termined my specializing in things Hispanic. Close work with him
had the fortunate effect of providing me with the methods and cri-
teria for the study of literature most congenial to my own inclina-
tions. Of late, I have been supplementing Hispanism with work in
comparative literature.

In 1957 came a move to Brown, a quite unanticipated one which
has proven a source of great satisfaction. The fifteen years of my
association with the university have been a period of growth and
expansion that has transformed Brown into a dynamic, liberal insti-
tution whose character and quality have actually made me reflect
that there are other places beside Harvard for acquiring an educa-
tion. (Occasional return engagements at Harvard have shown me
the advantages of both places.) The satisfactions teaching hold
leave no doubt that I have found one of my vocations in it. I have
resisted occasional temptations to re-enter government work, though
a Fulbright year in Hispanic America in 1958 made me more eager
than ever to find the magic formula that will keep one in both the
macrocosm of world affairs and the university microcosm.

Research activities center on Chile-U.S. cultural relations and on
major Spanish figures like Cervantes and Lope de Vega. On the lat-
ter, whose quadricentennial kept me busy in 1962, I have a book
nearing completion.

As I look back, I do not feel I have yet paced off what Ortega calls
the “limits of the cage” in which the rest of man’s life is to be spent.
The nearest to striking roots outside the university has been the
recent purchase of a two-hundred-year-old farmhouse in a chosen
spot, Little Compton on the Rhode Island shore, a pastoral setting

[ 1446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

within sound of the sea. I have already spent many hours digging
my fingers into the earth there, an activity that has always meant

much to me, and I would welcome any classmates who would care
to join — or just watch.

++ RANDOLPH FOSTER TUCKER, JR.

 

BORN: Noy. 6, 1914, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: Randolph Foster Tucker,
Mona House.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

prep: April 11, 1936, El Centro, Calif.

RANDOLPH FOSTER TUCKER, JR., left college in March of

our sophomore year. He was killed in an automobile crash. He was
survived by his parents.

{ 1447]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HENRY PORTER TUNMORE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: gt Ninth St., Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.

HAMLIN TURNER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 193 Atlantic Ave., Marblehead, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1935.

MarRIED: Phyllis Wright, Sept. 15, 1949. CHILDREN: Warwick Armstrong, 1943
(stepson); Lisa Danby, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Artist.

OFFICES HELD: Associate director, The Art Guild, Marblehead, Mass., since
1948, member, board of directors, Titan Pump & Engineering Corporation,
Novi, Mich,, since 1950; president, Goldthwait Reservation, Marblehead,
Mass., since 1961.

meMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Massachusetts Audubon Socicty; Dan-
vers Fish & Game Club, Lynn Revolver Club; Philanthropic Lodge, AF. &

[ 1448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A.M.; Disabled Officers Association; Veterans of Forcign Wars, National
Rifle Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Paintings in the permanent collections of the Royal Norwegian
Consulate, General Electric Company, Lamont Gallery, Moses Brown
School, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Seaboard Life Insurance
Company and sixty-seven private collections, biography, by invitation, in
Who’s Who in American Art, Who’s Who in the East.

AS I said in the Eighteenth Anniversary Report, I wandered and
worked around South America before World War II. Entered the
Army in 1940. Spent five years in the jungles, Pacific area, following
Aleutian service, with an off-and-on tour of eighteen months in
various hospitals. Retired for injuries in 1945, with rank of major.
Job writing for Warner Bros. proved too taxing, so I turned my art
avocation into a profession. Phyllis, who keeps track of things, re-
ports that I have had eleven one-man shows and exhibited my
paintings in twenty-three national exhibitions.

Wife Phyllis (Bennington Coll., ’39) continues to write (currently
working on a book of verse for children), cooks, gardens and takes
care of the rest of the people in our house. Son Rick graduated
from Moses Brown prep school, Class of ’62, after three years of
soccer (co-captain), letter man in track, editor of Yearbook and
National Merit Scholarship finalist. He is now at Boston University,
heading for a career in the U.S. Foreign Service or building guitars
and music, as he sees fit. Daughter Lisa Danby Turner fits into the
family pattern of fun, kindness and creativity, adding her own
inimitable personality. My painting continues to be a challenge and
a satisfaction. I feel it is influenced mostly by the sea, although my
present leaning is more abstract than representational.

Cellar flooded twice to a depth of four feet in aurumn of 19532,
first time in this, the 64th year of my grandfather’s house. I survived
the shock since it didn’t interfere with my duck-shooting. Politically

liberal as always, philosophically likewise, as is the rest of household.
Have beard. Don’t travel.

[ 1449 )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RICHARD BALDWIN TURNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6219 Chevy Chase Drive, Houston, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Chemistry, Rice University, Houston, Texas.

PREPARED AT: New Haven High School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; A.M., 1940; PH.D.,
1942.

marrieD: Halina Deschke, June 14, 1952. cHiLpREN: Richard Baldwin, Jr., Oct.
27, 1953; Lamara Elizabeth, Nov. 16, 1956; William Reynolds, Feb. 18, 1958.

occupation: Professor and chairman, Department of Chemistry, Rice Uni-
versity.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; American Chemical Society; Swiss Chemical Society;
Chemical Society of London.

PUBLICATIONS: Sixty-five scientific papers in the field of organic chemistry.

THE chronicle of a quarter of a century, encompassing perhaps the
most significant portion of a person’s life, is not easy in the writing,
and it has required considerable pleading on the part of the Class
Report Editor to extract from me these brief notes.

After receiving the Ph.D. degree in chemistry in 1942, I spent the
war years in various war-related scientific research enterprises at
Harvard, the Mayo Clinic and M.LT. The year 1946 found me back
at Harvard as research fellow in the Department of Chemistry, In
1951 1 left New England to take up a teaching career at Rice Insti-
tute (now Rice University) in Houston, Texas, where 1 am now
serving as chairman of the Department of Chemistry. In the mean-
time I have been domesticated, at least in some degree, by a lovely
and patient wife (Mount Holyoke ’49), three energetic children,
and a standard set of attendant responsibilities.

On the whole life has been exceedingly kind to me, and I look back
on the past twenty-five years with a sense of satisfaction. The Gulf

[1450]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Coast is a pleasant place to live, especially in the winter, Houston has

much to offer, and my work at Rice is as exciting and challenging
as I could wish.

EDMUND STAIRS TWINING, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: East Gate Road, R.D. 3, Huntington, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: Air Reduction Co., Inc., 150 E, 42d St. New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

mMarrieD: Anne Mumford Pratt, Aug. 29, 1941 " (divorced 1962). CHILDRENS:
Edmund Stairs, 3d, Aug. 23, 1942; Peter Pratt, Oct. 20, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president of marketing, Air Reduction Company, Inc, manu-
facturers of industrial gases and welding products.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Society of St. Johniand.

MEMBER OF: Society of St. Johnland; Huntington Country Club, ¢ ‘old Spring
Harbor Beach Club; Cloud Club; Harvard Club of New York.

WAR RECORD — World War I] —captain, Air Force, AUS
8th Air Force —European Theatre of Operations — zg:d Bomb
Group, Norfolk, England — 1944-45 — B:4 pilot — thirty misien

tour. Decorations: Air Medal — three clusters, Distinguished Flying
Cross with cluster.

AAF Board — 1945, Orlando, Florida,

[tase]

HARVARD CLASS OF JI 93 8

ROBERT DANIEL TWOHIG

x 2 ORR senna 4

 

MAILING Abpaess: 75 Centerwood Rd., Newington, Conn.

GEORGE FREDERICK TYLER, JR.

  

Wome appress: 6oo W, Hartwell Lane, Philadelphia 18, Pa.

orvicg apperss: 16th Floor, Land Title Bldg., Philadelphia 10, Pa.

prrparrn ar: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, A.M. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
Iys4.

Married: Josephine Browning Doughten, June 26, 1937. CHILDREN: Josephine
Browning, Sept. 1, 1938 (died Nov. 29, 1940); George Frederick, 3d,
April 7, 1940; Michael Edwards, April 4, 1941; Carol Elkins, March 5,
194}.

HARVARD SON: Michael Edwards Tyler, °63.

occuPATION: President, Polar-Motion, Inc., refraction of polarized light for
use in industry, advertising, teaching-aids, where three dimensions, motion
and color are required.

[1452 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, Times Chronicle Co., Inc., 1953-61; co-chief, Special
US. Government Mission to India, 1954; attaché, American Embassy
(NATO), London, Paris and Washington, D.C., Dept. of State, 1950-52;
plans analyst, N.W. Ayer & Son, Philadelphia, 1946-49; liaison officer, Allied
Mission to Greece, Dept. of State, 1946; president, Children’s Hospital of
Philadelphia, 1955-58; trustee, St. Mark’s School, since 1954; associate
trustee, University of Pennsylvania; director, Mutual Assurance Com-
pany, Philadelphia, Scientech, Inc., Florida, Vision, Inc., New York City,
trustee, University Museum; Philadelphia Museum of Art, vice-president,
Zoological Society of Philadelphia; chairman, executive committee, World
Affairs Council of Philadelphia.

IN this exercise of making personal mountains out of molehills, my
most signal accomplishment, with more luck than skill, has been
raising one wife (which I changed less frequently than jobs), three
children, one parrot and various dogs of questionable ancestry. The
care, feeding and housing of this assorted zoo have involved us in
curricular and extracurricular activities all over the globe. Following
over five years in the Army during World War II, the temptation
to join the Foreign Service gave way to the more crass, materialistic
lures of a large advertising agency. Either my employer and I had
slight differences of opinion as to our mutual value or, hopefully,
the deteriorating international situation (still deteriorating and never
seems to get any better) called for solutions that only I could
provide.

Not recalling which was the compelling motive and preferring
now to bask in the illusion that loftier thoughts occasioned my de-
cision, I subsequently found myself feeding at the public trough
along with all the other federal bureaucrats. Whether or not it was
in the public interest, Uncle Sam once again transported me (this
time as a civilian), and occasionally my family, to Athens, London,
Paris, New Delhi and whistle stops in between. The State Depart-
ment will have to answer to the taxpayers for imposing this added
burden, but among so many billion dollars, posterity may forgive
them, as I do, for this glorious little boo-boo.

In due course, mindful of lessons learned in the advertising busi-
ness, but characteristically demanding the whole pie in lieu of a
small slice, we returned to private enterprise as the owner and chief
officer (the competition was something less than overwhelming) of
a printing and publishing company that included a small chain of
small newspapers in small towns outside of Philadelphia. While any
resemblance to the New York Times was purely coincidental, we

[ 1453 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

kept busy. The sole proprietor soon learns there is nowhere else
to pass the buck.

The sale of this active, growing operation occasioned mixed feel-
ings but was executed with reluctance because of the generous
terms offered by a buyer who should have known better but didn’t.
We are now embarked on a new enterprise which may be worthy
of mention in the Fiftieth Reunion Report (if we have to go through
this agony again), but it is a bit early to predict now the final out-
come,

June, 1963, should be even more frantic than usual for this family,
with three college graduations, one each at Harvard, University of
Pennsylvania and Bradford Junior College.

As to the unscamy side of life, the flesh, though weaker, is kept
within reasonable bounds by tennis, golf, skiing and what is char-
itably called senile hockey. Only a couple of companies think
enough of my talents to pay me as a director but there are a few
charitable and civic boards who have taken me for free and some
who have just taken me, period. When you have had as much luck
and fun as I have, it’s a cheap price to pay.

JOHN FRANCIS TYNAN

r wee Soe

  

HOME ADDRESS: 89 East St., Annapolis, Md.

OFFICE appRess: Cornell Design Co., East Rutherford, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.,; Cambridge Latin School,
Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; M.B.A., 1940.

MarRiED: Lorain Broderick, May 23, 1942 (died Nov. 20, 1962). CHILDREN: Pru-
dence, Aug. 6, 1944; Peter, Jan. 22, 1946.

occupation: Director, Systems Research Division, Cornell Design Company.

[ 1454 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Commander, U.S. Navy.

MEMBER OF: New York Yacht Club; Nippon Ocean Racing Club, Sailing Club
of the Chesapeake.

IN endeavoring to write my chronicle of 1938 plus twenty-five
years, I am a little reminded of Ulysses Grant on the subject of
music. According to the story, he knew two tunes, “Yankee Doodle”
and all the rest. Having spent twenty of my twenty-five in the
Navy, I think you can see the analogy and why I am prompted to
tell my story in two parts. On the Navy side:

There really isn’t any point in saying in detail where I was, in
what position, and what I did to win wars, cold wars, and peaces
from 1941 to 1961. It wasn’t that spectacular a naval career! But it
was more fun than otherwise; and, by and large, there was a satis-
faction in playing some small part in the events of our time. It was
fun to be in Japan, mainland China, Hong-Kong, Indo-China, Tai-
wan, the Philippines, Thailand and in Italy, France, Spain and Eng-
land, with two trips around the world as well. And we got done a
few things thought useful in spite of the bureaucracy — and without
court-martial. The Navy is a pretty good school which teaches and
emphasizes tolerance of different things and different people; and
I like it.

For the “all the rest” part: (a) I was married to a really swell girl,
also for twenty years; and she loved this rackety living around and
about, and was good at it. She was killed in an automobile accident
two weeks ago, and I am trying now to do all I can, without her, in
the matter of (b).

(b) Equals two children, girl and boy. One at college as a fresh-
man, the other at boarding school. Not scholars, but nice kids, who
have been in lots of places and don’t have very many prejudices,
as a result.

(c) Avocations, hobbies, interest. I spend a lot of time sailing,
cruising and racing boats in the Chesapeake, and when I can, I go
on ocean races. When not engaged in these enterprises, I am fiddling
or working on boats. We have had two so far, and I am about to
look for number three. Otherwise I read, write an occasional pro-
fessional or historical article, and am planning to do a book on the
naval history of the Knights of Malta. (If I can find a part for
Bardot, it will make a damm good movie.) I also waste time, take

long lunch hours, drink, and so forth, so I am not a well known
author as yet.

(d) Business: From last sentence in (c) you can sce I don’t and

[1455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

won't amount to much. I work mostly in Washington and do the
Boston-New York-Philadelphia circuit every other week or so. As
soon as I can afford it, J am going to quit, sail a fifty-footer to the
Mediterranean and get somewhat more serious on my Malta project,
a definitive work on castles in Spain, and other opera useful to this
world.

(e) Meantime, I live in Annapolis in an old Federal town house
my wife and I worked on. With two nephews at the trade school,
daughter, nieces and friends visiting, sixteen-year-old son and his
group, | seem mostly to be running a combination club for midship-
men and house party for the very young. Still would enjoy, how-
ever, the company of my contemporaries; so if you come to Annap-
olis, look me up.

ROBERT AUGUST UIHLEIN, JR.

   

HOME appress: 7725 N. River Rd., Milwaukee 17, Wis.

OFFICE appress: Jos. Schlitz Brewing Co., 235 W. Galena St., Milwaukee, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: SB. 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Wisconsin),
194.

marrieD: Lorraine M. Glaeser, Jan. 31, 1950. CHILDREN: Robert August, 3d,
Dec. 13, 1950; James Ilsley, July 25, 1952.

occupation: President, Jos, Schlitz Brewing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Jos. Schlitz Brewing Company; director and member,
executive committee, United States Brewers Association, First Wisconsin
National Bank, First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, First Wisconsin
Trust Company; director, Gateway Transportation Company (LaCrosse,
Wisconsin), American Ordnance Association, Wisconsin and Upper-
Michigan Post, Friends of Museum, Milwaukee; chairman of the board,
American Cancer Society, Milwaukee Division; treasurer and director,

[ 1456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Milwaukee Boys’ Club; director, Greater Milwaukee Committee; director
and member, executive committee, Milwaukee Country Day School, director

Navy League of the United States, Milwaukee Council, member, board
of governors, U.S. Polo Association.

MEMBER OF: American, Wisconsin and Milwaukee Bar Associations, Milwaukee
Country Club; Milwaukee Club; University Club; Wisconsin Club; Mil-

waukee Athletic Club; Town Club; Mount Kenya Safari Club; Milwaukee
Yacht Club.

AFTER graduation from Law School one year was spent in New
York City studying brewing technology with Schwarz Laboratories
and Wallerstein Laboratories. Thereafter I returned to Milwaukee
and started work for the Jos. Schlitz Brewing Company. Have served
since in a variety of capacities.

On the lighter side, the Milwaukee Polo Club, of which I am a
member, has won two U.S. Open Championships, one in 1951 and one
in 1961, as well as three U.S. Twenty Goal Championships and as-
sorted other tournaments. The team has played as far afield as
Hawaii and Lima, Peru.

My wife and I have made a number of hunting trips to British
Columbia and Alaska, and one Alaska Brownie stands in the Mil-
waukee Museum. Our two sons are already competent horsemen
and show signs of good interest in hunting and other sports as well.

RICHARD OTIS ULIN

PR cr ee RR

   

A ot ea pe em ee ee

 

HOME AppRESS: 27 Round Wood Rd., Newton Upper Falls 64, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, 1938, AM, 1942, EDM, 1949, BO.D.
1958.

[ 1457]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MARRIED: Priscilla Richardson, 1959. CHILDREN: Donald Ingram, Dec. 15, 1960;
Marjorie Ann, May 26, 1962. ,

occuPaTIoN: Teacher; head of English Department, Winchester High School,
lecturer, Tufts University, Medford, Mass. ,

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa; National Education Association; National Coun-
cil of Teachers of English.

PuBLicaTions: Articles in professional journals and in Christian Science Monitor,
New York Herald Tribune and Atlantic Montbly.

SOME people move slowly, and I must be one of them. Exactly
twenty years out of college I found time to complete requirements
on my final academic degree, and then mirabile dictu 1 received
it signed by Dean Frank Keppel. Consequently or coincidentally,
events have followed pell-mell. Within the last five years ’ve done
so many of the things I had always hoped to do, things little and
big which most men do within a few years after leaving college.
Since 1958, in rapid succession, I have traveled, lived, and worked
in Europe, acquired a wonderful family, wife, son, and daughter,
joined the ranks of harried homeowners, and in one delirious mo-
ment dared point my skis down “over the Lip” into ‘Tuckerman’s
Ravine. Perhaps the fact that these things have come to me later
than they do to most men has made me savor them the more.

Leaving Cambridge in 1938, I first tried my hand at teaching in
a boys’ private school in Kansas City. Two years later I left, con-
vinced that I wanted to teach, but not in a boarding school. I
returned to Cambridge to get a Master’s degree and enjoy working
with Del Leighton as a Yard proctor and Secretary of the Union.

The war years followed and I found myself implausibly serving
the Naval Air Corps in the Pacific theatre as a navigator-bombardier
and gunnery officer and at stateside bases as an aerial gunnery in-
structor. Released from duty in 1946 and back visiting in the Yard,
T ran into Ted Morrison who handed me a job teaching English A,
mainly on the strength of some of my writings on the Philippine
political situation. By the end of my three-year hitch, the new
general education program was ready to swallow up English A,
but by then I had decided firmly on public school teaching and had
acquired the necessary credits and credentials, Since 1949, I have
been a member of the Winchester (Mass.) High School faculty,
serving at various times as publications adviser, baseball, tennis and
hockey coach, as well as head of the English Department. Summers
I have directed a camp, worked with the Experiment in Interna-
tional Living, and am now teaching at Tufts,

[ 1458]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the fall of 1959, I married Polly Richardson (Mount Holyoke
and Yale School of Nursing) and spent a sabbatical year researching
and honeymooning in Italy. Backed by grants from the Depart-
ment of Health, Education and Welfare, we collected data on the
aspirations and value-orientations of a cross section of South Italian
boys and today are still struggling to work it up for publication.
Although Donald Ingram, aged two, and Marjorie Ann, aged six
months, have other ideas about the use of our time, we do hope to
have it ready some time before our Fiftieth Reunion.

+ EDUARD HELMUTH ULRICH

 

BoRN: Feb. 13, 1918, Boston, Mass. parents: Helmuth Ulrich, Ethel McKaig.
PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.D. Cte laude (Boston
Univ.), 1942.

pIED: Dec. 12, 1943, Raleigh, N.C.

WHILE at medical School Ulrich enrolled in the medical ROTC and
on graduation was commissioned first lieutenant in the Army Med-
ical Corps. After a year’s internship at Boston City Hospital, he
was assigned to the 35th Officers’ Training Battalion at Medical Field
Service School at Carlisle Barracks. He was later transferred to
North Carolina and while stationed there was killed in an automobile
accident. He was survived by his parents.

[ 1459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HENRY HERMANN URROWS

 

HOME AND OFFICE abpress: Lee Road, R.R. 1, Ridgefield, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Angier Swett, July 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Susan Terry, Dec.
20, 1943; Martha Fredrika, Jan. 8, 1945; Roger Seth David, March 10, 1947.

occupation: President, H. H. Urrows, a program, editorial and fund-consulting
firm.

OFFICES HELD: Justice of the Peace, since 1952; program director, Committee to
Protect our Children’s Teeth, Inc., since 1956; chairman, Readers Guild,
1954-56; chairman, adult advisory board, Ridgefield Teen-Age Canteen,
1958-60; managing editor, Philanthropy, 1954-55; public relations chairman,
Denver Tuberculosis Society, 1947-48; currently, homes chairman, local
chapter, American Field Service.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Science Writers; A.A.A.S.; National Plan-
ning Association; Radio-TV unit, American Civil Liberties Union; Nation-
al Society of Fund Raisers; Public Relations Society of America, NAACP;
Harvard Club of New York; Citizens for Better Schools.

pusLications: Equal Justice Under Law; That the Deaf May Speak; Effect of
Fund Raising on Public Attitudes; The Incandescent Light.

IN twenty-five years I learned to write, and to make essential actions
happen by helping corral the talent, leadership and resources they
require.

At college I had suburban cataracts peeled back. While there,
ambitions in the professional theatre infected me. After graduation
I] worked in the theatre for a few years, learned something, but
produced nothing for lack of capital. I therefore learned how to
raise money.

In the process 1 was caught by the aspirations of other professions
— working with some of the finest lawyers, physicians, scientists,
philosophers, publishers, politicians, educators and managers of our

[ 1460 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time. My day’s work still exposes me to deeper tragedy and more
penetrating wit than any stage has ever rendered.

For myself, the most important things have come not from any
design so much as stumbling into them by blessed accidents. Unerly
good fortune has cascaded from our marriage, daughters and home.
Here satisfactions exceed anything my undergraduate fancies could
have conjured up. Our marriage ceremony took place on the eve
of my shipping out the summer before Pearl Harbor. We have had
our ration of adversity and hurt, but survived tests without ruinous
aftermath.

Soon after writing the 18th Anniversary Report entry, I became
embroiled in the fight for public acceptance of water fluoridation.
This took more time than my employer, Harold L. Oram, Inc.,
could spare. He helped me establish my own consulting service,
giving me accounts and commending me to new clients. Results
have rewarded them and me in six and a half years studded with
improbable gook luck.

Among the most enjoyable tasks have been those for the Ameri-
can Foundation for the Blind, American Public Health Association,
the Museum of Science in Boston, Brooklyn Psychiatric Centers,
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Franciscan Missions, Jewish Theological
Seminary, New York Protestant Episcopal City Mission Society’
Newsweek, Thomas Alva Edison Foundation, Woodrow W ilson
Rehabilitation Center, and such H. L. Oram clients as the Fund for
the Republic, Manhattan School of Music and the NAACP Legal
Defense & Educational Fund.

In my trade, awareness of ignorance is a prime asset. This causes
an insistence upon getting the best sources of fact and judgment,
and shoves me into the agreeable company of kindred spirits. In
recent years there have been occasions to be grateful for Elarvard’s
adherence to principle and competence:

During weird anti-fluoridation thrusts (marked by the Boston
Herald finding new depths of editorial contemptibility), Dr. Fred
Stare of the Harvard School of Public Health — abetted by more
than a few forthright colleagues — proved himself, calm, persistent
and ultimately effective in the face of insulting provocations, And
when I was trying to advance the work of the National Scholarship
Service & Fund for Negro Students, I came to admire the clear
thinking and abidingly decent convictions of Dean John Munro of
Harvard College.

We haven’t vacationed since an interrupted sojourn at the Vine-

[ 1460]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

yard in ’52, Maybe being one’s own man means less need for escape.
As to the excess of leisure that social prophets promise will be such
a Problem, I shall gladly risk having more time to enjoy the glories
right here at hand.

My pleasures derive largely from perhaps a third of my waking
hours reading books and journals, largely entertaining ideas. The
rest of the time unevenly divides between pencil, typewriter and
dictating machines; a fair amount of strictly inexpert tennis, squash
and chess; “community affairs,” observing the local public school
reforms and taking a desultory role in local politics, good talk with
old friends, renewed acquaintance with flowers, trees, birds, music,
dishes and luxuries abed.

JOSEPH WILLARD VALENTINE

   

HOME ADDRESS: Prospect Street, Sherborn, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Chace, Whiteside & Winslow, Inc., 24 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1938(39).

MarRiED: Olivia Osborne, 1940 (divorced 1946); Betty Scott, June 11, 1946,
Ashland, Mass. cumpren: Edward Scott, Jan. 22, 1951; Peter Loring, Aug.
29, 1952; Robert C, July 16, 1956.

occupation: Investment salesman.

THE years between graduation and entering the service, which now
seem far back indeed, had, for me, established no pattern for the
future. And so, after three dull and very uneventful years in the
Air Force, I married for the second time and Betty and I settled
down more or less by chance on some family property in Ashland,
Massachusetts, Another highlight about then was a six weeks’ camp-

[ 1462 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing trip in a surplus Army storm boat and five HP outboard from
Minneapolis down the Mississippi to New Orleans.

This led to an attempt at a non-fiction writing career, which was
fun but not financially rewarding. Before long | entered the invest-
ment business and am still at it. I find it sometimes fascinating and
often frustrating and I have yet to make my first million.

We have made short moves twice, while adding three male Val-
entines to a dwindling clan, and now live in a rambling house in
Sherborn, whose skeleton, at least, dates from circa 1780. We own
enough land — old pasture, swamp and woodlot —to provide up-
land shooting in season; and I manage to get in a little duck-gunning
as well. Naturally, I am interested in conservation and hope my boys
can grow up to find a world not entirely devoid of wilds and wild-
life. Betty and I have somewhat gray thumbs, horticulturally speak-
ing — perhaps because our tendency is to concentrate annually on
a large and usually fairly successful vegetable garden.

She and I had a glorious motor trip through England and Scot-
land in 1961, with considerable emphasis on “Stately Homes,” and
it is our hope that vacations in future years can be spent as much as
possible in traveling, both in the United States and abroad. <As I
observe the “liberal” trend to ever more centralized big govern-
ment, burgeoning bureaucracy, and what I regard as hopelessly ir-
responsible fiscal policy, and when I view the mess in Massachusetts,
I find myself becoming ever more conservative (which I do not
believe synonymous with reactionary) in my political thinking.
This works out fine, in a wry way, in Sherborn, a last brave bastion
of the Republican Party in the glorious Commonwealth.

DONALD BRUNOW VANDERBILT

MAILING ADDRESS: 1009 Cyn View, Laguna Beach, Calif,

[ 1463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN MANN VANDERLIP

   

HOME apprEss: 19 Wideloop Rd., Rolling Hills, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MARRIED: Ruth Secor, May 30, 1947. CHILDREN: John Mann, Jr., July 27, 1950;
Wendy Lee, May 23, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

CONTINENTAL Can Company, 1939-42. Owner and manager of
small manufacturing business engaged in making aircraft parts for
Air Force, 1942-46. IBM Corporation, sales and factory, 1947-53.
Real estate management and sales, Palos Verdes Peninsula, near Los
Angeles, California, since 1954. Member, board of directors of the
new South Coast Botanical Garden Foundation, engaged in turning
an old dump-site into a beautiful botanical garden.

[ 1464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ORRIN JACOB VAN DYK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 616 Cayuga Heights Rd., Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1301 Trumansburg Rd., Ithaca, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Paterson Central High School, Paterson, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1938, Mv. (Columbia
Univ.), 1943.

marRieD: Adrienne Elizabeth Steiner, Sept. 6, 1943. CHILDREN: Adrienne Eliza-
beth, Aug. 9, 1946; Pieter Valts (daughter), Jan. 15, 1948; Barbara Sreiner,
Feb, 19, 1952.

occupation: General surgery; partner in five-man surgical group.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College of
Surgeons (fellow); Central New York Surgical Society; Rotary; Ithaca
Yacht Club.

THE last Class Report found me in Ithaca, New York, in the private
practice of surgery, and I consider myself permanently settled. I
am happy in my work and surroundings, and although surgery ts
demanding as to time and energy, I manage to find time for recrea-
tion. My extracurricular interests run to physical rather than mental
exercise. We have a local Star flect and race on weekends. Winter
vacations, the past three seasons, have scen the family take off for
the Virgin Islands and we have all become avid skindivers. [have
also chased wild fowl in faraway places, and go grouse hunting
locally on my afternoons off,

As concerns education of our three girls, the chlest started at
Northfield School this year. If she likes it, the other two will prob-
ably follow her. From there, E would like to sce them get inte
Wellesley, Smith or Bryn Mawr, in that order.

Politically, Tama Republican for the reason that [ favor indis itual
initiative and decry the present tendency to try te solve everything
through federal control — but enough of thar

[ 1465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

My chief ambition for the future is to remain in good health to
be able to enjoy my family and the good things of life, of which
there are many. The present world situation is so unpredictable it
gives added weight to the old homily — it’s the simple things in life
that count.

JOHN ANDREWS VAN EERDE

   

OR SENTEE TPP I 7H 9 8-2 nena rome
. . “PAO TSpy Merona seen at

HOME ADDRESS: 2423 Washington St., Allentown, Pa.
OFFICE ApprEss: 8 Lamberton Hall, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa.

PREPARED aT: Browning School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938, A.M., 1939; PH.D.
(Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1953.

MarRiED: Katherine Sommerlatte, July 23, 1946.

occupation: Associate professor of Romance languages, Lehigh University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rhode Island Chapter, 1955-57, secretary-treasurer,
Lehigh Valley Chapter, American Association of Teachers of French, cur-
rently secretary, University of Rhode Island Chapter, American Associa-
tion of University Professors, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America; A.A.U.P.; A.A.T Fs
American Association for Aesthetics and Art Criticism; Renaissance So-
ciety of America; America-Italy Society.

pusLications: Articles in professional journals, including Romanic Review,
Studi Francest, Modern Language Notes, Modern Language Quarterly,
French Review.

AFTER receiving an A.M. from Harvard in ’39, I went to Yale as
an assistant-in-instruction in French. I resumed graduate work there
during 1940-41, but volunteered for military duty in April, 1942,
as a private in the Army. I served in the Signal Corps and was
commissioned as a second lieutenant in February, 1943, at the Army
Administration OCS. After several months in Texas at Camp Hulen,

[ 1466 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an Artillery post, I was sent to North Africa to join an Intelligence
unit reading Italian P.W. mail. This was to my mind highly un-
productive and, after the unit moved to Naples, I transferred to
Allied Military Government in September, 1945, serving in interest-
ing posts at Terni, Savona and Treviso. My work with the Italian
people earned me the decoration of the Order of Cavaliere della
Corona d'Italia, bestowed, amusingly enough, on the date of the
King’s abdication! I was discharged as a captain in 1946.

Returning to the States I married the girl whom I had met in the
Graduate School at Yale, from which she holds a Ph.D. I taught
French at Amherst during 1946-47 and joined my wife on the Smith
College faculty during 1947-48. By then | decided that I would
continue in the teaching field, and I went to Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, where I was instructor from 1948 to 1953, teaching French
and Italian while completing my Ph.D. During these years my wife
was on the Graduate School faculty (part-time) in the History
Department at Johns Hopkins and then in the Office of Intelligence
Research in the State Department in Washington.

Since receiving my doctorate I have been an interpreter for the
State Department, an assistant and associate professor of Romance
languages at the University of Rhode Island, where my wife and I
taught from 1954 to 1960, and am currently in the Department of
Romance Languages at Lehigh University. My wife is associate
professor of history at Muhlenberg College in Allentown, Penn-
sylvania.

Travel and research in Europe account for some of my summers.
In others I usually teach in summer school.

[ 1467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EDGAR BEACH VAN WINKLE, II

   

bo
2 Re.

HOME appress: Pine Brook Road, Bedford, N.Y.

oFFICE apprEss: Young & Rubicam, Inc., 285 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

marrigp: Cornelia McLoughlin, Jan. 12, 1939. CHILDREN: Edgar Beach, 3d, Nov.
19, 1939; Michael Busk and Edwina Whitehouse (twins), Oct. 1, 1946.

occupation: Advertising; vice-president and account supervisor, Young &
Rubicam, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Bedford Golf & Tennis Club; Harvard Club of New York.

BEING full of youthful ambition and also inspired by the need to
make money to get married, I left Harvard at the end of my sopho-
more year and went to work for the Hartford Times for two years.
The supposedly greener fields of Wall Street lured me to New York
and I worked for brokerage firms making some money for everyone
but myself until I joined Young & Rubicam’s Research Department
in 1941. Shortly thereafter, I joined the Navy and spent most of my
military career instructing anti-submarine warfare at Key West,
Florida.

After the war, I re-joined Young & Rubicam for two years during
which time I worked on various types of research projects including
studies of magazines. In 1948, I joined Crowell-Collier Publishing
Company and worked in the advertising department of the Woman’s
Home Companion, ending up after five years as director of sales
development. In 1953, I again re-joined Young & Rubicam and have
enjoyed a most pleasant nine years handling and supervising various
different accounts.

I have pursued a lot of hobbies since leaving college, including
photography, which resulted in writing some articles for a photo-

[ 1468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

erepnic magazine, However, in later life, I seem to get the greatest
pleasure out of flying which I took up about a year ago and subse-
quently received my private pilot’s license.

On looking back, I find my main regret is the lack of time which
prevents one from visiting and meeting many friends from college
days. Perhaps flying will enable me to get around more quickly and

easily so. this important but missing element in my life can be
achieved.

SAMUEL VAUGHAN, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 44 Thissell St., Prides Crossing, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Haven Railroad, Room 236, South Station, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MaRRIED: Joan Revell, Feb. 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Benjamin Hallowell, July 23,
1946; Allan Pinkerton, June 26, 1948; Joan, April 10, 1951; Henry Loring,
Sept. 13, 1954.

occupation: Transportation; traveling passenger agent, New Haven Railroad.

MEMBER OF: Salem Marine Society; Harvard Club of Boston; Fasrern Yache
Club; Manchester Yacht Club; American Meteorological Society (hfe
member); Railway and Locomotive Historical Society (life member);
Association of Railroad and Steamboat Agents of Boston; Boston Pas-
senger Club; Railroad Enthusiasts, Inc.; Society for Propagating the Gospel

Among the Indians and Others in North America; American Vcterans
Committee,

NATURALLY the first part of this will be old news to those who
have read the autobiographies in the previous Reports.
After an extra year in college auditing courses to prepare mysclf

to retake my divisional exams, which I passed, I managed to land
in the hospital with an infected hand, so I missed attending Com-

[ 1469 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

mencement in 1939 when I received my degree. That summer I
drove out west with a friend from prep school. When I returned
I went to work as a traffic apprentice for the New Haven Railroad
in Boston in the passenger department.

From October, 1939, to February, 1941, while working for the
New Haven, I spent many long hours at work with little time for
much of anything else. Near the end of January, 1941, the Draft
was getting breezy around me. I was determined to be married as
a civilian and, fortunately, I was able to persuade my future in-laws
that this was wise. Joan and I were “patriotically married on Wash-
ington’s Birthday,” as one Chicago paper reported.

Within ten days I was in a uniform in the Infantry at Camp
Edwards, In the summer of 1942, I was transferred to the Army
Air Force and in the fall of that year I went to M.I.T., as an aviation
cadet, to study the weather and became a commissioned officer and
a weather forecaster in September, 1943. Soon thereafter I was
sent overseas and quietly did my bit in Nigeria, Arabia and Northern
Africa, This was very interesting from a weather forecasting point
of view and also living in these strange countries.

Back to the old New Haven on my return to civilian life. Now
we had time to raise a family and we have been blessed with four
normal, fine kinds (though they would tell you that we don’t give
them that impression of themselves).

In 1952, due to drastic reductions in force in the New Haven, I
found myself without a job. I joined Thomas Cook & Son, the travel
agents, in Boston and was employed by them for about a year and
a half. Mr. Patrick McGinnis obtained control of the New Haven
at that time and one of the few good things that he ever did, at
least in my opinion and naturally in this I am predjudiced, was to re-
establish my job. I was told 1 would be welcomed back and I re-
turned.

My job is in passenger sales work and I am responsible for the
business generated in the area of northeastern Massachusetts, New
Hampshire except for the Connecticut River Valley area, and the
good old state of Maine, This takes me out “into the territory” on
occasion, though less and less as time goes on. If the weather is
nice it is a very pleasant job, and not too arduous, to be driving
through pleasant New England countryside en route to the next
“call.”

Due to the declining nature of the business, it presents a real and
stimulating challenge. I am sure that most of you are in expanding

[ 1470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

industries, jobs or professions, and to be in a declining industry is
at times depressing. However, I feel strongly that there is life in the
“old iron horse,” but if the public wants passenger and commuter
service, the railroad must be treated with more equality as compared
with other forms of transportation which are less regulated and more
subsidized. Perhaps some sort of public assistance is required in
part.

About five years ago we bought some land in Pretty Marsh on the
western side of Mount Desert Island in Maine. We have built a
house there, about six feet from the water at high tide on one side
and about sixty feet on the other side. This is God’s Country to all
of us, and Joan and I hope to spend more time there as the years
go by.

Ben, our eldest boy, is at Governor Dummer for his second year
and likes it very much. Allan, number two, is at Taft for his first
year. Joan and Henry are at the Shore Country Day School in
Beverly. We are all looking forward to seeing many of you this
year at Cambridge! If you are ever in Prides Crossing or cruising
in Blue Hill Bay in the summer (we have a good mooring for vis-
itors), please stop in to see us.

JOHN BARTRAM VIETS

 

HOME AvprEss: 986 Rishleigh Rd., Cleveland Heights 21, Ohio.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Service Recorder Co, tor3 Rockwell Ave, Cleveland 14, Obi.
PREPARED AT: Cleveland Eleights Eligh School, Cleveland Heights, Oban,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938. DEGREE! A.B, 1938,

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTION: Sales engineer and director, Service Recorder Company, pune
instrument manufacturing company,

[ 1470]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICES HELD: President, 1959-60, chairman, Scholarship Committee, since 1952,
Harvard Club of Cleveland; director (appointed), Harvard Alumni Asso-
Clation, 1955-58.

MeMistr or: Madison Country Club; Harvard Club of Cleveland; Cleveland
Aviation Club.

TE ETAVE always felt that the Harvard 25th Report is but the secular
counterpart of reporting to St. Peter at the Pearly Gates. In both
instances, of course, the problem is how to put the best face on
things.

In the short breathing space before World War II, I was in the
advertising business in both Cleveland and Pittsburgh. I entered the
Army Air Forces in 1942 as a pilot trainee. Since I had previously
learned how to fly a Piper Cub under the Civilian Pilot Training
Provram, learning how to fly Stearman’s BT-13’s (Vultee Vibra-
tors), AT-10's and B-17’s proved not too great a hurdle. Gradually
P accuniulated a crew for the Flying Fortress and was sent to the 8th
Air Force in Fagland in early 1944. My crew (who disdainfully
watched my performance on the shooting range) were quick to say
that they were glad T was only entrusted with flying the plane and
nor manning a gun, However, I think we did need at least one more
gunner, because fighters got us on our 13th mission on the 13th of
April and we spent the remaining thirteen months (I just mention
this number) as prisoners, undergoing a slimming diet and several
long “atrocity” marches at the war's close. Ironically, it was on the
last of these over-land tramps that I received an indelible impression
of the beauty of Bavaria in the springtime. Returning to Cleveland
and civilian, life, 1 became associated with my present company,
Which manufactures time-in-use recording devices. I remain a life-
long bachelor,

The afterglow of Harvard has somchow been especially strong
with me, and T have spent many years as head of the Scholarship
Conunittee here in Cleveland, both searching out and appraising
candidates for the people back in Cambridge. In its avowed efforts
to draw students from the country over, Harvard is perhaps reaping
the whirlwind, for its natural rivals have not been slow to follow
suit, As a consequence, “recruiting” of that terrific kid who lives,
unheralded and (worse yet!) unenlightened, perhaps even contented
in his benightment, somewhere in the boondocks west of Dedham,
has become a nation-wide enterprise of all talent-hunting colleges.
You either engage in it, or see large droves of the nation’s finest
enroll, misguidedly, in other almost equivalent colleges. And with-

[ 1472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

out the requisite raw material, even Harvard could not for long
maintain its fame for turning out so many of the nation’s distin-
guished people. It is a curious thing how, in this keen competition,
one can get so much pleasure out of “delivering” a top prospect to
Harvard, out of the frustrated hands of the Yalies or Princetons and
other natural rivals. In fact, it is a pleasure topped only by the
sequestering of a top candidate, but that is another story... . I
can assure any concerned classmates that while at Harvard the thrust
is as ever toward ability and brains, the college is not about to become
merely “grade-happy” or “score-dotty.” One of the architects of
the postwar Admissions and Scholarship setup, of course, has been
our classmate, Skiddy von Stade, now Dean of Freshman, and one
of the great individuals of the Harvard Yard and the administrative
picture. He has shown himself to be a rock of pragmatic good
judgment.

Cleveland’s representation in the Class of 38 was exceptionally
large for its day, and most have returned home to roost. As a conse-
quence, the Harvard Club of Cleveland, in recent years, has seemed
almost to be the private province of such ’38ers as Bob Bishop, Jack
Dampeer, Bob Gale (an especially generous supporter of our scholar-
ship fund), Alan Geismer, Bruce Griswold and myself. Bob Bishop
has displayed an enormous talent for running money-making dances
and raffles. One consequence of this is that he has been saddled with
the general chairmanship of the Associated Harvard Clubs meeting
here in May (everybody come! ). After this monstrosity of planning,
publicity and prodding is accomplished, we shall all be more than
happy to be especially irresponsible participants in the 25th wing-
ding.

Since I gave up my share in a private plane five years ago, I have
resorted to golf (in the nineties) and keep up a running tennis court
feud with Bob Gale. Also I get an irrational pleasure out of cleaning
up the woods around my Lake Erie cottage, especially beyond the
bounds of my own property! Like any proper Harvardian, I remain
addicted to books and buy many more than I fully cover. And, in
a hopeful attempt to keep intellectually limber, I have been leader
of a Great Books Group for the past six years.

Eh? What’s that, St. Peter? You are giving me the Pearly Gate?
Golly, thank you, sir! Oh .. . you mean go back down? You say
this is no kind of a record for a Harvard grad; I haven't even made
Attorney General. I should try again at my soth? Well. . . all

[ 1473]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

right, Your Reverence, Sir, but will it be all right if I should happen
to appear sooner? You see, I just can’t give up smoking!

SANBORN VINCENT

 

HOME appress: Main Street, Norwell, Mass.

oFFice appress: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938; LL.B., 1941.

MaRRIED: Priscilla Tapley, Jan. 23, 1943. CHILDREN: William Howard, 2d, Feb.
4, 1944; Gilbert Tapley, July 10, 1945; Jonathan Sanborn, June 15, 1949;
Victoria, Aug. 23, 1951.

occupation: Banking; vice-president and associate counsel— probate and tax
law, Old Colony Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Corporate Fiduciaries Association of Boston, 1959 New
England Chapter, Tax Executives Institute, 1960; treasurer, Unitarian Serv-
ice Committee, Inc., since 1959, Harvard Law School Association of Mas-
sachusetts, since 1960, member, Andover Alumni Council, since 1962.

ONE of my happiest and most vivid early memories is my father’s
Twenty-fifth. Now there are four younger Vincents eagerly look-
ing forward to next June and a chance to share in an activity where
Harvard is without a peer. Who knows? Our Reunion may sway
one or more of my three remaining school-age kids into putting
their hats into the Harvard ring. The eldest is already in college.
‘Dartmouth, which he entered from Andover under early admittance
without applying at any other college, is ideal for him. The next,
a senior at Andover, is “considering” applying at Harvard along with
other crew-oriented colleges; the next is an eighth-grader at Derby
where his marks to date look hopeful; and the last, who may be my
best bet for the “New” Harvard, is in the sixth grade at Derby — but

[1474 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

she will have to override a solid Smith legacy, including both her
randmothers.

As I check off memories since June of ’38, my greatest accomplish-
ment was in persuading Prill to marry me — every other success I
have or shall have can never hold a candle to that.

Chronologically, following law school and the Navy, I went to
work for the First National Bank of Boston, alongside half a dozen
classmates. After a period of floating and personnel work I reached
the legal department of the affiliated Old Colony Trust Company.
If anyone wonders what “affiliated” means, I refer him to the cur-
rent catalogues which explain that Radcliffe is affiliated with Har-
vard. Anyway, now more than ten years of probate, tax and in-
dividual problems later I look forward to finding the next twenty
years just as interesting and challenging. Another side of the law,
municipal government, has been rewarding in a non-monetary sense.
After eight years on the Zoning Appeal Board I became counse]
for the town of Norwell.

My home there is pre-revolutionary with enough Jand so that over
the years we have had quite a domestic population of dogs, cats,
goats, sheep and donkeys. In a way, it almost seemed as if we had
turned the calendar back when we moved from a sophisticated sub-
urb to a semi-farm with a well for water, no street number, a vol-
unteer fire department, and a town center so small that the smell
of cooking cabbage as you go by houses on the main street tells you
when the local grocer has “put down” some corned beef. Inevitably,
I became an antiquarian, pouring over old maps, town records, local
histories, etc., in my off hours when I wasn’t able to golf, tennis,
boat, jeep sheep to the 4-H Fair, move a manure pile, or chop some
wood. Most vacations have involved being in, on, or by the water.
The whole family has spent many happy hours, first in a converted
whaleboat and more recently in our 36-foot power boat built, with
his marvelous craftsmanship, by Bobby Rich of Bernard, Maine.
Indeed, both elder boys, in spite of being “boat” rather than “pool”
swimmers, have made their school swimming team. This past sum-
mer we did not cruise, but Gibby rowed on the Andover crew at
Henley, cheered on by his mother, aunt and yours truly. The three
of us, on the basis of his participation, justified a never-to-he-for-

gotten European trip. The Royal Regatta is a wonderful experience
to which neither words nor pictures can do justice, although our
colored slides and movies do give an inkling of this unique ‘British
institution. In some ways, the Harvard Twenry-fifth, with all its

[ 1475 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

programmed activities, tents and precise planning, is a New World
counterpart, and I fully expect the sights and associations of next
June will produce, regardless of “fortification,” the Henley kind of
warm glow and treasured memories for me, and indeed for all
classmates and families who are able to attend.

ARTHUR VITAGLIANO

:
%
i
:

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25-B Washington Ave, Winthrop, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1941.

marriepD: Paula Ann Brady, May 10, 1953. CHILDREN: Diane Maura, Sept. 12,
1954; Jane Michela, Nov. 25, 1955; Laura Ann, June 5, 1961.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, treasurer and director, Massachusetts Title Insurance
Company; member and vice-chairman, Advisory Board, since 1961, asso-
ciate member, Board of Appeals, since 1947, Town of Winthrop.

MEMBER OF: Cottage Park Yacht Club; Winthrop Golf Club.

[ 1476 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL RICHARD VOGT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 19521 Wells Drive, Tarzana, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rocketdyne, Div, of North American Aviation, Inc. Canoga
Park, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., sumra cum laude, 1938, SM 1939.
M. AUTOMOTIVE ENG. (Chrysler Inst. of Engineering), 1941.

MARRIED: Vera Elaine Crichton, Sept. 27, 1947. CHILDREN: Robert Frederick,
Jan. 6, 1949; Elaine Louise, Dec. 26, 1951; Richard William, May 29, 1955.

occuPATION: Mechanical engineer; assistant general manager and techmical di-
rector, Liquid Rocket Division, Rocketdyne.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Club of Michigan, 1943-46, vice-preaident
and member, board of directors, Tarzana Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: American Rocket Society; Society of Automouve Engineers,
American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Phi Beta Kappa, National
Management Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on rocket engineering in various technical journals,

BRIGHTEST accomplishment of my life is still, and always w ll be,
the family. Our boy-girl-boy trio are the pride and joy and some-
times despair of their parents. As the Gesell books predict, each year
brings new problems, but even our youngest is now at the age when
he can join the rest of us on those rare occasions when work permits
us to ski in the High Sicrras or to ride the surf of one of our Pacitic
beaches.

Home on a hillside of the San Fernando Valley has mellowed its
newness, and the raw ground of seven years ago now supports
fifty-foot eucalyptus trees and other planting thae looks as though
it had been here a much longer time, A new swimming pool brings
the beach to the backyard and adds to the jovs of Cahfornia hving.
Defense of proper zoning and adequate city planning in a fae-grow-

[ 1477 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ing neighborhood has brought me into civic affairs activities and has
taught me that with enough preparation and a reasonable approach
one can occasionally beat city hall.

After fifteen years of work in the rocket engine field I am begin-
ning to be considered somewhat of an old-timer in it and was named
“Engineer of the Year” by the San Fernando Valley Chapter of
the California Society of Professional Engineers. As chief engineer
and now as assistant general manager and technical director of the
Liquid Rocket Division of Rocketdyne I have had the good fortune
to be connected with the development of the engines for the Red-
stone, Thor, Jupiter and Atlas missiles, which, in addition to their
vital role in the defense of the nation, have boosted almost all of
our satellites and space probes into orbit and beyond. It is a proud
experience to have had a part in the successful flights of Echo, Tel-
star, the Mercury astronauts, Ranger, and the rest of our pioneering
explorations of space.

Now we are continuing our development of still more powerful
engines for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s
Saturn series of vehicles. One of these engines now undergoing
ground operation testing is F-1, which produces 1.5 million pounds
of thrust. The jet energy of this engine is equivalent to over 7.5
million horsepower, and its turbine-driven propellant pumps alone
are rated at 60,000 horsepower. With this and other such exciting
projects to contemplate I am assured that life will never become dull.

Looking back over my only slightly careworn shoulders at these
past twenty-five years, I can see that they have been exceedingly
good to me. They have brought me stimulating work and a happy
home. No man could ask more.

[ 1478 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MALCOLM CUTHBERT VOSBURGH

 

erEss: 118 N. Mountain Ave., Montclair, N.J.

RICHARD MYNDERT VOSBURGH

i :
& :
p j
f i

      

RSL TER ER Ge ES SS RIN AE LENE IIS ROARS ORD. FIORE fart OT

sess: Apartado 4566, Panama City, Panama.

[ 1479 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

SAMUEL LEONARD WAGNER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Winterport, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; M.D., 1943.

marrigD: Margaret A. Pineau, October, 1948. CHILDREN: Dorrah, Oct. 5, 1949;
Samuel Leonard, Jr. Sept. 29, 1951; Lansing, Dec. 19, 1953; Margaret, Jan.
14, 1956; Stephanie, Nov. 10, 1957; another daughter, Jan. 13, 1963.

occupaTion: General practice of medicine.

MEMBER OF: Maine Medical Society; Penobscot County Medical Society.

WILLIAM QUINCY WALES

for ae

   

ae a

L
Ad mm th, }
{ + aT, te
t OF
ow, 4
one
r me 3

HOME aApprEss: 3015 Mackland Ave, N.E., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

OFFICE aDpREss: Equipment Sales & Manufacturing Co., 1018 Fourth St. N.W.,
Albuquerque, N. Mex.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B. 1938,

[ 1480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
marrigD: Ella Joy Armstrong, July 18, 1942. c#ioreN: Robert Quincy, Nov.
30, 1946; Christina, July 25, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Assistant manager, machine tools and industrial supplics.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Tool & Manufacturing Engincers, Harvard-
Yale-Princeton Club of Albuquerque; Harvard Club of New Mexico.

SINCE that day in June those years ago when we all “drew nigh"
to receive the scroll, some dreams of college days have turned out
to be just dreams, others have become reality.

Engineering, Navy, more engineering and finally selling have been
the means of livelihood, and the acquisitions over the years have
been the usual. Twenty years married to the right girl, a son and
daughter, and a few of the luxuries of life have made the time pass
very pleasantly.

For the twelve years following World War II, we lived in Marble-
head, Massachusetts, enjoying the old town, the proximity of the
ocean, and being near, but not too near, our respective families.
During those years, our children were born, I became a machine
tool salesman, we acquired a half interest in a summer cottage in
Friendship, Maine, and took a couple of Caribbean cruises. Things
would probably still be pretty much a status quo had not the ocean
dampness got into my joints to the point where we were forced
to try drier climes, and in the summer of ’58 moved to Albuquerque.

Transplanting four real New Englanders, and boat lovers at that,
to the middle of the desert where the nearest body of water larger
than a swimming pool is 150 miles, has been quite an adjustment, but
fortunately all have made it successfully. We sull hang onto our
interest in Friendship and make the trip back every other year.
Between those trips, we enjoy the southwest, and there's plenty of
It.

From the vital statistics preceding this dissertation, it can be de-
duced that Bob is approaching the day when he will be entering
college, and he has been talking about Harvard. Maybe yes, maybe
no, who knows. Christie is entering teen-age and the question is will
the old man be able to survive the foibles of a teen-age female. Many
have before me, so I guess I shall make it too. Their mother has been
doing an excellent job of bringing up all three of us, for which we
are really thankful.

{ 148: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT COLEMAN WALKER, JR.

ae

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 581 Pugh Rd., Wayne, Pa.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1941.

vansich: Elizabeth Balfour Evans, July 12, 1942. CHILDREN: Robert Coleman,
3d, April 26, 1944; John Balfour, Feb. 3, 1947, Kate Somerville, Jan. 16,
1950; Elizabeth Creagh, March 29, 1951.

occuPaTion: Investor; partner, Walker Bros. Oil Company.

orFices HELD: Director, Life Insurance Co. of Virginia (Richmond, Va.), since
19§2.

satnven oF: Philadelphia Club; Gulph Mills Golf Club; The Brook; Common-
wealth Club; Gulfstream Golf Club; The Country Club of Florida; So-
ciety of the Cincinnati.

AFTER graduating from Harvard, attended University of Penn-

sylvania Law School, graduating in 1941. Shortly thereafter passed

Virginia bar exams and married Betsy Evans. Went to work in

Richmond for Life Insurance Company of Virginia, as a “debit

man,” summer of 1941.

Fall of 1942 entered Army Air Force as private. Finally made
OCS and became second lieutenant in spring of 1944. Stationed at
Army Air Forces Board in Orlando, Florida. Made Recorder of the
Board and discharged as captain, January, 1946.

Back to Life Insurance Company of Virginia as supervisor of
agents, and several years later as counsel (legal department). Re-
signed to form Walker Bros. Oil Company in Oklahoma City, with
brother Ewing, both families moving out to Oklahoma in 1949. I
was elected director of Life Insurance Company of Virginia in 19§2,
commuting monthly from Oklahoma City.

In 1955 my family and I moved back to the environs of Philadel-

[ 1482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

phia, while my brother remained in Oklahoma City, as the active
partner of Walker Bros. We have lived in Strafford since then, with
our four children, consisting of two boys, eighteen and fifteen, at
Avon Old Farms School in Hartford, and two girls, eleven and ten,
at Booth School nearby.

ALEXANDER JOSEPH WALONIS

    

HOME ADDRESS: 379 Sprague St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Parole Board, 120 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B, 1938(40).

MARRIED: Mary Matukas, Sept. 14, 1941. CHILDREN: Barbara, May 20, 1943;
Nancy, Nov. 11, 1944; Michael, Oct. 30, 1946; Susan, Oct. 24, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Parole officer, Massachusetts Parole Board.

[ 1483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

DANIEL DAY WALTON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 411 Sagamore Rd., Havertown, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: Hartford Fire Group, 432-34 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Clark School, Hanover, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Margaret M. Courtney, Jan. 31, 1948. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Louise,
Sept. 29, 1948; Margaret Anne, Sept. 3, 1950; Daniel Day, Jr., June 22, 1953;
Geraldine, March 19, 1958.

occuPATION: Supervising casualty underwriter, Hartford Fire Group.

A REVIEW of the past twenty-five years must be similar to the
report called for when knocking at the “Pearly Gates.” There are
many things I have enjoyed but perhaps the most outstanding feature
of my life has been a deep pride and joy in being with a very
wonderful wife and family throughout the years. Indeed, I might
say my chief interest and hobby is in my family.

As with many of us, I had a tour of duty in the Navy aboard a
carrier. This was followed by a career in public accounting and
finally in the casualty insurance business.

Looking back to the years at Harvard, I find it difficult to define
precisely what Harvard gave me other than specific courses. In my
case, it is not so much a firm political or religious conviction as it
is a way of appraising both the “pros” and “cons” of problems as
they occur.

The reviewing of insurance risks, particularly those with a real
underwriting problem to solve, continues to be a fascinating occupa-
tion and more than ever these days a real challenge. I look forward
to the next twenty-five years and perhaps the best years are yet to
come!

[ 1484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KENNETH WARD-SMITH

ee IRE a REE RRR, UR ee

   
 

 

HOME ADDRESS: Balmoral Drive, Nashville 4, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Life & Casualty Insurance Co., Life & Casualty Tower, Nash-
ville 3, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

marrigD: Mildred Harris, Dec. 7, 1944. CHILDREN: Kenneth, Jr. Sept. 11, 1946;
Mildred Linn, Aug. 29, 1950.

occUPATION: Insurance; vice-president and chief actuary, Home Orfice, Life &
Casualty Insurance Company; specific job: in charge of actuaries depart-
ment, premium rates, reserves, policy contracts and related matters,

MEMBER OF: Hillwood Country Club, Nashville; Southeastern Actuaries’ Club.

AFTER graduation, I had a hard time at first finding out what I
really wanted to do, or what I really could do that was worth while.
Jobs being hard to get, I floundered around about three Vears in
minor clerical employment. By a stroke of luck, I visited some rela-
tives in Tennessee one summer and when I told them I was getung
nowhere in New York, they fixed me up asa clerk in a life insurance
company, at an extraordinarily low salary.

It was a big change from hard-driving, ruthless New York where
I had always lived. An easy -going, fun-loving friendly southern
city was like another country. I liked it immensely and my ‘enthusiasm
spilled over so that I finally began to show some success. (Alay the
South is like that no longer. It's now as hard-working and money
mad as any place, almost.)

In three and one-half years in the Army Air Foree, Ehie it fairly
lucky too. The only memorable pare of this interlude was the onc
year I spent in Italy as navigator in a B-26 crew bombing Pahan
railroads and bridges. The flak was licht, the fighters scarce “and our

[ 1485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

casualties very low. But our opportunities to mix with the people
were great. Here my education at Middlesex and Harvard, in
government, philosophy and “culture,” really paid off. I even got an
Italian grammar and learned to speak broken Italian. I remember
Algiers as it was (I could speak French) when it was DeGaulle’s
headquarters, and at the me it was my favorite city in all the world.
I wouldn’t go back to Algiers now, you can bet. Knowing Euro-
peans and their differing points of view is utterly fascinating, though
it’s never done me any tangible good. It’s like a hobby.

Four years ago my wife and I and my son went back to Europe —
bought a car and traveled 7000 miles — took most of the summer.
We often spent the night at old castles (“country houses” in Eng-
land) far from the big cities—we got a list of these from their
governments’ tourist offices, and worked them in. This trip is one
of our high points. There’s no way to see and understand a country
like driving all the way through it and making your arrangements
as you go along. Our greatest desire right now is to go back next
summer (financial affairs permitting), including my son, who was
only twelve when he went first.

In business I find my job continuously fascinating (even though
often frustrating). There can be the intangible pride of creating
something good (for our thousands of salesmen, employees and
stockholders), which may or not be overly appreciated by anyone.
Then there can be the “executive suite” conflict, where politics are
bound to pay a big part. Anyway, putting research, accomplish-
ment and frustration together, I believe that it’s a very rewarding
job. P’'ve met many men who do not want their sons to go into the
same line of work they’re stuck with, but I would happy if my
son wanted to be an actuary.

I've found that bringing up children in the right way is as big a
challenge as you can find. They’re now exposed to so much at such
a young age that you can’t relax. You've got to have fortitude and
faith all the way.

I’ve been fortunate in marrying a girl who is strong in the places
where I am weak. If I have no small talk, she keeps everything

going, and she’s energetic just when I’ve got to be lazy. We have
the same hobbies, like camping, traveling and music, and we have the
same faith.

Speaking of faith and convictions, we believe that social and
political systems don't matter too much. What matters is the in-
tegrity of the individual. If the majority pursues aims of materialism

[ 1486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

or power, the individual can still be independent i in his personal life.
And he is also free to lead or join the opposition. What creates a
free society is having enough individuals who demand it and enforce
it,

+ SHELDON WARE

 

BORN: Jan, 20, 1916, East Milton, Mass. parents: John Ware, ‘99, Margarct
Woodle.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Carol McCarthy. cuitp: David Allen, July 14, 1944.

pieD: Killed in action, Dec. 26, 1944, over Morotai, Netherlands Fast Indies.

AFTER graduation Ware worked for the Pittsburgh Plate Glass
Company for several years, and with an aircraft corporation before
entering military service, in 1942, as a US. Army cadet. He took
pre-flight and primary training in California and was commissioned
in 1943. After receiving his wings he spent some time at Greenville
Air Field and went overseas in May, 1944. He was pilot of a Mitchell
medium bomber, and was killed in action over Morotai, Netherlands
East Indies, He was awarded posthumously the Air Medal and the
Purple Heart. He was survived by his wife (now Mrs. Richard
Duhme, Jr.) and son.

[ 1487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JAMES MATTHEWS WAREHAM

 

HOME AppREsS: 2 Beekman Pl., New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Gude, Winmill & Co., 1 Wall St, New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

OCCUPATION: Stockbroker; partner, Gude, Winmill & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Decorated Knight of the White Rose of Finland, 1941; usher,
Church of the Heavenly Rest, New York City, since 1942; member, Na-
tional Board of Review of Motion Pictures, Inc., 1948-57; member, Enter-
tainment Committee, since 1951, chairman, Horse Show Ball, 1953-56,
chairman, Men’s Committee, 1957, general chairman, Entertainment Com-
mittee, 1958-61 National Horse Show Association of America, Ltd.; trustee,
Kips Bay Boys’ Club, Inc., since 1955; director, Ambassador Hotel of New
York, Inc., 1955-58; executive vice-president and director, Hotel Manage-
ment, Inc., since 1955; chairman, S.K.I. Committee, Sloan-Kettering Insti-
tute, 1956-58; member, First Panel, Sheriff's Jury of New York County,
since 1958; captain of the Color Guard, since 1962, governor, since 1963,
Association of Ex-members of Squadron A, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Association of Ex-members of Squadron A.,, Inc.; Chalet Ski Club;
Church Club; City-Midday Club; Harvard Club of New York; Racquet
and Tennis Club, Regency Club; United Hunts Racing Association; U.S.
Court Tennis Association, Inc.; Tuxedo Club, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.; Reading
Room, Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Genesee Valley Club, Rochester, N.Y.;
Coral Beach Club, Paget, Bermuda; subscriber to Spouting Rock Beach
Association, Inc., Newport, R.I.; Newport Reading Room.

[ 1488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEICESTER WARREN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 217 W. Avondale, Greensboro, N.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Burlington Industries, Inc., Greensboro, N.C.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1938, s.1. (Columbia
Univ.), 1940; c.P.a, (New York), 1943.

MARRIED: Dorothy Tyson, July 25, 1940. CHILDREN: David Leicester, Feb. 2,
1958, Peter Tyson, Sept. 15, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Burlington Industries, Inc., textile man-
ufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: C.P.A., New York Strate, since 1943; member, Citizens for Eisen
hower-Nixon, Guilford County, N.C., 1952; member, Budget Committee,
United Fund of Greensboro, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Starmount Forest Country Club, Greensboro.

THIS communiqué started belatedly on TWA flight 702 Idlewild
to London, perhaps typifies twenty-five years, definitely the last
sixteen during which I have been associated with Burlington In-
dustries’ ever-expanding textile activities overseas, Initially as con-
troller and presently as executive vice-president in charge of inter-
national operations.

Not that this area is particularly significant overall in the world’s
largest textile manufacturing company with sales this year over one
billion dollars, but it surely i is an active area, including the western
hemisphere, European Common Market, England and “South Africa
— about which more later.

After two years and an S.M. in accounting at Columbia Business
School, three years in public accounting in New York, and four
years in the shore-based Navy with various southeastern con-
tractors, I] made my second smart decision, Dor being the firse, and

[ 1489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

moved to the garden spot of the U.S.A., Greensboro, North Caro-

lina, Disputants front and center and I’ll tick off —climate, con-

geniality, eight golf courses, convenience to everywhere, culture
and a topnotch ice hockey league winner — well?

Those two youngsters (anyone any later in life?) were tardily
but enthusiastically and lovingly adopted in 1958 and 1960, and
constitute the third decision worthy of mention. No one who
hasn’t done so can truly understand, so why belabor the point?
Harvard football in the latter ’70’s should be some reflection of
our success, if any; they will probably be lining up along side
Jud Wells’ great grandsons!

My pet peeve is the distortion of news by the world press, no-

where better exemplified than with respect to the Republic of
South Africa. While I would propose no halos for the present
government, I seriously question how much better we would cope
with the very real problem, as presumably rational and intelligent
people, than those who are constantly battered by uninformed
reporters seeking headlines. When I saw the second golf course
being built in an attractive native township just outside Johannes-
burg, I decided that perhaps the jet age might conceivably pro-
duce greater understanding as well as speed of movement.

Travels have been quite frequent, but generally brief, to the
areas mentioned above, which haven’t helped my golf or bridge
prowess, although my wife seems to thrive on golf whether I am
home or not. Rather gratifying, however, is the diversity of good
friends one can develop everywhere, from all kinds of backgrounds,
everyone different yet alike in genuineness and, I believe, in basic
goodness. Somewhat unexpectedly one can actually find a man
with disciplined mind and compassionate spirit in every land.

[ 1490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HATHAWAY WATSON, JR.

 

er Sealine scanned tease

iin ae: Hae tant Sgt Fo Bb hs MERE

“e
ae
4
2

 

La

HOME ADpRESS: Sawmill Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: RKO General Broadcasting, 1440 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; M-B-A., 1941.

MARRIED: Frances Maguire, Nov. 20, 1941. CHILDREN: Hathaway, 3d, Dec. 16,
1946.

occupaTION: Broadcasting; president and director, RKO General Broadcasting.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club, Washington, D.C.,; Racquet & Tennis Club,
New York City.

AFTER college I attended the Harvard Business School and upon
graduation went to work in Washington. There followed assign-
ments in various of the alphabet agencies, culminating in the oppor-
tunity of working for Edward R. Stettinius in the State Department
and in the United Nations. My government career ended in 1951
when I went to work for Booz, Allen and Hamilton, a management
consulting firm. I resigned my partnership in this firm in 1959 and
became a vice-president and director of RKO General, Inc.

Since then, I have been given additional responsibilities and for
the last three years have been in charge of our broadcasting activities.
These consist of radio and television stations in New York, Los
Angeles, Boston, Detroit and Memphis, as well as radio stations in
San Francisco and Washington, D.C. Other related companies, in-
cluding the Yankee Network, are part of our broadcasting organiza-
tion. In December, 1962, I was made president of RKO General
Broadcasting, which operates these propertics.

For recreation, I play an occasional round of golf, have seme fun
at tennis and, this winter, I am attempting some figure skating. My
interest in and enjoyment of the arts, particularly music, has increased

[ t491 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

with the years. A major regret concerning my Harvard education
is that I didn’t take courses in literature and in the arts. Had I done
so, I know that I would have had a fuller education and an earlier
appreciation of cultural topics.

THEODORE SEDGWICK WATSON

ey

 
     

MAILING ADDRESS: 364 Eddy St., San Francisco, Calif.

ROBERT CUNNINGHAM WEBSTER

ENO NE NTR ENO Te Ee a

HOME apprEss: 19700 Shelburne Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cleveland Graphite Bronze Div., Clevite Corp., Cleveland, Ohio.
PREPARED at: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B, (Western Reserve Univ.),
19

marriep: Barbara Brown, July 15, 1942, cHiLpren; Robert Cunningham, Jr.,
Feb. 22, 1944; John T., 2d, Dec. 14, 1946; Ralph B.; Harvey B., Graham T.

[ 1492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Manager, special products, Cleveland Graphite Bronze Division,
Clevite Corporation.
MEMBER OF: Kirtland Country Club.

AFTER five years with the Army in Europe, I returned to native
Cleveland, Ohio. A brief brush with the law profession didn’t pro-
duce enough real interest to make it a life career. Sales has been my
forte since. Five sons have also kept me active and worn a shiny
path across the receptacle of all those wonderful years at Harvard.

4

ROBERT SEELYE WEEKS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Glenoe Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: F. S. Moseley & Co., 50 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MARRIED: Sally L. Bridge, Feb. 5, 1938. cHitpren: Robert Seelye, 3d, May 16,
1939; John Stephen, Dec. 28, 1941; Richard Flint, March 31, 1944; Peter,
Dec. 26, 1946.

occuPATION: Investment banking; partner, in charge of municipal bond de-
partment, F, S. Moseley & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director and member, Finance Committee, Boston Mutual Life
Insurance Company; director, Boston Garden-Arena Corporation, Brook-
line Cooperative Bank; member and assistant treasurer, Brookline Housing
Authority; trustee and treasurer, Brookline Friendly Society,

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Boston Madison Square
Garden Club; Downtown Club, Boston.

{ 1493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

 

HOME apprkss: 1701 MacVicar Ave., Topeka, Kans.

OFFICE Apress: First National Bank of Topeka, Topeka, Kans.

PREPARED AT: Topeka High School, ‘Topeka, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1938.

Marriep; Betty Warren, Dec. 7, 1940. CHILDREN: Frederick, Sept. 7, 1941; Frank,

July 20, 1955.
occuPATION: Vice-president, member of board, executive committee and trust
investment committee, First National Bank of Topeka.

FAMILY-WISE, I am still married to the same wife, have one son
who is a senior in college, and another in grade school, both ap-
parently healthy (and for my good health and wealth, they are
not both in college at the same time).

Business-wise, we have been reasonably happy. Currently, I am
vice-president, member of the board, the executive committee and
trust investment committee of the First National Bank of Topeka,
said bank having overall totals in excess of $100,000,000. I serve
as director and treasurer of the Kansas Bankers Surety Company,
a director of Crosby Brothers Department Store, and a director of
a wholesale liquor establishment.

Like most bankers, I find myself reasonably involved in civic
enterprises. My most pleasant responsibility is acting chairman of
the Washburn University Board of Regents, and as such, I recently
had the pleasure of being Master of Ceremonies in the inaugura-
tion of our new president. Incidentally, I also represented Harvard
University at this ceremony where better than goo of the well-
known universities across the country were represented. Currently,
I am treasurer of the Topeka Chamber of Commerce and on
the board of United Funds of Topeka, treasurer of the local

[ 1494 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tuberculosis Association, and special adviser to the Junior League
of Topeka. Perhaps one of my most interesting jobs is being on
the board of Stormont Vail Hospital, which is our largest hospital
operated on a non-profit basis for the city of Topeka.

Hobby-wise, I barely find enough time to keep my golf oppo-
nents worried by keeping my golf score just under eighty. The
balance of time, my wife and I both enjoy working in our garden,
specializing in roses.

I am happy to report that by keeping my hair cut short, no grey
shows, although there is serious evidence that I may soon be a
baldheaded banker.

I am looking forward to seeing many of my old friends at the
Twenty-fifth Reunion.

BENJAMIN GEORGE WEIL

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 203 Hanover St., Annapolis, Md.

[ 1495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CASPAR WILLARD WEINBERGER

 

HOME AbpREsS: 2260 Forest View Ave., Hillsborough, Calif.

orice appress: Heller, Ehrman, White & McAuliffe, 14 Montgomery St., San
Francisco 4, Calif.

prepareD AT: Polytechnic High School, San Francisco, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. agna cum laude, 1938; LLB., 1941.

marriep: Jane Dalton, Aug, 16, 1942, CHILDREN: Arlin Cerise, April 27, 19433
Caspar Willard, Jan. 9, 1947.

occupation: Partner in law firm, Heller, Ehrman, White & McAuliffe.
orFices HELD: Member of the Assembly of California Legislature, 1952-58; vice-
chairman, 1960-62; chairman, since 1962, Republican State Central Com-

mittee of California, chairman, Board of Governors, San Francisco Heart
Association, since 1961,

MEMBER OF: Press and Union League Club of San Francisco; Harvard Club
of San Francisco.

THE first ten years of the twenty-five we are to recount here fell
into a pattern almost standard for many of our Class. Three years
at the Harvard Law School, four years in the Army (three of
them overseas in the Pacific), a year’s legal internship as law clerk
to a Federal Circuit Judge, and the beginning of private practice
with a middle-size San Francisco firm.

Beginning almost immediately after our Tenth Reunion, the
pattern was disturbed by a steadily increasing immersion in politics
and government. The 1948 election results prompted a group of
younger (as we were then) Republicans to organize and, in 1950,
to oust a moribund County Committee in San Francisco. My wife,
who became a skilled precinct worker and campaigner, and I
worked with this group, and in 1952 I was elected to the Assembly
of the California Legislature from the Twenty-first District in San

[ 1496 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Francisco. I was re-elected, without Opposition, in 1954 and 1956,
things being easier for Republicans in those days.

The legislative work was the most enjoyable I have done since
I was on the Crimson. There was an endless variety of problems, of
varying complexity, but of an almost unvarying interest. The
hours were long, the mail heavy, and the number of callers, meet-
ings, hearings and sessions always outstripped the twenty-four hours
allocated to each day.

My special fields of interest turned out to be largely liquid. In
1953 | was named chairman of a special joint Assembly-Senate sub-
committee charged with the duty of investigating the administration
of our alcoholic beverage control laws, as a result of worries that
many people had about conditions in this sensitive area. They were
right. As a result of our investigation, several members of the old
liquor control regime in California were indicted and convicted,
and a constitutional amendment embodying the recommendations
of our committee was adopted by over a million-vote majority in
the 1954 general election.

The following year my committee studied and recommended
a plan, later adopted, for streamlining into one responsible, modern
department most of our astonishingly scattered water agencies.
It is this department that will construct and administer California's
water plan in the coming years.

All-too-short camping vacations, nearly always among the Cali-
fornia Redwoods, with the family, served to restore energy, faith
in, and the ability to preach Republican principles (sometimes
cight times a day and night) through the following year.

In 1958, with the same bad timing shared by many fellow Cali-
fornia members of the GOP, I ran ” for state office, the Attorney
Generalship of California, instead of seeking another legislative
term. Despite a satisfying majority in Northern California, I lose
the primary to a Los Angeles Congressman. The party itself
reached nadir (or what we now hope Was nadir) in 1958, and,
when my legislative term expired at the end of the year, I returned
to full-time law practice with my long-suffering law firm, when
they made me a partner. The term “full-time” is not quite accurate.

Several California newspaper publishers had heard me, in ocea-
sional non-political speeches, contend that our papers published too
little about state government. At their pointed suggestion, FE began
a semi-weckly column on these matters which is still being carried
in several papers. I also began to serve as moderator of a weekly

[ 1497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

public-affairs television program on San Francisco’s educational
television station. This, too, is still going on, and, with the diversity
of guests and subjects discussed each week, it has become a major
interest and principal among what my wife refers to as my “non-
profit activities.”

Others in this category include work in our Heart Association,
occasional terms on the vestry of St. Luke’s Episcopal Church, on
Diocesan Committees, and membership on the boards of numerous
other non-profit groups, such as the Boy Scouts, YMCA, our Plan-
ning and Urban Renewal Association, and too many others.

On the professional side, I have continued to practice law (in-
creasingly in the antitrust field), done a bit of Bar Association
work, and taught at the University of California’s Hastings College
of the Law.

The political, if not the governmental, work has continued, with
various party, campaign, and State Committee chores, including
being named State Chairman in this summer of 1962. It is much
harder, I think, to be a Republican than a Democrat. We must
resist the big, expensive, deceptively easy solutions, which usually
consist of simply asking the Federal Government to solve each
problem. We must resist these because we are convinced that
the more power we give to government, the less freedom each
individual will have. And to most Republicans, the freedom of
the individual is the most important thing we can fight for. But,
as many elections, including that of 1962, have shown, it is not al-
ways easy, of sometimes even possible, to convince a majority of
the people that ours is the party through which the best (and, we
think, the least) government can be obtained.

Our family life shifted too in 1958. The summer camping
vacations were replaced that year with a much-needed rest in a
rented home which came equipped with a swimming pool. This, in
turn, led to queries as to why this sort of thing could not go on
all year. Therefore, in 1959, we moved down the Peninsula to
Hillsborough, where swimming is possible, if not all year, at least
a large part of it. Since then I have learned to understand all
those jokes about commuters. Our two children are growing
much too rapidly, with my daughter in college and home but
rarely, and my son heavily engaged with the pressures attendant
upon a high school junior competing with millions of others for

the relatively few college openings. We both hope Harvard’s
Admissions Committee will look favorably on his application.

[ 1498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For hobbies, I continue to write, as I have since 1948, book
reviews for the San Francisco Chronicle, and to take indifferent
photographs. A much-enjoyed trip to Europe with my family
this (1962) summer, allowed greater indulgence, but no real increase
in skill, in this pursuit.

Since 1960, I have returned, with the greatest possible pleasure,
to Harvard at least twice a year as a result of serving on the Alumni
Association Board of Directors. Harvard still fills me with the
same awe and wonder and deep affection that I felt for it since
I first came to Cambridge in 1934. I marvel at all the changes
that have occurred in twenty-five years, and with almost as much
naiveté as in the beginning, still take complete delight in every
opportunity I have to come back to Harvard.

ALBERT EDWARD WEINER

    

HOME AppREss: 401 Dudley Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1101 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B. magna ct laude, 1938; MD. cum
laude, 1942.

MARRIED: Delsa Eisenberg, Sept. 9, 1949. CHILDREN: Justus Reid, Aug. 14 19595
Dewie, Nov. 5, 1952; Harte Valerie, 1957.

occupation: Private practice of gynecology and obstetrics, part-time research
and teaching at Harvard Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in obstetrics and gynecology, Harvard Medical School,
obstetrician and gynccologist, Boston Lying-In Hospital; associate visiting
obstetrician and gynecologist, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston; statf member,
Free Hospital for Women and Newton-Wellesley Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Obstetrical Society; Amencan
Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology; American College of Obstetrics

[ 1499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MORTON DAVID WEINERT

 

HOME AppRESS: 54 Glenwood Ave., Newton Center 59, Mass.

oFFIce Appress: Boston Latin School, Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; ED.M. (Boston State Coll.),
1939.

marrieb: Bert Ehrenkrantz, Feb. 21, 1942. CHILDREN: Leslie Jane, Nov. 18, 1942;
Marjorie Beth, Jan. 6, 1950.

occupation: Head of Mathematics Department, Boston Latin School.

MEMBER OF: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.

AFTER Harvard Commencement in 1938, I went to Boston State
College, where I received an Ed.M. in 1939. Then taught in the
Boston schools and Needham High School in 1939 and 1940.

Enlisted in the National Guard in the spring of 1940 and was
inducted into Federal Service the following September. Did a lot of
teaching in the Armed Forces, especially in the mathematics section
of the Anti-aircraft Artillery School at Camp Davis, North Carolina;
also at the Military Intelligence School, Camp Ritchie, Maryland.

While stationed at Fort Standish, Massachusetts, met Bert Ehren-
krantz in Providence, Rhode Island, while stationed at Fort Munroe,
Virginia, dated her in Washington, D.C. (where she was with the
Bureau of Navigation); while stationed at Camp Pendleton, Virginia,
married her in Norfolk, Virginia. Our daughter, Leslie Jane, was
born in Wilmington, North Carolina. Served in the European
Theatre through five campaigns before being separated from the
service in January, 1946.

Rejoined Needham High School. In the fall of 1947 went to the
University of Massachusetts veterans’ campus at Fort Devens. The
next year and a half were very satisfying and fruitful for me, as I

[ 1502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was able to do some solid work in mathematics (although a modern
language major at Harvard and Boston State) under very pleasant
small college community atmosphere, which my wife and daughter
enjoyed, too.

In the fall of 1948 went to the United States Military Academy to
teach mathematics in the Preparatory Detachment. Classes there
were certainly stimulating, some sections having students with no
lower I.Q. than 145. Also taught French and German evenings at the
Orange County Community College in Middletown, New York. In
1950, we had another delightful female addition to our family.

In 1952, I accepted a position at the Boston Latin School, my Alma
Mater, where my father was still teaching. It was indeed a pleasure
to get back to the Boston area, where my parents were and are living,
where my sister and her family are living, where my brother Frank
(Harvard ’49) and his family eventually settled, where Frank’s twin,
Sanford (Harvard Research Fellow, ’52), and his family returned,
and where an excursion to Harvard was a simple matter. Since 1955
I have also been teaching at Northeastern University in the evening.
From 1946 on, almost every summer I have engaged in course work
at Harvard, Columbia, Boston University and Brown.

The 1959-60 academic year was a golden year for me, as | took
sabbatical leave from Boston Latin School and attended Harvard
as a National Science Foundation Fellow. As much as I enjoyed
Harvard as an undergraduate, I enjoyed it many times over as a
graduate student. The faculty, staff, and my fellow students com-
bined to produce a whole new renaissance of my interest in math-
ematics and in its teaching. The feeling of personal accomplishment
was preater, no doubt due, at least in part, to the fact that my efforts
were considerably more concentrated.

The next academic year I conducted a course in modern mathema-
tics for teachers of the Providence area at Rhode Island College
and also an in-service course for teachers of the New Bedford and

Fairhaven school systems in New Bedford. Last summer was pat-
ticularly gratifying: I conducted a seminar for secondary school
teachers in the National Science Foundation Summer Institute at
Rutgers. I am looking forward to doing this again this coming
summer. This fall went to Brighton High School to head the math-
ematics department. Also teaching and directing mathematics at the
Shaw Preparatory School in Copley Square, Boston.

January, 1963, returning to Boston Latin School as mathematics
department head. I have found teaching at the Boston Latin School

[ 1503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

exceptionally stimulating, especially so in the accelerated divisions,
where the level of accomplishment in secondary school mathematics
is seldom surpassed anywhere (if we are to judge by college board

results).
My wife enjoys working part time on the secretarial staff at Weeks

Junior High School in Newton; my elder daughter is merchandising
at Jordan Marsh in Boston; and my younger one is grooming hope-

fully for Radcliffe at junior high school.
At this milestone, as I take stock, although JFK has not yet sum-

moned me to Washington, I feel I am performing a service to human-
ity in my own little way and enjoying every minute of it!

SAUL WEINSTEIN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 152 Galen St., Watertown, Mass.

[ 1504]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM WELCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1001 Baseltine Rd., Boulder, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 E Hellems Hall, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colo.

PREPARED AT: Elopkins Grammar School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., #iagna cum laude, 1938, a.M. (Yale
Univ.), PH.v. (Columbia Univ.), 1951.

marrigD: Katharine Dunlap Smith, Nov. 30, 1946. CHILDREN: William Pierce,
Jan. 15, 1949; James Huntington, Oct. 9, 1950; Henry Gilbert, April 21,
1955-

occuPaTION: Political scientist and teacher; associate professor in_ political
science and assistant director of Honors Program, University of Colorado.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in political science, 1948-51, assistant professor in pol-
itical science, 1951-52, Hamilton College, Clinton, N.Y.; research analyst,
US. Government, 1952-57, 1958-60; research associate, Washington Center
of Foreign Policy Research, 1957-58; visiting lecturer in political science,
University of California at Berkeley, 1960-61; acting associate professor of
political science, 1961-62, associate professor of political science and assist-
ant director of Honors Program, since 1962, University of Colorado.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Political Science Association, Western
Political Science Association.

THE record of the years immediately following graduation ts
one of vegetating in Arizona (1939), trying to find a job in \Wash-
ington (1940), teaching high school mathematics and struggling
with discipline problems attendant thereto (1941), working for
an A.M. at Yale (1941-42), and fulfilling various and assorted
assignments in the U.S. Army (1942-46). The most pleasant and
productive of the latter involved returning to Harvard in the
capacity of student of East Europe and the Russian language and
in the excellent company of Classmate deVaron, The story of
the next decade is one of getting a wife (1946), a teaching job
(Hamilton College: 1948-52), a Ph.D. in political science (19st)

[ 1505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

and, in 1952, a position in one of the less publicized corners of the
U.S. Government, where life was immeasurably brightened in its
all-important car-pooling by the companionship of Classmate Coffin.

Since 1956 and publication of the Eighteenth Anniversary Report
I have left to one side the life of federal bureaucrat and resumed
that of teaching. This has taken me to Berkeley, California, and,
now, Boulder, Colorado. Both of these cities, besides harboring
excellent universities, are beautiful spots in which to live and bring
up children. Our boys—now fourteen, twelve and eight — are
getting a first-rate formal education in the local public school
system and a good informal one through such activities as distribut-
ing newspapers, selling hot dogs at the university football games,
etc. My wife and I rejoice in being able to find time, every other
day or so, virtually the year round, for a game of tennis. All of
us enjoy skiing and admiring a bit of land acquired near the
Continental Divide.

Considering the entire span of twenty-five years, I can say that
the unexpected has as often as not turned out to be for the better.
At any rate we are able, today, in good health, to enjoy in winter
the magnificent skies, air and mountains of Colorado and in summer
the equal though different beauties of the Maine Coast. I have
yet — here in the western half of the continent — to have the good
fortune of forming new, or re-forming old, friendships with mem-
bers of the Class, But if the experience of the past is any guide,
this time will come surely and soon.

      

HOME AppREss: 1840 24th St. N.W., Washington 8, D.C,
[ 1506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Times, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

marrieD: Cynthia Monteith, Jan. 7, 1946, CHILDREN: Serena B., Jan. 25, 1949;
Merida, March 4, 1956.

occuPATION: Foreign correspondent, New York Times; on leave of absence
preparing a book on Spain and a book of personal historic papers.

OFFICES HELD: Foreign correspondent, South America, 1941, China-Manchuria,
1946-47, London, 1948-51, S.H.A.P.E.— Paris, 1951-53, London, 1953-56,
chief of bureau, Spain-Portugal, until present, New York Times.

MEMBER OF: Knickerbocker Club; Harvard Club of New York; The St. James’
of London, Travellers of Paris; Pot & Kettle, Bar Harbor, Maine.

PUBLICATIONS: Political articles in New York Times, Atlantic Monthly, British
publications, etc., during some twenty years.

IF anyone asked my opinion—and I see remarkably few hands
going up —I’d say: take a year out between school and college.
Knock about, see something of life and of the world, get a per-
spective on just what a “college education” is. Then, when finally
you enter college, you will suck the orange dry. I’m in an unusually
good position to tender this advice because I ignored it myself,
As a result ’ve been going to college ever since.

The economics I did not pin to the mat at Harvard stared me
in the face one autumn day in 1938 when, four months after my
graduation, I completed my first week as a copy-boy on the New
York Times. 1 had fondly imagined that my sterling work on the
Hasty Pudding show, my perceptive editorials in the Crimson, my
cross-fire questions at Signet Society bang-ups, would fit me at
once for the role of Tizzes bureau chief in London. The Tires
thought otherwise.

We finally settled on my initial assignment as a copy-boy, a
task in which I filled inkwells, carried Brooks Atkinson's hand-
written reviews to the city desk, earned a ten-cent tip from a
motherly religious news editor and generally gained a worm’s-eye
view of how a great newspaper works. The job was half way
between what it was I initially requested and what the Tomes
initially offered. But, looking back, it was perhaps the best nine
weeks of my life. Promotion came fast. From a starting salary of
$15.00 I was raised to the sobering responsibility of $:5.00—a
week; not per day or per hour. Given twenty-five years of intl-
tion I don’t know that I wasn’t better off before.

Fortune found me in the jungles of the Feouadorean-Peruvian
border, covering their little “war” in 19g1, when Pearl Plarbor

[ 1507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

erupted and changed everybody’s career, mine included. After
six months of fife-and-drum stuff around army camps in Virginia
I finally felt a flush of pride as two thin gold bars were pinned
onto my shoulders. The flush subsided when the first sergeant
barked: “Awright you guys, heads down an’ butts up . . . police
up da area...” Sic transit gloria.

There are no indications that I ever came to Hitler’s personal
attention as a major threat. I vaguely recall snaking under barbed
wire defenses, plastic explosive strung around my neck, live ammuni-
tion sizzling over my head and my glasses steaming mistily some-
where in the western Maryland hills on a training course for OSS
commandos. I remember drifting down in a parachute over a
Polish-language “kibbutz” in Palestine and being royally regaled in
Polish wine and song by the locals during another training course.
The training was topnotch but nothing came of it. I entered
Paris on the day it fell, at the head of my twenty-two men, tried
and true, bearded, grimy, ready for action. Action we got — but
not the kind the Counter-Intelligence, G-2, HQ. 12th U.S. Army
Group had outlined. I sent my twenty-two men to bring in twenty-
two suspected left-behind German agents. I waited in the lobby
of the commandeered Windsor Hotel. In they came, my twenty-
two with twenty-two “agents”; all of them redheads and loaded
with cognac. It took a while to get the war back on the rails, but
we did.

The war, among other things, brought into my life Cynthia
(alias Minnie), a blue-eyed Scot with a firm will and a winning
smile. I bribed her into marrying me by quitting the Army and
getting the Times to send me to north China~-Manchuria. We loved
it, though she often recalls Chinese Communist generals offering
her sea-slugs in chopsticks they had just extracted from their
own mouths.

The years have slipped by fast: Peking, London, Paris, Madrid,
now Washington. Here and there highlights stand out: sleuthing
around with the French terrorist O.A.S. killers last winter in
Algiers; flying in Moise Tshombe’s private airplane to meet other
Congolese leaders at the Tananarive Conference in the scenic high-
lands of Madagascar; an anti-U.S. riot of Portuguese settlers in
Luanda, Angola, when I was saved from a very sticky wicket
because someone — I'll never know who — shouted, “He’s a South
Africa... he’s our friend!”

Much of the world I’ve seen has been the inside of telex or cable

[ 1508 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

offices but for those interstices which revealed the snow-capped
mountains of Manchuria, the midnight sound of water in the
Alhambra gardens at Granada, the roar of the Atlantic on the
beach of Spanish Guinea — even the green-gold of sunlight under-
water as I groped in a diving suit for the Duke of Argyll’s sunken
Spanish galleon in Tobermory, Scotland—TI’m grateful. All these
and many more memories are kaleidoscopes fixed to my mental
eye as the leaves drift earthward.

If anyone asks my advice — do I see any hands? You back there
with the eyes closed! —I say only: don’t take my advice. Don’t
take any advice. Play it by ear and you will come out ahead.
Hasty Pudding, Crimson, Signet, D.U.— these and other broaden-
ing pursuits — might cause old Governor Winthrop to wince. But
whoever made an omelette without breaking eggs?!?

ADONIRAM JUDSON WELLS, JR.

   

HOME AppREss: 209 Churchill Drive, Carrcroft, Wilmington 3, Del.

OFFICE apprEss: E, I, duPont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington, Del.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield-Shields Township High School, Highland Park, Hl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., Summa cum lade, 1938; ASL, 19405
PH.D., 1941.

MARRIED: Mary Brewster Gunn, April 2, 1937. ctutpren: Anne Brewster,
March 20, 1938 (72. James W. Shue, °58, July 4, 1959); Harrice Bryan, Sepe.
28, 1941; Lucy Beckwith, Nov. 16, 1943; David Madison, Oct. 21, 19496,
John Varick, Oct. 22, 1948; Jane Cameron, Oct. 30, tg¢g. GaaNponttp:
William Brewster Shue, Sept, 3, 1961.

occuPATION: Industrial chemistry, research director, Electrochemicals Dept.
E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Active Young Republicans of New Castle County,
1950-53, Council for Delaware Education, 1948-30, prevident, Awouiaton

[ 1509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

of Harvard Chemists, 1958-59; director and currently treasurer, Family
Service of Northern Delaware, since 1957; chairman, New Castle Presby-
tery Inner City Committee, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Delaware (president, 1957-59); Harvard Founda-
tion Council; Harvard Club of New York; American Chemical Society;
American Association for the Advancement of Science; Society of Chemical
Industry; Greenville Country Club, Elk River Yacht Club (rear com-
modore); University of Delaware Research Associates.

puBLicaTions: Various articles in professional journals on the infra-red and
Raman spectra of polyatomic molecules, the experimental determination of
the intensities of infra-red bands, and predesign cost estimates, Patents in-
clude processes for softening sole leather and carbonization of coal.

WHEN I came to Harvard in 1934, I had an interest in science and
a depression-bred desire for financial security. These forces were
eventually to carry me into a technical career in industry, which
probably would have been the outcome whether I had gone to Har-
vard or elsewhere. The principal new influence on my life that
Harvard brought was an awareness of the importance and legitimacy
of careers outside science, and I’ve had a healthy respect for them,
and for the men in them, ever since. Another influence during 1934-
38 was a deep and vital love affair such as only a college love affair
can be. (Often of a winter evening I read again about Epes Todd
and Ellen in George Weller’s Harvard novel, Not to Eat, Not for
Love.) The result in our case was a marriage and family that were
already underway by graduation and that are still going strong.
The love affair brought with it emotional, if not financial security
and a faith in the future that still carries us in spite of the bomb and
the Russians.
To get back to the facts, I finished my Doctorate of Philosophy
in chemistry at Harvard under Professor E. Bright Wilson, Jr., in
1941 and went directly to duPont’s Experimental Station in Wil-
mington where I did war research until V-J Day. Since then I have
served in three of duPont’s twelve industrial departments, mostly in
research jobs and all in Wilmington except for two years as director
of the Yerkes Research Laboratory in Buffalo (1953-55). This op-
portunity to provide technical leadership in the world’s largest chem-
ical company has led to many satisfactions. Our attempt to maintain
growth from such a large base in an industry that is fiercely competi-
tive is certainly a challenge.
Bringing up our six children has been a time-consuming, reward-
ing, steady effort over the years, Our eldest is now teaching along
with her husband in the Ibadan Boys’ High School in Ibadan, Nigeria.

[1510 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

They will return in August when Jim will resume his law course at
Columbia. The others are at various stages in school or college, and
all, so far, look like future useful citizens.

Our recreational pattern has been shaped by our family and runs

rimarily to sailing, hiking and travel. We have a Raven day sailer
(24 ft.) which can still make knots with all of us aboard, and we have
learned to cruise chartered yawls and schooners in Chesapeake and
southern waters.

After the war I was active in school affairs, since Delaware sorely
needed help in that department, and in Republican politics because
I thought the Democrats at that time were soft on Communism.
However, it soon became evident that neither education nor the
Republicans were going to keep the world from exploding in this
age of bombs, missiles and tensions. So in the last seven years I've
gone more into church work seeking in my small way to help bring
about better person to person understanding here at home and all
around the world. Never before has the commandment to love thy
neighbor meant so much.

Through all this I maintain a strong loyalty to Harvard. She
sheltered and nurtured me when I needed sheltering and nurturing,
and she still provides me with a standard of excellence and truth
that is a continuing inspiration. After twenty-five years I can only
wish her well and seek to serve her better.

FRANCIS LEE HIGGINSON WENDELL

    

HOME AppREss: 1002 Woodbine PI., Lake Forest, Il.
OFFICE AppRESS: A. T. Kearney & Co., 135 S. La Salle Se, Chicago, Hl,
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

[isin]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MarriED: Camilla Alsop, June 18, 1937 (divorced 1959); Joan Monroe Armour,
Feb. 11, 1961. CHILDREN: Nathalie Alsop, April 18, 1938 (a2. Andrew H.

Thomas, June 19, 1959); Peter Higginson, Feb. 3, 1942. GRANDCHILD: Emily
Houston Thomas, Sept. 21, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Management consultant; partner, A. T. Kearney & Company,
concentrating in marketing, long-range planning, acquisitions and mergers.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Maumee Valley Country Day School, 1948; assistant
secretary-treasurer, 1952-53, director, 1953-56, vice-president, 1956-57,
president, 1957-58, Harvard Club of Chicago; regional vice-president,
Associated Harvard Clubs, since 1959; director, Chicago Zoological Society,
since 1952.

Memner oF: Chicago Club; Attick Club of Chicago; Onwentsia Club of Lake
Forest; Harvard Club of New York; Chicago Museum of Natural History;
Art Institute of Chicago; Netherlands Society of Philadelphia, U.S. Asso-
ciation of Commerce; National Association of Manufacturers; Association
of Consulting Management Engineers; Executives Club of Chicago; BPOE.

IN June 1936, I was confronted for the first time with some realities
of life. I had spent two years at Harvard doing a minimum amount
of work, and had majored in French because I had previously lived
in Europe for a year. My grades had been mostly respectable C’s,
but I could point to little evidence of tangible accomplishment.
Therefore, I left to go to work.

For some unknown reason, Mr. James O. McKinsey, then senior
partner of McKinsey, Wellington & Company, gave me a job for
twenty-five dollars a week. This was good pay in those days. This
firm was one of the early management consulting firms and I found
myself surrounded by men with at least undergraduate degrees, and
most of them also having graduate degrees and business experience.

It soon became evident to me that I had not the slightest idea what
anybody was talking about when they used such foreign words as
“balance sheet, asset, liability, or budget.” Therefore, to help under-
stand what was transpiring during the day, I went to the University
of Chicago Business School at night. During that year and the
succeeding year, I took assorted courses in economics, accounting,
and business administration.

After two years at McKinsey, Wellington & Company, I became
convinced that the firm was made up of people who were bringing
their knowledge acquired through education and experience to it,
and that I was only learning from it. Therefore, applying my father’s
old philosophy that if you want to train a dog, the first thing you
must know is more than the dog, I decided to leave the firm and to
get personal experience in a manufacturing business,

[1512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In June, 1938, I was fortunate enough to be employed as a sales
clerk by Chicago Flexible Shaft Company, now known as Sunbeam
Corporation. This was with the hope that I might learn to become a
salesman. However, on December 31st of that year, I was notified
by the sales managers that they doubted if I had the qualifications
to sell flatirons to hardware or appliance stores. I pleaded for an
opportunity to try and was granted a ninety-day reprieve. Both
management and I were greatly surprised that I achieved some suc-
cess with the retail dealers. Fortunately, this success continued
through the fall of 1941, at which time all sales of consumer products
ceased due to the advent of World War II. In the spring of 1942,
I became an ordnance officer in the Navy serving on various stations
and ships, and ended up as air ordnance officer of the carrier Boxer
in the fall of 1945.

After the war, we moved to Toledo, Ohio, where I was again a
salesman for Sunbeam Corporation. Perrysburg, a suburb of Toledo,
is a very pleasant community and the many friendships we made
there are some of the most lasting that have occurred in my life.

In 1948, we were transferred to Philadelphia where I became
eastern sales manager for Sunbeam covering an area from Maine to
Florida and as far west as Buffalo. This meant traveling all the time
instead of just two-thirds of the time.

The Main Line was pleasant: many friends, a big old house, and
insurmountable yard duties. Nathalie went to Agnes Erwin and
Peter to Episcopal. In 1951, the partners of A. T. Kearney & Com-
pany (successor firm from McKinsey, Wellington & Company)
suggested that I come back to the firm, so we returned to Chicago.
Nathalie went to Concord Academy in the fall and Lake Forest
became the base of operations. Somebody said that remodeling ts
much cheaper than building. “Buy a garage and remodel it into a
house. It has great possibilities and will be unique.” What economic
folly! However, we did it and we live in it. People still sav it is
different. Things progressed so that I became a principal of the firm
in 1953, and a partner in 1955. All this means is more traveling, more
work, and more to Uncle Sam on April 15.

Nathalie progressed through Concord to Bradford and that thing
called a debutante. That’s when a tent becomes a marquee and a
snapshot a photographic portrait. All of the attendant problems were
encountered. Post Bradford, she became a paid nurse's aid in the
Lake Forest Hospital. After learning all about how to care for the
infirm, she marricd a Dartmouth graduate. Today, they live in

[ 53 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Simsbury, Connecticut, and one of my greatest joys is Emily, my
granddaughter, who was two years old in September.

Meanwhile, Peter marched through adolescence at the Lake Forest
Day School and Westminster School in Simsbury where he did a
great job. He is now at Franklin and Marshall in Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania, and spent last summer in “summer stock” and this summer
working for the Chicago Daily News. In addition to those men-
tioned above, my life today also is devoted to young Joan away at
boarding school, aged fifteen, and Kirkland, in the seventh grade at
home. My bride spends her time between the community, her chil-
dren, and spoiling me and I love it.

My activities in connection with Harvard in the past ten years
were motivated by two factors: first, that I had not appreciated and
capitalized on the opportunities given to me twenty-five years ago;
second, that I thought many people in the middle west did not ap-
preciate Harvard as the great international educational institution
that it is. Today, through the dedicated efforts of the many local
alumni, Harvard is attracting and obtaining in the college and gradu-
ate schools the best all-around young men from this part of the
country.

In addition to the activities mentioned above, life includes the
evening martini, the Saturday golf, the weekend bridge, the winter
vacation in Bermuda or the Caribbean, and a week or two occasion-
ally in the mountains of Wyoming in August.

Thus far, my life and experiences have brought to me a few es-
sential ideas and convictions; a dedication to personal integrity,
sensitivity toward the reactions of others, and a belief that the future
of this country must depend upon the personal initiative and energy

of individuals to expand in their own way rather than under the
direction and control of government.

[1514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT EVAN WERNICK

ARS meet RITE ves sponte
ESTAR fo Rees

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1380 Taylor St., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., suwzna cum laude, 1938.
MARRIED: Marion McClanahan, Jan. 19, 1954. cHILD: Sarah, Feb. 27, 1943-
OCCUPATION: Writer.

PARIS, New York, Algiers, Genoa (Nevada), the Pyrenees, now
San Francisco, and still not home.

Two novels published (The Freebooters, The Hill of Fortune),
both out of print but perhaps you can find them in a library. A
good deal of miscellaneous journalism on subjects like: skiing in
the Bernese Oberland, psychological testing (horrors of), Marilyn
Monroe (charming young Rilke-quoting starlet, took her on a
Ferris wheel in 1950), the gin rummy championship of the world,
a picture history of the Second World War (with Winston S.
Churchill). More novels on the way; please buy them.

[sis ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ADOLPH JOHN WESOLOWSKI

 

HOME appress: 3135 N. 52d St., Phoenix 18, Ariz.

orrice Appress: AiResearch Manufacturing Co. of Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz.

preparen at: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., C172 lattde, 1938.

marrieD: Eleanor Louise Currier, June 3, 1939. CHILDREN: Mary Eleanor Down-
ing, March 3, 1940; Eleanor Louise, 2d, July 21, 1943; Joseph Walter, Sept.
10, 1945; Allan Joseph, Sept. 15, 1947; Frank James, June 18, 1950; Steven
Michael, Oct. 18, 1958.

occupaTiON: Consulting engineer — electrical.

orFicks HELD: Chairman, AIEE Aircraft Rotating Machinery subcommittee,

Aerospace Power Sources subcommittee, and Aerospace Energy Conver-
sion Committee; general chairman, 1964 Aerospace Electricity Convention.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Society for Pennsyl-
vania Archacology (active member),
puBLications: Eleven U.S, patents — granted or pending.
AFTER leaving college, I went to work for General Electric Com-
pany as a design engineer in turbo machinery. During the war I was
a ficld engineer, installing and servicing the main engines of capital
ships, which together with my family obligations prevented accept-
ance of a commission in the armed forces.

About 1945 I became interested in electricity, yachting and arch-
acology. The first interest led to the position of chief design engineer
for aircraft generators at General Electric and even now I get a thrill
to see my electrical systems flying in such planes as the Fro1, B66,
Convair 880 and ggo, the Navy Carrier Plane A3D, the Neptune
P2V and the Electra. The second culminated in the purchase of our
forty-seven-foot Matthews which plied the waters of New England
for two years and unfortunately had to be sold when we moved to
Erie, Pennsylvania. The weather there and perhaps a slight resent-

[ 1516 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment for the forced sale of the Corsair prompted us to move to the
Great Southwest. The third interest, archaeology, resulted in a huge
room lined with cabinets and shelves displaying thousands of pre-
historic Indian artifacts. My second daughter, Eleanor, is majoring
in anthropology at Arizona State University in Tempe.

I’ve served the Greater Erie Chamber of Commerce and am now
a member of the Geater Phoenix Chamber of Commerce and am very
active in the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Other hob-
bies include working a quarter-acre vegetable garden (three crops
a year in Phoenix), collecting U.S. Commemorative stamps, hunting,
fishing and operating a café for relaxation. Of course the biggest
hobby of them all is raising the kids, who think their Dad is an old

rouch.

We are all in good health and my parents are still living on the
“old homestead” in Saugus, Massachusetts. My brother Adam is a
dedicated surgeon teaching at the University of Brooklyn. (He is
also a Harvard Graduate.)

Lastly, I need one more half-course and a thesis to get my Master's
degree in engineering at Arizona State University.

STANFORD WESSLER

 

HOME ApprEss; 71 Fresh Pond Lane, Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. Cua lade, 1938; Mp. (New York
Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Margaret Barnet Muhlfelder, Dec. 17, 1942. Critoxex: John Scanford,
March 24, 1950; Stephen Lawrence, July 31, 1ggt; James Hugh, Aug. 4&
1955.

(1517 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of medicine, Harvard Medical School; visit-
ing physician, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Badminton and Tennis Club; Scientific
Societies,

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on cardiovascular disease,

GRADUATION from college was followed rapidly by medical
school, internship, military service, and further postgraduate train-
ing leading to an academic medical career. Specialization in cardio-
vascular disease developed with time divided between research,
tcaching and practice. 1 have become increasingly involved with
the all but inscrutable problem of why fluid blood clots so fre-
quently and so unexpectedly in veins and arteries.

JOHN TREVANION WESTLAKE

pL te SPEIER ESR AE TRAST SAIS SSRN
, . :
aA .

7 wale :

    

HOME Appress: §5 Deer Path, Princeton, N.J.

oF¥ice appress; McGraw-Hill Book Co., 330 W. 42d St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED At: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938, DEGREE! AB, 1938.

Marien: Alice Bacon, Feb. 2, 1952. CHILDREN: Frances, July 24, 1953; Rachel,
Dec. 7, 1956; Sylvia, Aug. 19, 1959.

occupation: Art director, Encyclopedia Division, McGraw-Hill Book Com-
pany.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Institute of Graphic Arts.

IN the twenty-five years since publication of the 1938 Class Book
where the words “intended vocation, illustrating” were printed op-
posite my picture, the idyllic and cautiously unconventional life
envisioned by this senior has changed. The high-beamed studio has
become a four-bedroom ranch and the “come and persuade me to

[1518]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

do an illustration for you” attitude has changed to a race for the
7:42.

In essence, life has given me what I hoped for in June, 1938; a
modest but satisfying success in my chosen field, plus a wife and
three children at this writing (1962). They fill my life and the four
bedrooms, leaving a studio couch in the recreation room available to
any °38er who would like to check the facts.

JOHN RYDER WESTON

   
 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 2229 Payne St., Evanston, Ill. (Lost.)

LEO FERDINAND WESTON, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 3315 Jefferson Ave., Cincinnati 20, Ohio,

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio; Tafe School,
Watertown, Conn.

[1519]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. 1938.
marriED: Mary Elizabeth Street, April 10,

1948 (divorced 1957). cHmLp: Mary
Jean, May 1, 1953.

REGINALD TREMAINE WHEELER

    

HOME ApprEss: 166 Anderson Pl, Buffalo 22, N.Y.

oFFice apprEss:; Leed Steel Co., 290 Court St., Buffalo 2, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938.

MaRRiED: Josephine Hemenway, March 11, 1944. CHILDREN: Reginald Tremaine,

Jr, Feb. 21, 1947; Stephen S,, March 13, 1949; Andrew P., June 22, 1955.
OccuPATION: Salesman, Leed Steel Company.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a long, long time. It must be, for dur-
ing that time I have covered a few hundred thousand miles by
land, sea and air, and have made more attempts at satisfactory
gainful employment than I care to enumerate. Suffice to say
that I like to consider myself a salesman and am currently selling
Bethlehem tool steel throughout the western third of New York
State.

My family consists of three boys and their two parents. We
all live in a rather stereotyped urban way, but seem to enjoy it.
Our social activities are many and varied. We like to, and do,
mingle with many groups and ages, as the one thing we have both
opposed all our lives is being caught in a social rut. I am indeed
fortunate to have a rather talented wife. For many years she has
been most active in various local theatrical groups. This has
stood us in good stead, for she is now in her second year of
teaching speech and drama to grades one through eight in a

[ 1520 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rivate school, only ten minutes’ drive from our front door. This
is a help, believe me.

Politically, we are registered Republicans and religiously, Pres-
byterian. Hobbies and/or recreation find me in the cellar play ing
at leather and metal work, and occasionally refinishing an antique
piece of furniture. Guns, new and old, have always fascinated
me, but this can become rather expensive if you do too much
more than look. However, the boys and I have accomplished
quite a bit with a makeshift range in our cellar. Here, the N.R.A.
rules and regulations are taught and adhered to rigidly. Summer
finds us on the Canadian lakeshore enjoying swimming, tennis,
sailing, etc., and in the fall, as I am writing this, I am again looking
forward to the bird-hunting season.

As to my military record, I have said many times in the past
that one of the greatest things I got out of a Harvard education
was a commission in the Naval Reserve. I happily came through
the standard stint in World War II unscathed and then remained
in the Naval Reserve program, in one capacity or another, until
a couple of years ago when I received an official document that
says that Captain Wheeler, USNR, has completed twenty years,
eight months and eleven days of satisfactory service for Uncle
Sam. At this point, I slipped quietly into the Standby Reserve.

So I am still on the stepping stones endeavoring to cross the
rushing stream all of us are in. I try to keep my mind from becom-
ing too cluttered with the modern-day frustrations of life with a
semblance of success. Sure, I worry about the spread of Commu-
nism, the threat of nuclear annihilation, and how to make a dollar
do a buck’s worth, but not so that I am nursing an ulcer or spend-
ing any time on a psycho couch. Hence, I still have most of my
hair, though grey, and am the same proper weight as in 1938. My
best efforts will be put forward to maintain such an equilibrium
for our Fiftieth.

[ 520]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CARTER HIXSON WHITE

PPM Ap ASR NNER. reece
af 4
weog .

  

  

Ls Q

HOME ADDRESS: 203 Eaton Ave., Meriden, Conn.

oFFicE ADDRESS: The Meriden Record Co., Record-Journal Bldg., 11 Crown
St.,, Meriden, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Meriden High School, Meriden, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; LL.B. 1041.

marrieD: Barbara Comstock, Sept. 14, 1940. CHILDREN: Alison, Jan. 22, 1942;
Leslie, June 5, 1944; Eliot, March 28, 1947.

occupation: Vice-president and general manager, The Meriden Record Com-
pany, publishing two daily newspapers.

oFrices HELD: Director, City Savings Bank, Home National Bank & Trust Com-
pany, Meriden Record Company, Napier Company (all in Meriden,
Conn.); director and past president, Meriden Boys’ Club; director, Meriden
YMCA, Meriden United Fund; past president, Connecticut Daily News-
paper Association; newspaper national, regional and state groups, former
State Senator in Connecticut Legislature, 1947-48; former City of Meriden
corporation counsel, 1947-50; past director, Meriden Chamber of Com-
merce and Connecticut Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: Home Club of Meriden; Copper Valley Club of Cheshire; Farms
Country Club of Wallingford, Conn.; Connecticut State Bar Association;
Harvard Club of Connecticut; Harvard Law School Association; Meriden
Rotary Club; First Congregational Church of Meriden.

TWENTY-FIVE years out and in many ways it seems only yester-
day. My wife says in many ways I act as if that were true!

Reminiscing is fun, but I’d rather wait until our Fiftieth for the
real serious reflections, There is too much to do in the actual living
of the present and planning for the immediate future to worry about,
or even think about more than casually, the past.

The first ten years out produced a Harvard law degree and a
successful law practice and embryonic political career in my home
state, my marriage to a Radcliffe ’3ger (we celebrated our 22d last

[ 1522 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

September), three healthy, reasonably intelligent children, and a
ood home.

The second ten years brought a change of career to the newspaper
publishing business in a family-owned enterprise, which is very chal-
lenging, very frustrating, very satisfying, very enjoyable. It includes
lots of traveling and meeting other newspaper folk. It’s never dull.

The family hobby has been traveling as a family. In the past few
summers we've hit California, Bermuda, England, France, Italy,
Germany and Austria, also the Caribbean. The rest of the year is
spent paying for the trip and for education. Having three offspring
in college at the same time is really something! The elder daughter,
Alison, is a senior at Bates, the second daughter, Leslie, is a freshman
at Connecticut College, and the son, Eliot, is a prep (freshman) at
Hotchkiss School. The youngest is a real athlete, much better than
the old man, and is on the varsity football and tennis teams, even
though a freshman. He can beat the old man at jiujitsu and ping-pong
and maybe tennis.

My philosophy of life can be summed up in a nutshell: carpe
diem. Enjoy your life, your family, your job every day, and smile
particularly at the petty annoyances, for there will be bigger ones

tomorrow. Work hard, play hard and the rest of the time will take
care of itself.

EDWARD THOMAS WHITE

    

HOME AND OFFICE AppRrEsS: Walnut Grove Farm, Union, W. Va.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Excter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Nancy Beirne Miles, April 21, 1942. critoreNn: Oliver Beirne, Jan. 27,
1945; Melinda Caperton, June 14, 1947; Christopher Herrick, May 232, lyst.

[ 1523]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
OCCUPATION: Farming.
oFFices HELD: Director, Bank of Monroe; member, West Virginia House of
Delegates, 1957, 1958,

THE last line of my decennial biography said, in effect, that the
parade would go on without me. It is. I live in a quiet valley of
rolling blue-grass pasture which nestles in the rugged, ravined
Allegheny Mountains of West Virginia. With my wife Nancy, I
operate a farm on which we raise thoroughbred horses, Angus
cattle, Cheviot sheep and children.

On the side I am a member of the Air Force Reserves and
editorialist for a small radio station. For the past four and one-half
rears | have been writing a newspaper column of general commen-
ary, entitled “Down to Earth,” which appears weekly in the
Charleston (W. Va.) Gazette-Mail and the Roanoke Times. The
subjects of my articles are the objects of my concern. Through
most of them there runs a thread of reconciliation between the
country and the city, the individual and the mass, sense and non-
sense, the present and the future, truth and speculation, and be-
tween the living and the suffocated.

To me the language of agriculture and husbandry is direct and
unconfusing, It stands in expressive contrast to the vacillating
erudition of pedants and reformers, Rarely inspiring farmers be-
yond their capabilities, farming humbles, fortifies and satisfies.

Nightly I drink my bourbon out of Harvard glasses and as often
come face to face with the motto Veritas. This and the advice
of Dr. Lewis Perry to my graduating class at Exeter (“Don’t ever
try to get something for nothing.’ ) have profoundly influenced my
life, In fact, the outward appearance of our farm would indicate
that they have been my ruination, and both cut short my budding
career in politics,

But things are looking up. We now have a two-year-old horse
in training. Perhaps by the end of 1963, without compromising
my verity, we might get something for nothing. As a special
Tw enty-fifth Reunion tip to those members of the Class of 38
who would j join me at the two-dollar window, the horse’s name is
Lewisburg.

[1524 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERIC LAWRENCE PETER WHITE

SRR I toe prescreening

Rg i RE ae 3 ER HA RO

 

HOME ADDRESS: Box 377, 205 E. Main St., Smithtown, Long Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MaRRIED: Jehanne Helen Price, Nov. 20, 1943. CHILDREN: Benjamin Winthrop,
Oct. 1, 1944; Samuel Giltinan, Nov. 1, 1946; Lawrence Grant, 2d, Nov. 21,
1947; Elizabeth Stuyvesant and Christopher Francis (twins), July 19, 1949;
Peter Robert Chanler, Aug. 2, 1950, Nicholas Bayard, Sept. 18, 1951; John
Stanford, June 9, 1953; Daniel Ward, July 27, 1954; Matthew Kilian, Feb,
25, 1957; Helena Comfort, Sept. 20, 1960.

occupation: Translator, scientific and literary, from French and German,

MEMBER OF: American Friends of Vietnam.

puBLications: Translated Jesus Christ by Guardini, Moment of Triumph by
Sebestyen, From Engine to Auto by Diesel and Schildberger, On Catholic
Freedom by Erik von Kuchnelt-Leddihn, Population and Food by Houtart,
other work under contract, and a number of magazine articles mostly in

Jubilee.

I CAN describe myself candidly as a happily married Harvard
sophomore with eleven children, full of admiration for all classmates
who grew up and now do some variety of the world’s work. I
concede them the race for success. I have spent time with Presi-
dent Ngo-Dinh-Diem and have other interesting experiences under
my belt. I have learned how to bang on a typewriter. But now
my mind is almost entirely on the stage-management of ten children
in school and a pretty little two-year-old daughter who will never
have to pay the psychiatrists because she was rejected.

If anyone cares how I fixated in my sophomoric enthusiasm and
innocence, let him read on. After college I spent two years in the
music business, losing other people’s money to try to sell beauti-
ful things. By January, 1941, I was in the Army, soon an unwilling

[1525]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

flautist (there’s an MOS for that). In 1943 I got a commission in
the Army Air Force, got married (per previous Class Reports)
and had a reasonably useful war experience as a combat intelligence
officer in a Radio Squadron Mobile attached to IX TAC, General
Quesada’s air support operation for First Army in the European
campaign. After V-E Day I translated biographies and reports of
my German opposite numbers in the Luftwaffe, the most fascinat-
ing thing I have ever done, After a year of Washington life on
first licutenant’s pay, I began my fitful postwar sallies at the market
place. I have not yet made the generalization on what was wrong
with them all, except that I usually tried to scll something I thought
was wonderful which nobody else wanted. I have no hard feelings
about the market place, think it’s a fine thing, very good for people.

By happenstance I got into professional translating which has
been a sure of rain-check on the educational opportunities I failed
to scize at Harvard, I always get interesting material to work with.
My children’s future interests me more than whatever may be left
of my own carcer; the wife who rears them is, of course, a dea ex
machina who has bailed me out of the most compounded scrape
any sophomore has ever been in since Theodosius the Great mythi-
cally founded the University of Bologna in 425 A.D.

I would like to take up what further space they give me in
praise of Harvard, Since | have been corresponding with the Uni-
versity regarding admission and scholarship for my eldest, Benja-
min, who will be coming in September, to join the Class of 65,
after an Fnglish- Speaking Union fellowship at Highgate Schoo]
in London, I have had nothing but one piece of evidence after
another that Harvard is the most marvelous fruit of western civiliza-
tion imaginable, and if I had any money your friendly Class Agent
and the platoons of skilled fund-raisers on other levels could take
it off me like rice.

[ 1526 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT ELDRIDGE WHITE

FERS CEFR TET S Wee rater Cte rnees

Sioa a amperes

       

HOME ADDRESS: S, Great Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Robert E. White Instruments, Inc., 178 Atlantic Ave., Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Marion Jewett, Jan. 24, 1942. CHILDREN: Robert Eldridge, Jr., Jan.
17, 1944; Edgar Jewett, Feb. 27, 1946; Bruce Barnard, Feb. 13, 1949.

OccUPATION: President, Robert E. White Instruments, Inc., distributing and
servicing navigation and meteorological instruments.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Tabor Academy, since 1951; chairman, Boston area,
Tabor Academy Alumni, member, board of directors, Lincoln Players.

MEMBER OF: Boston Yacht Club; Badminton and Tennis Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Eldridge’s Tode and Pilot Book, an annual.

AS an undergraduate, I never thought our Twenty-fifth would
see me in the midst of getting my own enterprise on its feet and
running. Most sensible people do this in their twenties, not their
forties. Nor did I or could I picture my first-born entering Yale,
but that’s the way things are.

The intervening years have not seen any Nobel Prizes with my
name on them, but have nonetheless been very happy ones indeed.
In fact, they seem to get better all the time. I could stop right
now and leave you with the right impression.

I should explain the new business. After three years of following
my “Intended vocation,” teaching, I served four and a half years
in the Navy, as a magnetic compass specialist, working on nearly
two thousand vessels of various nationalities and bumping into
quite a bunch of classmates while so doing. After the war, not
wanting to throw away those years of concentrated experience, I

[1527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

joined my father’s firm, Kelvin & Wilfrid O. White Company,
manufacturers of navigation instruments. The business life was
a far cry from the teaching life, but I found it very enjoyable.
Also I traveled the country for the company rather extensively,
boosting the family products. After my father’s death in 1955,
my brother and [ ran the company till 1961, when we merged with
another marine outfit, Unexpectedly came a decision to move the
whole shebang out of state. Since this in no way appealed, and
since I felt an enormous vacuum would be created by the move, I
decided to start up my own independent company to fill the void,
and that’s what I’m doing. It’s still the same kind of merchandise
but it’s a distribution thing instead of manufacturing. I love it.
Even my wife loves it, though it has kept her days on the busy side,
making mailing lists and doing all the things I don’t dare to ask
my secretary to do.

High spots through the years include some ocean racing to Ber-
muda and Halifax, summer cruising, a European trip in 1957,
writing original music and lyrics for, and being musical director of,
a local revue. Particularly rewarding has been my work with
Tabor Academy during its recent eventful history. Also publish-
ing the Eldridge Tode Book, now in its 88th consecutive, family-
published edition, sort of a bible for New England yachtsmen.

Ned, the middle son, is a junior at Belmont Hill and Bruce, the
youngest, starting at Rivers Country Day. The transportation
problems are something, Looking back on it all, I know the years
at Harvard have brought many enriching things into my life. “O,
thus be it ever...”

[ 1528 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘THEODORE HAROLD WHITE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 168 E.. 64th St.. New York 21, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B. summa cum laude, 1938.

MarRIED: Nancy Ariana Van der Heyden Bean, March 29, 1947. CHILDREN:
Ariana Van der Heyden, July 11, 1949; David Fairbank, Jan. 30, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Author, consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of Bureau for Time and Life magazines in China, 1939-41,
1942-45; War correspondent, 1942-45 (CBI Theater, 14th Air Force, Honon
Famine, Japanese Surrender); editor, New Republic, 1947; chief European
correspondent, Overseas News Agencay, 1948-50; chief European cor-
respondent and national correspondent, The Reporter Magazine, 1951-55;
national correspondent, Collier’s, 1955-56; consultant to CBS and other
consultancies, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations; Century Association, Authors Guild
of America (member of council); National Press Club; Harvard Club of
New York; Visiting committee for Harvard University Press.

PUBLICATIONS: Thunder Out of China (with Annalee Jacoby), 1946; The Stil-
well Papers, 1948; Fire in the Ashes, 1953; The Mountain Road, 1958;
The View from the Fortieth Floor, 1960; The Making of the President
—1960, 1961. Awards: Pulitzer Prize, Air Medal, Ben Franklin Award,
Page One Award, Secondary School Board Award, Overseas Press Club
Award, and others.

EARLY in the war, when I was in Old Delhi, I visited the harem
quarters that Shah Jehan had built in the great Red Palace where
he might dally with his ladies. The heart of these quarters is that
most beautiful pavilion, the Divan-i-Khas, all white marble and
sunlight, grooved with water runnels, dappled with shadows. And
on the frieze that edged all four walls just below the ceiling ran an
inscription in cursive Arab script which seemed to repeat itself
over and over again. When they translated it for me, it read

[1529]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

EDWARD DAVID WHITING

 

HOME AppRESS; 2820 N, Mildred Ave., Chicago 14, III.

orrice appress: Lyons & Carnahan, 4o7 E. 25th St., Chicago 16, Il.

prepared AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937. DEGREES: A.B. (Northwestern Univ.), 1938; a.m.
(ibid.), 1939.

marnien: Phyllis Elizabeth Beal, April ts, 1944. CHILDREN: David Beal, May 30,
1946; Carol Jean, April 12, 1950.

occupation: Credit correspondent, Lyons & Carnahan, educational publishers.

BACHE McEVERS WHITLOCK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 624 W, Beach, Pass Christian, Miss.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 1121 Carondelet Bldg., New Orleans, Ia.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934~1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
MarrieD: Philbin Heath, Dec. 21, 1940 (divorced); Mary Kerr, March 5, 1947-

[ 1532 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
CHILDREN: Bache McEvers, Jr., Nov. 29, 1941; Suzanne deLuze, Oct. 29,
1949; Jane Emmet, March 2, 1952.

occupation: Oil— drilling and production, land and offshore; partner with

drilling company on land, officer and director, Barnwell Industries, Inc,
(offshore drilling).

OFFICES HELD: Finance chairman, Republican Party of Louisiana; trustee, Christ
Episcopal Day School, Bay St. Louis, Miss.; vice-president, Whitlock,
Swigart & Evans, Inc. (advertising agency); commanding officer, USS

Alexandria, PF-18 (Frigate), chairman, Annual Gulfport-Pensacola Ocean
Race.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club (New York); New York Yacht Club,

Louisiana, Boston and Stratford Clubs, New Orleans; Southern Yacht
Club, New Orleans.

AFTER twenty years pursuing the advertising mirage in my grey
flannel suit, relinquished same for the oil “game.” Wish Id taken
more than Geology 1 — because “‘a little knowledge, etc.” Got a free
education from Uncle Sam during my years at sea, and thus kept
close to the briny, and now ocean race for sport. All of my children
seem to have salt in their veins. I got very close to politics during
my years as an advertising tyro (presently hold a card as admiral in
the Louisiana Navy as a memory of those years). ‘Then onward to
become finance chairman of the Republican Party in Louisiana.
Fascinating business, politics. Power does strange things to ordinary
men. Came to many conclusions, most of which are unprintable, but
am still a strong admirer of the United States way of life — free
enterprise and the whole bit.

I am a converted Southerner, and I mean converted, and was thus
taken rather aback by some points of view relative to “Our Prob-
lem.” I imagine I am a moderate. My son, Bache, Jr., went to
Tulane until Uncle Sam reached in his direction — which fact I
mention because, to me, Tulane and Harvard are so similar. New
Orleans and Tulane are bound together, socially, economically,
sentimentally and business-wise, as Harvard and Boston have been
through the centuries. And so—twenty-five years have gone! I
still have hair, teeth, health, vision, one or two good friends, less
ambition and a lot of wonderment about what happens from here.

[ 1533 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

CEDRIC HUBBELL WHITMAN

 

HOME appress: 3 Shady Hill Sq., Cambridge, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 320 Boylston Hall, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

prepareD AT: Rogers High School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1940-1943. DEGREES: A.B, summa cum laude,
1938(43)3 PH.D, 1947.

marriep: Ruth Adele Bashein, 1941 (divorced 1958); Anne Miller, 1959.
cHiLpreN: Rachel Claudia, Nov. 7, 1949; Leda Miriam, Feb. 4, 1954.

occupation: Professor of Greek and Latin, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in Classics, 1947-50, assistant professor, 1950-55, asso-
ciate professor, 1955-59, professor, since 1959, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association, American Academy of Arts
and Scicnces.

pusLications: Sophocles; A Study in Heroic Humanism, 1951; Homer and the
Heroic Tradition, 1958.

[ 1534 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ROBERT TAFT WHITMAN

 

BorN: April 9, 1917, Providence, R.I. parents: Gerald Whitman, 12, Eleanor
Taft.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gerald Whitman, Jr, ’42.

piED: Killed in action, July 30, 1945, in Pacific area.

AFTER college Whitman spent a year at the Business School and
then worked for the Bank of Manhattan in New York City and as
an accountant with the S. D. Leidesdorf Company before enlisting
in the U.S. Naval Reserve. He was sent to Notre Dame for his
indoctrination and later was transferred to the U.S. Naval Reserve
Midshipmen’s School, USS Prairie State, graduating as an ensign in
August, 1942. He taught on the Prairie State and at Columbia until
April, 1943, when he was transferred to the USS Indianapolis, and
was successively promoted to lieutenant (j.g.) and lieutenant. He
served on the Indianapolis until he died in the ship’s sinking on July
30, 1945. He was survived by his parents.

[ 1535]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RALPH CAHOON WHITNACK, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 32 Gramercy Pk, S., New York 3, N.Y.

EDWARD FARLEY WHITNEY

 

HOME appress: Dublin, N.H.

OFFICE appREss: American Optical Co., 10 Optical Ave. Keene, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1938.

MarrigD: Millicent Bonner Bowring, May 4, 1940. cHILpREN: Cynthia Farley,
Oct. 20, 1942; Edward Bonner, June 6, 1945; Amy Susan, Nov. 8, 1946;
Richard Duane, May 12, 1952; James Warren, Aug. 6, 1960.

HARVARD SON: Edward Bonner Whitney, ’66.

occupation: Administrative assistant to plant manager and contracts adminis-
trator, American Optical Company, manufacturers of ophthalmic instru-
ments, fire control units, missile fuze systems and related optics.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee of trust funds, member of Planning Board, Dublin,
since 1959; president, Keene Chamber of Commerce, 1954, 1955; member,

[ 1536]

tant Nebable hl handy dt mates seach Aline py ———

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

board of directors, Keene Regional Industrial Association, 1957-58; director,
Keene Senior Citizens Center, 1958; Cheshire County chairman, March of
Dimes, 1952-57; finance chairman, Monadnock District, Daniel Webster
Council, Boy Scouts, since 1961; Dublin Boy Scout Troop, since 1951;
vestryman, St. James Episcopal Church, Keene, N.H., since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Dublin Lake Club; Keene Rotary Club.

WHAT have you done in the past twenty-five years? This is
such a harsh question that for some time I could not bring myself
to wrench my eyes from what I hope is still a future to look back-
ward at the past. Lord knows I have been busy — too busy most of
the time. But accomplishments? The most notable one seems to be
a happy home and five wonderful children, and of course in that
[had help!

Having decided in Harvard that I did not like cold weather and
that skiing was too dangerous for any sane person, I now find
that I wasted years of enjoyment away from the slopes, and that
every move I have made has led me further north. How do you
wend your way to Dublin, a village of 700 on the northern slope
of Mt. Monadnock? In my case it went this way.

Two years of attention to airline passengers in Boston, and my
how we coddled them in those gentle days, was followed by five
or so with an aircraft engine manufacturing company in Long
Island. Prior to the move to Long Island I had married the girl
I had brought to the Yale game in my senior year. My roommate
had warned me that that was fatal, and it is the nicest fatal thing
that has happened to me yet. In the aircraft company spare parts
for training engines was my field, and of course in due time there
was an end to that.

The next jump was to northern Connecticut to try a new venture
in pre-fabricated houses, but the company, and possibly the houses
too, collapsed three weeks after I arrived, and there we were with
three children, a large house and larger mortgage, and what is
known as “opportunity” by those who have a steady job.

Three years of making magnetos and one trying to sell office
machines convinced me that aviation was not such a bad industry
after all, so off we went again to Keene, New Hampshire, to open
a branch plant for a Providence company in the manufacture of
mechanical oil seals for jets, missiles and such. Fighe busy years
as general manager of the plant, which grew from three employees
to one hundred twenty, allowed me to take a hand in everything
from floor sweeping to finance.

[ 1537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Consolidation of the branch plant with the main office con-
fronted me with the realization that my roots were further down
than 1 would have thought, and besides how could we move all
those bicycles, sleds and skis? So after six months trying it out
as vice-president, manufacturing, at the home office, we decided to
stay in New Hampshire, at least for the time being. Two years
manufacturing miniature ball bearings, part of that as production
manager for a leading company, and now here J am in the ordnance
end of the optical business, arguing with the government again in
the negotiation and administration of supply contracts.

Along the way I have been overwhelmed with the usual finance
drives, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Cub Scouts, Brownies, Chambers
of Commerce, Community Chests, polio drives, Planning Boards, to
a point where there were many times when I am sure my business
came off second best. I confess, also, to having become that most
contemptible type of plebeian male, a “nestmaker,” and it seems that
“fixing things” takes up much too much time, as anything will if
you enjoy it. T have found myself fairly active as a vestryman in
my church, which may surprise some, and as a teacher and head
of our Sunday School, which flabbergasts me.

My family, now three boys, two girls, two dogs, one cat and one
to five kittens, depending on the day of the month, plus a lovely
wife, has been the center of everything, though my children now
scem to be whirling off about the periphery most of the time. My
twenty-year-old girl is a junior at the University of Colorado at
Boulder; my seventeen-year-old is a freshman at Harvard; my
sixteen-year-old girl is in her third year at Miss Porter’s in Farm-

ington, Connecticut, and our ten-year and two-year-old boys are
still at home with us. They keep us young and broke, and give
us proud moments and some anxious ones, especially the seventeen-
year-old who follows his father’s example in slithering around
Harvard Square on a motorcycle.

Well, it has been a good road, and far from over yet. The hills
have not been too steep although I have done my share of panting.
The curves scemed ninety degrees at times but in the light of the
daily happenings in this age they have been gentle. All the
shoulders have been soft and dangerous only if not handled with
care. | have been continually impressed with the number of really
fine people I have met in all circumstances along the way. When
tempted to relax into smugness for one reason or another I luckily
have been jolted back to reality by evidences of courage, stead-

[ 1538 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fastness and devotion where one might not have expected it, or by
the bald truth from my ten-year-old as he adjusts his bindings, say-
ing, “Ill go slow, Dad, so you can keep up.” I think I can still
beat him, or will again next year if I can just get the hang of ...
But his confidence is growing, and mine... . ?

As for deep thoughts, I find that all truth is ageless, and many
old truisms are true; that anything worth doing is worth doing
well; that it is no harder to do it right the first time; and that
you are never really happy unless you are doing something for
someone else. .

Now what was it that J promised to do first thing tomorrow?

GEOFFREY GORDON WHITNEY, JR.

 

HOME AppREss: 441 Elm Rd., Falmouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MarRiED; Pauline Margaret (Grauer) Chevrefils, Jan. 25, 1947. cHiLp: Geof-
frey Gordon, 3d, July 31, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Research associate in physical oceanography.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Falmouth Taxpayers Association, 1953-36; Falmouth
Town Meeting member, since 1953; member, since 1956, secretary, 1956-
57, chairman since 1958, Falmouth Planning Board; trustee, since 1956,
treasurer, since 1958, Falmouth Hospital Association; member, executive
council, Cape Cod Economic Development Council, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cape Cod; Falmouth Rod and Gun Club, Fal-
mouth Skeet Club; Woods Hole Golf Club; Woods Hole Yache Club;
American Ordnance Association; International and New England Associa-
tions of Fire Chiefs,

PUBLICATIONS: Article on thermometers, Journal dus Conseil (Vol. XXU-2-1957);

[1539]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

qualities which make for successful living. At this writing, the
President, of whom, with his administration, I have been con-
sistently critical, has just, finally, taken for the country a strong,
clear-cut, unequivocal and positive position. I think such action
was long overdue, but I am sure that the vast majority of the nation
will whole-heartedly support this position. We owe it to our
ancestors who fought for it, to ourselves who have it, and to future
generations who are entitled to it, to preserve the principle of
liberty, and that liberty itself.

Frankly, at this writing, 1 am concerned about what the future
may bring, but I am confident that, with God’s help, we shall be
able to meet any challenge — and will meet it, and succeed.

VERNON LEE WHITNEY, JR.

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 2100 Massachusetts Ave. N.W., Washington D.C. (Lost.)

[ 1542 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT MASON WHITTEMORE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 203 Heath St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Margaret Anne Burrows, Jan. 3, 1942, Lake Forest, Il]. cHILpREN:
Nancy Anne, Dec. 12, 1945; William Mason, May 17, 1950.

OccUPATION: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Ensign to captain, U.S. Navy, 1938-58, budget director, Mitre

Corporation, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Wardroom Club.

AS I look back on my twenty-plus years of service in the Navy,
starting right after graduation, it seems almost like another lifetime.
I found it always interesting, frequently enjoyable, occasionally
frustrating, yet rewarding and ultimately satisfying. I think I have
always been a civilian at heart, so to hang up my four stripes and
return to civilian life created few problems. For two years follow-
ing retirement from the Navy I was associated w ith the Mitre
Corporation, but left this organization when I realized that a full-
time job was interfering with my other interests and personal
affairs.

We have a daughter in the eleventh grade at Beaver and a son
just starting at Rivers. We like to travel and try to be away for at
least a month each year during the winter. We have dev cloped an
interest in American antiques and have been fortunate in acquiring
what we think are some rather nice things. Golf and small boating
are our major forms of outdoor recreation. My favorite hobby is
amateur radio (W1SGT). We have a summer home overlooking
Ipswich Bay to which we hope to gravitate for the major portion
of the year as time goes by.

[ 1543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

‘+ JOHN JOSEPH WHORISKEY, JR.

 

BoRN: July 18, 1917, Cambridge, Mass. parents: John Joseph Whoriskey, M.D.,
’99, Katherine MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1938; M.v. (Tufts Coll.),
1942,

pep: April 13, 1944, at sea.

AFTER a year’s internship at the Newton Hospital and a short term
as teaching fellow at the Pratt Diagnostic Clinic and the Boston Dis-
pensary, Whoriskey entered the Army Medical Corps. He attended
Officer Candidate School in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, was commissioned
a first lieutenant and assigned to the Medical Detachment at Camp
Swift, Texas. He went overseas as surgeon with the 603d Tank
Destroyer Battalion. He was a diplomate of the National Board of
Medicine and a member of the American Medical Society and the
New England Medical Society. He was survived by his mother.

[1544]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CROCKER WIGHT

 

HOME aAppREss: 415 Warren St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day, 74 State St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Frederica Sargent, May 16, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Stock and bond broker.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary and member, board of managers, Home for
Aged Women, Jamaica Plain, Mass.; director, Aero Club of New England.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Club of Odd Volumes,
Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Massachusetts Investor Comparative Bond Yield Chart, 1935,
Discount Municipal Bond Table, 1957.

THE years between graduation and our T'wenty-fifth Reunion have
merged pleasantly one into another at an increasingly rapid pace.
After serving as a naval aviator in World War II and acquiring a
commercial flying license (including a helicopter rating), it seemed
apparent that aviation was here to stay. True as that may be, experi-
ence dictated that it would stay without my help. The brokerage
business beckoned and became my livelihood — an interesting job,
albeit not as rewarding for me as it is supposed to be.

Fortunately, there seem to be few dull moments. Bridge, a game
we play passingly well (in more the literal than the figurativ e sense),
is frequently our weekend pastime. Golf and chasing around Afassa-
chusetts Bay in our 16%-foot Boston Whaler fill in weekend and
vacation gaps. An occasional cruise and one trip to Europe have
been included.

Hobbics have consisted of:

1) Design and development of a device that rings a bell in the

[ 1545 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

house when a car comes in the driveway and also turns on the out-
side lights at night.

2) Collecting first editions of John Masefield.

3) Design, production and sale of the “Wight Bond Yield Table,”
a device using a slide which gives bond yields without using a yield
book.

4) Solution of spherical triangles for the plotting of Consolan
sector lines on nautical charts as an aid to navigation and sale of
same.

When one is well and happy at work and at home, life goes on in
a delightful way. May the coming years be the same.

WARLAND WIGHT, JR.

 

MAILING ApprEss: 8 Country Club Drive, Tacoma 99, Wash.

[ 1546 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ARTHUR FREDERICK WILBAND, JR.

 

BORN: Aug. 11, 1916, Everett, Mass. parents: Arthur Frederick Wilband, Mabel

Auspach.
PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.
MARRIED: Jane Crissey, Nov. 19, 1937, Seabrook, N.H.; Elsie Lyons, June 19,
1951, San Antonio, Texas, cumto: Arthur Frederick, 3d, March 25, 1941.
DIED: Nov. 20, 1957, Boston, Mass.

AFTER ten years as special and foreign accountant at Lever Bros.
Company in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Wilband was production
manager of the San Antonio Express and News, San Antonio, Texas,
and then spent a short time as advertising solicitor for the Boston
Post. Since January, 1955, he had been account executive for Harold
Cabot & Company, Inc., advertising agency, in Boston.

[1547 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT D. WILDER

 

HOME abprEss: 81 Hamilton St., Hamilton, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Colgate University, Hamilton, N.Y.
prepareD AT: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.; Phillips Academy, An-

dover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, DEGREES: MuS.B. (Boston Univ.), 1940; A.M. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1942; PHD. (ibid.), 1952.

MARRIED: Roberta Brackett, July 15, 1940. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Leavens, Oct. 5,
1941; Stephen Brackett, May 12, 1947; Timothy Brooks, Sept. 18, 1949.
occupation: College teacher; associate professor of music, Colgate University.

MEMBER OF: College Music Society.

EARLY in 1936 I left Harvard, eventually enrolling at Boston
University, whence I graduated in 1940. I had vague ideas about
being a church organist, a part-time vocation I have followed,
off and on, for these past twenty-five years. In the fall of 1940,
however, I was back at Harvard, this time in the Graduate School,
aiming to fortify myself for a teaching career in music. This
process required twelve years; in 1952 I completed my Ph.D. and,
aged thirty-six, was admitted somewhat reluctantly to the ranks
of college teachers. In the intervening years, besides pursuing my
graduate work, I spent three and one-half quiet years in the Army
(most of it in Alaska) and gained some preliminary experience as
an instructor at Boston University and as a teaching fellow at
Harvard.

Since 1952 I have lived the life of a transplanted New Englander,
one year at St. Lawrence University in northern New York, the
last ten years at Colgate in the central part of the state. I still have
that New England accent, they say, and have brought up my two
boys to root for the Red Sox, even when it hurts — which, as

[1548 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

we all know, it usually does. In the last ten years I have revisited
Boston four times, my longest stay being just three days. On
our last visit, my brother-in-law drove us around the old town, we
passed the Stadium at noon of the Dartmouth game and later
viewed the emptiness that used to be Scollay Square and the
beginning of the Prudential Building. These things, the old and
the new alike, made me want to come back.

Since settling in Hamilton I have taken up fresh-water fishing
at which I am amazingly unsuccessful. I have the power tool bug,
too, but my creations in this field are equally unremarkable. These
hobbies are pretty expensive and so golf is out of the question,

despite the fact that the college has built a new course practically
in our backyard.

The life of a teacher in a small town is a good one, on the whole.
Salaries have increased and will continue to be increased, they
say. Mine has quadrupled since I began teaching in 1946, though
I admit this statement would lose some of its impact were I to reveal
the amount of my first full year’s pay. Vacations are great, of
course, though one should not conclude that the college teacher's
summer is a three-month period of complete irresponsibility.

A few years ago I was unsuccessful in my application for a
Fulbright in Germany. This disappointment was at least partially
eased by a one-semester sabbatical leave in the fall of 1961. The
family, five of us, went to Europe and toured Great Britain and
the Continent by Microbus. I doubt if this opportunity would
have come to me in any other but the teaching profession.

My actual contact with the Class of 1938 has been, I am ashamed
to say, a pretty slender one in these twenty-five years. I am trying
to remember how many of my classmates I have seen since the war.
I think it is four and three of these are fellows I did not know while

in college. Fortunately, this does not reflect my total connection
with, and feeling for, Harvard which goes back to the d: ays when
I was first aware that my father was a Harvard graduate; ‘through
my brother’s four years (Class of °33); through my vears at B. U.
when I consorted frequently with members of the classes of ” 38 and
’39; and of course throughout my years at Graduate School. In the
fall of 1929 I saw my first college football game. Harvard tied
Army and Chris Cagle, 20-20, via a last-minute Barry Wood pass
and dropkick. The next spring we were at my father’s Tw enty=
fifch Reunion. All of this tied me pretty close to the Square and

[ 1549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

all that goes with it, over a span of about twenty-five years.
These experiences, collectively, don’t just melt away.

Seven years ago my wife resumed teaching and is secure in her
post at a neighboring school. I am also on tenure, so it looks as if
the rest of my working years will be spent here in Hamilton teach-
ing music to disbelieving Colgate men. If this is to be my fate, I
have no complaints.

NORMAN RAY WILLIAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: §247 Saloma Ave., Van Nuys, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESs: Booth, Mitchel, Strange & Willian, 458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles,
Calif.

PREPARED AT: Northeast High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B., 1938(39); LL.B. (Univ. of Michigan),
1942.

MarRieD: Betty Ann Wolfe, Jan, 19, 1939. cutLp: Gary Howard, Oct. 2, 1946.

occupation: Attorney; partner, Booth, Mitchel, Strange & Willian.

MEMBER OF: American, California, Missouri and Los Angeles Bar Associations,
American Arbitration Association.

UPON graduation from Harvard I was persuaded by friends in the
legal profession in Kansas City, Missouri, to enroll at the University
of Michigan Law School, which I did in 1939. I received my degree
in 1942 which allowed me sufficient time to take the Missouri bar
exam and work for six months in the Jaw firm of Charles Whitaker,
later Justice in the Supreme Court of the United States. I then vol-
unteered for pilot training and after Primary at Pine Bluff, Arkansas,
was eliminated and dispatched to Gunnery School in Sioux Falls,
South Dakota. My army career was disrupted by rheumatic fever
and after seven months in various Air Force Hospitals I was dis-

[ 1550 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

charged and returned to the practice of law in Kansas City, Missouri,
with the firm of Morrison, Hecker, Buck, Cozad and Rogers.
During the years that followed I was active in Jackson County

Republican affairs, was an officer of the local Junior Chamber of
Commerce and acquired a dislike for the snows and alternating hot
and cold weather. The family unit moved to California in 1952, and
since reciprocity did not exist between the two states I took the
attorney's bar exam and, passing that in 1953, I became one of four
attorneys working for Allstate Insurance Company as trial counsel
in Los Angeles. I left that company to become house attorney for
Continental Insurance Company in 1955 and remained with that
company until 1958, at which time I decided to re-enter private prac-
tice and formed a partnership for the general practice of law in
Woodland Hills, California, some twenty-eight miles from the
Court House in downtown Los Angeles.

I also became active in 1958 in the Woodland Hills Congregational
Church and served three years on the board of Trustees and on the
Stewardship Committee, also taking an active part in the San Fer-
nando Bar Association. I found during the ensuing years that I was
spending most of my working days in the courts in Los Angeles and
less and less time at the office and finally entered into the present
partnership on January 1, 1961, with my present office being located
only a matter of five blocks from the Court. I am specializing in
trial work and for the most part am engaged in defense work for
insurance companies and local corporations.

I speak for our family of three when I say that California is our
life, vocation and hobby. We never tire of seeing the people and
ways of life which make California the number one state in the
nation.

[russe]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

RICHARD HENRY WILLS, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 2404 E, 27th Pl., Tulsa, Okla.

oFFIce appress: Wills & Wills, 404 Mid-Continent Bldg., ‘Tulsa, Okla.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Tulsa, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1938; LL.B. (Univ. of Michigan),
1941,

MARRIED: Elizabeth Katherine White, 1961. CHILDREN: Richard, April 17, 1948;
Mildred Elizabeth, Sept. 23, 1949; Sally, Nov. 24, 1950 (stepchildren).

occupation; Attorney-at-law; partner, Wills & Wills.

OFFICES HELD: State director of public information for Oklahoma Junior Bar
Association, 1946, president, Tulsa County Junior Bar Association, 1949;
chairman, County Division, Tulsa County Red Cross Campaign, 1952;
treasurer, Tulsa County Bar Association, 1958; Oklahoma member, Ameri-
can Bar Association Atomic Attack Advisory Committee, 1959, chairman,
Atomic Warfare Committee, Oklahoma Bar Association, 1960; Oklahoma
chairman for University of Michigan Law School Fund, 1961, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Southern Hills Country Club; Petroleum Club of Tulsa; American,
Oklahoma and Tulsa County Bar Association, Philbrook Art Associa-
gon,

HEREWITH my story, 1938-1963, in chronological order, as one
would expect of a lawyer:

Turning homeward, it was from Cambridge to Ann Arbor, where
in 1941, I received an LL.B. degree from the University of Michi-
gan Law School. Upon being admitted to the Oklahoma bar, I was
exposed to the general practice for eight months.

In February, 1942, I enlisted in the U.S. Army as a private and
was duly selected to be a truck driver in the Quartermaster Corps.
However, fortunately for both the Quartermaster Corps and my-
self, I was soon transferred to the office of the Provost Marshal
General and civilian clothes, to serve approximately two years as

[ 1552 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a special agent assigned to the Eighth Service Command. During
this tenure of duty, I spent approximately six months on a special
assignment in Washington, D.C., working on the Japanese-Ameri-
can relocation program. While there I was talked into giving up the
civilian clothes and going to Officers Candidate School at Fort
Custer, Michigan. Upon graduation I was assigned, as prearranged,
to continue with the Japanese-American relocation work in Wash-
ington, D.C., and later at the Presidio of San Francisco. I was en
route to assignment in the Philippine Islands when the Armistice
with Japan was signed and after a short stay there was transferred
to G.H.Q. in Tokyo, to do investigative work for the War Crimes
Commission. Among my more pleasant experiences in Japan was
attending a Christmas dinner party given by the Harvard Club of
Tokyo.

On return to the States and discharge from the Army as a captain
in April, 1946, I re-entered the general practice of law in Tulsa and
have pursued that means of earning a livelihood to the present
time, concentrating on, but not necessarily limiting my practice
to, oil and gas law. In 1957, my father retired as general counsel,
vice-president and director of Mid-Continent Petroleum Corpora-
tion, and the long-awaited partnership of father and son became
a reality.

In 1961, the proverbial lightning struck and the solitary life and
the independence I had so strongly cherished came to an abrupt
halt. The golf and handball, the hunting and fishing, the spectator
sports and the travel, which had theretofore been my way of
life, took a back seat. On December 27, 1961, Carl White, jr. a
dedicated Eli, not only graciously gave up his beautiful daughter,
but offered as a wedding present a set of Yale dinner plates. A
suitable compromise on the latter was, of course, arranged. With
Betty I also acquired a ready-made family, Ricky, Mimi and Sally.

At this reading, it looks like I am following the well-known lawyer
pattern, “works hard, lives well and dies poor.”

[ 1553 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

KENNETH OLIVER WILSON

Sy a dete iene Lalas ABMs i Ra ea a

 

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Frove St., Salinas, Calif.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Crocker-Anglo National Bank, 301 Main St., Salinas, Calif.
prepareD AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.
MarriED: Grace LeGrow Hunter, June 14, 1947. CHILDREN: Robert Hunter, Aug.

2, 1948; Helen Sturgis, Sept. 10, 1956.
occupation: Banking; assistant manager, Automotive Finance Department,

Crocker-Anglo National Bank.

AFTER being pronounced an educated gentleman by President

Conant, I spent the next few months taking courses at the Graduate

School of Education. My intention was to pursue a career in teach-
ing. However, private schools were offering little more than board
and room for trainee teachers. Coming face to face with reality for
the first time, I decided to starve in the business world instead. For
the following three years I worked for insurance companies.

After Pearl Harbor there was an increasing desire on the part of
most young men to become a part of the general war effort. In the
fall of 1942, I was commissioned an ensign in the Navy and returned
to Harvard to study communications. I spent the next two and a
half years, or until the end of the war with Japan, on the island of
Oahu. Besides serving as a communication watch officer during this
period, I also spent a good amount of time fighting the Battle of
Waikiki.

I had long had the idea that I wanted to live in the West, so when
I returned to the States for reassignment, I requested duty at a

separation center near San Francisco. Until June, 1946, 1 lectured
separatees on the advantages of retaining their G.L. insurance.
The Veterans Administration was at that time decentralizing its

[ 1554 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

insurance operations, so I joined the organization and worked for
the government for five and a half years. In June, 1947, I married
Grace Hunter, the daughter of a retired Army colonel, and we
settled in Berkeley, which had been her home. In August, 1948, our
son, Bob, was born. In early 1952, the Western Veterans Insurance
offices moved to Denver. As I had come to California to live, and
as we were well established in Berkeley, there seemed no point in
suddenly moving to Colorado, Therefore I resigned from the
Veterans Administration and went to work for the Crocker-Anglo
Bank. I spent about four and a half years in its offices in the San
Francisco area. In September, 1956, three days after our daughter
Helen was born, I was transferred to the Salinas Branch of the Bank.
Salinas, “The Salad Bowl of the World,” is a fertile agricultural
valley situated one hundred miles south of San Francisco and about
twenty miles inland from the Monterey Peninsula. My work deals
with making automotive and agricultural equipment loans.

Though no spot can be considered permanent when working for
a branch bank, we are well satisfied with our present location. Our
son Bob, now fourteen, is in his third year at York, which is an
Episcopal Boys’ Prep School. He is in the ninth grade and I hope
will one day go to Harvard. We are close enough to Carmel to en-
joy beach picnics the year round and go to Berkeley and San Fran-
cisco at least once a month for a weekend. Our summer vacations
are usually spent at Lake Tahoe.

When I lived in Cambridge I rarely ventured out of New England.
Now I seem to be in a similar rut in that I seldom leave California.
Apparently the only solution would be a call from a fellow Demo-

crat and fellow Harvard man to render my assistance in the forma-
tion of the New Frontier.

[1555 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

SAMUEL WINN

 

HOME ApprEss: 92 Deborah Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Warner-Watson, Inc., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1938.

MarriED: Gladys Prince, Sept. 26, 1942. cHiLpREN: Linda Marilyn, Dec. 8,
1946; Marshall Elliott, June 9, 1950.

occupATION: Actuary.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Technical Division, Actuarial Service, Veterans Adminis-
tration; executive vice-president, Warner-Watson, Inc.

MEMBER OF; Society of Actuaries.

I FIND it an unexpected ordeal to review the past twenty-five
years of my life. [ hasten to add that this is not attributable to any
of my activities during that period, all of which were respectably
dull. However, my mind seems to be stubbornly channeled into
producing chapter titles with little or no text or graphic illustra-
tions.

After graduation there was the “Great Depression,” followed by
the better “War Years”; mementos of these traumatic times were,
perhaps, a few scars of the psyche, quickly healed and rarely
recalled. Then followed the unrelenting “Years of Preparation,”
during which I worked in Washington as an actuary for the
Veterans Administration insurance programs while preparing for
and completing a series of eight examinations that qualified me as
a fellow of the Society of Actuaries.

Lest I forget to count my blessings, I have living proof that my
years in Washington were satisfyingly productive: a lovely sixteen-
year-old daughter and an energetic twelve-year son, apparently de-
termined to best the older generation in mind and muscle.

[ 1556 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1953 the scene shifted to Detroit (we have fast run out of
fatuous chapter titles), where I took on the job of resident actuary
for a firm of pension consultants. Three years later I slid into home
plate, the Boston office of the same firm; after fifteen years of wan-
dering over one-third of the globe, my wife and I were back in our
old home town.

Over the past few years, I have been deeply involved, first as an
actuary and more recently as a partner, in the expansion of our firm's
New England operations. The design and installation of all types of
employee-benefit programs have injected me into the seemingly
unrelated fields of finance and personnel and industrial relations, and
have kept me busy, busy, busy.

My job is stimulating, my home serene; I must be the picture of
the typical graduate of 1938.

GIBSON WINTER

¥

   

HOME ApprREss: 5804 S. Harper, Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Divinity School, University of Chicago, Chicago 37, Il.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1938; Bp. (F pisco-
pal Theol. School), 1941; A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1948; pup. Cibid.), 19sa.

MarRIED: Sara Blair Huntington Ballard, April it, tog2. crores: Marcus
Cole, March 22, 1943; Sara Blair Cole, May 29, 1945; Anne Gibson, Dec,
22, 1947; Jacqueline Ballard, Oct. 15, 1950.

occuPATION: Associate professor of ethics and society, Divinity School, Uni-
versity of Chicago,

PuBLications: Love and Conflict: New Patterns in Family Life, Doubleday,
New York, tos8; The Suburban Captivity of the Churches, Doubleday,
1961; The New Christendom in the Merropolis, Macniillan, New York, 1063.

[1557 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

IN the 1938 Yearbook, my objective had been teaching and this is
what I find myself doing. Teaching came into focus for me, however,
only after a series of preliminary steps which did not seem to be
leading to teaching,

Three years at the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge
brought me into touch with Christianity — a subject which had only
interested me as an objective curiosity in the field of history and
literature. This awakening, which many of my friends then and
since might describe as a dimming of consciousness, propelled me
into the active ministry of the Church. Several years in the pastorate
and a few more in the chaplaincy of the Navy convinced me that
something was awry; what was in fact going on in the churches
seemed dissociated from the Gospel. This sense of discontinuity
was deepened by a year of meditations on Karl Barth’s Commentary
on the Epistle to the Romans while attempting to minister aboard a
repair ship much like Mr. Roberts’ cargo ship. Without more ado, I
returned to Harvard’s Department of Social Relations to work out
some of these perplexities. My wife, who had entrusted her fate to a
parson in 1942, found herself looking after several children in a
rectory in Foxboro, Massachusetts, while the parson tried to work
out the role of the Church in American society. Needless to say,
this is not the short road to marital bliss, but my wife’s patience and
my own stubborn conviction that there must be some answer to this
problem brought us through those years in one piece.

Work in social relations deepened the problem of the gap between
Church and American culture, for it disclosed a similar alienation
between the social sciences and theology. In the intervening years,
it has become apparent that these gaps have a similar source; at the
time, it seemed best to utilize the observations of social science
without asking too many questions about the strange notion of
science and the peculiar degradation of the human image which have
characterized this enterprise. Having passed through the blood bath
of statistics, people-counting, wonderful words and deepened in-
sight, I collaborated with a former colleague in establishing a train-
ing center for laymen. This center, an old pony farm, was designed
for reflection and conversation about what, in fact, it means to be a

Christian in our kind of world; indeed, this is the continuing contri-
bution of Parishfield to clergy and laity. We shared money, a com-
mon discipline of life and a common task with several other families
for seven years, trying to build some bridges across that chasm which
separates Christ and culture, Church and world in American life.

[1558]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We had discovered that only the laity could assume this apostolate
of building bridges, and we had set about the work of evoking this
lay apostolate.

During these years, now with four children and a wife who was a
little uncertain as to whether she was a chaplain or a Hausfrau, the
problem of the relationship of human science to theology rankled
more and more. A restlessness to pursue these intellectual difficulties
made me more and more impatient with the limitations of this front-
line work with laymen. My uneasiness communicated itself to every-
one, much to their discomfort, and it became increasingly clear that
I needed to work at this problem in a different way. A call to the
Divinity School of the University of Chicago, in ethics and society,
offered the perfect setting for the pursuit of this task.

I find myself, in writing this twenty-five-year retrospect, remem-
bering what was said of the North African invasion: this is the end
of the beginning. With two children already in college, two others
nearing college age, at that stage of life where one should be looking
backwards with some sense of accomplishment, I have the sense of
moving into the task for which Harvard laid such good foundations.

THOMAS HAZARD WITHERBY

 

HOME appress: Huckleberry Hill, South Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Wayland Laboratory, Wayland, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938(39).
MarrigED: Marianne Jones, Dec. 6, 1947. cHitp: Constance Brooke, June 4, 19st.
OCCUPATION: Systems engineer, research and development, Raytheon Company.

[1559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi (scientific fraternity); Dunes Club, Narragansett, R.L;
DeCordova Museum, Lincoln, Mass.; Lincoln Players.
PUBLICATIONS: U.S, patent on auxiliary focus for cathode ray tube.

SINCE my last Harvard report, my multiple activities as systems and
design engineer for Project Rascal at Bell Aircraft in Buffalo and
Raytheon in Wayland have demanded profound secrecy at the re-
quest of the U.S. Government and this means I can’t talk. Even in
my sleep. However, the general direction of my efforts at Bell, in-
cluding certain details even I was unaware of at the time of my dedi-
cation, are available in most of the popular national periodicals, to
anyone who is interested. To further clue in my friends, I will also
admit to a hand in the preliminary design of a Hydraulic Dynamic
Pressure Calibration, and a thumb in precision standards work on
measurements of electromotive force and capacitance. The scene
shifted in 1957 when Marianne and I were persuaded by Raytheon
that New England’s trees were greener, its waters bluer and the
skiing better. We moved to Massachusetts.

The Wayland Lab put me to work designing the radar and fire
control section of the Navy’s ship-to-air anti-aircraft missiles system
(aptly named Tartar), the Army’s surface-to-air mobile missile proj-
ect (just as aptly named Mauler), and drinking my daily coffee
with a study team for continental defense against ICBMs. Two
years ago, for diversion I watched the sun rise on winter mornings
as I wired into our new house-frame close to an extra half mile of
copper beyond the footage contracted for, and by keeping just
ahead of the plasterers, I interconnected living room, bedroom and
playroom intercoms and amplifiers, They all work.

Our octagon cliff house and its topside living room and study
provides a fine lookout over even more and greener trees and more
and bluer water (the Cambridge Reservoir). Opinions on the home-
stead vary from “God, what a view!” to “God save the Common-
wealth?” But the architects are delighted with it, and so are we and
a few others.

Last summer, with Connie in a Maine camp, we investigated the
British Isles and the Scandinavian Peninsula. More trees and water,
but what a difference! Marianne, who once spoke Swedish as a small
child, helped us into and out of spots with a four-year-old vocabu-
lary and an accent the Swedes considered Finnish.

A good life involves new ideas and putting them into effect, so my
wife plans more travel, with our Spanish at an unknown level. I, on

[ 1560 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the other hand, develop a few thoughts in Portsmouth, Rhode
Island, concerning sonar in submarines, and then work accordingly
at a detailed system design.

Fortunately, I chose to concentrate in physics at Harvard. It
could well have gone another way. But physics has opened doors
of scientific viewpoint and analytic approach. And perhaps Harvard
has proved for me a truth in the old cliché that what one learns in
school teaches mainly how and where to go to find out what one
never knew before.

WILLIAM WELLINGTON WOLBACH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 185 Sargent Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Franklin St., Boston 6, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MARRIED: Josephine Neilson Harmar, April 15, 1944. CHILDREN: William Wel-
lington, Jr., June 12, 1946; Josephine Harmar, July 29, 1950.

OCCUPATION: President and director, Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of board, member, executive committee, West Point
Manufacturing Company; director and member, executive commitrce, Well-
ington Sears Company; trustee, Eaton & Howard Stock Fund, Eaten &
Howard Balanced Fund; director, D. C. Heath & Company, treasurer,
Affiliated Hospitals, Inc., Harvard Medical Center Fund; president and
trustee, Children’s Hospital Medical Center; trustee and member, finance
committee, New England Deaconess Hospital; member, Committee of the
Permanent Charity Fund; president, Dean Foundation for Little Children;
trustee and member, investment committee, Family Service Association,
director, Arthritis & Rheumatism Foundation; vice-president, United Fund
of Greater Boston; member, Board of Overseers Committee to Visie Elar-
vard Medical School and School of Dental Medicine; Vice-president and
assistant treasurer, Massachusctts Foundation, member, Clearing House

[ 1561]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Committee, Boston Clearing House Association; director, former president
and member, executive committee, Boston Security Analysts Society; for-
mer vice-president and director, National Federation of Financial Analysts;
former vice-president, Corporate Fiduciaries; former treasurer, Massachu-
setts Bankers Association; incorporator, Brookline Savings Bank; trustee and
incorporator, Suffolk-Franklin Savings Bank; director and chairman of In-
vestor Panel, Transportation Association of America; trustee, Noble and
Greenough School, Radcliffe College; director, Wentworth Institute.

MEMBER OF: Boston Economie Club; The Country Club; Harvard Clubs of
Boston and New York; Commercial Club of Boston; Merchants Club; East-
ern Point Yacht Club; Essex County Club; Boston Madison Square Garden
Club; Union Club of Boston; Bass Rocks Golf Club.

MY career at Harvard was a brief one, one year in the Yard and one
in Dudley Hall as a dropped freshman, after which all connections
were severed. However, the University was prompt to re-establish
a relationship for fund-raising purposes.

What started out as a temporary summer job at Boston Safe De-
posit & Trust Company developed into a career. Much of my time
has been spent as a security analyst where I headed up the Trust
Company’s activities until becoming increasingly involved in general
management after the mid-19s0’s. The vital statistics listed else-
where in this Report tell most of the rest of the story.

For exercise, I play golf whenever possible, and curl (the game on
ice) in the winter. I also like to skin dive with snorkel and camera,
but perverse weather usually interferes,

The Department of Frustrations is fully staffed by my golf game,
the vagaries of New England weather and the support — in one way
or another —of such consistently unsuccessful enterprises as the
Boston Red Sox, the Boston Bruins, and the Republican Party; also

by having to act frequently as unpaid lavatory attendant for two
Golden Retrievers.

[ 1562 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT GAINER WOLFE

 

HOME ADpREsS: 4010 Hulman St., Terre Haute, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rosenfeld, Wolfe & Miller, Sycamore Bldg., Terre Haute, Ind.
PREPARED AT: Wiley High School, Terre Haute, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1938; LL.B, 1941.

MARRIED: Cynthia Nash, Aug. 20, 1947. CHILDREN: Robert, Feb. 5, 1953; Deb-
orah, Sept. 27, 1959.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WILLIAM QUITMAN WOLFSON

 

MAILING ADpREss: 130 Waverly, Highland Park, Mich.

[ 1563]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

HOWARD WOOD, III

  

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: Centreville, Md.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1938, LL.B. 1941.

marrieD: Mary Welsh Dougherty, Nov. 26, 1942, CHILDREN: Robin, April 13,
1944; Alice Emory, Feb. 1, 1946; James Dougherty, Oct. 19, 1961!

occupation: Lawyer, self-employed.

I'M probably one of the few members of the Class of ’38 with the
same wife, the same job, the same house in the same community as
at the first time I wrote one of these Reports. I find out something
new about them all every day. We have a new child, though, if
you'll notice the exclamation point above. It gives one a false sense
of youthful vivacity to be flipping through the pages of Dr. Spock
again —and having talks with the children of our friends about
whose baby is walking already,

Country lawyer, not country squire, was an early decision. This
is one of the reasons for a startling lack of well-manicured grounds,
pedigreed, lowing herds and boats glistening with varnish and brass.
My first instinct, in writing this report, would be to put down “sail-
ing, in any and all forms” as my main recreation. An honest look
around the premises forces me to the conclusion, however, that my
chief hobby is running a shelter for worn-out, inanimate objects:
the sort of thing that might come in handy in a day that has yet to
dawn. We have under cover a knitting machine on a tripod, old
poultry and bee-keeping equipment, three broken bicycles, four
leaking boats, an old Austin that only goes when I coax it gently, and
other items too numerous to mention. We also have a sloop that

[ 1564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has caused us a great deal of hard labor, and given us a great deal of
pleasure in the past ten years.

We escape to cities from time to time to see friends and plays. We
made it as far as South America once and Europe twice; and this has
whetted our appetites. Maybe we shall go farther and see more
someday when our children have been educated, become rich and
started supporting us. Son Robin is a freshman at Trinity College
and daughter Alice is a senior at Abbot Academy.

A new avocation, and one far more expensive than polo, foxhunt-
ing, 12-metre racing (?), has been politics. As Republican candidate
for State Senator for Queen Anne’s County, I had a brisk workout
ringing doorbells, shaking hands and eating innumerable turkey and
oyster suppers last fall. As this area considers itself still part of the
Old-time, Democratic, solid South, I had only a slim chance of
winning — and didn’t. Our only hope is that we have awakened the
entrenched opposition to the fact that we are watching their every
move with cold and critical eyes.

My practice continues to grow. There is always more work than
time in which to do it. This realization tends to harass and frustrate,
and makes me resent the frequent clients who drop in, stating in con-
siderate tones that they “won’t take a minute.”

Sometimes I think that a big corporate job with a minimum of
fifty hours per work-week would be a vacation. Then I remember
complacently that I never have to wait for an elevator; my daily
commute is only ten minutes each way; I can always find a free
parking space; there are geraniums growing in my office window
boxes; and I never see a traffic jam from one holiday to the next.

Reading back over this skimming of the surface of mv life, it
seems to me that for the past twenty-five years I have been acting like
an optimist. I imagine, therefore, that I must be one. In the teeth of
what the newspapers and modern novels have to say about man and
the world, and of what I have learned about them in my practice,

I often wonder what I base my optimism on. Things like sunshine,
and the changing blues of the river we see from our house. T hings
like the feel of a boat, even a shabby one. Things like the many

people who are constantly surprising and delighting me with their
humor, decency and incredible courage,

[ 1565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOHN COTTON WOOD

    

HOME apprEss: Dellwood, Mount Kisco, N.Y.

orFice AppRrEss: Moral Re-Armament, 640 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

UNMARRIED,

occupaTiON: The global ideological offensive of Moral Re-Armament.

WHEN I first walked expectantly into the Yard in the autumn of
"34 and prepared for the life of a nonchalant supremacy that was
ours, I gave no thought to the task that falls squarely on the shoulders
of every American in our generation, the task of giving an answer-
ing ideology to the world. But the past twenty-five years of my life
have been devoted to that single purpose.

In the course of my freshman year I met a force of men and
women with an ideology which today is a life issue in Moscow, Pe-
king and every capital of the world — Moral Re-Armament. They
were convinced that free men must go on the offensive with a revo-
lution that can win the hearts and minds and meet the needs of the
people of the world. A revolution in the motives of men whereby
empty hands will be filled with work, empty stomachs with food
and empty hearts with an idea that fully satisfies. Their aim was the
total reconstruction of the world. They tackled this task with such
determination and commitment that twenty years later Radio
Moscow was compelled to say, “Moral Re-Armament is a global
ideology capable of winning over radical revolutionary minds, with
bridgeheads on every continent and entering its final phase of total
expansion throughout the world. It is replacing the class struggle
with the eternal struggle between good and evil.”

[ 1566 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I decided that this was the revolution that America should be
taking on in the twentieth century. And I decided to give my life
to it. In the last twenty-five years — through four years of war in
the Army and through eighteen years on a wartime basis since — that
decision has taken me to the far continents. I have seen an answer
steadily advancing across the world.

After the war I moved with an MRA force into the Ruhr of
Germany. Seventy-five of us, who had served in the Allied Forces,
gave all our military pay and savings to finance this move. The
ideology of change which we brought was so far-reaching that
large numbers of Communists found a revolution greater than their
own. In four years’ time the Communist control in the Works
Councils in the Ruhr coal mines dropped from seventy-two per cent
to eight per cent. An executive of the German coalminers said, “The
credit goes to Moral Re-Armament.”

Chancellor Adenauer, speaking of the new postwar economic and
political accords being forged in Europe, said, “Moral Re-Armament
has played an unseen but effective part in bridging differences of
opinion between the negotiating parties.” He sent a message to Dr.
Frank Buchman, the initiator of Moral Re-Armament, “Unless this
work is carried forward, peace in the world cannot be maintained.”
Robert Schuman as Foreign Minister of France, in his foreword to
Buchman’s speeches, said, “Moral Re-Armament is a world-wide
transformation of human society that has already begun.”

I was in Kenya during the Mau Mau. I have seen men from every
part of Africa, black and white, losing their hatred and fear and unit-
ing to make Africa the continent with the answer. Jomo Kenyatta
has had dubbed into Swahili the film made by these African men of
MRA called “Freedom,” which shows the answer to corruption,
Communism and division. He says, “This is what our people need.”
At a time when white men are being asked to leave, seventeen Afri-
can nations have invited Moral Re-Armament to their country.

One of my most trusted friends over these years was an organizer
of the steelworkers, John Riffe, who became the last executive vice-
president of the CIO. He found the answer to the bitterness of class
war and to war in the home. He laid the foundation for the uniang
of the AFL and the CIO, challenged labor and management alike

that they replace selfishness with the greater motive of meeting the
needs of all men everywhere.

Prime Minister Ikeda of Japan has just opened a new training cen-
ter for Moral Re-Armament at Odawara. Former Prime Ministers

[ 1567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

Yoshida and Kishi helped to plan it and 6,500 came from every
part of Asia. One of them was Colonel Kim Chong Pil, the number
two man of South Korea, a country with a sixty-year-old hatred of
Japan. A Tokyo daily said, “Japanese-Korean negotiations are at
an impasse. This meeting between Ikeda and Kim will be a climax to
lead these negotiations to a conclusion.” These statesmen of Asia
are seriously undertaking the job of uniting Asia and capturing the
ideological initiative from Peking.

Three years ago a strategy was born in Tokyo that was to give a
new promise for Latin America. It came out of the Tokyo riots that
turned President Eisenhower away from Japan. Some of the Zenga-
kuren students met MRA at the height of the crisis. They saw how
Communism had used the moral breakdown and drift in their own
lives. They dramatized the answer they had found in a play, “The
Tiger.” They came to America. I went with them to see Eisen-
hower. They apologized to him for their part in dividing the free

world. He said, “I am one hundred per cent for you. Take your
play and this idea to South America.” A massive offensive was
launched, moving through the critical North East of Brazil, to Peru,
Bolivia, Chile. A million and a half people came to see “The Tiger.”
Marshal Tavora, national hero of Brazil, flew to Rome to report that
“the action of Moral Re-Armament has saved Brazil from civil war.”

At the moment of writing, I am in Italy, the heart of Christendom
and the country with the largest Communist Party in the Western
world. I am with a force of 110 from twenty-two nations, spear-
headed by a Latin American play, “El Condor.” This play is writ-
ten and performed by students from San Marcos University in Lima.
They were Fidelistas, revolutionary and anti-American. But the
Japanese students captured them with their new spirit and a greater
ideology. Side by side with North Americans, the Latin Americans
are bringing an answer to Italy. Tens of thousands, Communist and
Catholic, young and old, have been flooding the theatres and open
plazzas of the town of south Italy to see “El Condor“ and the films
of Moral Re-Armament. A Communist professor said, “MRA takes
half-hearted Christians and bitter Marxists and enlists them both in
a complete revolution.”

Frank Buchman, who did the heroic work of creating this ideo-
logical force across the world, was from Pennsylvania, He under-
stood the grave political truth spoken by William Penn: “Men must
choose to be governed by God, or they condemn themselves to be
ruled by tyrants.” Buchman died a year ago. For over twenty

[ 1568 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years I had the privilege and challenge of working at his side. States-
men and ordinary men looked to him for the answer. His deep con-
viction was that America was meant to give to the world not only
military strength and economic aid, but an ideology to live by.

This is my report for the last twenty-five years. If the men of
Harvard devote their brains, their manhood, and their lives to this
supreme task of America, we will turn the tide of history long be-
fore the end of the next twenty-five.

WILLIAM SAVILLE WORSNOP

9

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 94 Pleasant, Brunswick, Maine.

FREDERICK DUNSTON WRIGHT

:

° %

5

ge is be ag x
gc pC i: alate me

        
  

HOME appreEss; 608 W., Indiana, Urbana, III,
OFFICE Appress: 307 Ceramics Bldg., University of Hlinois, Urbana, HL

[ 1569 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

PREPARED AT: St. Albans Preparatory School, Washington, D.C.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; $.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1942.

marrieD: M, Garland Jones, May 27, 1944. CHILDREN: Sally W., July 28, 1946;
Janet D., April 5, 1948; Elizabeth G., Sept. 26, 1951; Frederick M. and Alan
A. (twins), April ro, 1955.

occuPATION: Professor of mining engineering.

MEMBER OF: Beer and Culture Club; American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical

and Petroleum Engineers; Sigma Xi, American Society for Engineering
Education; Illinois Mining Inst.; Illinois Academy of Science.
PUBLICATIONS: Numerous papers in technical journals.
IN common with many of my classmates, my life has turned out
very differently from what I expected when I graduated in 1938.
The last thing I expected was that I would eventually become a col-
lege professor, and yet that is what I am today.

Between graduation and World War II, I worked at a gold mine
in Africa, in an asbestos mill in New Jersey, and did some mine
examination work in Venezuela, The people I worked with ranged
from Oxford graduates to an old Scots miner who started each day
with a tumblerful of whiskey for breakfast, to natives just out of
the “bush.” I thoroughly enjoyed myself and acquired a real fond-
ness for mining engineering. In September, 1941, I got a leave of
absence from Johns-Manville to get a graduate degree in mining
engineering from the Columbia School of Mines. I got my degree
at the same time that I received a commission in the Combat En-
gineers, and not too long afterwards found myself in Italy. The two
most important events of my life occurred there.

I was married in Naples in May, 1944. In July I was shot through
the lung and captured. As a result of the first event I have led a
happy, full life — including five children. Asa result of the second
I had to change my way of life from a physically active one to —I
hope —a mentally active one. For ten years after the war my work
was periodically interrupted by operations to try to cure a chest in-
fection. I worked on various mining research projects for the U.S.
Bureau of Mines, at Columbia University, at the Rifle, Colorado,
Oil Shale Mine, and near Washington, D.C. I made one brief attempt
to get back into active mining by taking a job in Mexico, but had to
return in six months for more chest operations. In 1954 I started
teaching mining engineering at the University of Illinois and am
now thoroughly immersed in the academic life of teaching, research
and occasional consulting work.

My conscience — my wife? — has forced me to make sporadic

efforts to engage in community affairs, such as joining the Rotary

[ 1570 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club and accepting the P.T.A. presidency for one year, but my in-
clination is to stay away from them. My hobbies include fishing,
photography and occasional carpentry. My politics are approni-
mately liberal Republican and my religion is Episcopalian.

GEORGE ~ JESSE WRIGHT, JR.

RA IRR ag eR Som

   

semen: gers

 

HOME aAppRESS: 416 S. Linden Ave., Pittsburgh 8, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 121 University Pl., Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

PREPARED AT; Arnold School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: S.B., 1938; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),

1942.

MarRiED: Helen Griffith, Jan. 8, 1944. CHILDREN: George Jesse, 3d, April 13, 1945;
David Griffith, Sept. 2, 1946.

occuPATION: Physician; neurologist and psychiatrist.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pittsburgh Psychiatric Society, 1958; member of statf,
St. Francis, Shadyside and Eye & Ear Hospitals.

MEMBER OF: University Club; American Psychiatric Association; Academy of

Neurology.

AFTER graduation from Harvard I attended the University of
Pennsylvania Medical School, receiving an M.D. degree in 1942. A
one-year internship i in a Pittsburgh hospital was followed by thirty-
nine months’ service in the US. Army Medical Corps in w hich I
reached the rank of captain. My time was equally divided between
Alabama and Georgia. More fortunate than most, I was assigned to
neurological and psychiatric services — the specialties which I have
followed since. There was one rather harrowing month when |
was appointed dermatological consultant to 69,000 soldiers, Follow-
ing military service I spent four years in residencies in neurology and
psychiatry at the Cornell and Columbia Medical Centers. PE then

[1571 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

entered the private practice of neurology and psychiatry in Pitts-
burgh and have remained there since.

After twelve years of purely scientific endeavor I have attempted
to pump some life into whatever brain cells are reserved for the
liberal arts by resuming my reading in literature and history. Be-
cause of the demands of a busy practice I do not have much time for
leisure but doubly enjoy the time I do have, in particular the month
spent at our summer cottage on the Georgian Bay where I can pur-

sue my hobbies of fishing and boating. I take most particular pride
in my wife and two fine sons.

VINCENT PAUL WRIGHT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Coughlin Rd., North Easton, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Boston College, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass., Huntington School, Boston,
Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1940-1942, 1945-1947. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude,
1938(47); A.-M.T., 1950; ED.D. 1957; DBA. (New Bedford Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1962.

MaRRIED: Mary Louise Nelson, June 21, 1948. ctiLp: Thomas August, March
23, 1949.

occupation: Educator, dean, Graduate School of Business Administration,
Boston College.

OFFICES HELD: President, Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, Fall River Dio-
cese, Mass.; chairman, University Division, Development Program, Boston
College; former dean, Graduate School of Business Administration,
Northeastern University.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association, Association for Higher Educa-
tion; Catholic Economic Association; American Academy of Political
and Social Sciences.

[1572 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: “Postwar Capital Outlays in Public School Administration’,
“Economic Implications of McCarran-Walter Act”; “Social Responsibility
and the Alliance for Progress.”

MY contact with members of the Class of 1938 has been limited by

the fact that my education was broken after my freshman year. For-

tunately for me, Harvard was gracious enough to permit me to pick
up the pieces and resume my studies at a later date. For this, I] owe
much to Harvard, perhaps more than I can ever say or repay.

My background has been a varied, even checkered one. After
leaving school in 1935, I worked successively as a laborer, inspector
of cold-roll stock, metallurgist and salesman in the steel industry,
for companies such as Lake Erie Steel, Weirton Steel and J. T.
Ryerson. However, in 1940, I decided that I wanted that degree
from Harvard even more than the modicum of financial success that
lay in the offing, and was permitted to re-enter Harvard on a part-
time basis temporarily. |

In order to effect this, 1 had to work evenings (nights) as a motor-
man for the Boston Elevated Railway. I doubled in the capacities
of student and motorman until Pearl Harbor, and then volunteered
as a third class machinist’s mate in the U.S. Navy. I remained in the
Navy until December 22, 1945, eventually attaining the rank of
lieutenant, moving through third, second, first and chief petty officer.
At the time of my release from active duty, I was attached to CTF-
24 in the North Atlantic.

I resumed my studies on a full-time basis (actually an accelerated
basis) in January, 1946, residing in Dunster House. In June, 1947, I
received my degree (0.c.), cum laude in economics; a Master's later
in 1950, and a doctorate in 1956. I have been teaching and adininister-
ing since 1948, enjoy the work and believe that I'm accomplishing
something constructive.

My marriage has been a successful and rich experience. We have
been fortunate in having an active, highly intelligent and purposeful
son who will, I believe, meet Harvard's high standards.

[ 1573]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

WILLIAM HERBERT WRIGHT, JR.

    

Rare a
& #

: ees

t

i

: a

 

HOME AppRESS: 16 Fuller Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nichols & Co., Inc., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1938.

marriep: Ruth Grover, June 14, 1941. campreN: William Herbert, 3d, Feb.
13, 1943; Carolyn B., March 26, 1945; Thomas G., May 16, 1947; Cynthia
P., March 7, 1949.

occupATION: Salesman — wool top, Nichols & Company, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Commander, USNR.

MEMBER OF: Varsity Club; Boston Yacht Club; Boston Power Squadron; Fran-
conia Ski Club; USEASA; Museum of Science; Naval Officers Club.

FROM home to home have I wandered through twenty-five years.
After a short apprenticeship learning wool, I left Wellesley for six
years in active naval service, returning in 1946. After moving three
times about this town, have returned to the old homestead on Fuller
Road where I was born. I also returned to the wool top business
selling which involves day trips out of town to the New England
States.

In the meantime, Radcliffe spouse, Ruth Grover, ’39, and I have
been hard pressed to keep up with the demands (mostly pleasant
ones) of two war babies, Terry and Carolyn, and two peace babies,
Tom and Cynthia, who have now reached the odd ages of nineteen,
seventeen, fifteen and thirteen.

Our recreation together has been most enjoyable in our camping
safaris to Prince Edward Island, 1957, the Great Northwest, 1959,
and Quebec Province, 1961. In 1959 we finally arrived in camping
comfort with the purchase of an aluminum Icilite Tent Trailer,

[1574]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

This vehicle can be set up ready for sleeping in five minutes, the tent
folded away in equal time. Now there almost is no cussing.

Since 1956 a week or so each summer has been whiled away
cruising the Maine coast or Nantucket in our 36’ yawl, White Wing,
with short weekend sailing from Marion, Massachusetts, to Cutty-
hunk or Martha’s Vineyard Islands. Recently sold our yawl and
bought a 32” Galaxy Fiberglas Sloop.

Our highlight of travel came with a flight to Zermatt, Switzerland,
for a two-week ski safari in February, 1962. With us were Messrs.
& Mesdames Benninck, ’38, Moore, 738, and Bradlce, ’4o. For nine
sunny days we skied those fantastic mountains by the Matterhorn
with a grand final skijor over Theodal Pass and down a 6000-foot
drop in powder snow to Cervinia, Italy. Our tour ended with a
three-day sightsee in Rome.

I close with the thinking that though life has its struggles for gain,
these are sweetened at the end of the day by three girls and a boy
greeting me at the door.

STUART MacREYNOLDS WYETH

t

   
 

HOME ADDRESS: 1312 Partridge Lane, Villanova, Pa,

OFFICE appress: Stone & Webster Securities Corp. 2140 Philadelphia National
Bank Bldg., Broad & Chestnut Strects, Philadelphia 7, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938, DEGREE: $.B,, 1938.

MarrieD: Carolyn Levering, Sept. 22, 1939. Cuttoren: Stuart MacReynoldy
Jr., Jan. 30, 1943; Peter Levering, April 9, 1945; Vhomas Alevander Sym-
ington, Oct. 15, 1954; Carolyn and Constance (twins), Jan. 4. toc ‘

occuPaTION: Vice-president, Stone & Webster Securities Corporanon,

[1575 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Stone & Webster Securities Corporation, since
November, 1960,

MEMBER OF: Racquet Club; Merion Cricket Club; The Courts; Bond Club of
Philadelphia, Mill Dam Club; Midday Club; Financial Analysts of Phila-
delphia,; Chevy Chase Club; Harvard Varsity Club, Inc.; Harvard Club
of New York.

IF I wasn’t forced to write up these past twenty-five years, I would
not reflect much about the intervening period of time. My first
thoughts are that I would like to turn back the clock and start this
twenty-five years over again. Some people are never satisfied with
their accomplishments and what they have and I guess I’m one of
those gents.

After graduation | became intent on marriage, which caused me to
abandon any thoughts of postgraduate work or my real bent at that
time to study for a foreign service career. This step into marriage I
shall never regret. I took a fling at the newspaper business with the
Baltimore Sun after my marriage to a real Baltimore belle, but gravi-
tated to the pharmaceutical business in Philadelphia, not with Wyeth,
Inc., but Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, which was then a
small and almost unknown company. My distant relatives who had
founded the Wyeth Company had all passed on and left their mil-
lions to Harvard University, which had since sold the company to
American Home Products for a song. In fact, if Harvard had not
sold the company in 1931, there would have been no need for “The
Program for Harvard.” There seemed little use in associating with
this giant organization.

Farly in 1941 I had applied for a reserve commission in the Office
of Naval Intelligence and as a result was called to active duty about
six months before Pearl Harbor. Soft desk duty in Philadelphia
bored me to death, hence after a short tour as a State Department
courier carrying top secret documents in Central and South America,
I transferred to deck duty and wound up on the USS Essex in the
thick of the Pacific campaigns,

After the war various relatives persuaded me to the merits of the
investment banking business and I immediately embarked on m
present career. After working with various firms both small and
large, each change being gencrally made as the result of greater re-
wards and opportunities being offered, I settled down with Stone &
Webster Securities Corporation in Philadelphia in 1952. The life of
an institutional salesman became a happy and most remuncrative

situation but this only lasted for two years. My boss decided to re-

[ 1576 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tire at the age of fifty-five and left me with the whole ball of wax,
not only to manage the office but to start a long overdue building
program. This project is continuing and will, 1 feel sure, until my
retirement in seventeen years.

Since my marriage in 1939 I have become the father of three
sons and, due to my ambitious wife, a fourth addition, which turned
out to be twin daughters. With a family of this size, all in private
schools, my financial obligations have became so acute that I have
little time to devote to outside activities except to indulge in golf and
tennis and some travel and to earn as much after taxes as is humanly
possible by any means, providing they are ethical of course.

So far I have been unsuccessful in gaining admission for cither
of my elder sons to either my old prep school or Harvard, which is
naturally most disappointing. I have hopes for the third son, who
wishfully may have been endowed with a larger share of the brains
than his elder brothers.

Politics is still my favorite interest and my ideas on this subject
are positive — to some degree extreme. I firmly believe that all well
educated males who are financially independent should go into politics
or government service. To me, the electoral system should be
drastically revamped. A point system could well be devised giving
each voter additional votes according to his status. For instance, one
point for a college education, one point for being married, one point
for owning real estate, etc. In this way only can a nation vote in-
telligently for the best interests of the country in state and national
elections. There is so much waste of the natural resources of this
great country due to inept management in Washington that getting
better men into government is the only salvation for our survival. 1
even favor a one six-year term for the Presidency to put the execu-
tive branch of the government on a more dignified basis,

Summarizing: People have said to me, “You are in the most seltish

profession in the world. What do you do for others?” Sure we
raise money for industry but basically T agree with this philosophy.
However, I have a real love for the investment business and can
modestly say I have been fairly successful in my seventeen vears in
the business. Of necessity, I am chained to it for the foreseeable
future. If some day my finances permit, then TP shall pursue my ties
love, that is, a final carcer in the service of some branch of the US.
Government. If just one of the many Wyeth millions that went to
Harvard had gone to me instead, Tw ould have reached this goal bons
ago. But I am far from bitter on this matter, indeed I would much

[1577]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

rather strive for my goal on my own and am proud that the Wyeth
family have contributed so well to Harvard in so many ways.

BURT JOHN WYNKOOP

©

  

HOME appress: 130 Murray Ave., Goshen, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tobin Packing Co., Inc., Albany, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935.

MarrieD: Doris McLaughlin, 1940. CHILDREN: Janice Mary, May 16, 1946; John
Frederick, June 2, 1951.

occuPaTION: Salesman, Tobin Packing Company, Inc., meat slaughtering, manu-
facturing, processing and distributing.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Goshen Lions Club, 1962-63; chairman, Boy Scout
Committee, 1950, Cub master, 1960-62.

MEMBER OF: Goshen Lions Club, Minisink Hook & Ladder Company No. 1.

IT comes as a bit of a jolt, this putting on paper what one has ac-
complished in twenty-five years. Nothing earth-shaking. Yet some-
how I have managed to acquire a wife, two children, a home (almost
paid for), a bowling average of 145, a crew cut (no mean trick, bald
things considered), and a few shares of New York Central common
which I have owned from $7 to $40 and back. I now freely advise
almost anyone, “Sell at the top!”

When I strolled out of the Yard back in ’35, I went to work for
the now merged National Rockland Bank of Boston. When I failed
to make a vice-presidency there in two years, I left to put in a few
years in a family-owned resort business in Meredith, New Hamp-
shire; left there for a brief stint with Gulf Oil Corporation in St.
Petersburg, Florida, and then in 1941 went to work for Tobin Pack-
ing Company, Inc., Albany Division, and lived happily ever after.

[1578]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since 1949 I have been a salesman for Tobin Packing Company,
working in Orange County, New York (selling to butchers, hotels,
restaurants, schools and other manufacturers), and have made my
home in Goshen. Here we have become a part of the community,
though not in any unusual way. I have been active in the Boy Scouts,
the volunteer fire company, the Lions Club and have been a “bag
man” for various charitable collections. While none of these activi-
ties has been particularly noteworthy, still we have been listed as
“for” God and Country rather than “against” . We hope to
continue thus.

 

+ WALDEMAR ZYGMUNT WYSOCKI

 

BORN: Sept. 16, 1915, Salem, Mass. parents: Zygmunt Wysocki, Sophia Jastry-
zembski.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936.

MARRIED: Mary Babbit Rockwell, July 4, 1949, Salem, Mass.

DIED: Oct. 20, 1940, New York, N.Y.

WHILE at college Wysocki was a member of the Class football and
boxing teams. He left college after a year and a half and liter be-
came an actor and stage manager. Under the stage name of Walter
Moore he appeared in performances at a summer theatre in Glouces-
ter and on Broadway. His death was the result of a fall.

[ 1579 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

JOSEPH SIDNEY WYZAN

e
Pos
: &

‘

x

, RG
xX
|

 

HOME AppRESS: 24611 Seneca, Oak Park 37, Mich.
oFFice appress: Davidson Bros. Inc., 1200 E. Six Mile Rd., Highland Park 3,

Mich.
prepareD AT: Milford High School, Milford, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937, 1938-1939. DEGREE: A.B., CU71 laude, 1938(39).
married: Helen Sterns, June 23, 1946, CHILDREN: Jennifer Lynn, July 1, 1947;

Bruce Steven, Dec. 8, 1950.
occupation: Divisional merchandise manager, Davidson Bros. Inc., depart-

ment store chain operating forty-eight stores in Michigan, Ohio and New
York,

AFTER Massachusetts’ most venerable educational institution, an-
other old Massachusetts institution probably played a most signifi-
cant part in my postgraduate life. Entering federal service with
Company I, 181st Infantry, Massachusetts National Guard, in 1940,

I was not to return to the Bay State until 1946. My travels with
various units of the Infantry took me to such exotic places as Hawaii,
New Guinea, Philippine Islands and Japan. A brief stopover in De-
troit, Michigan, en route to the Far East led to the establishment of
lasting ties with the auto capital of the world. For it was here that
I was later to return to pick up the threads of civilian life. Marriage
to a Detroit girl and enrollment in a training program with one of
the fastest-growing retail establishments in the midwest followed.
Promotion to a buying position and the birth of two children ap-
parently prepared me for the staid life of a midwestern businessman.
However, this tranquillity was disturbed by another call to arms
from Mr. Truman during the Korean fracas, Recalled to active
duty as a captain of Infantry in 1951, I was a company commander

[ 1580 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Korea for ten months. Following a brief recuperative period in
Japan, I returned to Detroit and my position with the company.

And now with one eye cocked to the alarming newspaper head-
lines and the other on the balance sheet of my company, | am look-
ing forward to a relatively quiet period of perusing inventory re-
ports and Open-To-Buy statistics.

KONSTANTINE GEORGE YANKOPOLUS

;

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2065 Acushnet Ave., New Bedford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Mary Mamatseo, May 2, 1943. CHILDREN: George, March 29, 1944;
Konstantine, April 9, 1947; Paula, Nov. 6, 1950; Anna, Jan. 21, 1953; De-
metrius, March 13, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Associate surgeon, St. Luke’s Hospital, New Bedford, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New Bedford Medical Society; American Board of Surgery (diplomate),;
New Bedford Country Club.

ARMED with an A.B. from Harvard, I spearheaded to Boston Uni-
versity Medical School, where after four years an M.D. was added
to my armamentarium which has been my standby since. I w orked
under the caduceus through the Second “World War and acquired
five bronze stars seeing action through the entire ETO campaign,
working with the Fourth Auxiliary Surgical Group which inci-
dentally still meets annually at the College of Surgeons’ annual na-
tional meetings and fights “the Battle of the Bulge” all over again.
My last meeting was in Atlantic City this month, October 14-20
Returning from the war I spent two years in Baltimore gerting my

[ 1581 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938
surgical training, followed by two more years at Iowa City V.A.
Hospital and University Hospitals.

Till now I go about quietly “saving lives,” although many times
I wonder why. Still “ours is not to question” but to do what has
to be done.

In 1960 I found time to take a European trip with my wife. I
visited primarily my birthplace and mother country — Greece. To
say this was a rebirth of the soul would be putting it mildly. Walk-
ing the hallowed ground that Hippocrates walked, as well as such
other historical giants — Socrates, Aristotle and Plato, to name only
a few — certainly left me awed, inspired and spellbound.

Religion plays a pivotal role in my family life, It is of the Greek
Orthodox faith and we try to live by the basic and orthodox tenets
of Christianity.

In my quest for the sumnmum bonum in life, ] found not money,
not power, not honors — but rather “peace of mind” which comes
from doing a job well after acquiring the best training for it, and in

part Harvard has added to this search,

DAVID BLEECKER YATES

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 9 Parkman St., Westboro, Mass.

[ 1582 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MICHIO YATSUHASHI
ORE ONE “4

a “ a a
¥ * .
cag

    

|
4
8
4

  

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Babcock St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: TH], Yatsuhashi, Inc., 4z0 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School for Boys, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1938(39).

MarRiED: Masako Tanaka, Aug. 13, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Oriental art dealer and importer.

MEMBER OF: Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; Japan Society of Boston.

DURING most of these twenty-five years I have been in the Oriental
Art business with my father in Boston, importing many fine objects
from Japan, both practical and decorative.

Two months in the summer of 1961 was the turning point of my
life. I took a business and pleasure trip to Japan. It was my first in
thirty years —in those days it took three w eeks, while now only
two days. I was amazed by the hustle and bustle of Japanese life.
Rivers of people rushing this way and that. Buildings going up
everywhere. Everyone happy. Boston was never like this, T was
just like a country boy going to sce the big city. However, many
places like Kyoto were just as I remembered them, serene and calm
and a photographer’s paradise. In the midst of all this T mee Masako,
married her on the hottest day of the summer and brought her back
to Brookline. It took me a long time, bur it is well w orth the wait.
However, Masako always kids me that on all those summers before,
I was fishing for striped bass and that’s why T did not catch the
right kind of fish.

My hobby of photography has earned me the tide of Clas Pho-
tographer, Ever since the roth Reunion T have been showing up at
the yearly reunions with my camera slung over my shoulder cakiry

[ 1583]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

shots here and there. None that I can use for blackmail I assure you.
I have many snaps of you classmates, some printed, but most in
negative form only. “Someday,” J always say, “I will get around to
them.” But now with a baby on the way, you can well imagine
where my future photography interests will turn.

Those many Reunions have been lots of fun and we will be look-
ing forward to secing you this summer.

ANDREW PLIMPTON YOUNG

     

HOME apprEss: 36 Marsh St., Dedham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREES: A.B. 1938(39); LLB. (Univ. of Virginia),
1942.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Johnson Sessions Newton, May 14, 1949. CHILDREN: Andrew
Plimpton, Jr., Nov. 17, 1950; Brian Winthrop Newton, July 17, 1953.

occupation: Lawyer and business consultant; specializing in acquisitions,
mergers, licensing and international problems.

OFFICES HELD: Director, International Sales & Services, Raytheon Company, 1960-
62; senior investment officer, International Finance Corporation, Washing-
ton, D.C., 1958-60; president, Golden Gift, Inc., Deland, Fla., 1953-57; treas-
urer, International Division, E. R. Squibb & Sons, 1952-53, International
Division, Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Company, 1951-52, Durex
Corporation, Durex Abrasives Corporation, 1946-51.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, New York, Connecticut and Virginia bars; Associa-
tion of the Bar of the City of New York; Racquet & Tennis Club, New
York City; Harvard Club of New York; Dedham Country & Polo Club;
Eastward Ho! Country Club, Chatham, Mass,; Chatham Beach Club; Raven
Society, University of Virginia,

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Virginia Law Review, 1940-42.

AFTER three and a half years’ army service in the Pacific, I returned
to the States only long enough to acquire a couple of civilian suits

[ 1584 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and departed for South America. The next three years were spent in
Mexico, Brazil and Argentina, where I served as chief obstetrician
in the delivery of three new companies, dedicated to bringing the
advantages of Scotch tape, sandpaper and synthetic adhesives to the
Indians. Surprisingly, the idea and the products caught on.

Since that time my work has been primarily international, with
home base changing frequently. My long-suffering wife, however,
has developed several remedies whenever I return from a round of
chasing assorted corporate balls to the lesser enlightened corners of
the globe. Weekend renovation of our Victorian monster in Dedham
or bushwhacking the rain forest surrounding our summer place at
Chatham have a way of bringing one’s thoughts back to ground
level.

My two sons have their remedies as well. In the winter they en-
joy leading me on a pair of skis above the timber line of several
New Hampshire ice fields, In the summer they attempt to keep me
in shape by allowing me to pilot the boat while they water ski, or to

serve as movable ballast while they pilot our singularly uncomfort-
able, small sailboat. All the family consider me a painter (house
variety) of distinction and they like to observe my work. Unfor-
tunately, for lack of a moving van, I shall be unable to exhibit my
work at the Fogg next June.
Providing I am able to keep up with this regiment, I hope to write
a fuller report when our Fiftieth rolls around.

BORIS YOUNG

Lees te

  

HOME AppRESS: 313 N. Orange Drive, Los Angeles 36, Calif,
[ 1585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

OFFICE ADDRESS: Development Corporation for Israel, 1226 S. La Brea Ave., Los
Angeles 19, Calif.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cv7 laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Beatrice Handel, Feb. 28, 1943. CHILDREN: Deborah Rose, June 10, 19453
Jonathon Joseph, Aug. 3, 1949.

occupation: Los Angeles director, State of Israel Bond Organization.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1951-53, member, executive board, 1953-60, Association

of Professional Personnel.
MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of California.
AS an old campaigner myself, I recognize excellence when the art is
practised by others. With a deep bow, I acknowledge the persistence
of the Class Committee, the incredible volume of mail and the fact
that the U.S. Post Office had no alternative but to raise the rates.

I must assume that all my classmates read the previous Reports
and that there is no necessity for reviewing the years described (? )
therein. The intervening years have been pleasant — but not star-
tling.

The kids have grown up. Debbie is flexing her mental muscle at
Reed College (the “Harvard of the West” —T’ll have you know)
and pleases me enormously. Jonnie, at thirteen, also makes with the
muscle, only in his case the biceps are threatening. The days of
rough-housing with him have ended. He is getting to be too much
for the old man whose physical verve is something which charity
dictates we should not discuss. (Admittedly — I’m a proud papa.)
Bea continues to be my chief raison d’etre.

Since last communing with the Class of 738, I have (a) aged, (b)
traveled through Israel and Europe fairly frequently, (c) visited
the Far Fast —no thank you, (d) moved from Philadelphia to Los
Angeles and (e) lost touch with the bunch I hope to see at the

Twenty-fifth.

[ 1586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES ZIBBELL

%

    

HOME ADDRESS: 11345 Berwick St., Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Jewish Federation-Council of Greater Los Angeles, 590 N.
Vermont Ave., Los Angeles 4, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cunt laude, 1938; B.J.ED. (Bos-
ton Hebrew Coll.), 1938; s.m. (Boston Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Leah Goldstein, May 31, 1942. CHILDREN: Judith AL, March 6, 1945;
Naomi H., Oct. 2, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Social welfare executive; assistant executive director, Jewish
Federation-Council of Greater Los Angeles.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Jewish Communal Executives Association; mem-
ber, executive board, International Student Center, Los Angeles; lecturer
University of Judaism, Los Angeles.

MEMBER OF: National Conference of Jewish Communal Service, National

Association of Social Workers.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on social work and community organization in pro-

fessional journals.

THE standard practice for the well-written Twentieth-fifth bio
seems to be to draw a balance sheet of gains and losses. Yet, as I
look back on the past seven years since the Eighteenth Report the
ledger does not seem to have changed materially. I am still working
with the same social agency. Happily, the scope of the agency's
operations is world-wide and the tasks have been exciting as well as
challenging. My responsibilities lie largely in the field of administra-
tion and fund-raising as well as long-range planning. As of last week
I can still manage to be on the winning end of a 6-4 set with the
elder daughter in tennis, but I am having trouble with my wife's
cross-court shot. I am no match for younger daughter in the lore
of rock and roll and am a total “square” on hair-do’s. My work

[ 1587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

keeps me heavily occupied, but with enough leisure left for occa-
sional lecturing, a modest amount of reading, and some minor writ-
ing for professional journals.

In retrospect, the twenty-five years are characterized by a quiet,
unexciting kind of contentment. The days were full and rewarding,
but the years did not seem to measure up to any spectacular stand-
ards of accomplishment. My work gave me the opportunity to share
in a mammoth humanitarian accomplishment — the rescue and re-
habilitation of almost two million of my kinsmen. This has been a
source of deep satisfaction, even though my personal role was un-
dramatic. But isn’t this what the Frenchman meant when he wrote
that “one must cultivate one’s garden”?

HAROLD LAZARUS ZIBEL

 

HOME AppreEss: 6 Bonwood St., Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss; Allstate Building Wrecking Co., 232 Faneuil St., Brighton, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREE: A.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Rosamond M. Michelson, May 26, 1940. CHILDREN: Stephen Albert,
Nov, 22, 1942; Robert Michael, Dec. 16, 1945.
occupation: Building-wrecker; self-employed,

OFFICES HELD: Scoutmaster, Newtonville, 1954-59; Newtonville Group, B.S.A.,
1953-593 Vice-president, Master Building Wreckers’ Association, 1954-56.
MEMBER OF; Aberdour Lodge, A.F, & A.M., Boston,

TO some of our classmates twenty-five years may appear to be a
long time. To me, Commencement Day, 1938, seems to be not too
far in the past. Keeping physically and mentally active for the past
one-quarter century, [ have enjoyed the pleasures afforded me by

[ 1588 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my family, my friends, my business associates and my co-workers
in scouting.

A Harvard degree is certainly not an essential requisite for use in
demolition contracting, but I certainly do feel that I am one of the
most educated building-wreckers in existence! If you have any
problems in this line, please feel free to call on me for professional
advice!

At the time of our Twenty-fifth Reunion, I shall have celebrated
my twenty-third wedding anniversary and somehow, I think that
this may be the major reason for Commencement Day, 1938, not
being in the distant past! My wife and two sons have been my con-
stant companions in all my travels, which, at this time, have not been
too extensive. They have helped me considerably in my efforts in
scouting, which for several years was my chief outside interest.
In fact, during Cubbing days, my wife went so far as to be a Den
mother!

The Government did not want me during the Second World War
and I stayed home and did what I could to further the war effort by
being employed in the salvage business and kept supplies running to
companies directly involved in wartime effort.

One of my chief regrets over the years is that I have lost contact
with many of our classmates with whom I was very “chummy”
during our college years. I hope to see them at the Reunion and
perhaps make up for all this lost time.

These past twenty-five years have been good to me and without
being too hoggish I hope the good Lord sees fit to give another
twenty-five years of equal health, wealth and happiness, not only to
me and my family but to all the members of the Class of 738.

[ 158 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

ROBERT LEONARD ZIMMERMAN

fre

   

   

.
a gone
FE a
* SS
E A we
oe ‘ .
&
, . Be :
é ee
e a my : ° el
¥ Sey s ¥ ®
4 , . :
4 . os ~ Xe
fe x
F . ¢
* y 3 age = &

HOME Apress: 1603 Wood Ave. Colorado Springs, Colo.
OFFICE apprEss: 707 N, Cascade, Colorado Springs, Colo.

prepareD AT: Adelphi Academy, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: A.B., 1938, M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1942.

MARRIED: Phyllis M. Wright, May 20, 1946. CHILDREN: Susan, Feb. 9, 1947;
Barbara Lynn, March 16, 1950, Robert Louis, April 23, 1954; Jeanne Mil-
dred, Sept. 16, 1955; Phyllis Margaret, May 9, 1958, Mary Louise, Oct.
31, 1960.

occupation: Physician; internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of medicine, St. Francis Hospital, 1959-61, vice-chief of
staff, 1962; chief of staff, 1963; head, Department of Cardiology, Memo-
rial Hospital, 1960.

MEMBER OF; American Board of Internal Medicine, New York and El Paso
County Medical Societies; Colorado State Medical Society; American
Medical Association; Colorado Heart Association; American Heart Asso-
ciation; Council on Clinical Cardiology; Flying Physicians Association
(founding member); Aeromedical Association; Pikes Peak Chapter, Vet-

eran Motor Car Club of America (founding member); Horseless Carriage

Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific articles in medical journals.

SURELY your tongue was in cheek, Dick Davis, when you sug-
gested that we write adequately on a subject as fascinating as our-
selves, then demanded that we “try to be as concise” as we could.
ll try, but I won’t succeed.

Fellow classmates, you and I were juniors when John F. Kennedy
first entered the Harvard Yard. In some ways his career has over-
shadowed the meager accomplishments of some of you. But not
of all of us! Want to know more? Read on, then.

Does he have six lovely children? No. Do I? Well, not exactly.

[ 1590 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I do have exactly six, it is true. To me, they’re lovely (except
maybe for five of them).

When we last all burst into print 1 had recently moved to
Colorado Springs, fed up with the ugly snarl that was my concept
of New York. It was a good move, and we enjoy the clean air, the
fuller easier life of this spacious, most attractive, growing commu-
nity in the shadow of our inspiring Rockies.

I have been fortunate to achieve stature in my specialty in this
community. Practice has expanded to fearful proportions, but has
been satisfying. Academically, west of the Mississippi is not, as I
once thought, a suburb of the moon. Intellectual stimulation is
available here and in Denver, and he who stagnates in Colorado
Springs would do likewise in Cambridge.

We have many friends here, and we continue to enjoy a good
bridge game when available. Once a month I play poker with some
friends whose money I hate to take, once a month. We have
acquired a few more vintage cars, including a 1927 Model T Ford
coupe and a 1937 Buick roadmaster phaeton, both of which I shall
part with if the right Cord comes along. Our garage contains eight
bicycles, one of which I frequently ride to work. For medical
meetings, wherever they are, we have a Comanche-250. By keep-
ing my instrument ticket current, it’s rare not to complete a trip
as scheduled. Last week twelve inches of snow kept the Comanche
and United Airlines from landing at Cleveland; both were diverted
to Detroit. I missed one day of the American Heart Association
annual meeting that way. In nineteen years of flying I haven't
been scratched, but in 1958 I escaped with a broken neck in a
blinding head-on collision with a teen-ager who preferred my side
of the road.

Phyllis is happier here, too. For a while, with a penthouse otf
Fifth Avenue, we thought we had hit a high for living. Our
eighteen-room home here has taught us differently. There is one
for the billiard table (shades of Old Ben), another for a dark room
with equipment permanently set up and ready to go, one for
sewing, plus oodles of baths (four makes an oodle) and lots of
fireplaces (seven make a lot).

My war record, narrated in our Tenth, happily remains un-
changed. Gone are the gripes, gone the disappointments, gone
the ingratitude. All that remain are the glowing memories, a
dusty uniform (that still fits), and the wonderful wife who was
a nurse on a hospital ship way back when.

C1590]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1938

The picture I’m sending suggests some hair loss. This isn’t
the case. I’ve shaved the hairline just for the picture, to save the
rest of you embarrassment. Actually I look exactly like the

picture on the left. No other member of the Class of ’38 can make
that statement, or would want to.

HANS HANDFORTH ZINSSER

 

HOME appress: 242A E, 62d St, New York, N.Y.
OFFICE AbbRESS: 180 Fort Washington Ave. New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1938. DEGREES: $.B., 1938; M.p. (Columbia Univ.), 1942.
Marrigp; Anne S. Drinker, June 24, 1940 (divorced 1956); Barbara Lewis, Aug.

6, 1956, CHILDREN: Judith Phargre, July 24, 1942; Katherine Jo, Jan. 4, 1951.
occupation: Physician; urological surgeon.

orrices HELD: Harrison Fellow, Surgical Research, University of Pennsylvania;
Guggenheim Fellow, California Institute of Technology.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha; Sigma Xi, Los Angeles County Medical
Association; Los Angeles Urological Association, American Chemical
Society; American Geriatric Society; Gerontological Society, Endocrine
Society; American Association for Artificial Internal Organs; Institute of
Radio Engineers; New York Academy of Sciences, New York Academy
of Medicine, New York Medical Society; Columbia Presbyterian Medical
Center, New York City.

PUBLICATIONS: “X-ray Observations on Single Crystals of Carbonmonoxyhemo-
globin from Human Fetal Blood,” with You-Chi Tang, Arch. Biochem.
Biophysics, November, 1951; “The Glomerular Ram and Renal Water Ab-
sorption,” Science, November, 19515 “Pitfalls of Physiological Modelling,”
Univ. of Southern California Medical Bulletin, July, 1953; “An Ion Selector
for Aqueous Systems,” Trans. Am. Soc. for Artificial Internal Organs,
text of report to second annual meeting of society, April 15-16, 1956,
Adantic City; “Metal Content Correlation in Ageing Aorta,” with E, M

[1592 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Butt and John Leonard, J. Am. Geriatrics Soc. January, 1957. Presented
at annual meeting, American Geriatrics Society, New York, April 21-22,
1955+
AFTER making a fundamental decision to abandon photography
which had been a source of considerable pleasure, and incidentally
of some income, while in college, I embarked on a medical career
with some trepidation, entering Harvard Medical School after a
very pleasant trip to Iceland during the intervening summer.

Owing to the severe illness of my father, I remained at Harvard,
although my original inclinations had been to move out of Boston,
and deferred my move to Columbia until after his death. It was
indeed a great pleasure to get his last set of lectures in the beginning
of my sophomore year at the Medical School.

Owing to the friendship with Eric Clark, I was able to have the
good fortune to obtain a small space for my wife and myself in
the Bio-Chemistry laboratory at P & S_ where she and I worked
throughout the remainder of our stay at the College of Physicians
and Surgeons and managed to finish off two papers on the adrenal
arising from work done with Dr. Wolbach while I was sull at
Harvard, and some additional chemical work during our Jast two
years at P & S. By that time, I took my oath of allegiance to the
United States and entered the Army on the same day I was presented
with a diploma from Columbia, and had already volunteered for
the Parachute School before the birth of our first child.

Anticipating active duty very promptly, I elected to go to
Roosevelt Hospital for my internship training with the idea that
a great deal of active emergency surgery would be my lot, which
it was. As I hit the hospital just as their surgical unit left to become
the famous Ninth Field Hospital, I was busy taking out appendices
and repairing stomach within six weeks after being out of school.

When the end of the first fateful nine months passed by, I felt
ready to handle any surgical emergency in any part of the body
in the profound ignorance of my own shortcomings. One of my
running mates, who had previously had a spontaneous pacumo-
thorax, was counting heavily on being deferred so that the hospital
did not put in for my deferral and I began to move my family in
anticipation of active duty orders. When, unexpectedly, the Army
accepted my running mate the brakes were put on by the hospital
administration to retain me, much to my displeasure. As the head
of Procurement and Assignment for New York Stare, New York
County, and New York City, all by accident happened to be at

[ 1593 ]

